This interpretation is largely based on discussions I had with one of my professors and classmates about The Kraken and Tennyson’s use of symbolism in general. We believe that The Kraken, like other poems of Tennyson's, should be looked at with an idea of the political and social climes of the Victorian age. 

I accepted my answer to the question because I'm relatively satisfied with the interpretation and nobody else has put forth an answer, but I don't think the question is fully complete. I tried following up on the possible connection between these lines and The Book of Revelation, but Tennyson's religious life and beliefs are extremely complicated, and I only wound up with dead ends. 

In the late 19th century, one major but unsubstantiated claim was made against Poe, saying that The Raven was either taken from (or inspired by) two an older work: The Parrot. In 1878, Colonel John A Joyce included a short section of his book, Edgar Allan Poe, that claimed that he had spoken with an Italian named Leo Penzoni. Penzoni told him that his grandfather (often also called Leo Penzoni) wrote a poem entitled The Parrot seven decades before, and published it in The Milan Art Journal in 1809. Here is the first verse, in the English translation: 

It is in trochaic tetrameter, because there are four trochees in the first line, as you highlighted in your copy (numbers indicate stress number): 

I think what you are looking for is Literary Naturalism. This began as a reaction to the prevailing modes of surrealism and Romanticism of the period (late nineteenth-century) and was an off-shoot and more advanced form of realism. As such is it often called 'extreme' realism and is somewhat synonymous with the effects of realism; it depicts events and other objects as they are, often to the degree of being judged unnecessary. (As a side effect, determinism is usually (although not absolutely) associated with Naturalism, and uses pessimistic realism to determine an unchangeable outcome of a character's life, usually tragedy, which explains why many of Tolstoy's works do not end happily. This however is not about inconsequential details and acts on a much larger scale to the narrative.) This technique was primarily employed by Emile Zola and many American authors, including Edith Wharton in her novel The House of Mirth, which I will use here as an example for the technique, where she details everyday items inconsequentially: 

In Chapter X, Bumstein's first arrival to the prison actually involves moneylending, as he is intimidated into letting a convict pawn his (worthless) raggedy clothing. It would be wrong to characterize Dostoevsky's treatment of the main as wholly repugnant, but it falls squarely into the category of "clear evidence". As the essay points out, we also see some anti-Semitic tones in The Brothers Karamazov. While there are some minor side references to Jews in the moneylending business (again, a negative stereotype), there is one passage where a character suggests that some believe that Jews kill and eat children. While there is no clear indication that anyone treats this claims as anything but ridiculous, there is certainly no clear rejection of the general tone. Yes, you see the moneylending stereotype perpetuated on several of Dostoevsky's works. But there are additional negative characterizations - the overt characterization of Bumstein as a fool and the references to savage Jewish rituals - that seem to at least waggle some eyebrows at the phrase "anti-Semitism", if not point to it directly. 

Views on whether or not tragedy provides a fulfilling end to a work have changed over the centuries and it has slipped in and out of popularity in contemporary works of a given period. Great literary classics, such as Romeo and Juliet, have always been respected regardless of prevailing literary modes. Nevertheless, the presence of tragedy in literature has fluctuated from its beginning in Ancient Greece, then to its obvious comeback in Shakespeare's day, as well as to the present seeming revival in modern literature. This therefore suggests changing attitudes towards literary tragedy. Tragedy should be considered just as a fulfilling ending as a happy one, so when and why did popularity for tragedy change over the centuries? 

In Chapter 10 of Dickens's Great Expectations, Pip goes to the pub to find Joe, as told by his sister. When he enters the pub, Joe and Mr. Wopsle are sitting at a table next to a mysterious man: 

As with the horse, there is no evidence to suggest that these farmyard creatures have sentience. This might be indicative of a pattern. There were also various monsters in certain books: 

This could just mean the postscript I cited above, but I'll try to find a text of the edition. This isn't just word-of-author evidence; it's accompanied by strong textual parallels. 

This is certainly a valid interpretation - and one I agree with, because, to be frank, Ligeia is really about whether or not death can be overcome. Granted, some feel that Ligeia did in fact conquer death, but the same basic reasoning is used: Poe included the poem to just emphasize the human struggle with mortality. As an interesting side note, the name "Ligeia" also appears in Poe's poem Al Aaraaf (1829). 2. A Predicament and How to Write a Blackwood Article You brought up a pair of short stories, published together under different names in 1838. Both have the same protagonist, who refers to herself as the Signora Psyche Zenobia. The plots are otherwise remarkably bizarre and separate from one another; the former is about the odd decapitation of said protagonist, while the latter is something of a social commentary on horror and suspense writing, which was of course Poe's specialty. If I'm interpreting them correctly, A Predicament is the story of how the Signora Psyche Zenobia inadvertently (I believe) carries out her assignment from How to Write a Blackwood Article: to die and record her thoughts on the matter. The details I leave to anyone who wishes to read the stories in full. 3. Poems written as "Tamerlane" This is another peculiarly connected group of poems. You may know of Poe's 1827 poem Tamerlane, published in his collection entitled Tamerlane and Other Poems (1827). What's curious is that Poe actually signed some of his poems as "Tamerlane", for reasons I cannot explain. They include 

OK, I know this question isn't about literary analysis or anything but I posted this on ELU and it was put on hold (as off-topic) and I was advised to post it here. 

Tess views herself as "good and simple" but not pure like her sister; she is the 'unblemished', 'unsullied' version of Tess: 

The napkins, carpet and the smell of beeswax and soap contribute nothing effectual to the narrative apart from injecting an extra sense of realism. In terms of Russian literature, Tolstoy was know to use it in his novel The Death of Ivan Ilyitch (especially in Ilyitch's eventual anti-climactic death from a fall whilst hanging up curtains). 

Furthermore as an aside, Hardy hints his views on Tess' crime and punishment (and thus Victorian society's views) in this line at the very end of the book: 

The definition for spondees is: a metrical foot consisting of two long or stressed syllables, which the line is describing with "long and long". The second line is also separate from the first with a semicolon at the end of the first, so they are definitely unrelated. The real question is why is the second line not in spondees? I cannot find any explanations for this, apart from that the stressed 'o' sounds in the line act to emphasise the spondees in the next line. Also, in old copies of S. T. Coleridge's poems, where the lines are scanned, line 2 is sometimes left unscanned (along with the second part of the poem, which deviates away from describing meter and addresses his son), so maybe it is not meant to have a definite meter (sort does make a rhyming couplet with short so that could be the reason for this rogue line). Regardless of line 2, the line about trochees is definitely in catalectic trochaic meter. 

For what it's worth, a contemporary biography of Garibaldi explains that he had great affection for the English people. He wrote, 

"No one else to pass a word with" seems to indicate that Rat doesn't talk with anyone at all - likely including any servants or a housekeeper he could manage to fit in his home (which is, compared to Toad Hall, quite small). Later on, it seems that Rat's picnics come from his own effort, not someone else's. After talking with Otter, the subject of the conversation with Mole swings back to food: 

The first line feels slightly smoother; the first, fourth, seventh, tenth and thirteenth syllables are all stressed. However, the second does not flow quite so well. 

Holmes changes this impression by pointing out that Moriarty could not afford several luxuries than he has - a painting by Jean Baptiste Greuze, for instance - on a professor's salary. This may be the first time the police consider Moriarty a potential criminal, which is admittedly unsurprising, given that Moriarty's web keeps him well-hidden. Holmes does say that he has been in Moriarty's rooms three time on various occasions, though he has yet to meet the Professor himself. He also mentions that he has "dozens of exiguous threads" that implicate Moriarty in various crimes, and that it could take MacDonald anywhere from three months to two years to study him. This suggests that Holmes has been aware of Moriarty's activities for some time - possibly a few years. Putting this all together, I think we can estimate that Holmes knew about Moriarty since at least, say, 1885 or 1886. 

Here, the cornices distract Ilyitch during court sessions but do not create much impact in themselves apart from being realistic, since people do, after all, remember little unrelated details. Furthermore, the way his deterioration drags on is also reminiscent of the realism of Naturalism as the insignificant details seem to prioritise the content of the narrative. Overall, the whole story is about the realistic qualities of an ordinary man's inconsequential life and so Naturalism is a necessity in achieving this effect. Likewise, Anna Karenina also features Naturalistic descriptions: 

So, many thought that Tess was additionally morally impure due to this event, due to the fact she did conceive Sorrow. Furthermore, there are also aspects of misogyny, as while Angel committed a consensual immoral act and Tess forgave him for it, when she confessed that she was violated as a young girl, an involuntary act in her case, he 'cannot' forgive her (reference) : 

There are plenty of other allusions to real-life incidents and people - these are only a few. The entire group was largely composed of the artists and writers and poets that Ginsberg knew firsthand, or through other friends. They collectively make up the "madness" that Ginsberg saw - in particular, in Solomon. He feels that he sees the madness and destructive tendencies in all the artists and poets and non-conformists around him. The point, though, is that he is attributing the madness to the societal conditions of the time - which is what Howl is all about! 

We see some similar parallels with Aurora's father, especially given that she has a close relationship with him - until his death, nine years later - which mirrors Barrett Browning's relationship with her father, until she eloped with Robert Browning, which cut off their correspondence. Aurora's father attempted to impart a love of learning to her, from an early age: 

The presence of the quotation marks suggests Hardy's contempt of contemporary views on a situation like Tess'. They are unforgiving and condemn her without consideration of the crimes that the 'victim' (Alec) committed. The stress here is that he is criticising the same people who then criticised the subtitle of Tess of the d'Urbervilles. Secondly, Tess became an adulteress when she married Angel and then married Alec when Angel travels to Brazil, however she really thought he would never return, which makes it excusable in our eyes. But this adultery would have been shocking and inexcusable to the Victorians and would certainly have been classed as immoral. Thirdly, it was interpreted that, after Alec assaulted her, Tess lost what was called her 'physical purity' and hence Hardy came under fire for his subtitle of 'A Pure Woman (...)' since this contradicted the contemporary commonly accepted ideas of purity. (this article explains it well if you want to go into it.) I will paraphrase the basic idea: The Victorian idea was that 'purity' was lost in such a situation regardless whether consent was given. Virtue was synonimized with this 'purity' and hence Tess would not have been considered pure by many contemporary readers. In addition, there has been ambiguity over the scene in which Tess is violated by Alec (although it is usually decided that it was non-consensual - discussed in this question) there were obviously those who believed it to be a seduction and hence a fault and immorality on Tess' part. This was fueled by the commonly accepted belief at the time that (quoted from the thesis below):