Here, it's not used in the first sense, but in the second. Frost is saying that he can't help but admit that there is great relief in being able to put these people out of their misery. However, when he comes to his senses, he considers how he would feel if someone were to offer the same for him ... which is arguably more than what he would offer to those people — a choice. 

Wikipedia's List of poems by Robert Frost includes it in a collection published in 1937. Robert Frost and the New England Renaissance by George Monteiro claims: 

So, either the intention to convey a particular meaning is evident in the work, and therefore it already means that, or the work doesn't convey that intention, making it irrelevant. This itself could be a fallacy: Does the author even have intentions? - as James Downey argues: 

Neither seem to be a primary source. Even the part about Carrie being based on those two girls has a rather vague source: "King, (2000), p.78". If we assume that this assertion and the quote are from the same source, Wikipedia lists two books published by King in 2000 that might be the source of this quote: 

The napkins, carpet and the smell of beeswax and soap contribute nothing effectual to the narrative apart from injecting an extra sense of realism. In terms of Russian literature, Tolstoy was know to use it in his novel The Death of Ivan Ilyitch (especially in Ilyitch's eventual anti-climactic death from a fall whilst hanging up curtains). 

OK, I know this question isn't about literary analysis or anything but I posted this on ELU and it was put on hold (as off-topic) and I was advised to post it here. 

Views on whether or not tragedy provides a fulfilling end to a work have changed over the centuries and it has slipped in and out of popularity in contemporary works of a given period. Great literary classics, such as Romeo and Juliet, have always been respected regardless of prevailing literary modes. Nevertheless, the presence of tragedy in literature has fluctuated from its beginning in Ancient Greece, then to its obvious comeback in Shakespeare's day, as well as to the present seeming revival in modern literature. This therefore suggests changing attitudes towards literary tragedy. Tragedy should be considered just as a fulfilling ending as a happy one, so when and why did popularity for tragedy change over the centuries? 

One of the characteristics of Haiku is that the poems are usually of 17 syllables (5-7-5). Exceptions exist, of course, but 17 is the norm. Why 17? How did the originators of Haiku come to settle on 17? How does it contribute to a haiku's aesthetics? 

Personally, my father, who would be of a similar age to Estha and Rahel, and is of a similar situation to Velutha, attended the local public school, which was considered one of the best in the district, and an engineering college, and go on to get a decent job. 

It seems that Sredni Vashtar, like many of Saki's stories pitting children against adults, was inspired from his childhood. Saki had lost his parents at an early age, and was fostered by tyrannical aunts. From Reading Saki: The Fiction of H.H. Munro by Brian Gibson: 

I believe you're only thinking of "unreasoned judgement/preujdice" when talking about bias. If that was all, sure, there might be texts which are unbiased about something (but not, in general, unbiased about everything)*. Was that the debate topic using such a narrow definition? If not, Everyone has biases: tendencies to favour or disfavour things. Now: 

In Chapter 10 of Dickens's Great Expectations, Pip goes to the pub to find Joe, as told by his sister. When he enters the pub, Joe and Mr. Wopsle are sitting at a table next to a mysterious man: 

Here, the cornices distract Ilyitch during court sessions but do not create much impact in themselves apart from being realistic, since people do, after all, remember little unrelated details. Furthermore, the way his deterioration drags on is also reminiscent of the realism of Naturalism as the insignificant details seem to prioritise the content of the narrative. Overall, the whole story is about the realistic qualities of an ordinary man's inconsequential life and so Naturalism is a necessity in achieving this effect. Likewise, Anna Karenina also features Naturalistic descriptions: 

(I would not count articles such as 'the' and 'a' as separating words) Is the 'f' sound in the words "fair" and "first" still classed as alliteration in conjunction with the alliteratory phrases "foam flew" and "furrow followed free"? Or are they too separate to be alliteration? If words between the alliteratory words is permitted, then how many? I have tried to research this but have been unsuccessful in finding a rule that clarifies whether or not several (let's say more than two) non-allitoratory words between alliteratory words 'takes away' the alliteration. 

I'll only address the question from the translation requirement POV: what would you call a person who uses fetishes for magic, given the culture is African (as opposed to, say, Haitian), but in the context of Western literature? Given various factors, I feel this would be more appropriate than actually giving a nuanced description of such a person in African culture: 

Note: I'm not a professional historian, so my knowledge of the times is a bit vague and from school textbooks. The events of Estha and Rahel's childhood takes place in the 1960s. That is more than ten years since India gained Independence, and thirty years since the death of Sri Narayana Guru. Sri Narayana Guru had started a social reform movement in Kerala rejecting casteism and aiming for emancipation of the lower castes and casteless people. Mahatma Gandhi also strongly supported uplifting the untouchables, as did a number of other leaders of the Indian Independence movement. The net effect was that, officially, there was no discrimination towards them, and indeed, the government had to undertake various measures for their welfare. While there was a lot of discrimination, the lower castes were not actively prohibited from education, or even prestigious jobs. Progress was slow, but there was progress. Further, Velutha's age makes it likely that his birth or childhood coincided with Sri Narayana Guru's life, so Velutha may have been a direct beneficiary of his movement. Another factor would be the Communist movement. Kerala, the Indian state where the story takes place, was officially created in 1956, and has always alternated between Congress and Communist governments since. Kerala's first government was Communist, which started radical reforms. Lower-caste leaders of the time, like Dr. Ambedkar, had complained about the paternalistic attitude of the upper-caste people towards those beneath, so it may also be possible that Ammu's family maybe indulging in this by "letting" the untouchable get a good job. To conclude, the events of The God of Small Things takes place in a Kerala that was well on the way to social reform. 

Warning: MASSIVE spoilers ahead. If you haven't read the last Harry Potter book, but plan to do so, turn back now 

It came from personal experience While he didn't die, he once got repeatedly stung by a bunch of yellowjackets. The TombQuest Wiki says this about the matter: 

I understand that Beatrice is basically saying 'I would rather X than hearing a man say he loves me.' But I don't understand the dog barking at a crow bit. What does a dog barking at a crow signify? I did some research and found that a crow is a bad omen, so perhaps the dog barking is warning the owner of a bad omen? 

Also note there are a few more being written, and several planned as well. And if you want to be pedantic like Gallifreyan is in the comments below, you could technically say that The Martian should be read first :P I personally think the second order is better as it makes a better read. It makes more sense and nothing happens which you need knowledge from another book that hasn't been read yet to understand. Although obviously I have no idea where the unpublished ones should go, so I've placed them chronologically. 

This darker part of the subplot is an anti-Puritan satire by Shakespeare, as 19th century critic, Joseph Hunter commented: 

I think what you are looking for is Literary Naturalism. This began as a reaction to the prevailing modes of surrealism and Romanticism of the period (late nineteenth-century) and was an off-shoot and more advanced form of realism. As such is it often called 'extreme' realism and is somewhat synonymous with the effects of realism; it depicts events and other objects as they are, often to the degree of being judged unnecessary. (As a side effect, determinism is usually (although not absolutely) associated with Naturalism, and uses pessimistic realism to determine an unchangeable outcome of a character's life, usually tragedy, which explains why many of Tolstoy's works do not end happily. This however is not about inconsequential details and acts on a much larger scale to the narrative.) This technique was primarily employed by Emile Zola and many American authors, including Edith Wharton in her novel The House of Mirth, which I will use here as an example for the technique, where she details everyday items inconsequentially: 

Mr Anderson then goes on to examine the eponymous speeches where he feels peripeteia happens in the positive sense. 

Jim Corbett's books are mostly autobiographical, My India particularly so. It describes several incidents across Corbett's life in India. One of the most moving ones is from Corbett's time as a Railway contractor on the shores of the Ganges. There had been some delay in payments, and Corbett was nearly bankrupt. His foreman came to speak to him, and met his servant going to serve him lunch. They asked him what his lunch consisted of, and the answer was, if my memory is correct, a single roti and some dal. The austerity impressed his foremen, and they, after waiting for him to finish his meal, promised him to continue working, but pleaded for some solution. Of course, the payments came soon after. The story as written by Corbett is powerful. However, I wonder: is Corbett a reliable narrator? Have other, contradictory, accounts of the events in his book come out? Specifically, I'm most interested in the aforementioned event, but a general account of his accuracy would be good. 

It is evident here that the overwhelmingly list-like details appear to be redundant, however it really does paint a solid realist picture of the presented scene. This page explains Tolstoy's tendencies to realism if you are specifically after his use of Naturalism/realism. 

(As a side note, the irony of the Angel and Liza-Lu match is that in the Victorian era, it was forbidden to marry your sister-in law as she was considered to be like a sister by blood, hence Angel's comment "And she is my sister-in-law"; this does make their prospective marriage even more bizarre. So perhaps the match was also included to exude shock from contemporary readers.) Liza-Lu is known to be nearly sixteen (4 years younger than Tess), the age Tess was when she went to the Chase with Alec, and so Tess sees their union as a chance for Liza-Lu to achieve Tess's own aspirations, marry Angel, and not fall prey to disgrace. Reference 

The presence of the quotation marks suggests Hardy's contempt of contemporary views on a situation like Tess'. They are unforgiving and condemn her without consideration of the crimes that the 'victim' (Alec) committed. The stress here is that he is criticising the same people who then criticised the subtitle of Tess of the d'Urbervilles. Secondly, Tess became an adulteress when she married Angel and then married Alec when Angel travels to Brazil, however she really thought he would never return, which makes it excusable in our eyes. But this adultery would have been shocking and inexcusable to the Victorians and would certainly have been classed as immoral. Thirdly, it was interpreted that, after Alec assaulted her, Tess lost what was called her 'physical purity' and hence Hardy came under fire for his subtitle of 'A Pure Woman (...)' since this contradicted the contemporary commonly accepted ideas of purity. (this article explains it well if you want to go into it.) I will paraphrase the basic idea: The Victorian idea was that 'purity' was lost in such a situation regardless whether consent was given. Virtue was synonimized with this 'purity' and hence Tess would not have been considered pure by many contemporary readers. In addition, there has been ambiguity over the scene in which Tess is violated by Alec (although it is usually decided that it was non-consensual - discussed in this question) there were obviously those who believed it to be a seduction and hence a fault and immorality on Tess' part. This was fueled by the commonly accepted belief at the time that (quoted from the thesis below): 

I could never quite put my finger on a specific problem. Are there any internal inconsistencies in Catch 22, or was I just confused by Heller? 

What did it mean to do so? Is this a point of medieval Western tradition of hospitality that's being referenced here, or something internal to the Seven Kingdoms that's as yet unexplained? 

Are keteks (the form: palindrome [allowing for conjugation, etc.], n [≥2] thoughts) based on some real-life form of poetry, or are they purely fictional? 

This isn't the first instance of controversy after Carter took the reigns. A biography of Lee by Marja Mills also ran into trouble. How Unauthorized Is the New Book About Harper Lee? from Gawker (July 18, 2014): 

Oddly, Burroughs calls it a "strange system of spelling", whereas it should be a strange system of pronunciation. If he did assign sounds to the various characters, and using (g - LA), (o - TU) as representative examples, he could have wrote down "Tarzan" in about as many characters, using different alphabets of course. 

Assuming the online version you read was by AINA (the Assyrian International News Agency), which indeed sits at 27 pages (and is the third result when I Googled "Epic of Gilgamesh"), note that the PDF pages are US Letter-sized. Most print books would have pages with half those dimensions (well, not quite half, but ...) or a fourth of the area, and so around 4 times the page count (100+). This edition is by N. K. Sandars, who is also the editor of the 1972 Penguin Classics edition, which has 127 pages. (The one Gallifreyan talks about would be the 2003 edition, which has 228 pages.) 

It is in trochaic tetrameter, because there are four trochees in the first line, as you highlighted in your copy (numbers indicate stress number): 

Furthermore as an aside, Hardy hints his views on Tess' crime and punishment (and thus Victorian society's views) in this line at the very end of the book: 

There are four stresses to the line (resulting in a tetrameter) each with the stress on the first, not the following, syllable (resulting in trochaic meter). Iambic tetrameter is the reverse of trochaic tetrameter as the unstressed syllable comes before the stressed syllable. If it was iambic, the stresses would look like this: 

So, many thought that Tess was additionally morally impure due to this event, due to the fact she did conceive Sorrow. Furthermore, there are also aspects of misogyny, as while Angel committed a consensual immoral act and Tess forgave him for it, when she confessed that she was violated as a young girl, an involuntary act in her case, he 'cannot' forgive her (reference) : 

If it is Magwitch, he would not need to ask all of these questions since he had met Pip and knew his name as well as meeting Joe when he was captured in the marshes as a runaway convict, so I don't think it is him. The man also mentions this at the pub, when he is told Mr. Wopsle is the church clerk: