This is a well known problem associated with the breaststroke when done improperly. It happens because your breaststroke technique needs improvement and it is very important at this point that you do your best to correct it, otherwise you may be damaging your knees. The problem is called Breaststroke Knee or Swimmer's knee and may eventually lead to a condition called Chondromalacia patellae. In a few words, during the whiplash leg motion of the breastroke you are probably pushing only from the hip and leaving the knees nearly relaxed. That way the knee ligaments alone must absorb the lateral forces. There is also plenty of information around, here is a random link explaining the problem. You have to focus on your technique. It is important to protect the knee during the whiplash motion by firing your leg muscles. It may also help to strengthen your hamstrings and the muscles surrounding your knee in general. The bodyweight single leg deadlift is a good place to start. 

I suggest you build up strength gradually by doing leg presses but pushing with one leg only (of course, alternate legs, although the strongest one will not benefit much until the weakest one catches up). I mention the Leg Press because it is the closest thing there is to a basic, compound leg exercise like the squat, but with the leg press machine you can easily set the load low enough, so that you can work safely with one single side and gradually build up. There is a description in EXRX of the single-leg version of the leg press so it is probably not a bad idea (invented exercises can be dangerous, you know). One-sided exercises are usually recommended to athletes with lateral imbalances, and the typical example is the bench press and shoulder press with dumbbells, in order to force both sides to work equally and independently. Take this with a grain of salt because I am neither an experienced athlete, nor a physical therapist. And this answer is likely going to receive a shower of downvotes because I mentioned a gym machine (oh my God!) and the trend now is "either barbell or nothing". But I think machines can be very useful under certain circumstances, and yours seems to be the case. Since you cannot do a single-leg squat without pain, I don't think there is a better alternate than the leg press machine. Additionally, I guess you have already tried lunges, although they are not a 100% single-leg exercise. If lunges are painful, you may also try a reverse lunges, I have found them somewhat easier on my knees. In any case, I don't think it is a good idea to be messing around with lunges with knee pain. The leg press machine is safer because you can set the load as low as you want and build up from that point. And be sure to have your therapist clearance in order to attempt anything. 

This picture doesn't do a great job of showing the weight distribution, though. Or... Maybe the drawing just has really tight hip-flexors The following 2 links have more in depth descriptions with videos to describe the basic stretch (as it can be hard to conceptualize via images). Some info is repeated Hip-Flexor Videos 1 Hip-Flexor Videos 2 

The more repetitions you can do, the more you are moving towards endurance training. That is to say, you will develop muscles that can perform the same motion over and over without tiring as easily. Heavier weight with fewer repetitions is more for building muscle mass. That being said, just performing 10 sets of push-ups for 5 repetitions will not build muscle mass unless your body perceives your body weight as "heavy". If you can perform 5 push ups and feel like you've done nothing, you would not build muscle or move toward that endurance state. So really, it is relative to how your body responds to the stress placed upon it. For comparison sake, look at endurance runner's legs (think 1 set of 50 repetitions) versus a sprinter's legs (think 1 set of 5 reps). 

If you are young and you have no past injuries to your knee ligaments, I suggest you don't give up running but rather focus on a better running technique, lowering your mileage for some time, changing your program or even trying different shoes instead. Medical doctors who aren't specially devoted to sport medicine are usually prone to sending you to swim at the very first sign of any discomfort. I do love swimming but I hate that attitude that arises from ignorance. Do an internet search on "shin splints", it is a common annoyance among runners but it is not reason enough to quit unless you have really tried modifying another variables. By simply inserting extra rest days among runs your problem might be over. Or, as said, change shoes. Besides that, swimming is not problem-free. Not for your knees. Google for "breaststroke knee" or "swimmer knee". The last MD who told me to swim was a young but really obese guy with obviously no idea of sports. Many of them say blindly the same swimming-is-safe crap as a universal true for every problem. But no sport is 100% problem-free. The best sport for you is that one with the ability to motivate you and keep you engaged for years. 

This question is more appropriate for Health-stackexchange. However, I know that drinking your calories isn't ideal. Especially when you aren't controlling what goes into your meal supplement. That being said, anything that doesn't slow gastric emptying will not make you feel full. Starches and fat do this. It is the reason eating a bagel makes you feel hungry 15 minutes later while a bagel with Peanut Butter or Cream Cheese keeps you more full, longer. 

Your hamstrings attach on your Ischial Tuberosity (your "sit bones", like when you tell someone they have a boney butt if they sit in your lap). Your Erector Spinae muscles are a group of muscles that run up your spine. Part of this group is the Iliocostalis that originates along your Sacrum (tail bone) and Iliac crest (your hip bone). I am assuming that when you stretch for your hamstrings you are letting your back round out. This would allow the lower part of your back to stretch as well. Adding a 60 pound pack while doing PT is a lot of change for your body. If the pain is mildly uncomfortable but just "sore" your pain could be a few things. If your pain is hindering your range of motion or sends sharp pains anywhere you should go see a doctor as soon as you can. If you don't normally feel a lot of pain you should go regardless because your body might not be able to sense how hurt it really is. If it is a muscle imbalance I would be willing to bet your lower abdominal muscles are under-developed compared to your back and your hip flexors are tight. Any of the exercises here should do the job for the lower abs. As a side note, I did not notice them tell you in the videos but your hands should be on the hamstring side of your hips (not in your lower back). This help keep your lower back in the floor, relieving the stress place upon it. You can stretch your hip flexors by performing this stretch. If you do not feel comfortable doing this on your own, ask a trainer or someone in your unit that is more familiar with having "perfect" form while doing exercise. 

This is not an answer to your question, but I have something useful to say for your situation, and it is too long for a comment. 

I have been doing inverted rows with the hope of building up towards pullups. I added two light sets of lat pulldowns as additional exercise recently (it was the closest thing available in my small town gym to assisted pullups). In order continue with the same routine, I am supposed to go on with the inverted rows as main exercise, but... I have so often dreamt of that assisted pullup machine... Real pullups with the exact same motion patterns and muscles, but assisted by an upward force under your knees that can progressively be decreased in small 10lb increments! - I don't think there is a more direct way of building up toward real pull ups. So I ask you the expert guys here: may I change my main pull exercise and focus my effort on assisted pullups instead of inverted rows? - Please bear in mind something important: I am weak, not able to do fully horizontal inverted rows yet, and prone to injuries. The inverted rows seem like a less risky approach, but I don't know if that makes any real sense. Remark, 40 days later: I am disappointed with this machine. It restricts the motion to a very fixed posture. It is as if my forearms were in a forcedly rotated position and I cannot do anything about it because there is absolutely no freedom. Very often one of my elbows pops violently in the middle of the motion. Perhaps it makes wonders for other people, but for me it sucks and I am happy I have realized it before it is too late. Nothing to to with the Lat Pulldown machine, where the bar hangs freely from a cable, and the pulling motion feels quite natural, which is no wonder because from the point of view of physics a metal bar hanging from a cable is exactly the same as a free weight, only the direction of gravity is different. I think the best device to prepare for pull ups would be a Lat Pulldown machine with no seat, but rather a pad at floor level that would allow the user to kneel on the pad and pull from the cable from a kneeling posture. In any case this machine is no good for me. I have tried all distances between hands, but my elbows do not like the forced position. 

This can be caused by a few things. Treadmills normally have leveling screws near the back roller (think pads on the bottom of a chair that screw in and out to level the legs). If the left side has more tension, the belt will slip left as it is run, same with the right side. If it is moving back and forth freely, more than likely, both leveling adjustments are a little loose and the pressure you exert on the belt left to right when you use it causes it to zig-zag. 

There are varying ranges of educational levels for trainers. They could be non-high school graduates that sat for one of the 4-6 hour personal training courses to those having a Bachelor's in Exercise Science with a Master's of Exercise Physiology. Some of the time trainers will not know the reasoning behind a method (keeping the muscles warm in this case); and rather that it is a widely accepted norm. That being said, keeping muscles warm post heavy lifting is a viable technique for most lifters. The article that Kate posted addresses everything you would need to know about your original question. Keeping your muscles warm and doing some light stretching will also help you keep the same (if not improve) muscle flexibility. 

I know about the importance of good sleep after strength workouts, due to the release of growth hormone during deep sleep. No matter how hard I try, my body refuses to sleep more than 6 hours. Going to bed early only means I will wake up spontaneously before the alarm clock. The only exception happens when I sleep two hours or less (not often), then my body will allow me to sleep for 8 or 9 hours the following day. A few days ago I had my strength training session after having slept only 2 hours. I didn´t perform much worse than usually. Interestingly, since I had some sleep debt I could go to bed early that night and get 9 hours of natural post-workout sleep! Which leads me to the following: perhaps it is not a bad idea to restrict your sleep time the night before a workout, so that you get more sleep the night before, just before having exposed your muscles to micro-trauma in the Gym. Is that a known method? Is it unhealthy? 

Remark: I am currently doing full body twice a week, but with different exercises. Day B has bench press where day A has push ups. Day B has barbell row where day A has inverted row, and so on. The goblet squat is the only exercise that repeats. 

The more calories you consume, and carbohydrates are calories in their simplest form, the less quickly you will lose weight. Example : If you were to consume 1400 calories/day and burning 1750 calories/day you will lose 1 pound in 10 days. Adding 175 calories in carbohydrates/day to your diet you will lose that same pound in 20 days. This assumes that the only changing variable in your body was calories in and calories out. From the math standpoint, yes you should cut out the carbs on the weekend if your goal is to lose weight at your current rate. There are many other factors that one could argue about leaving in the weekend carbs. To add another point in here, protein is the food source that will help you build and maintain muscle mass. However, consuming more than 2g protein/1kg body weight, even for elite athletes is mostly wasted. Your body also processes real protein (fish, chicken, tuna, eggs, etc.) better than whey powder. Yet, if you feel you can not meet your protein intake with real food, supplements are what you should look at. 

This is a very tough question. A few starting questions: 1) How is your starting block reaction time? 2) How many strokes is it taking you during one length of the pool? 3) How many breaths are you taking each length of the pool? 4) How are your turns? Training for longer distances than 200 meters can only help your swimming endurance. However, you don't want to train solely or endurance because it will hurt your power for the short distance. You should, in fact, run several trials of the 200 at full speed. This will help you get to know your event better. Outside of the pool you should do some strength training. Working your shoulder, chest, lats, quadricep, and hamstring muscles. (In all honesty you should train all of your muscles) You should also work on your flexibility. Having the extra length in your reach, or folding into your turn a little more will only help you. There is a reason Olympic caliber athletes train in dedicated centers. They have access to highly specialized staff like physicists that specialize in sports that can help calculate maximum efficiency of diving angles, optimal depth for swimming, etc. I hope someone can give you better workouts to do in the pool. Good luck!