The Compton cross section starts to get reduced significantly only when the photon energy is significant compared to the electron rest energy. So at that energy scale, for a more isotropic radiation field, you would have to start worrying about some of the photons having enough energy to combine with another photon and create an electron-positron pair. 

That's by number-- you get a lot more helium than that by mass. Also, when they talk about proton flux, they just count the bare protons, not protons embedded in larger ions like helium. Those are the kinds of things that should be made clear, but end up being common assumed conventions. 

You can never tell the luminosity of a star from knowledge of its color X-Y alone, that only tells you something about the surface temperature. The problem is not solved by knowing the distance modulus, that only tells you how far the star is, but not how big it is. If you want luminosity from those things, you need to know how bright the star looks, not just its color and distance. Or you could look at the width of the spectral lines to infer luminosity class, but that brings in line resolution. But if you know the distance modulus and Lx and Ly, not just Lx/Ly, then you can get the luminosity because you know its color, how bright it looks, and its distance. 

It's an important question, because it tells us something important about the Big Bang model. Some think that the Big Bang explains the expansion, but actually, it takes expansion as an initial condition (and it is typical of dynamical models that they require an initial condition that is outside the model) and tracks how it proceeds. We generally don't explain why our models work, we just test our models. We would need some new model to test, one that currently does not exist or is highly speculative, to be able to say why the Big Bang model works, and why the universe is expanding. 

You need a model for the excitation of the line. But since you say you have two forbidden lines, you can try assuming the density is well below the "critical density" (which is the density at which point the upper levels of the transitions get quenched by collisions instead of waiting as long as it takes for the "forbidden" radiative transition to occur). Then if you are talking about two transitions from the same upper level, the line ratio is simply the ratio of the Einstein A values for the two transitions (note that the Einstein A value normally already includes the statistical weights of the lower levels). If you are talking about two different upper levels, then you need a model for how those upper levels get populated, and the line ratios will be the ratios of the upper level populations times the Einstein A values. It's not always easy to know how the upper levels get populated, so that's why it's hard to give you an answer to your question, it is very context dependent. But the main simplification of using forbidden lines is that you don't have to worry about the photons getting reabsorbed before they get out. (A detail is that line ratios are often given in terms of energy flux ratios, rather than photon ratios, so you'd need to multiply the Einstein A values by the photon energies if the transitions are at very different energies.) 

Stars typically do form in clusters, because to get the gravitational instability to initiate, you need a very large mass-- much larger than the mass of a single star. A typical mass for the gravitational instability is about a million solar masses, though it can vary by an order of magnitude depending on the situation. But you don't get a single star of that mass because after the instability starts (on the scale of a "giant molecular cloud"), it fragments into smaller bits, which are the star clusters, which fragment into further bits, which are the stars. There are two basic types of clusters, "open" and "globular", where the open clusters are not gravitationally bound so the stars wander away from each other after forming (which is presumably what happened to the Sun). The globular clusters stay bound for very long times and can even wander away from the plane of the spiral galaxy and still be together as clusters, but obviously the Sun is not in one of those and is not old enough to have completely left the plane of the galaxy (though it does oscillate up and down through the plane). A typical open cluster might be a thousand stars, so it seems likely the Sun might have about a thousand "sister" stars spread around the plane by now, but we'll never know which ones those are since the age cannot be determined precisely enough. 

The formula you are using is for a point mass, but a hole through the Earth experiences less gravity than a point mass, as the comment points out. One can then ask, what if the Earth's mass were all at the center, why wouldn't the mass fly through and go to a distance r on the other side? It's because a mass like that is a singularity, one that doesn't matter unless you fall right through it. If the Earth's mass was really concentrated at a point, then falling from r would still tend to just miss that point, since it's just a point anyway, and the huge forces would turn the orbit around, such that the object fell from r, went to zero, turned around, and flew back out to r. That's a very squeezed ellipse, with a=r/2, as desired. The motion that goes straight through and out to the opposite r, on the other hand, is not an ellipse with the mass at one focus, so it violates Kepler's laws. Again, the violation of Kepler's laws is that the mass is singular in a way that matters if you fall through a hole in it. Interestingly, it doesn't matter how concentrated the mass is toward the center-- if there's a hole in it that the object falls through, then the object does not obey Kepler's laws. It will only obey Kepler's laws if the orbiting object does not enter the mass. 

I don't think any of those would give a supernova, because the first two don't cross an important mass boundary, and the last one might make a black hole from a neutron star, but that's not going to be much of a supernova because it's already very compact and there's not going to be much to have a core bounce off of, nor is the white dwarf massive enough for a type Ia. They should all produce some significant emission, depending on how fast the mass is introduced. Perhaps somewhere between what we would call a supernova, and something more along the lines of a classical nova (for the first one) and quasiperiodic X-ray flaring (for the next two). They could get pretty bright, and I don't know if the nomenclature has individual names for each one of those, but they don't quite sound like supernovae.