Yes, this story is sometimes possible medically due to a condition known as the "Lazarus phenomenon". 

Humans are naturally exposed in the environment to formaldehyde present in air, food and water. Exposure to formaldehyde in drinking water at 10 mg for 1 day is not harmful for human health. 

"Naga is the Sanskrit/Pāli word for a deity or class of entity or being, taking the form of a very large snake, found in Hinduism and Buddhism. The naga primarily represents rebirth, death and mortality, due to its casting of its skin and being symbolically "reborn". Brahmins associated naga with Shiva and with Vishnu, who rested on a 100 headed naga coiled around Shiva’s neck." "As with the god Ningizzida, the Mesopotamian corn goddess, Nidaba, was shown in representations with serpents (springing from her shoulders). In the Sumerian and Babylonian worldviews the serpent was symbolic of the regenerative and healing properties of certain elements and produce of the earth." "The spiral is a representation of the snake, which is an archetype for the cyclical mode of life." 

Research from Australia shows that there are other factors which affect school performance which is actually not taken into account for Bill Gate's claim about USA. 

There are case studies where alcohol abuse is suspected of contributing to hypothermia by weakening physiologic responses to the cold weather. 

Referring to Roger Pearse, this quote was sourced from a satirical work of John Bale which was written with a "historical" format entitled 'The Pageant of Popes'. 

Protein digestion is a very slow process which is complex and there are several sites along the digestive tract where protein digestion takes place. Research also shows that consuming multiple meals per day containing 3g of leucine may be beneficial in maximizing muscle protein synthesis. 

The study found that the driving force behind unethical behavior was not social status but power. Research through the study has shown that the powerful tend to feel independent and focused on their own goals. Powerlessness, on the other hand, increases dependence on and generosity toward others. More details about the study are described here. 

EMS is also called as Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation (NMES) or “electromyostimulation". Muscles which perform different tasks, in addition to having different muscle architecture, respond to different electrical input. For example, skeletal muscles that play a postural role, and thus have a high proportion of slow fibers, are physiologically activated at low frequencies. Conversely, muscles with a very high proportion of fast fibers may be activated only intermittently with high frequency bursts of electrical activity. The fact that electrical activity and muscle properties seem to be intimately interrelated, provides an experimental basis for understanding muscle plasticity". Regarding the claim of strengthening muscles by EMS, per Nicola A. Maffi Uletti in 2006, there is no doubt that it is possible to increase muscle strength with an ES training program. 

The conclusions of a report by Cosmetic Ingredient Review (CIR), a U.S.based industry-sponsored panel of experts in 2012 states that parabens in cosmetics is safe at current exposure levels. 

Per Philip Yaffe in 2011, "In the 1960s Professor Albert Mehrabian and colleagues at the University of California, Los Angles (UCLA), conducted studies into human communication patterns. When their results were published in professional journals in 1967, they were widely circulated across mass media in abbreviated form. Most people forgot about what they really meant because the figures were so easy to remember. Hence, the myth that communication is only 7 percent verbal and 93 percent non-verbal was born." "The fact is Professor Mehrabian's research had nothing to do with giving speeches, because it was based on the information that could be conveyed in a single word. Subjects were asked to listen to a recording of a woman's voice saying the word "maybe" in three different ways to convey liking, neutrality, and disliking. They were also shown photos of the woman's face conveying the same three emotions. They were then asked to guess the emotions heard in the recorded voice, seen in the photos, and both together. The result was that the subjects correctly identified the emotions 50 percent more often from the photos than from the voice." "In the second study, subjects were asked to listen to nine recorded words, three meant to convey liking (honey, dear, thanks), three to convey neutrality (maybe, really, oh), and three to convey disliking (don't, brute, terrible). Each word was pronounced three different ways. When asked to guess the emotions being conveyed, it turned out that the subjects were more influenced by the tone of voice than by the words themselves." "Professor Mehrabian combined the statistical results of the two studies and came up with the famously misused—rule that communication is only 7 percent verbal and 93 percent non-verbal. The non-verbal component was made up of body language (55 percent) and tone of voice (38 percent). Actually, it is incorrect to call this a "rule," being the result of only two studies. Scientists usually insist on many more corroborating studies before calling anything a rule. An exception can never prove a rule; it can only disprove it." In the words of Professor Mehrabian himself in 2009, "Total Liking = 7% Verbal Liking + 38% Vocal Liking + 55% Facial Liking. Please note that this and other equations regarding relative importance of verbal and nonverbal messages were derived from experiments dealing with communications of feelings and attitudes (i.e., like-dislike). Unless a communicator is talking about their feelings or attitudes, these equations are not applicable." 

Milk and butter quality estimation in terms of its composition is complex since this is affected by various other factors like genetics, raising and lactation stage/season and not only by the feed (pasture/grass fed) of the cows. 

Research also shows that there is no other benefit of replacing saturated fat with vegetable oils rich in linoleic acid apart from lowering serum cholesterol and this lowering does not relate to a lower risk of death from coronary heart disease. 

All fats do not have the same effect on the body when ingested even though they possess a similar chemical structure. 

Generation of the nylon hydrolyzing genes is standard mutation followed by selection as experimental data does not support directed mutation and no known mechanism supports directed mutation. This is shown by the author in the paper 'Biodegradation of nylon oligomers' 

Countries such as Netherlands and U.K. who had previously experimented with Internet voting have subsequently dropped the option. 

Child molesters are considered to be legitimate protective custody cases since they are likely to be attacked by other prisoners due to their nature of crime. 

A significantly high number of chemicals (99.9%) ingested by humans are naturally present in plants to fight off insects and other predators. 

In adult "converted" left-handers who were forced as children to become dextral writers, changes occur not only in primary sensory-motor cortex but also in the deep structures of the brain. 

Cushing's syndrome: Condition in which the body's adrenal glands produce high levels of the hormone cortisol. People who have Cushing's syndrome gain weight, have upper-body obesity along with other symptoms such as a rounded face, fat around the neck, and thin arms and legs. Per Kyu Yeon Hur et.al. in 2015, 

For another category of wasps named vespid, two essential oil mixtures such as 3EO-mix (clove, geranium and lemongrass) and 4EO-mix (clove, geranium, lemongrass and rosemary) had significant repellency. 

An employee of Victor Racquets Industrial Corp of Taiwan which manufactures shuttlecocks also seems to agree with the above view. 

Per Kenneth K. Koskodan in the book 'No greater ally the untold story of Poland forces in World war II' chapter titled 'On the Wings of Eagles', "the most victorious fighter squadron of the Battle of Britain, 303 Kosciuszko Polish Fighter Squadron (303 dywizjon mysliwski Warsawski im Tadeusz Kosciuszko), was Polish, and Poles comprised nearly 20 percent of the RAF." The Polish historian Jacek Kutzner states that, "the verified number of kills of 303 Squadron is around 58.8, which would still place it above all other squadrons regarding verified kills." by a chart, which shows Polish confirmed kills, confirmed kills of all Allied squadrons, including Polish and real German losses on each day when No. 303 Squadron was involved in air combats. 303 Kosciuszko Polish Fighter Squadron composition Per Lynne Olson and Stanley Cloud in the book 'A Question of Honor: The Kosciuszko Squadron: Forgotten Heroes of World War II', Squadron 303 was given operational clearance on August 31, 1940 and seventeen fighter squadrons, including the Kościuszko and Poznań squadrons, were ordered into the air to meet the first German wave of aircraft bombers. There were 21 pilots and 135 members of the ground crew initially. Almost all the members were from the Warsaw defense squadrons 111 (Kościuszko) and 112. 13 more pilots, including Witold Urbanowicz the future flight leader arrived in the next few days. The new Polish squadron was called “303” by the RAF, but the Poles preferred “Kościuszko Squadron,” after the elite unit with the internationalist traditions in which many of them had flown back home. They painted the squadron’s emblem (red cap, crossed scythes, stars and stripes) on the fuselage of their Hawker Hurricanes, just below the cockpit. Under the Anglo-Polish air forces agreement, each senior position in a squadron was to be filled by both a Polish and British officer. The two Polish flight leaders were Witold Urbanowicz, finally reunited with his former Kościuszko Squadron comrades, and Ludwik Paszkiewicz, who had been with 112 Squadron in Poland. In total four Polish squadrons took part in the battle (Polish 300 and 301 Bomber Squadrons; Polish 302 Fighter Squadron and Polish 303 Fighter Squadron) with 89 Polish pilots. Together with more than 50 Poles fighting in British squadrons, a total of 145 Polish pilots defended the British sky. Documented enemy craft destruction The pilots of Squadron 303 were known for getting very close to the enemy aircraft before firing their guns. 

Paul M. Wassarman mentions that "the driving force for engulfment of a fused sperm comes from a region of cytoplasm just beneath an egg's plasma membrane." 

Background music influenced listener attention. The results of a randomized controlled trial 'Effects of background music on concentration of workers' by Huang RH 2009 which analyzed how different types of background music and how listeners’ degree of preference for the background music can affect listener concentration in attention testing showed 

1) Was Ignaz Phillip Semmelweis the first to identify or a pioneer in identifying, the importance of hygiene in these cases? A. Ignaz Semmelweis was not the first to emphasize the significance of hand decontamination but he was the first from Europe who demonstrated the importance through statistical numbers. There were others prior to him such as Antoine Germain Labarraque who provided evidence for the role of hand decontamination reducing maternal mortality and puerperal fever. 

However, there is a medical condition called alopecia ariata which causes the hair shed suddenly, resulting in bald patches. 

The shade balls are coated in carbon black, a food-safe pigment with an albedo near zero. Any sunlight that is absorbed by the ball is not reflected or refracted since its basically dark. Dark colors absorb light and heat up faster than lighter colors that reflect light and the primary goal of these shade balls is to prevent light from reaching the water. 

Several studies have shown that gastroesophageal reflux is increased in patients in the right lateral decubitus position along with the risk factors of exposure to tobacco, alcohol, chocolate, and high-fat meals influencing reflux. 

Objectification is the "process of representing or treating a person like an object" rather than treating them as full and equal human being with equal rights and needs. The process of representation could include portrayals of women in ways and contexts which suggest that women are objects to be looked at, ogled, touched or used, anonymous commodities/things to be purchased or to be taken and once tired of, even discarded, often to be replaced by newer, younger editions which can be further analyzed through articles mentioned here. Per Fredrickson & Roberts, 1997, objectification theory postulates that many women are sexually objectified and treated as an object to be valued for its use by others. Research by APA taskforce on sexuality of girls indicates that young women and adult women are frequently, consistently, and increasingly presented in sexualized ways in advertising, creating an environment in which being female becomes nearly synonymous with being a sexual object using indirect advertising techniques. There is a strong impact made by the objectification of women within society which is shown by videos like these and ads displayed here which portray interconnectedness between violence against women (domestic and sexual violence) and the objectification of women in the media. 

4. Hessdalen Lights: Unexplained light ball phenomenon seen in the valley of Hessdalen, Norway is hypothesized to be caused by A. Artifact light sources such as commercial and private aircraft operating near observation sites which are similar to known physical phenomena such as the Marfa Lights in Texas, the Min Min Light in Australia, and the Brown Mountain Lights in North Carolina when referring to Marsha Adams of the International Earthlight Alliance in her 2006 paper 'Air Navigation Artifacts near the Hessdalen Valley, Norway'. 

Scientific analysis by Andre Filipovic et.al. in 2011 revealed that EMS is effective for developing physical performance."It is pretty well established that electric muscle stimulation works, there are still a lot of unknowns with regards to what works best". 

No. The percentage of hominid bones from the human fossil record for 1.0 to 3.8 million years ago is very sparse, since upto 2001 only 243 specimens are known. From about 75 known individuals, some of them are represented by only a single tooth or bone fragment containing identical bone material to be classified as transitional forms from Hominids to Homo sapiens. However, evolutionary connections from Australopithecus to Homo erectus, including the evolutionary relationships between Habilis, Ergaster and Erectus, are in need of further research since techniques able to extract DNA from the bones of any australopithecine for comparison with modern human DNA are not yet proven. "Hominid fossil remains are precious since complete skeletons are extraordinarily rare. Teeth and lower jaws, and the facial and upper cranial bones of the skull, are the most common fossils to survive from any period. Skulls are almost never found intact but must be reconstructed from fragments. Thigh bones are next most often retrieved, while remains of the feet, hands, pelvis or spine are extremely rare. Specific behavioral conclusions require specific parts of the skeleton. For example, adaptation for a crouching or upright posture can be inferred from the connection of the spine to the skull, but bipedalism (habitual walking on two legs) requires evidence from bones involved in the thigh, knee, or foot joints. An opposable thumb requires evidence from wrist or hand bones". "The early hominins share a important trait such as nearly efficient bipedal locomotion as humans. The bones of their pelvis, or hip region, were shortened from top to bottom and bowl-shaped like homo sapiens, but unlike apes. This made the pelvis more stable for weight support when standing upright or moving bipedally. The longer ape pelvis is adapted for quadrupedal locomotion. Early hominin leg and foot bones were also much more similar to Homo sapiens than to those of apes. This is consistent with the likelihood of early hominin bipedalism." Currently there are two main categories of transitional fossils such as Australopithecus and Homo and several sub species between the Ardipithecus ramidus which lived 4.4 million years ago and Homo sapiens sapiens, Cro-Magnon I who lived 30,000 years ago. They are classified not in order as, (1) Australopithecus afarensis AL 288-1 a.k.a Lucy, 2.95 and 3.85 million years ago/Australopithecus africanus, Taung Child, 2.1-3.3 Million years (2) Homo erectus, D3444/KNM-WT 15000, 1.43 to 1.9 Million years/Homo habilis, KNM-ER 1813, OH24-fossils Olduvai Hominid, a Homo habilis, include a partial lower jaw, bones of the braincase and hand bones 1.4-2.4 Million years/ Homo ergaster (early H. erectus), KNM-ER 3733, 1.75 Million years ago (3) Homo heidelbergensis, "Rhodesia man," 700,000 to 200,000 years ago (4) Homo sapiens neanderthalensis La Ferrassie 1, La Chappelle-aux-Saints, Shanidar 1, 230000–29000 years The author Bruce MacEvoy refers the above data from From Lucy to Language by Donald Johanson & Blake Edgar (Simon & Schuster, 1996), The Last Human by G.J. Sawyer, Viktor Deak, Esteban Sarmiento and others (New Haven: Yale University Press, 2007) and The First Humans: Human Origins and History to 10,000 BC. New York: HarperCollins, 1993. The first hominid was discovered in 1924 by Raymond Dart, an anatomy professor at Johannesburg in South Africa. The most significant difference between members of Homo and Australopiths, with which they overlapped, was their significantly larger brains (about 30 percent larger, though still small compared to modern humans). While the skull had many apelike features such as a projecting face and a small brain, it had distinctly human features as well—for example, a rounded jaw unlike the pointed jaw of apes. The ventral position of the foramen magnum (the hole at the base of the skull from which the spinal cord emerges) suggested that the creature had walked upright. More than 300 specimens of A. afarensis have since been discovered. In the last 10 years, three additional kinds of australopithecines have been reported. These seven species provide ample evidence that australopithecines were a diverse group, and additional species will undoubtedly be described by future investigators. Scientists further divide the evolution of the modern human genus into three periods: early, middle, and late. Species of early Homo, among them Homo habilis, resembled Australopiths in many distinct ways, but they had smaller teeth and jaws, more modern-looking feet, and hands capable of making tools. They probably lived from between 2.5 or 2.3 million and 1.6 million years ago. Homo habilis co-existed with Homo erectus in Eastern Africa for almost half a million years. The middle Homo species, including Homo erectus, evolved anatomically to be more similar to modern humans but their brains were relatively small (though bigger than australopiths). At the beginning of its time range, around 1.9 Million years ago, H. erectus coexisted in East Africa with several other early human species including Homo rudolfensis, Homo habilis, and Paranthropus boisei. At the end of its time range, around 143,000 years ago, it coexisted with Homo sapiens and possibly Homo floresiensis in Indonesia. Homo erectus was a very successful species of the middle period; fossils have been found throughout Africa, Europe, and much of Asia, and the species may have survived for more than 1.5 million years. Homo ergaster, which differs from the Asian H. erectus fossils in some details of the skull (e.g. the brow ridges differ in shape, and erectus would have a larger brain size). H. ergaster include fossils such as the Turkana boy and ER 3733. H. ergaster does not show significant promise of lasting as a separate taxon due to several factors. It has not been shown to be significantly different from erectus to require the designation of a new hominid species, and it has not been shown to be closer to modern humans morphologically. Comparison of Neanderthal and modern human DNA suggests that the two lineages diverged from a common ancestor, most likely Homo heidelbergensis, sometime between 350,000 and 400,000 years ago – with the European branch leading to H. neanderthalensis and the African branch (sometimes called Homo rhodesiensis) to H. sapiens. Archaic forms of Homo sapiens first appear about 500,000 years ago. The term covers a diverse group of skulls which have features of both Homo erectus and modern humans. The brain size is larger than erectus and smaller than most modern humans, averaging about 1200 cc, and the skull is more rounded than in erectus. The skeleton and teeth are usually less robust than erectus, but more robust than modern humans. Many still have large brow ridges and receding foreheads and chins. There is no clear dividing line between late erectus and archaic sapiens, and many fossils between 500,000 and 200,000 years ago are difficult to classify as one or the other. Neanderthal 1 was the first specimen to be recognized as an early human fossil. The specimen had oval shaped skull with a low, receding forehead and distinct browridges, the thick, strong bones. Several years after Neanderthal 1 was discovered, scientists realized that prior fossil discoveries in 1829 at Engis, Belgium, and in 1848 at Forbes Quarry, Gibraltar—were also Neanderthals. After the discovery of Dmanisi fossil in 1991, it seems likely that fossils attributed in the past to Homo ergaster, Homo habilis, Homo rudolfensis (all in Africa), Pithecanthropus erectus (in Java) are all members of single evolving species, Homo erectus, showing variations with the passage of time (over a million years) and over large geographical distances. With evolution, species are not permanently stable entities. Sometimes they intergrade with other species and its close to impossible to describe completely with typological labeling.