I'd surely say "No" - it's really that straightforward. Here's the key point: Totally setting aside if the person is also a friend, acquaintance, good friend, friend-outside-work or any other issue: the person is in fact a coworker and it is a work setting. Never mention dreams (or anything remotely that personal) to coworkers and never mention them in any way in a work setting. Example: say as it happened my Wife actually worked at the same place as me. Hell, say we were both the owners and both worked there. I would never for any reason bring up topics like "dreams" in the workplace. The person is a coworker and it is a work setting. Enjoy your "work life" at the workplace, and enjoy your personal life, totally separately, in your personal life. 

Understand that "negotiating salary" - in any context whatsoever - simply shares an identity with "you can walk away". If you can't walk away, you can't negotiate. (At all, in any way.) If you can walk away, use the language "I would want $X for the position." (Regarding the fact that the recruiter said sentences like "they don't negotiate", just treat it as an interesting set of sounds :) ) The only tip you need on the language per se, "I would want $X for the position," is that you never ever, in any way, explain yourself, add reasons, "argument" or anything else. Just state what you want. If you don't get it, walk away. Be super polite and "minimalist" as it were. Be very mentally prepared that when/if the recruiter comes back to you with "Sorry, they wouldn't go for it" the response has to be at hand for you, something like "Understood! Thanks for your involvement, cheers". 

In my field of work, for some reason, the hiring companies all put out their job offers at the same time (within a few days of each other), and do the hiring during the same period in the case of students fresh out of college applying for jobs. This might be because most companies offer to pay for Professional exams that we have to take in the first years of employement after we're done with University, so it might be some sort of agreement because of competition. I'm not familiar with the why. This phenomenon is happening across the country, but that specific time period differs depending on the location. In my case, I currently live with my parents in city A, where I have gone to university. City A has several companies that hire in my field, but not that many. I will be graduating in spring, and the offers in my city will be available in December. Since I was not 100% certain I'd be able to get a job on my first try, and I didn't want to live off my parents when I'm done with school, I also applied with several employers in city B, which is about 3 hours (car) from here, and a much bigger city. I am not a fan of big cities, so I would much rather work in city A, but I wouldn't mind moving to city B if the alternative is no work. The problem is that city B released all their offers recently. I applied, did a few interviews, and got one offer. I cannot reasonably wait until December to give them my answer. If I say no on the off-chance that I'll be hired in city A, then there was really no point in applying to city B. But if I say yes, can I still apply to the city A offers? Would it be professionally acceptable to do interviews with other employers after accepting an offer already, and would it be ethical, if I get hired in my prefered location, to change my mind and tell the other company I won't be working for them after accepting their offer, considering I haven't worked with them yet and they have months to find someone else anyway? I wouldn't have wasted their money on training, which will happen if I go work with them and find a job in city A two years from now. Furthermore, the current offer that I have to decide on are not hiring me for late-spring, as soon as I graduate, but for next September, because they said that they wouldn't have the resources to train me efficiently during the summer. Would getting a city A offer for May or June make a difference on the "is it acceptable" point? EDIT: The country is Canada, if that makes a difference. EDIT regarding the similar question. I am not asking whether I should keep looking, but whether I am allowed to without it looking bad. I want to apply to very specific jobs, and I had planned to before getting the offer. Furthermore, I wouldn't be looking "in case I get a better offer", but knowing fully well that any offer I would get would be better (because of the location), so I would want to take it. 

You may be thinking, "oh if I learn to say 'I'm busy' like that damned guy suggested on the SO site, they might sack me..." So, that's inconceivable. But in today's market, if it happened, after you had a giggle you'd have a new job in a half-hour. Indeed, you'll have your choice of new jobs in a half-hour. Without trying to be deep, if you think about it the only thing your post is about, OP, is "fear". Without trying to sound like a Richard Bach book, everything you are describing - all the pain and annoyance - amounts to fear of being sacked if you say "I'm busy". Just let go of all fear and say "I'm busy". Your total outlook on the job will likely change: you'll find yourself intensely and enjoyable working on the task at hand. All of the noise will just become background noise. Enjoy. 

"Bosses are great!" You mention you've already "asked for advice". But wait. Have you really expressed to your Bosses, everything as clearly as you put it in this QA? Make a couple notes on an index card, get two minutes of your boss' time, and REALLY explain your situation. Discussion tip, always ask questions - what would you do boss, were you ever in this situation, have you had other staff like this, what should we do next etc. Bosses are great and will do a lot for you, but you have to really get in front of them. This might sound granola but I would actually go see a counsellor or therapist. (Naturally, btw, have your company pay for that.) The fact that you say "feeling vastly overwhelmed..." is a red flag. (I mean - you're only making software. What's the big deal?) Top sportspeople have a team of sports psychologists as well as physical specialists. Anyone who works with their mind - and software is the ultimate - commonly needs counseling. "feeling vastly overwhelmed..." is definitely a red flag - go do it, you'll love it. 

Because of a specific bus Schedule, I can either arrive at work at 7h25 or 8h55. Leaving work is a bit more flexible. I do not want to work until 5pm on an average day, so I'm usually aiming for a 7h30-15h30 work day. Very few people actually show up that early, most people seem to like 9-5 more. I personally never call meetings before 9h30 in the morning, because some members of my team would not be there on time. That just seems logical. On the other hand, the "optional" hours at the end of the day (after 3h30pm) don't seem off limits. Many people call meetings during those hours. I guess it's easier to ask someone to stay a bit later today, than it is to figure out how to reach them before they come in to make them get to the office earlier. I'm pretty sure nobody is trying to be inconvenient here. There are meetings at almost any hour of the day. One specific person probably figures "well, 15h30-16h30 is the most convenient, and X won't mind staying a bit later today, he'll have less work to do the rest of the week!". That makes sense. I wouldn't mind every now and then. But in my position, I happen to have to attend meetings with many different groups of people, and of course different meeting organisers. The accumulation of those really screw up my Schedule. Of course, I could just invite some of those people to 7h30am meetings, in a passive-agressive way, but that's really not something I'd be comfortable with doing. There's also the same problem with people who seem to notice when I'm about to leave the office, and choose that specific time to come see me and ask questions about work (that could have been asked earlier or could wait until tomorrow without creating problems), or just to discuss work-related things, which also force me to stay later, while of course the same never happens to them in the morning. So the Question is: How can I politely make people understand that if they aren't willing or able to get to work earlier for some tasks, they shouldn't expect me to stay later for those same tasks? Of course, feel free to tell me if I'm the one being unreasonable. I don't think I am, but I could be wrong. 

There is an insane demand. I doubt any profession has ever been in as much demand, in the whole of world history But this only applies to those who have experience Thus, you often hear it said "It's the hardest thing in the world to get your first job programming, and the easiest thing in the world to get your second" 

If this is the hurly burly of aggressive tech startups, the revealed-as-less-competent folks will get fired in days-month. If so, solution for OP is "be polite". Do nothing. No need to complain etc. If this is the proverbial "government department", nobody will ever be removed. In that case it is very unlikely you will win the office politics. I would say (assuming you want to stay there) (why? maybe just go somewhere else) just "take what you can" out of it, be polite to everyone; you simply won't change things so I'd say don't waste the energy trying. 

Fortunately it is a non-issue. You'll say "oh - best if I leave this company. it's been awesome thanks!" And that's it. Note that conversely if Boss wanted to get rid of you (for any reason), Boss would just politely say "Oh sorry, this role is over as of Friday - thanks for your time!" He wouldn't worry that "you'd be mad at him". You have no concerns at all here. 

The OP has now mentioned that this is for the games "industry", and indeed for a VR, indeed console, shop, which is two years old. Dressing for the games industry can, in extreme cases, be a minefield...it's an interesting topic. Many small (but relatively incredibly successful) companies are started by a few guys who got lucky with an app, made literally millions, drive Ferraris, and then for the first year or two after that (likely foolishly) think they can start a "company" and duplicate the success. In that case you may have to dress and look like Joe Walsh, "Notch", or the like. The I'm-a-badass-genius "rich-but-ratty" look. Bear in mind that it's not impossible, you will walk in to a shop like that. In other cases, remembering that amongst the technically difficult parts of game engineering, it's the hardest software engineering ... so you may want to look like one of those mathematician geniuses in a Spielberg movie who knows what tensors are. Wear a totally unassuming short-sleeve work shirt, type of thing. You're all brain. The "console industry", at least in Japan, is personality-driven, so the folks you're going to meet see themselves as and look towards this sort of guy. How would you dress to interview with Itagaki? Excellent short reference article (a little dated) on the personal style of the famous console programmers in Japan. {Aside, for an excellent insight in to the Japanese game scene and the personality cult thereof, in English, watch the otherwise rather hokey "imagine-nation" on NHKTv, which is freely available online at nhk.or.jp.} VR! At the time of writing, VR defines frothy and bubbly. It's the latest fad in a fad-driven business. {If you're reading this in a few years you'll be saying "oh, that was that 'headset thing' right?"} It's possible that if they've had success with a VR title or a contract, they see things as pretty rosy and bubbly, and things are pretty rosy and bubbly. Given all this and particularly that the guy actually explicitly mentioned it to you, there is a real chance that you'll walk in and find the sort of shop where the principals have fancy cars, everyone looks "creative", and the slighty rock-star "rich but ratty" look is going on. It's the kind of "skater-successful-programmer" look - you know? So don't worry about it but be aware you may run in to folks who think they are, and who indeed are, pretty "cool" - after all, it sounds like it's a successful "VR" shop and that's the single bubbliest, frothiest thing at the moment. Do not go overboard trying to be or look cool. If you have a "cool t-shirt" that you've had awhile (not a new one you went out and bought so as to be cool), wear that. Remember that understated always works and is safe in a "cool" setting. (I feel like I'm writing for GQ.) A completely plain Haines gray tshirt or a ten dollar wrangler button shirt. If you wear something cool or artistic, like that new commes-des-garcons shirt you just bought, and you don't "pull it off", it's a disaster. (If you can pull it off and you do commonly wear your commes-des-garcons shirt, you're golden.) As always with clothing, shoes are the most difficult: you can easily "give away" the wrong vibe. Remembering that the theme is a "rich hippy" vibe, a suggestion might be those expensive sports-like sandals popular today (but old, used). But again, only if you're totally comfortable and relaxed in them. Stepping in to a "cool" situation - if that's what it proves to be, it may just be a few totally "everyday" folks sitting around programming PCs - but there's a real chance it might be - is actually pretty tricky, you have to handle it delicately. Don't forget that understated always works and is safe in a "cool" setting. (If you are in fact, by coincidence, a skater or surfer or Rasta, you're all set.) 

Being fresh out of school, many interview processes will ask for a resume and a copy of my latest official grades from college/university. I happen to have one of the classes I have taken, that was particularly relevant to my field, that had me finish with a terrible, but still passing, grade. (I needed 60 to pass, and got 61.4). I figured that there must be many people who pass by the skin of their teeth, therefore it shouldn't be such a surprise to an employer. But I also happen to have very good grades in basically every other course, almost always above 85, so I don't want to come across as one of the people who pass with bad grades because of their abilities. The thing is, I almost failed that class because I skipped the final exam, that was Worth 35% of the grade. This is because I had two final exams that were scheduled at the exact same time, so I went to the other one, since I could pass that course without it (I would have failed the other course by missing their exam). I had tried basically everything with the school to either move or retake one of them, but the only options available were creating other conflicts, therefore not solving the problem. I was following a non-standard study path, and ended up with many courses that were not expected to be taken at the same time during that semester. How can I explain that grade without sounding like I'm making excuses, in the context of a job interview? I feel like I have a good reason, but I guess everyone probably feels that way and the interviewer most likely heard every excuse in the book already. 

Again this QA is suffering from lack of specifics. Do you have a copy and have you totally absorbed: The C Programming Language by Kernighan and Ritchie Link to buy for a few euros. 

There is a huge amount of work around for competent software engineers at the moment These days it is normal that software engineers move often. It is unremarkable. When you say bye to a boss, or conversely you let someone go - it's like having a cup of coffee. Nobody is annoyed or surprised. Of course, you never want to work on weapons. As someone has said in the comments, once you do one project on weapons, you're a "weapons person", you'll fall in to that field. Don't start. Military work has only moderate pay at best, just move on. 

Solution: just minimizes the "relocation" idea, with language such as "let's consider that in the new year". 

The phrase "updating your contacts" often solves such social problems. It's a common business issue that you "forget who the heck you were talking to!". The phrase "updating your contacts" is something of a business euphemism for "Was that you??" Really, if you can't remember who it is from the ensuing conversations, you've got trouble! After the second email, you may possibly need to say something which references your earlier conversation. For example: "I'm unsure if it was you I was discussing relocation with - you live on the East coast right?" One thought... 

management sensibly tells new person to take over projects from the not-very-competent folks the not-very-competent folks get possessive, obstructive (to try to keep their jobs)