Love Potion #9 If it's relevant, the potion is sprayed by the user like a perfume. Suddenly for the guy who people say, "eh, he's got a nice personality," all straight women and not straight men suddenly think, "wow. He's really, really hot - I can't put my finger on it." It doesn't affect other traits, and it doesn't cause people to lose control over themselves or anything like that. 

Lizards My speculative guess is that it could evolve from the sub-group, Lacertalia, which is its own evolutionary grade. Some lizards' mode of locomotion resembles wheels already, such as the racerunner (but only visually), and they have provide the proper joints for a full circular mode of movement. How (and why) can they evolve to have wheels? Pure speculation, but I could see a more successful (faster and more agile) lizard eventually getting multiple legs from the same joint until their four appendages appear to look like wagon-wheel spokes without the rim (just the spokes with feet at the end. Eventually this from this new species evolves a webbing of the feet, in order to navigate moist climates and even walk on water. As these webbed feet evolve ("grow") into each other, you now have four wagon wheels. Feel free to close in the gaps between each spoke of the wagon wheel until you have one cool lizard species. 

I'd like to have an advanced civilization that lives in a ring around their sun, but a ring planet just can't work. In this case, they are among densely agglomerated asteroids (with life support, there's no atmosphere or anything) about as far out as our first asteroid belt, and have built bridges, etc. between the asteroids, many of which have been hollowed out for habitats. Could there be a 'thick,' densely packed ring of asteroids that form a belt around the sun, or how long could that last. Could they be orbiting in a manner that keeps them from clumping together at least for a while? I'm imagining the distance to be like something out of Star Wars, whereby they have managed to stabilize and bridge those rocks. EDIT: (Additional, maybe superfluous information), as requested. The intent is to have a continuous civilization (could be far-future human) in a ring around a star. A ring-planet that is not the inevitably impossible ring-planet. The geography is flexible, but to keep it scientifically possible (it might not be), I'll venture a ring of large rocks the majority of which range between 10-20km of size, and several times that distance between each other. The very basic question (hence the science-based tag), is if this is remotely possible. It sounds like it won't be, at least around a star. EDIT2: I wonder, if I reduce the size of the rocks to mere meters (e.g. - 20m diameter) orbiting, if it allows for bouncing off each other, but remaining dispersed such as this, for at least human scales of time, say 30,000 years. If this introduces a new question, please let me know, and I'll remove this edit and add a new question. 

Assumptions for the story: The rocket pack is not unlike the scenario of the movie when I was little, "Rocketeer," in terms of viability. I have hand-waved it in my story. 

Krishna did it. I'm going to assume you are referring to Hindu mythology. Perhaps both protection and destruction were caused by Krishna: In the Bhagavad Gita, Krishna says: "Whenever righteousness (dharma) becomes lax, O Arjuna, and injustice (adharma) arises, then I send myself forth to protect the good and bring evildoers to destruction;..." This doesn't necessarily mean that is what happened, but that will be a strong belief by those who found themselves spared the destruction of the world. 

Very Plausible: Mangroves (but not as you see them today, as you noted) We had exactly what you're looking for in the Persian Gulf. Mangroves grow exceptionally fast (I even grew my own tree in a murky pot), under high salinity conditions. 

You've a lot of real-life examples; keep your oasis protected by sandstone, keep your plants in competition; keep your animals both mobile and small; and keep your human architecture resilient against the elements. 

The city - a modern, sterile 'utopia' (with the undercurrents of government control and suppression, of course), that can be current tech, or future tech so long as the day-to-day lives are in current tech. Lots of surveillance, propoganda, etc., but people seem to go about happy for the most part. A typical trope. Most buildings are ground-plus-two (G+2) stories maximum, except a few civic and institutional buildings are up to G+5. Isolated population of about a million "happy" denizens. The Trophy - The city in my story is commemorating an event. My design is a sturdy rectangle measuring 150m x 150m and is about 10m thick (I can be flexible on this). I don't want to have any protrusions off of it, and I want it to appear to be solid black stone. The problem is that it is also is about 350m above the city. It can float around a bit, but I don't want it to have a big air bag or anything like that and I want it to be silent to the people on the ground. Now I'm at the point in the story where it needs to be explained with a minimum of hand-waving. Can you explain how my urban trophy hover around for years above a city? EDIT: It should always appear to be a floating stone for decades or centuries; no-one must know it is a mechanism (e.g. - nobody can go near it once it's aloft). 

Nothing out of the extraordinary. Uranus has thirteen rings and more than three moons (I think five total). So, I'm not sure what you mean by the consequences. But to be helpful to your story, there could be seasonal variations. Also, if you want you can make the moons fly away: our moon is leaving at 2cm per year, because of the impact that created the Moon makes Earth bulge, throwing it off. Maybe a bigger impact could throw your three moons away or bring them in. Whatever works for your story. But, yeah, you could look at Uranus or other planets with moons and rings - model them. This is not a rare occurrence. 

I am working on the assumption that acquiring the materials above is possible in your story for your characters. During the (modern-day) wedding in Palestine, you duck out to the fridge and put this together with stuff laying around? 

I'd like to send my protagonist permanently into the near-ish future. I suspect that something as simple as the common cold could be deadly to my protagonist once we get a little further along. I am looking for a rule of thumb that there might be, in science or hard science-fiction. Setting aside the following variables: 

Urban Planning / Urban Design Keep in mind that almost any older city is a blend of different cultures. Tunis was Phoenician, Carthaginian, Roman, Traditional Arab-Islamic, and Modern, and there are elements of all of those infused. Istanbul is another great example. Well as an urban planner in the Gulf, we had to do just that. Our goal as part of Abu Dhabi 2030 [skip to about 2:00] was to create an Arabic city of modern cultural heritage. This included blending the modern structures of the West and Asia with traditional heritage design of the Bedouin. The answer to your boundary lines is that there likely won't be physical boundaries. You start to see a mix of the two cultural architectural traditions throughout the urban fabric. For example, a metro station that uses mashrabiya design from the tenth century for passive shading in the desert heat. Elsewhere along the beaches we instilled the designs of traditional dhow (fishing boats) sails into the covers of buildings such as the Formula One Race track. The latter is very much 'modern meets tradition,' but this can also happen with two parallel cultures. The gulf culture prefers high separation to public and private space. So tall modern complexes had unique blends of design alterations to continue this blend of west meets middle-east. To learn more about this particular combination of cultural design smash-up (Western vernacular with Arabic colloquial), you can visit the projects we did. Otherwise, any Urban Planning book (my favorite is Cities of Tomorrow) will give you a historical perspective of how the architectural and spatial vernacular of cities were arranged. 

Note: we don't have a UFO tag?? Edit: As requested, I am adding the dimensions in yards: 350m = 383yds; 30m = 33yds. 

Set Baby Rights Allocate every woman the amount of 1/2 of a baby allowed. A couple or a woman can sell or buy the rights to a full baby and give birth to one. Allow the Free Market to Take Over A woman (single or as part of a couple) that has the means to buy the allocation of others, can have a full baby or more, if they have the cash. This way, a woman who, for example, may be impoverished, can sell her allocation (probably for a lot of money). This evens the playing field a bit. In a lesbian couple, one of them can have a baby (two half-allocations) or they can 'buy' more baby. Women who are unable to conceive can sell their allocation and can pay a couple to adopt, but that's a different story. Two men who want to adopt will just pay whatever it costs to adopt someone who has had a baby; this will be more expensive, because unlike a heterosexual couple they do not start with 1/2 allocation. 

Not today, but we certainly could, but you would still have to stop and many times. This is just based on me being a transportation planner for several years in the recent past. Marching-band style - I think we would have to convert all of the junctions into roundabouts. The problem is that with unbalanced intersections, you don't want a roundabout: in rush-hour where everyone is making a 3/4 left turn, some poor suckers are going to have to wait. Also, there will be times when you have to stop for pedestrian & cyclist movements, but our driverless cars are getting really good at handling that. Alternative - We have very sophisticated (and really cool!) models, which have come a long way. In Florida, we had cameras at every light as well, for inserting data into the model, for turning a signal if traffic didn't behave as expected, and for communicating with the other signals downstream. The combination of the model, the cameras, etc., could become sophisticated enough to communicate with the cars, so that lights aren't needed. But your car would most likely still have to "stop" at some critical junctions, and to allow for pedestrian movements. Note - By the time we are fully driverless, there will presumably be a lot more cars on the road from (1) population (2) from the ability for people to move out of town, and (3) ability for some disabled & visually impaired to 'drive'. Further, because of these smart cars, we'll have a lot more capacity so you won't be seeing as much rapid expansion as you do now. So it will be the "same" roads, but with a lot more vehicles happily crammed into them. 

I will also use Madrid, as it is my favorite (as an Urban Planner) for description of historical European medieval urban study. Geographic Distribution After centuries of conquest by different cultures, when Spain established its rough borders after Reconquista (post-Islamic takeover) and determined the capital to be centrally located in Madrid, or مجريط (Arabic: Madzjreetdh). 

This is a government center, as well as a primary city. As a primary city, it means it grew organically for trade and defense (against others as well as the elements). I'll try to throw in some design ideas that you might build off of (or dismiss) in addition to what you already have - quarters, districts, etc. Growing organically, it would center around your river that starts at the waterfall, and goes through the center of the city. This is how trade goods are sent downstream to other cities. So that's your central spine, and you can grow outwards. Two roots of the base of the tree form a V of protection, and the remaining exposed side of town will be walled. Architecturally, and from an Urban Planning perspective you have to consider two things that have unique impacts on this city. Classical Vernacular - The colloquial design of institutional & government buildings will no doubt present itself in the colors of the tree, and maybe even the shape of some buildings would resemble the inefficient (spatially) design of a tree. In the Shade - The Tree will cast a dominant shadow over the city much of the day, but also protect that side from winter winds. Therefore, the buildings might have a slight wedge shape, sloping upward towards the tree: the exposed side facing the tree, protected from the elements. The remainder of the wedge sloping downward away from the tree will protect against winter winds, but include skylights to try to maximize solar exposure. 

In addition to disease, and crazy bugs, you might consider Geographical Constraints as well. If your continent is ringed by mountains, with the only gaps being violent discharges of the rivers (not smooth sailing), this could be prohibitive. One argument against this is the rain-shadow effect, so you'll have to devise a weather pattern that is either recycling itself over the continent (not likely), or other mechanisms, which do exist. Perhaps the mountains are just steep, but low (100m) cliffs, etc. There would be little interest from the merchants to try to use resources from the interior of the continent, if it's a pain in the butt to extract them and haul them over low, steep mountains/cliffs or out via very turbulent river waters - maybe even waterfalls.