This is a very interesting question, here is my take one it: It very much depends on the time of the game. At the beginning of the game you tend to see that a team is taking their time and not going at full speed. At this time it could take between 5-30 seconds depending on how far the ball is from the corner, as well as how many players you need to get on top of the box. However, late in the game you will see teams try to slow the game down and waste time. For instance, if Team A is beating Team B, Team A is going to want to take 20-40 seconds to really milk that time. Team B on the other hand is going to want to take corners between 5-10 seconds to have more playing time. 

I am going to answer from my own experience. I am a travelling soccer player that plays with around 21 other travelling soccer players that have flown across the world. When going forward (example: America to Germany): What we generally do in this situation was go to bed as early as we could. Very often, I would stay in bed doing nothing but laying there thinking about the games. Also, the first day I was in the Germany, we would not sleep till it was late. Generally when you arrive you have a massive urge to sleep, though if you push through it gives you an advantage. When going backward (example: East Coast to West Coast): What we did was to stay up a bit passed midnight. When we arrived it took very little time to adapt. I would say that going backward is not nearly as hard as going forward. Hopefully this helps! 

So the answer is IT DEPENDS. There is no variation when you take the touchback and choosing to return the ball should be based on situation of the game and your likelihood of getting better than 20 yards on your return. 

In short, YES Several examples with detail: NFL: (source) . All of these were because of trades and extra bye-week game scheduling. 

Less certain but based on 1999 Rockies Hitting coach, Clint Hurdle looks like bottom of picture D I looked at autographs for all on roster and only could confirm those. I'd encourage @Lacey or others to research those names to see if there are any other matches. You might also look for coaches from the 1998 - 1999 seasons. 

Can anyone find the NFL record for starting field position attributed to the primary kick returner? I've looked through several websites listing NFL records, to no avail. Specifically looking for average starting field position after a kick-off for a whole NFL season. 

Sign stealing is pretty easy - you watch the signs and then match the corresponding pitches. The signs indicate what kind of pitch (fastball, change-up, slider, curve, etc.) and often the placement - down the middle, inside. low/high, etc. If you know that a batter has a hittable pitch and can relay that to them before the ball comes it greatly improves their chances at getting a hit and avoiding pitches that are likely to result in a swing and a miss. Certainly a runner at 2nd base would have the best view of the catcher to see what signs issued, but the team at bat also has coaches at first and third bases who both have a pretty good view of the catcher. But the real way this is being done today is through the use of the live television feed which teams use for instant replay on their jumbotron screens throughout the park. Tom Verducci writing here for Sports Illustrated, says that use of the live feed became an issue when Major League Baseball instituted instant replay to review some calls in 2009. It is common practice in baseball to steal signs and not technically against the rules. One reason you see players come out to surround a pitcher is that the team changes signs during a game. Where the Red Sox broke an actual rule, and not just ethics, was in the use of electronic equipment in the dugout. The only communication device in a baseball dugout that uses electricity is supposed to be the analog phone that is connected to the bullpen. Unlike most sports that have headsets, tablets, etc. baseball opts for the tradition of the past and says you cannot use any electronic communications in the dugout - so no one even has a cell phone. They do allow tablets, but they cannot receive information during the game - all data is preloaded (batter spray charts, pitcher tendencies, etc.) The Red Sox had someone who watched the video monitor in real time to get the sign and sent sign to a coach with an Apple Watch who could whistle to indicate either a pitch that they could hit or to avoid. An old adage in baseball is, "If you ain't cheatin' you ain't tryin'." Sign stealing, baseball hiding, ball altering are accepted common practices, but if you are found with a nail file or use electronic means, etc. and get caught you are penalized. 

I am going to keep my answer very short and just link here: $URL$ EDIT: In summary this is what it says: Random testing, Up to 2 years ban. 

I agree a lot with what was already said. As I have been coaching these past years, I do however also was to put a lot of importance on the subject of juggling the ball. When it comes to getting touches on the ball there is nothing better than juggling. I have my players each have to at least 40 consistently. The improvement I see in this is unreal and way too underappreciated. I also feel as though form is not expressed enough in soccer. With minimum effort you can achieve more than anything else by having the right forms. I recommend really analyzing other people's form and practicing it until it is second nature. Then, I really recommend you look at off the ball movement rather than being on the ball. When people are learning soccer they practice everything while having the ball. If you think of soccer in a slightly different way you will see what I mean by this. There are 22 people on the field. Statistically, this means you will only have the ball less than 5% of the game! You need to learn what to do in the 95% of the game rather than that 5%, figure out how to pass and move and what movement you can do to put your teammates in better situations.