172.5 or 172,500? Because one is a sneeze and the other is being hit by a pickup truck going aprox 30mph. If 172,500 it would simply rip his head off or cave his ribcage in and probably send him flying a good distance to boot. 

There doesnt necisarily need to be an evolutionary reason for a societey to be matriarchal, many matriarchal societies exist already. There are 3 main kinds of descent that a culture can place emphasis on. In egalitarian and industrialized cultures that place an emphasis on equality and legality you mostly find bilinial descent is valued. Bilinial descent is where either male or female can inherit and lineage is equally valued from either parent. Patrilineal is where wealth and power are inherited by males, matrilineal is the same but for females. Whether a less developed more traditional societey is concerned patriarchy or matriarchy seems to simply be based off of which lineage the culture values for sociological or cultural reasons. It really just depends upon which gender a culture chooses to inherit the wealth and positions of power. As for gigantism in organisms, a common set of environmental factors seems to be found in most cases that it has been observed. An abundance of resources and space, and few large predators. If you really need there to be size based sexual dimorphism you could simply have it be due to cultural effects on biology. Males value bigger females because they survive childbirth more easily, or its simply just a commonly held belief that bigger is more attractive kinda like how we currently seem to think tanned skin equates to beauty. 

Food It may take 1 acre on earth to feed a single person, but that's relying on soil, sun, and animals. Cattle would be fairly inefficient to take in space, and you can't grow plants "naturally", so hydroponics makes much more sense. Since you have fusion power available, I assume hydroponic greenhouses can feed a human with much more efficiency than 1 acre per person. One source says it is about 10x more water and land efficient. Also note that cows eat a lot of grain. One pound of meat requires about 10x times the water to produce compared to a pound of soybeans. It would be best if most of your population were vegetarian, unless population size isn't critical and you wanted the cattle for populating the destination (or as a luxury reward). Shielding Also, it would be best to put as much stuff between your humans and the outside as possible. Hard radiation will make your ship pointless if the crew isn't adequately shielded. You can use water as a shield, or lead. But probably best to just put as much mechanical towards the outside as possible (but keep sensitive electronics near the interior). If your fusion reactor runs on D/T, then you can use heavy water as the fuel and keep that near the outermost layer. Capacity One acre is about $4000 m^2$. Hydroponics can reduce that to maybe $400 m^2 * 2 m$, so let's say $10^3 m^3$. Thus, you should allocate at least this much space per colonist. As long as their "personal space" is much less than this, that becomes mostly a rounding error, and the rest of the space can be used for power, life support, manufacturing/recycling, transportation, etc. So, absent a significant improvement in farming density, I'd say that $10^6$ is a hard upper bound on your population, and $10^5$ is more realistic (though anything in that range is passable). 

I currently work in corrections. The Denver Jail would suffice. Jails that are decades old are often still in use today. A county lockup nearby where I live was built in the 60's, aside from the occasional new coat of paint and some new doors installed it is still in full use housing about 50 inmates. Jails are already built like fortresses, and wouldn't be looted since jails contain very little in the way of anything valuable, and are also pretty hard to get into. Best part, the entire layout and infrastructure of the building is totally designed for holding unwilling captives and deterring nosy outsiders. I suggest the Denver department of corrections prison building. Its big enough to hold all the merchandise but also fortress-like enough for your aspiring indentured servitude merchants to protect themselves and their profits. A prison after the apocalypse would basically be a free castle for whomever has the manpower and gumption to take it and use it as such. 

Standing Armies are Very Rare in European History Historically European military forces were actually pretty small during peace time. The rank of private today comes from the renaissance period where "private soldiers" were hired on for the duration of a military campaign. Nation's tended to rapidly build large armies as needed using a combination of conscription and mercenary hiring and just as rapidly get rid of them once the conflict was over. In the interim they tended to maintain small part time militias that were essentially just for keeping town watch, deterring riots, and collecting taxes. Feeding, paying, and housing an army is incredibly expensive so once they weren't needed a nation got rid of them as quickly as they could, standing armies didn't really become a thing until the industrial revolution made it affordable to equip and feed them. To illustrate the history a bit, the term "soldier" comes from latin "solidus" into franko/germanic "soldner" or "soulde" which means "one who fights for wages." The word Soldier literally means "earns wages." The legendary Doppel Soldners of Germanic origin wielded giant zweihander swords and wore heavy armor, they were sent into the teeth of musket and pike formations to use their giant swords to hack apart the pikes so that cavalry and follow on forces would attack without being stuck full of spears or perforated with bullets. Doppel Soldner literally translates as "double wages" since they arrived equipped with the finest equipment and took on the most deadly jobs they got paid double. So to specify, a renaissance era city state's army size is not dependent upon it's population, but its funds. The army does not have to come from your populace, a plethora of mercenaries roamed across Europe in that period willing to show up with their own equipment and fight whomever you want for the right price. They might even show up in pre-organized companies or regiments of men with their own officers and chain of command. Armies of the era typically were conglomerations of your own native conscripts, mercenary bands, and lead by your nobility and their own private forces. The mercenary aspect or renaissance combat means an army can be as big as you can afford to hire. 

They could easily discover electricity in electric rays or similar sea creatures. They could discover the “batteries” of the rays; in fact, there is a possibility that the corresponding human research on rays in the 18th century brought Galvani and Volta to further investigate electricity, so it should be feasible for your civilisation as well. As for electric safety concerns, the discharging of electrocytes in rays uses some particular chemical which closes the circuit, so your creatures could possibly figure out by trial and error how to discharge the rays without short-circuiting them (after all, the electric rays themselves do exactly that). Clearly, after understanding how electrical rays work, they could use this technology for hunting or battle. On the other hand, it would obviously be difficult for them to create electric circuits. One very human-like way to make some progress I can think of is to figure out that an artificially created air bubble (just by using some vessel first brought out of the water and then submerging it like a diving bell) is much safer in terms of absence of short-circuits and then starting to make experiments only under a diving bell (reaching the objects from outside using tentacles); I guess, a 18th century-like tech level presumes they know what air is and how to keep some volumes of it under water. After that discovery, they could basically proceed with a 19th century human-like experiments on electricity using the “batteries” from ocean creatures to build huge battery stacks, if they don't discover a better way to build them. 

Humans are Terrible Neighbors The problem with super predators is that humans are terrified of them. When humans are terrified of something it typically goes extinct. Think about it for am minute, in the ice age there were a TON of massive super-predators dragging our ancestors off into the night for a snack. There's a very practical reason behind why those animals aren't around anymore, and why the ones that are left instinctively fear us. Because we are the scariest thing on this planet, and we wont let anything compete with us for that title. We wiped anything out that could with stone age tools and fire. Humans have an unsettling pyromaniacal fascination it comes to dispatching monsters, we are obsessed with burning things to death on an almost instinctive level. In the eyes of everything else on this planet we are psychotic swarming pack hunters with a near magical control over the elements. Not much room for anything competing to coexist. My personal theory is that vampires as a sub-species would need to look as much like us as possible and perform as stealth/ambush predators, because the moment something that looks like a giant fanged bat-monkey with glowing eyes crawls into somebodies village and starts popping open arteries literally any humans within 10 miles are now sharpening up their pointy sticks and lighting their torches. The big-nasty might really do a number, it might even chase the humans off a few times. But they wont. stop. coming. Vampires would also have to be a very low-population species because with humans as their primary food source they could never exist in large numbers without either eating themselves to starvation, or triggering humanity's ire and being run off or slain. Simply put, humanity is a very dangerous prey item as a whole. So they exist in very very small numbers, they look like us, and they are every bit as intelligent as us. Since numbers are small they breed only rarely and thus have adapted very long lifespans to compensate. Not immortal mind you, just much longer than a human, a few centuries perhaps. In this manner they are able to still mate several times a lifetime despite only making up maybe 1% of the total population that humanity has. As for fangs, why need them? they just telegraph your otherness to humans, anyone that sees somebody with fangs will be alerted that something is wrong and guess who is being burned at the stake when bite marks show up on dead bodies and you are the only fella with a set of matching teeth in town? The Vampires are like us, they use tools to harvest their resources. Serial killings, missing persons, those are all just (mostly) vampire attack victims. That is not to say that vampires are just blood thirsty humans. They do need to be able to distinguish between each-other and fellow humans somehow, if for no other purpose than to find a mate. They posses a highly refined sense of smell so they can seek each-other without any identifying features that arouse suspicion in humans. Also, as solitary ambush predators they need to be able to attack when prey is vulnerable but also ideally out of sight of other humans as well. This means they hunt and feed primarily at night, and posses better hearing and night vision than most humans. Not extraordinarily better like a cat or something, just a bit better than their prey. Their digestive tracts are vastly simplified,they only need to digest one food source after all. This means that instead of huge stomachs and yards and yards of intestines they just really need a very simple digestive tract, the rest of their body cavity is actually a fat-reserve so they evolved to have so that they don't give away their otherness with a waspish concave or emaciated looking belly. These fat deposits actually insulate organs and make it noticeably more difficult to mortally wound a vampire than a human (again, not supernaturally, just noticeably so.) They not only exist in very small numbers, but only feed rarely (if too many bodies show up too often somebody will sound the alarm and start hunting the hunter after-all.) The rest of the body cavity not used by these hidden fat reserves is taken up by a slightly larger set of lungs and a heart that beats much faster than a humans. Vampires posses far more twitch fibers in their muscle tissue than humans do giving them intense bursts of speed and explosive strength but only for short duration's. An average vampire can out-sprint and out-fight a human in outright hand to hand combat, but if the initial explosive assault is weathered the human can win with either long distance running, or wrestling. Now, all of this falls apart for our blood sucking cousins when modern medical technology comes about. Human's being the curious psychotics that they are seem to enjoy poking around inside of dead stuff just out figure out how it works, eventually somebody would discover that a portion of humanity aren't really humans at all. Now you got humans with both guns and napalm getting pretty irate about the fact that they have a trespasser in their society. Could make for some pretty impressive (possibly catastrophic) culture shock. 

"However, if a creature is swinging its tail around at an enemy, especially a tail with a heavy weapon on the end, wouldn't that knock it off balance?" Tell that to the scorpion! Obviously, scorpions aren't human-sized, but there's nothing intrinsically limiting about their body geometry to make their offensive tail ineffective at human scale. And this is a piercing attack rather than a blunt force attack, but again, I don't see anything which would prevent it from using it as a club instead (other than the fact that whatever weight is used to give it heft would be useless drag outside of combat). You might say that the scorpion is cheating because it's using 6 legs for balance, but I'm pretty sure it would be fairly effective with just 4 as well. Bees and wasps not only use their "tails" offensively, they can do it while flying! How awesome is that?? A bipedal human-sized creature with arms and a prehensile tail like a monkey could simply use the tail like a 3rd arm, although, one would wonder why it doesn't just use its arms. If the tail were stronger than the arms, that would be one reason (maybe it has T-rex arms). If the tail is longer, it can create a greater moment swinging a mace or hammer, but only if it is correspondingly stronger. This could be another reason for using the tail instead of an arm. Of course, technology can make a hammer really long too, so if I were such a creature, I would use the tail in addition to my arms. Say, two swords and a dagger/spear/mallet/buckler/use-your-imagination. That could make for some very interesting techniques. 

Such a restriction requires a change in the foundations of quantum mechanics or its interpretation. The Heisenberg's uncertainty principle is an inequality: $\sigma_p\cdot \sigma_x \geqslant \hbar/2$; as such, it doesn't forbid a system to be in the state where the uncertainty of the momentum and coordinate are directly related by, say, being inversely proportional to each other in a way that makes it an equality: $$\sigma_x = \frac{\hbar}{2\sigma_p}.$$ However, if one keeps only states which satisfy this relation, one arrives at a contradiction with other principles of quantum mechanics. The condition above severely restricts the variety of quantum mechanical states a system can be in; for instance, the harmonic oscillator could only exist in what is called coherent states and cannot exist in states with definite energy; for a hydrogen atom, no stationary state (with a fixed energy level) is possible either. But the measurement process of, say, energy should put the system it into a state with definite energy; however these states are now forbidden. Thus, to stay consistent, one has to review at least the part of the foundations of quantum mechanics which tells what a measurement does to the particle. Any other direct functional connection between uncertainties should lead to similar problems, because it leads to too few allowed states to be compatible with the existing interpretations of measurement in quantum mechanics.