Sadly there are issues with some aspects of contemporary physics. I'm an outsider, an IT guy who got involved about ten years back when I came to realise that physics was going to hell in a handcart. I'm trying to do something about it, but it's not easy. 

Also see Shapiro's 4th test of General Relativity. There's lots of other examples. The problem is that people confuse the speed of light with the locally measured speed of light. That's a defined constant because we use the local motion of light to define our second and our metre, and then we use them to measure the local motion of light. Duh. See Magueijo and Moffat talking about the tautology here. 

If you ask a typical physicist what is light, you won't get a satisfactory answer. But there are physicists out there who do know, and I know them. So, what do you want to know? 

Have a look at Is The Speed of Light Everywhere the Same? It's by Don Koks the PhysicsFAQ editor, and the answer is no. If the speed of light was the same throughout the room you're in, your pencil wouldn't fall down. Sadly a lot of physicists will tell you the speed of light is absolutely constant. Even though this flatly contradicts Einstein, see this from 1920: 

To be an academic philosopher, you need to socialize with other academic philosophers (which is quite a skill), you need writing skills to write essays and books, and you need presenting skills to give talks at conferences. Furthermore, you need some source from which the ideas come which you write about and talk about. That may be creativity or something else. 

According to Chalmers, philosophical zombies are physically identical to each of us, but lack consciousness. By 'consciousness' Chalmers means the qualitative feel we often experience. The what-it's-like to be me, to taste apples, to fear ducks, etc. So, do zombies, by lacking this, already lack any mental states, or do they have mental states, but just no phenomenal states? 

The liberal, or pure negative, approach to freedom, which identifies freedom with non-interference, often allows for freedom to be measured, e.g. in the works of Ian Carter and Matthew Kramer. Are there republican theories, those identifying freedom as non-domination, that offer a way to measure the freedom of a person or society as well? 

This is of course no complete list, but things that helped me so far: JSTOR - collects articles in journals and also has some books. The access is limited, though. I think you either need to pay or enter the page via a university. I checked, and they don't have the paper. PhilPapers - a comprehensive directory of online philosophical articles and books by academic philosophers. Your paper is listed there, but not downloadable. Libraries - My university has the book. If yours hasn't, you can still order it and they will send it to you. The homepage of the author - in this case there is not even a publication list, but many authors put .pdf's of their articles in their profiles (e.g. Sider, to name but one). A site that help me out sometimes is academia.edu: They also allow sharing of articles, but again, yours isn't there. 

I studied George Berkeley as an undergraduate, and though I absolutely loved his work and his philosophy, many of my peers, and even some of my professors, found his philosophy wholly unappealing, even worth mocking. My school offered full classes on Kant, Nietzsche, the Greeks, and even Wittgenstein. Berkeley on the other hand received some attention in a larger Metaphysics course, and a cursory mention in a course on Modern Philosophy that lead quickly into Hume, and little discussion beyond that. This despite two out of four professors calling themselves fans of Berkeley's work. Now for some time therefore I thought he was a somewhat of a second-rate philosopher, worthy of mention but simply not as valuable or interesting a contribution to philosophy as people like Kant. I personally continued to appreciated Berkeley, and didn't concern myself too much with what other people thought of him. However while working on my senior thesis on Berkeley, I read The two-hundredth birthday of Bishop George Berkeley, a discourse given at Yale college on the 12th of March, 1885, by Noah Porter. This work, in addition to being an insight into Berkeley's life and work is a fascinating snapshot of how (one) academic thought of Berkeley 130 years ago. Most notably, Porter writes: 

The argument: P1 Playing with you causes the matchmaking to include people of lower levels in the opposed team P2 Low-Level player are more likely to report abusive language P3 He uses abusive language Conclusion: By 1-3, he got reported. 

Particular: a thing without properties. It has to instantiate universals(properties) in order to have a shape, a color, a taste etc. Individual: the red apple. It does not instantiate anything. In the ontology of someone believing in individuals (nominalists), there are no abstract things as properties, just individuals, and there are red individuals, blue individuals etc. The predicate just describes an individual, but does not denote an object. Trope: a trope is a particularized property. This apples redness for example. The tropes of this apple of course differ from the tropes of that apple. Universal: Redness, Shape, Length, Weight, whatever. Particulars instantiate these in order to ~have~ properties. 

In Propositionals Logic 'Some cats are black', since it is atomic, will be formalised like this: 'P'. In Predicate Logic 'Some cats are black' will be formalised like this: '∃x (Fx & Gx)', which should be read as 'There is at least one thing that is both a cat and black. 

The difference is that in the first example, all quantifiers are in the front and that in the second the quantifier appears within the scope of the other quantifier. Is there a difference? If so, where? 

The latter. Gödel's incompleteness theorems are to do with mathematical logic. Knowledge involves evidence and experiment too. As for noumena, that's an issue in its own right. Can you show me some? The synthetic apriori truths are an issue too. They're rather like "the laws of physics". They don't have any ontological reality. It's like the Terry Pratchett quote: "Take the universe and grind it down to the finest powder and seive it through the finest seive, and then show me one atom of justice, one molecule of mercy". What exists is space and waves and things. They do what they do because of the way they are, not because of truth or law. Let's take a look at the theorems. I think the Wiki articles are pretty good: "The first incompleteness theorem states that no consistent system of axioms whose theorems can be listed by an "effective procedure" (i.e., any sort of algorithm) is capable of proving all truths about the relations of the natural numbers (arithmetic)". That's just to do with the natural numbers, which are merely a concept. You cannot point up to the clear night sky and say "look, there's a seven". It doesn't have a huge amount to do with the real world of science and observation and experiment. The other one is more to do with science, but it still deals with theories and arithmetic truths, which are abstract things: "For any formal effectively generated theory T including basic arithmetical truths and also certain truths about formal provability, if T includes a statement of its own consistency then T is inconsistent." You cannot point up to the clear night sky and say "look, there's a theory" either. A theory is just a concept too. It describes how things are and it makes predictions, which we test with experiment. All Gödel is really saying is that a theory can't be introspective, it can't prove itself. So whilst this stuff is relevant to maths and logic and theory, you shouldn't read to much into it. But don't think Gödel is a waste of time. See A World Without Time: The Forgotten Legacy of Godel and Einstein. It's by philosopher Palle Yourgrau, and IMHO it's of crucial importance to understanding space and waves and things. To understanding the world and the reality that's out there. I can hold my hands up and show you a space, I can waggle my hands and show you motion. But can you show me time? 

The context of my question is van Inwagens 'Material Beings' and Siders essay 'Van Inwagen and the possibility of Gunk'. There Sider presents a counterexample, a gunk world, to the claim that necessarily, there are things which have no proper parts (mereological atoms). To put it a bit more formal: 

If P is actually true, it is true in this world. If P is possibly true, it is true in a possible world. If P is necessary true, it is true in all worlds. Therefore, if something is necessary true, then it is true in this world (and in all others). Edit: As the comments point out, I missed the core of your question. However, let me just add the relevant line: If P is necessarily possible, that means that it is true for all worlds that there exists a possible world in which P. This does not entail that P is true in the actual world. It is necessarily possible that I'm drinking a beer tonight. There is at least one possible world in which I am drinking a beer tonight. And it is true for all worlds that there is this possible world in which I am drinking a beer tonight. But: I won't drink a beer tonight, to demonstrate to you that necessary possibility does not entail actuality. 

As you note, there can surely be no solid rebuke of solipsism, for the possibility is wholly untestable. However, I personally believe solipsism is bordering on incoherence and egoism, and exploring what it would really mean if all of existence as we know it was solely for us or perceived by us may help demonstrate that. Two possibilities arise: 1: The universe is some sort of simulation or model, all beings we perceive are merely agents of that system, and we are the sole target of the simulation. All of existence, therefore, is created for our benefit. We must then ask, why? Why are we so special as to merit all of this? And furthermore how? How, despite being special, are so many millions of mindless agents able to function in a way that I am unable to distinguish them from myself? 2: The universe exists largely as we are taught in school, the big bang, atoms, molecules, evolution, and the whole shebang, and yet we are the only being that actually experiences or "lives" - we are the only being with a mind. This should similarly raise some alarming questions, why do we have this ability, and yet all others do not? And again, how is it possible that we are so fundamentally and critically different from all other beings in the universe, and yet we cannot identify a difference? To me, both cases seem highly implausible. Unprovable, but does it not seem very strange to think that either of these situations are how existence "really is"? Personally, the alternatives, that either 1: we are part of a simulation or other matter-less existence (like Berkeley's idealism) wherein the beings we perceive as similar to us are in fact thinking minds like us, or 2: the physical world exists largely as we understand it, and therefore again, things we perceive like us have reasonably similar mental states. This is somewhat related to the philosophical theory of Functionalism, which could be vulgarly summarized as "if it walks like a duck and talks like a duck, then it's a duck!" which might be a more robust response to solipsism than most other philosophies. And, now that I've discussed why I think solipsism is bunk, let me share with you this wonderful short story, The Egg, it's a beautiful perspective on solipsism, and no matter how many times I read it, I get chills and a little smile every time I get to the end. I hope you enjoy it. 

Your questions assumes a lot. The contemporary conception of possible worlds stem from the work of David Lewis. On his account, Modal Realism, worlds are defined as concrete maximal mereological sums, all of which parts are spatio-temporally related. If you don't like Modal Realism (and no one really does), then, if you still want to employ possible worlds in your theory, one option is to think of them as sets of propositions. However, there is no reason to choose one of your two options. There is at least a third option available, namely, that a possible world is a set of propositions (probably closed under implication or so) that describe a possible scenario. As to your first option (list of propositions true now): This would render possible worlds useless for most purposes. One application of possible worlds is to talk about possibilities. But if worlds only consist in sets of propositions that are true now, then there is no possible world in which things are different. As to your second option (set of temporal events and propositions being true at each event), it is unclear what you need the events for. As I indicated in the second paragraph, worlds can just be sets of propositions. They describe how things could have been. Some propositions are about how things could have been in the past. Some propositions are about how things could have been in the future. Some propositions are about how right now things could have been different. For example, one propositions says that I am drinking tea in the kitchen. That proposition is false here, but it describes what could have been true. Response to your edit: I didn't find a quote to back this, but I think a possible world as a set of propositions is assumed to be a maximal description of (actual or) possible realities thoughout its full duration. This in a sense includes the other option, because maximal descriptions of single events will be part of a possible world in the former sense.