The iMac G3 was released August 15, 1998, and according to Wikipedia it was the first Mac to have a USB port. It looks as though USB 1.0 was released November 1995, meaning the timeline correlates. How much of a factor was the iMac on the pick-up of USB, and in particular was that influence great enough to conclude that the iMac "jumpstarted" the USB Market? As an objective measure, did the number of USB peripherals measurably increase in production at the time of (and because of) the release of the first iMac? Even if there was a measurable increase in the production of USB peripherals at the time, is there any evidence to suggest that the use of he USB port would have increased anyway (i.e. for reasons other than the iMac supporting it, e.g. because of the maturity of chipsets/drivers, etc.)? Thank you for reading. 

tldr; The use of nanothermite is the best explanation for the presence of molten steel/iron at the WTC site, and nanothermite was detected on steel. In order to invalidate the above conclusion, one must refute the following: 

This is a response to your third question. Gee, I was only allowed to post 2 hyperlinks, so sorry about the lack of references. Let's first start with body pH. Body pH can be measured by measuring blood pH or other body fluid pH. Some proponents of acid-alkaline theory propose measuring urine pH. This is however misleading, because urine is just a collection of wastes that the body is trying to get rid of. If it fluctuates it does not mean the body pH fluctuates. $URL$ Small fluctuations of body pH is generally not caused by pH of ingested fluids, but by several other metabolic processes, in particular body temperature and oxygen metabolism: $URL$ Serious deviations of blood pH (acidosis or alkalosis) are also generally not caused by diet, but typically by failure of one of the body's systems: (links removed, just check alkalosis / acidosis) There are, however, documented cases of alkaline diet causing alkalosis, in combination with impaired renal function. This particularly happens when a lot of alkaline (for example, sodium bicarbonate) is ingested over a period of time, in an attempt to treat peptic ulcers: (links removed, check google scholar "alkaline treatment peptic ulcer") Concluding, I certainly hope that Kangen water is not actually alkaline, because drinking liters of pH 9 water a day may cause alkalosis in people with a kidney insufficiency. 

So, is there any scientific literature showing the critical/beneficial nature of a "proper" crawling period for childhood development? 

My wife and I are having a bit of a debate (I won't reveal which side I'm on!). Our situation is perfect for this question, as we have two daughters: one was born Sept. 15th, and the other on Aug. 29th. US schools (or at least here in Minnesota), typically have the requirement that children be of age 5 on or before early September (I've heard Sept. 1st and 2nd). For our Sept. daughter, this means she will be one of the very oldest in her class, and if we entered the Aug. daughter "on time," she would be one of the very youngest. There are fairly opinionated folks on both sides of the argument regarding whether or not to hold a child back vs. starting them "on time" (i.e. should we enter our Aug. daughter in kindergarten when she's 5 by Sept. or wait a year so that she's one of the oldest instead of youngest?). This quote speaks to the widespread nature of the issue/debate: 

A Globe and Mail article More invasive cervical cancers prevented with new test, posted Nov 02, 2013 states: 

In other words, there is a maximum temperature in a fire, explained by fire dynamics, and in particular: in a structure that maximum temperature is a fraction of the hottest fire, because of a lack of oxygen & ventilation. A blast furnace is generally used to create molten iron, and requires high positive-air pressure to provide adequate oxygen and exhaust. Jet-A-1 (jet fuel) burns at a max of around 2,230°C, but around 700°C-1500°C in open air. Steel and iron melt at over 1500°C. On the one hand, Jet-A-1 would not create molten steel/iron outside conditions like a blast furnace to melt iron — on the other hand, the WTC fires could (outside of WTC-7) have gotten to 1500°C based on the NIST article linked. The physics question is whether 10,000 gallons or so of Jet-A-1 burning in an office tower would reach the melting point of iron in the 1.5 hours or so of burning. While hardly an exactly replication, in a paper “Fire Test Evaluation using the Kerosene and Aviation Fuel”, K. S. Bang et al., noted that Jet-A-1 reached a maximum temperature of 1,260°C after 8 hours in an environment not identical but the closest experiment I could find that replicated a building with jet fuel burning. This answer would be substantially more conclusive with a chemistry/physics expert opinion exactly on point about whether a kerosene fire could create molten iron/steel in this situation. Of course, if there was no molten iron or steel, the point is moot. Molten Iron and Steel: Physical Evidence Credible reports indicating the presence of molten iron come from FEMA, a multinational engineering firm, numerous reputable engineers and professors who examined the physical evidence, and peer-reviewed journal articles. There are numerous other credible sources, extensively documented in Griffin's book, starting at page 36. In its report on WTC7 in May 2002, FEMA documents in Appendix C steel that has been melted and partially evaporated. That report states: 

My conclusion? I originally found this nearly impossible due to my faulty assumption that one needed to breath the same amount as one needed to drink. Complete credit goes to vartec for this correction which, very surprisingly, swung the answer completely in the other direction. It now appears quite possible. 

This is a meta-analysis of several surveys from the 70s and 80s, so the data may not be representative of society today. There are some caveats provided in the discussion, as well, such as that one set of data did favor the correlation between religiosity and health, but not religiosity and psychological well-being. 

So, we see the highest rates of ownership for married couples with dependents and single parents with dependents (at least for all pets except birds). The next highest rates of ownership are from married couples with no dependents (I'm assuming that's what "other married couples" means). 

AMJ Clin Nuff. 1989 Jan; 49(1):44-50 AMJ Physol. 1995 Oct: (4pt1):E671-8 Metabolism 2000 Jan: 49:101-7 

This means that, on average, it is taking buses more energy than it takes cars to transport a given number of individuals a given amount of distance. By using BTUs, fuel types are normalized by converting to energy per volume. See Table 2.5 in Chapter 2 (LINK) for a breakdown of fuel type usage by vehicle type. Also, Appendix A (LINK) provides the conversion factors for different fuels to BTUs. 

Were these three collaborating on an investigation into the CIA in relation to 9/11? If so, is there any reason to believe they had any persuasive evidence? 

Too many governments believe that they can solve urgent social or political problems by executing a few or even hundreds of their prisoners. Too many citizens in too many countries are still unaware that the death penalty offers society not further protection but further brutalization. Scientific studies have consistently failed to find convincing evidence that the death penalty deters crime more effectively than other punishments. The most recent survey of research findings on the relation between the death penalty and homicide rates, conducted for the United Nations in 1988 and updated in 1996 and 2002, concluded: "...research has failed to provide scientific proof that executions have a greater deterrent effect than life imprisonment. Such proof is unlikely to be forthcoming. The evidence as a whole still gives no positive support to the deterrent hypothesis". Recent crime figures from abolitionist countries fail to show that abolition has harmful effects. In Canada, for example, the homicide rate per 100,000 population fell from a peak of 3.09 in 1975, the year before the abolition of the death penalty for murder, to 2.41 in 1980, and since then it has declined further. In 2003, 27 years after abolition, the homicide rate was 1.73 per 100,000 population, 44 per cent lower than in 1975 and the lowest rate in three decades. Although this increased to 2.0 in 2005, it remains over one-third lower than when the death penalty was abolished. It is incorrect to assume that people who commit such serious crimes as murder do so after rationally calculating the consequences. Often murders are committed in moments when emotion overcomes reason or under the influence of drugs or alcohol. Some people who commit violent crime are highly unstable or mentally ill. Amnesty International has found that at least one in 10 of the prisoners put to death in the USA since 1977 had suffered from serious mental disorders rendering them unable to rationally comprehend their death sentence, its reasons or its implications.In none of these cases can the fear of the death penalty be expected to deter. Moreover, those who do commit premeditated serious crimes may decide to proceed despite the risks in the belief that they will not be caught. The key to deterrence in such cases is to increase the likelihood of detection, arrest and conviction. The fact that no clear evidence exists to show that the death penalty has a unique deterrent effect points to the futility and danger of relying on the deterrence hypothesis as a basis for public policy on the death penalty. The death penalty is a harsh punishment, but it is not harsh on crime. 

Since the amount of alcohol is fairly small, the change over time is also extremely small. Thus, we can estimate that each breath will bring in 0.00556mL of alcohol into the system. To achieve drunkenness, one would need to respirate 5mL / (0.00556mL / respiration) = ~900 times. This would take 45-75min based on 12-20 respirations per minute. To decrease time, one could reduce the size of the room, or atomize more alcohol. The content will scale linearly, so using two bottles of vodka will take only half the time. Final caveat: This has all been theoretical, and I'm not sure how efficient the lungs would be at absorbing alcohol. I can find sources that give a rate of 25% for oxygen extraction from air, so this would have to be figured in as well. If the rate were only 25% for alcohol, it would take 4x as long as above, or 3-5 hours. Using more bottles would reduce that proportionally. Typical rooms also aren't sealed, and thus alcohol is going to diffuse to the outside air and reduce the concentration. This rate will vary by the room, but may have a huge effect on how this works. Reducing the room volume or creating a tent of sorts will help this. 

The term "motion blur" appears to be a misnomer. When taking the answer literally, the answer is no. In fact, higher refresh rates can increase motion blur. We've discussed perceptual flicker and other perceptual differences between low and high refresh rate, but we hardly discussed motion blur. Motion blur is not necessarily a bad thing. There are (at least) three relevant meanings. (1) Motion blur in the video source. This is the same as motion blur in a still image. When a short shutter time is used, little motion blur is visible. For example, for sports photography one often uses 1/500 sec or less. $URL$ The same goes for video. While a video camera may record 50-60 images per second, the shutter time used for each image is actually often much less. With a lot of light, 1/500 sec is pretty normal for a video camera. When you look at a movie, you can see the difference between a 50 Hz video with 1/500 second shutter time, and a 50Hz video with an 1/50 second shutter time (which is obviously the maximum). So, this type of motion blur has nothing to do with the refresh rate, except that the maximum shutter time is given by the frame rate. My own experience is that a blurry video actually looks better, as very short shutter times produce a "choppy" animation. $URL$ Motion blur is also generated artifically in video games for this reason. $URL$ $URL$ (2) Motion blur as an artifact of the display (=TV). When the latency of the display pixels is too high for the frame rate, you get a blurry image. So, increasing frame rate without appropriately shortening the display latency may cause an increase in motion blur. Display latency is usually specified as part of product specifications. See also: $URL$ (3) Perceptual motion blur, caused neither by video source or display. The human eye has (complex) limitations so as to what speed animation it can keep up with. Very fast changes will result in a blurry perception. Low light will increase perceptual latency and hence will affect blurriness (as is demonstrated by the Pulfrich effect). A higher frame rate may increase perceptual motion blur, as there is simply more temporal information for the eyes to digest. Again, more motion blur will likely look better here. 

Drugs that do not qualify as cures include those that are not cures (i.e. address symptoms), those that are ineffective (i.e. never go "flat" on the cure rate model of e.g. Berkson and Gage, etc). I would consider vaccines to be cures because they effectively cure the spread of disease, and further they're cost effective prevention. There are two issues that present challenges when answering this question: 

The paper in question is on SSRN: Performance for Pay? The Relation Between CEO Incentive Compensation and Future Stock Price Performance It opens: 

The sweeping recommendation "cannot be recommended" also reminds me of the hallmarks of bad logic, namely ... sweeping statements (ad dictum simpliciter). Armed with suspicion and some cynicism, I did a bit of research, to make sure that my concerns were somewhat valid and came up with: Effects of tongue ties on breastfeeding A 2008 article in the Official Journal of the American Academy of Paediatrics entitled Frenulotomy for Breastfeeding Infants With Ankyloglossia: Effect on Milk Removal and Sucking Mechanism as Imaged by Ultrasound states: 

My recollection was that the comparison was to a Honda Civic from the early 2000's, but I suppose the claim could be validated by a comparison to any small, new model of car. Is there any merit to this claim? 

TL;DR: My approach was to use the fact that I personally went through "vision therapy" to identify a similar exercise to what the question describes (one which alternates between extreme divergence (looking far away) and convergence (focusing up close)). This allows us to examine the literature for the field of vision therapy for determinations of efficacy. I used sources to confirm my descriptions/experience. Then I took a look at the available literature for the field of vision therapy: There does not appear to be any scientific support for vision therapy in terms of improving visual acuity and/or reducing myopia (nearsightedness). I'm using "improving eyesight" to mean increasing acuity (require lower prescription glasses or no glasses), which also entails reducing farsightedness. As shown in the sources section, there may be improved farsightedness, as the literature indicates that convergence exercises have some benefit. Improving the ability of the eyes to converge and bring something into focus up close would, indeed, have the potential to assist those with trouble seeing up close. The literature simply mentions that convergence is improved, but didn't specify on whether that translated into a reduction in hyperopia (farsightedness, which probably requires reading glasses for seeing up close).