I cannot believe this is not a duplicate but I cannot find one. This is a management problem. If management cannot see what is going on they are not managing. Don't let it demotivate you. It is good that you care but it is not your problem. Bug report does effect you. That is fair game. And you basically are reporting Roger. 

Where do you live? Cleaning people may not speak your language or may not be able to read. I am in the US and we had a box marked garbage that did not get taken away. A guy wrote basura on it and it was gone the next day. Speak your language or not they should not be throwing anything on a desk away. 

Accepting a counter has a lot of ways to go bad. Are they just doing it to keep you around for the short term but have written you off for the long term? But you like where you are and you were able to find jobs pretty easy. You can just wait 6 months to a year to see if it was a good faith counter. If not look for job again and you have salary 40% higher. If you don't think you can find a job in 6 months similar to the current attractive offer then you should take the current attractive offer. With a Sr role and higher salary there are going to be higher expectations. But, that might be something you want. Being happy with your current job is a big deal. Countering did not necessary poison you. It may be legit good faith counter. 

If the overall interview process went great then you have no basis for posting a sharp review of the company on GlassDoor.com. You are only mad because you did not get the job. That is just petty. 

If you did not want to be underpaid then why did you take a job without looking around and not negotiate the contract? You would sound like worse than whiner. You are someone that does not want to honor a contract you signed. What if the company had offered you 4000-5000 euros more than your colleges and came back to you and said we don't want to overpay so we would like to re-negotiate the contract? 

A good manager would see past this petty manipulation. I would just reply and cc your manager (he started it): 

You could go with the valuation they got the last time they raised money. If someone paid $100,000 for 10% then 1% is valued at $10,000. 2% is a lot for a regular employee. With just 50 employees that is the whole company. The idea is to hold back equity to sell. There is probably not much latitude on that number. You are in a little better position than the investor as they are stuck. For you if things start to not look so go you can leave. I Not getting your logic here. If the valuation is low you are going to ask for a bigger %? I would be more interested in if the are making a profit? Do they still need to get more funding. Would your equity be diluted if they raise funding. Stock options can be diluted. Is it a sweat shop type start up? I think you are getting ahead of a lot of more important stuff. Treat equity as a nice surprise you are not counting on. Start with a salary you are comfortable with. 

Blaming is a bad title. He is not blaming you for a program crashing that was not you fault. He is disagreeing with some code practices. There some code practices that are clearly bad (repeated code blocks) and lot in the middle that people are not going to all agree on. Try and turn it into acceptable code practices rather than best. Is a single use function acceptable - I hope yes. Try and get it moved from optimal code to acceptable. Does it perform? Can it be maintained? 

Put it at the end Put your important duties next to a bullet so the stand out month/year - present Comany X tile: Technologist 

Most people would consider that personal use of company resources. Some companies may equate it to theft and some may be OK with it. You should just ask. I worked a company were a guy was fired for stealing a $12 tool and this was a long time employee with no prior problems. Their license with Microsoft may not include use on home machines. What are you going to do when you need Office on your work machine? 

Do they pay? To me this is like the US Priority Mail - if it fits it ships. I get my rate then I work. From their perspective they could interview 5 candidates and use up a lot interview time to predict who will work. Or just bring one on board and pay to see what they actually do. And they want someone to start next week. 

If programming languages are difficult for you then maybe that is not the best path for you. But if that is what you want then practice. Get a text book on Javascript and do all exercises. Read a general book on object oriented programming (OOP). 

Any strategic planning group will evaluate competitors. A lot of information is available legal in the public domain. Where you get into a bit of spy-craft 

Let's say there is a company that really offered that service (ask for a reference). That company would get flagged by legitimate companies. If your prior company had them flagged then things could go bad. On the next call they might say yes he was dismissed for under performing and it appears he hired a fake company to find out what we would say for a reference. If you have a friend that has a real company then maybe. Your best bet here may be honesty. 

Introduce yourself and your role State very specifically what information you need Tell them why you need it State when you need it If this is already critical path on your project then state that "At this point lack of this updated documentation is delaying release of the software" In a nice way tell them you needed it yesterday if that is the case Ask them when you can expect that information 

A proper protocol is random testing does the random part and they only notify a few people of the day they will arrive for random testing. CEO exclude herself from random is her option but will not be received well. Supervisor auto included is not going to be received well. If the union approved a random test based when the CEO wants one and she runs the gift selection for random then the union is not doing it's job. Union should be demanding 3rd party execution of the random.