The Original Poster's descriptions are correct in terms of words, but the actual position of the tongue is a bit more complicated. The diagrams here are not correct. This is because the official terminology is very misleading. Unfortunately, the named parts of the tongue do not correspond to intuition or common sense. When you look in the mirror your tongue looks kind of flat and thin. This is an illusion. Your tongue is really a big fat ball with a bit stuck on the front of it. When we talk about the tongue, there is the front bit which we use for consonants. We can flap it about in all kinds of different ways. That's the blade of your tongue. It doesn't count for vowels in any way. The part of the tongue that we use for making vowels is the big ball of muscle behind that. It starts where the your tongue joins the floor or your mouth. 

I heard about an Indian woman (possibly Hindu) with a given name of Sati the other day. Checking the internet, this site confirmed that Sati is an Indian female name. Is the name "Sati" related to the name of the Hindu goddess Sati who self-immolated, or is it just a coincidence (the name's only two syllables long, so it seems plausible)? 

Hiragana and katakana contain the same sounds (morae I think), but are typically used in different words. In particular, most European loan words use katakana (a few don't), and a large proportion of katakana involves European loan words (though it is used for other purposes as well). English has upper case and lowercase, and also can have print versus cursive, but specific words aren't strongly associated with case or whether or not it is cursive. Do any other languages have an equivalent to hiragana and katakana? 

However, there are more complex constructions where we do see strings like I like without any overtly expressed Direct Object: 

A double vertical bar is often used in transcriptions to indicate a major intonational phrase boundary, and a single one to indicate a minor one. 

This is often referred to as dealveolar assimilation, because the consonant is moving away from its normal alveolar position, to effectively become a different consonant. The Original poster's question: There will be no elision of the /d/ in this environemt. However we are likely to get dealveolar assimilation. Because this consonant will now be homorganic (made with the same parts of the mouth) with the following /p/, it will not be released and may be less easy to hear. There will also be some devoicing of the /d/ because of the following voiceless /p/, and so it may appear more /p/-like. 

Do descriptivists differ from prescriptivists in how they determine whether something is correct? Or do they differ in whether or not they determine whether something is correct? For example, if 80% of the English-speaking population decided to spell "tsunami" as "zunami", but there was no justification for that spelling, and mainstream media still preferred "tsunami", how would descriptivists and prescriptivists differ? Would it be: 

Recently, I learnt that the literal meaning of the main written Japanese form for dolphin, "海豚", is "sea" and "pig". The Japanese person mentioning that noted that he didn't know for sure why that was the case. At first I thought it was because dolphin meat was similar to pork, but then I looked further into it. 海豚 is also used in Chinese. Meanwhile, the English word "porpoise", which comes from Medieval Latin via French, is based on a compound of pig and fish. In addition, the Welsh for "porpoise" is based on sea pig and sea sow. Online Etymology Dictionary mentions that Latin had "porculus marinus", with the theory that its snout looked like that of a pig. The Wikipedia article Marine mammals as food mentions that in Peru, dolphin meat is referred to as "sea pork". I came across the fact that the German for guinea pig is "sea pig", but I'm not looking into that. Why are some sea mammals called "sea pigs", especially in Chinese/Japanese? Failing that, has there been any cases of sea mammals being called "sea pigs", where it is known that the speakers of that language don't eat sea mammal meat? 

Languages like Japanese traditionally used vertical writing systems where the columns proceed from right to left: 

In the sentence above from the Robocop films the word somewhere is functioning as a Locative Adjunct. Notice that it can appear either at the beginning or end of the clause: 

In reality, with many of these constructions there are practicalities which make multiple embeddings difficult to process, for which reason sentences like (7) are relatively rare. So, if we wanted to somehow measure how long-distance the dependency between the gap and its antecedent was in a particular sentence, we would most likely want to quantify this in terms of the number of embeddings involved—in other words the number of clause boundaries intervening between the gap and it's antecedent +. The number of words is usually of less interest to us. If we did want to measure the intervening material though, we might want to measure it in terms of syllables, not letters, characters, words, or phrases. 

Do native speakers of different languages make different mistakes when speaking in English? For example, do native speakers of Japanese make different mistakes than native speakers of Russian when they speak in English? Wikipedia says that pronunciation differs, for example Japanese speakers are more likely to get "R" and "L" mixed up, but I'm also interested in other things, such as grammatical errors. 

If given a text in Mongolian using the Cyrillic alphabet, I can read it out, albeit with a couple of pronunciation errors, even though I'd understand few if any words in it. It's almost the opposite of being illiterate, which would involve understanding the words, but being unable to read them. Is there a term for being able to read a language out but not be able to understand it? 

In English, most loanwords from Japanese are pronounced similarly to the Japanese word. It isn't an exact match, for example with "karaoke" the pronunciation of the second "a" differs between English and Japanese, but it's fairly similar. Likewise, many languages that are unrelated to English, but are not from East Asia, have a similar pronunciation as the Japanese word. For example, according to Wiktionary, the Hebrew word for origami is אוֹרִיגָמִי (origami). (I don't know whether Hebrew got the word from English, or directly from Japanese) It seems that the pronunciation of the Chinese translation of words that, in English, are loanwords from Japanese, is radically different from the pronunciation of the word in Japanese. I don't speak Chinese, but it meant that when I was speaking in English with Taiwanese people who were native speakers of Chinese but reasonably fluent in English, they didn't understand some Japanese loanwords I used. I'm finding it a little hard to find good examples, but "origami" seems to be one. None of the Chinese translations of origami seem to have a similar pronunciation to the Japanese word. (I could be mistaken though - maybe the pronunciations of the Chinese words "摺紙", "折紙", "折纸", "折紙藝術", and "折纸艺术" are the closest thing you could have to pronouncing the syllables of "origami" in the Chinese language) Is this the case? If so, why? Is it because Chinese speakers take the written form of the Japanese word, turn it into a written Chinese word, and then pronounce the word the way they would pronounce a native Chinese word that was written the way it was written? Alternatively, are words that are Japanese loanwords in English derived from Japanese words that are ultimately derived from Chinese words, and it's the Japanese word that's "different" in pronunciation, not the Chinese word? In addition, in which languages is the pronunciation of words that are loanwords in English greatly different from the pronunciation in Japanese? For example, does this happen in Korean? 

[Please note that in the end this is not essentially a question about English!] Intervocalic /t/ in Gen Am English may be realised as a voiced alveolar tap, [ɾ]. In words like entertain or ninety where the /t/ occurs after an /n/, it is also often voiced in General American. Given that the nasal stop, /n/, usually involves a full blockage of the air leaving the vocal tract, and that a canonical /t/ is homorganic with a canonical /n/, it is reasonable to suppose that the realisation of the voiced /t/ might actually be an alveolar plosive instead of a tap. So my first question is: is it? Of course, I'm aware that the /nt/ sequence in such words may actually be reduced to a single nasal tap, but I'm only interested in the situation where the /n/ and /t/ are both realised. My second question, however, is whether it's actually possible for a tap to follow directly on from a (nasal or aural) stop made with the same articulators. So, for example, is it even physically possible for [ɾ] to follow an 'unreleased' alveolar [t]? And is it possible for [ɾ] to directly follow an /n/ if the tongue does not lose contact with the alveolar ridge between the two segments? 

I've heard of the Mongolian vowel separator from programmers, who regard it as an interesting quirk in Unicode. When I google for it, most of the hits are from those revelling in its geekiness. But as someone dabbling a bit in Mongolian, I'd like to know: What is it used for? 

Is it possible for a word, especially a person's name, to have zero characters in it? No letters, no numbers, no punctuation, just totally empty? I'm aware of some people not having a surname, or not having a middle name, but someone not having a name would be different from having a name that has no letters in it. 

The specific claim that "Eskimos have X words for snow" is heavily disputed. However, is the general concept that certain cultures' languages often have a large number of words for things that are important in that culture valid? Examples of this I recently encountered include Lonely Planet's guidebook on Mongolia saying that Mongolian has a large number of words for horse skin colour compared to English (IIRC), and a claim on the BBC that Japanese has a larger vocabulary for apologizing than English (The many ways to say sorry in Japanese)