Reider's proof of the Fujita conjecture that on a smooth surface, K+4A is very ample whenever A is ample, relies fundamentally on the Bogomolov instability theorem. I.e. It is precisely the Bogomolov instability of the vector bundle produced by Serre's construction associated to a possible base point of a linear series K+L, under certain conditions on the chern classes, that allows one to conclude the result. This technique seems to have played a major role in the study of linear series since that time. See Igor Reider's paper in the Annals of Math, (1988), or the article of Lazarsfeld in volume 3 of the IAS Park City series, Complex algebraic geometry. If you prefer to phrase it as bad behavior related to instability, I guess you could, since this shows that the presence of something bad, namely a base point, implies instability, which forces something else (the presence of certain curves though the base point on the surface) which if not bad, is at least rather special. And this lets you classify all cases where the original bad behavior occurs. So certain specific bundles can only be unstable in rather unusual ways. 

Almost the same example, arises from blowing up an ordinary double point on any threefold, since the tangent cone is then a cone over a rank 4 quadric, i.e. P^1xP^1. This blowup then introduces a copy of P^1xP^1 as exceptional locus. Then one can blow down either ruling and get a small resolution. The interesting part here is how it illustrates the non uniqueness of the small resolution, as there is no preferred way to choose one of the two rulings. As Moishezon said, "suppose while your back is turned some devil comes and changes which way you blow down." This seems to be the first example of a "flop". This geometry is already quite interesting in the case of a niodal cubic threefold in P^4. There blowing up the node is almost the same as projecting the cubic from the node into P^3. I.e. the projection is birational and well defined on the blowup, mapping the quaric exceptional locus onto a rank 4 quadric surface in P^3. However those lines in the tangent cone to the cubic at the node that actually lie in the cubic threefold, and which are parametrized by a genus 4 curve in P^3, blow down onto the genus 4 curve. This reveals the original non small resolution of the nodal cubic as the blow up of P^3 along a canonical genus 4 curve, hence a rational variety. From this viewpoint, since the genus 4 curve meets each line on the unique quadric surface containing it 3 times, it seems Moishezon's criterion implies either family of lines can be blown down on the resulting smooth threefold. This story is part of the original solution of the Luroth problem for threefolds in the paper of Clemens and Griffiths. 

I have tried teaching proofs for years, and I have had a lot of trouble, both in "proof" courses, and in ordinary courses. The hard part for me was getting the student to think about what the statements meant, and why the statements implied each other, rather than just memorizing a sequence of steps. Often we mathematicians do not notice that we are leaving out remarks that are logically essential, because we know how to fill them in. Students "learn" much more easily to repeat even lengthy proofs that do not reveal any reasoning, than to give even short arguments that require it. E.g. most students can easily learn the sequence of steps that claim to prove the product rule in calculus. But a quick examination of even many of the best books will show that the logic of the proof is not made clear even by the author. E.g. the proof usually starts out with the difference quotient of the product, and the word "limit" in front of it, and then manipulates the difference quotient until it becomes separated into the appropriate two separate limits. No mention is made of the fact that the limit which is being taken for granted in the first part of the discussion is not known to exist until the end. Hence the proof should correctly be done only with the difference quotient and not the limit of it, or else it should be stated that the word "limit" is not justified until the end of the argument, by reading backwards. This logical gap occurs even in the magnificent book of Spivak, (but not in that of Apostol). I.e. the students can learn to derive the formula, but do not appreciate even the need to show the derivative of the product actually exists. Similarly algebra students "learn" to give the proof of the rational roots theorem, by simply multiplying out the denominators, but at the least step, where some words need to be used to justify a divisibility statement, (powers of relatively prime numbers are still relatively prime), they slough over it. They have much more trouble with irrationality of a square root, because more justification is needed. I have had students in number theory learn the elementary proof that sqrt(2) is irrational, by showing first an integer is even if its square is, and yet not be able to extend it to sqrt(3). Once I noticed that since polynomials are "symmetric" in a sense, the reverse of the proof of Eisenstein's criterion would yield a proof of the reverse criterion, where p^2 does not divide the lead coefficient instead of the constant term. Only one in a class of over 30 abstract algebra students was willing to attempt this challenge problem, and that one never got it, even with several days of email hints. If a student cannot give this reverse but otherwise identical proof, how much does he understand of the original proof? This suggests to me that proofs involving words are crucial to learning reasoning, and one should take great care not to assume that a sequence of correct symbols implies understanding of the logic. I would enjoy being able to sit in Pete's course and observe how he handles it. I am not too impressed with most books teaching proofs. Often it seems the author is going through the motions and not thinking about the consequences of his statements. In one I received, they discussed bounds and least upper bounds and claimed it was obvious the natural numbers are an unbounded set of reals without relating the two concepts. Then later they made a big deal out of proving the archimedean property for the reals, but without linking it to the earlier equivalent but unjustified statement about the natural numbers. This undermines a good student's faith in the importance of the topic. I got my own initiation first in high school, from a brief course in propositional calculus, and then from a Spivak type course at Harvard from Tate where the homework was all proofs. Then came Birkhoff and Maclane, and finally Loomis and Gluck reinforced it by a very clear use of quantifiers in lectures on real analysis and differential equations. There were no "proof" courses at Harvard in 1960. I agree 100% with the questioner who asked how the students could be expected to have understood the first two years of math without seeing the logic until junior year. I would love to have that course moved much earlier. Having it in high school was great for me. And I also lived before proof was removed from high school geometry. 

the park city programs in summers are excellent opportunities to meet and interact with high school teachers. I am also impressed with "the wisconsin idea", that university research should affect the lives of the community. They have an outreach department that does more than cure corn blight, and actually communicates with local school teachers. I hope this idea may take hold here in my state, where we have a top ranked university math education graduate school, but poor quality math education overall in our pre-college school system. Twenty years ago or so I also volunteered to teach advanced calculus at a local private high school. We used the book by marsden and tromba and it worked well for those students ready for it (most of them). I wrote a summer proposal into my NSF grant to fund these students, a few other younger ones, and their teacher Steve Sigur, to be paid to go through Mike Spivak's appendix to his Calculus (on the real numbers, rigorously) with me, while I again volunteered the free month of my summer for this. One of my students was Jeff Brock, now a professor at Brown in topology. Another of my students, Jonathan Manson, became a Phi Beta Kappa in physics at Harvard, and took a PhD at Illinois. Another student went to Chicago and took the Spivak calculus class there. I also monitored the students in preparing various math projects, on Galois theory (that student went to MIT and is now a math teacher at a private school), cyclotomic polynomials, and Mandelbrot theory and eigenvectors. When my son was in second grade I colored the faces of some polyhedra and gave a lecture to the kids on the relations between vertices edges and faces, and one little girl (who later became an aeronautical engineer) guessed Euler's formula. You can do a lot as long as you are willing to volunteer your labor. It would be nice also to earn some income at this, but that seems harder. From my experience, although funding is minimal for high school students, that is precisely when you need to magnetize them to mathematics, or they may be lost forever. It takes real persistence to keep loving math through 12 years of boring instruction. 

There are many wonderful books on complex analysis in English. In fact it is the one subject on which I used to say one could pick almost any book and be well served. Probably this is because it was well treated in the beginning and most books simply recast the classical theory. My favorite is by Henri Cartan, superb and cheap. Another nice more elementary book is by Frederick Greenleaf. The book of Lang is also excellent. As to geometry the book by Jones and Singerman: Complex functions, an algebraic and geometric viewpoint, is very well done. The classic book by Ford on Automorphic functions is also recommended. I second the recommendation of the book by Rick Miranda, a book that is just a joy to read. Finally, the original papers of Riemann are highly recommended. Probably everything is in the two volumes of Einar Hille, the only basic reference I know to include the big Picard theorem. 

I am a novice here, but have you looked at Lazarsfeld's chapter "Lectures on linear series" in the book Complex algebraic geometry, IAS Park City math series vol 3? There he deduces it from Reider's theorem which he deduces from Bogomolov's instability theorem, whose proof he also sketches. This is a rewrite of some parts of his chapter on application of vector bundles techniques in the book Lectures on Riemann surfaces from Trieste, where however he says his argument has an error. I am assuming the result you want is that when K is nef then some positive multiple of K is free, (in fact 4K). yes you are right he does assume general type, but unfortunately for my understanding he does not state that in the theorem itself but only in a paragraph above the theorem, which is then apparently a blanket assumption not restated later. So since you are presumably dealing with the opposite case this is useless to you. On p. 81 of Kollar and Mori they merely state that for surfaces base point freeness is a "non trivial result". This suggests they did not know an easy proof. edit: In Miles Reid's chapters on algebraic surfaces, he discusses this point explicitly at the end of his treatment of classification of surfaces with K nef. See E.9.1. "Abundance as a logical bottleneck". He states there that he knows only one proof in the literature not using Enriques' argument at a crucial point, namely that in the book of Barth, Peters, and Van de Ven, where they use Ueno's prof of Iitaka's additivity conjecture C(2,1) via moduli of curves. Does that help? 

Please forgive these very naïve remarks. I am enjoying the chance to learn something about flatness in trying to contribute to this question. First of all, since as pointed out here, the definition of flatness is that the object behaves as simply as possible under tensor product, it follows that the primary use of the concept is in applications of the tensor product. Now there are three of these that come to mind, (after some review of the literature), namely 1) forming fibers, 2) localizing, (and changing rings) 3) completions. These are all local operations, looking at the inverse image of one point, restricting to a Zariski neighborhood of a point, and restriction to an analytic or formal neighborhood of one point. Thus one wants to compare the geometry at a point with the geometry near that point. E.g. given an algebraic subvariety through a point, one can take its algebraic germ, formal germ, or analytic germ, and then ask whether one can recover the original germ from these. This is equivalent to asking whether one recovers the original ideal after extending to the localization or completion, and then restricting back to the original ring. Flatness is the property that tells us yes to all these questions. I.e. both the localization and the completion are flat over the original ring. Moreover, the algebraic and analytic local rings form a “flat pair”, slightly stronger than one being flat over the other, and this apparently implies they have the same completions. This lets us compare analytic and algebraic local rings, by comparing both with their completions. It follows e.g. that the algebraic dimension of an algebraic variety equals the analytic dimension of the associated analytic variety. Reasoning of this sort allows Serre to prove geometric results such as those mentioned above as well as homological ones. Homological results desired are of the sort that compare the analytic cohomology to the algebraic cohomology. The simplest way to do this is to show that the analytic sheaves and their analytic cohomology is obtained from the algebraic ones by tensoring with flat objects, i.e. changing rings in the simplest way. Then the desired results say that homomorphisms of sheaves, and cohomology of sheaves, commutes with this process of tensoring, i.e. of applying the functor of making these objects analytic. Flatness is the key to all these results. Thus flatness of one object over another seems to imply a relation between their local geometric structures. This is my take on Serre’s lovely paper GAGA, available free online at NUMDAM, after a brief perusal. It certainly looks worth a careful read. We have mentioned before the result that a surjective morphism of smooth varieties is flat if and only if the fibers have constant dimension. From perusing Matsumura, other geometric properties of flat maps seem to be: the dimension of (non empty) fibers is always the expected one, i.e. dim(source) - dim(target); the going down theorem holds, hence every subvariety through the point f(p) is the image of a subvariety through p, in particular a flat map cannot separate branches at a point; indeed flat maps cannot remove singularities in any fashion, i.e. f is flat and if f(p) is a regular point, so is p; and a birational flat map is an open immersion. Another remark building on those above is that flatness is a natural weakening of the property of projectiveness, and hence for local rings, of freeness. If finite map behaves well locally when it defines a locally free module, what about a map that lowers dimension? What is the closest thing to locally free that still holds when the fibers vary nicely but not smoothly? I.e. a flat map is a slight weakening of a smooth map. I am struggling here from ignorance. Thanks for the question!