Your question "Why am I here?" could be taken to mean any number of things, but you appear to clarify (slightly, and rather confusingly) in the first and second paragraphs when you say: 

Axiom: Everyone believes in something. P1: I am skeptical of everything. Conclusion: I believe that I am skeptical of everything This conclusion cannot be drawn. Even if we assume that "I am skeptical of everything" is synonymous with "I don't believe in anything", we cannot infer "I believe that I am skeptical of everything". The axiom ensures only that the individual making the assertion has some belief or other. It does not ensure that every statement within L is a belief. I think you're right to assume that the axiom above would prevent someone from coherently asserting that they don't believe in anything. But to be honest, I'm a little unsure why you're attempting to rely on the inference (the conclusion), because we can obtain a contradiction prior to inferring anything if we assume that the two statements you consider equivalent are actually equivalent. With unclear terms such as "skepticism", we'd be much better off talking about more precise phenomena such as withholding judgment, doubting the truth of some statement, or asserting that every statement is potentially falsifiable. Also, I'm not sure how mainstream philosophy or logic would respond, but I think we have good reason to refrain from considering perceptual reports (There is a red car) or reports of outlook (I am skeptical of everything) as being on par with those things we normally think of when we refer to "beliefs": our attitudes toward some subjectively unverified assertion. If this is right, then it would be senseless to say "I believe that I am skeptical of everything"; you'd be, in a sense, unnecessarily tacking an attitude onto another attitude. 

The argument for the uniformity (or homogeneity, or self-sameness) doesn't follow from the boundedness of what is. Parmenides introduces both uniformity and the argument for uniformity in the passage you're citing. The argument is: 

Arguments for the existence of God generally fall into certain categories (e.g. cosmological arguments, moral arguments, arguments from design, etc). But into which categories arguments for the existence of the soul fall into? 

[3] Kant, Immanuel. On Miracles. "Notes and fragments". Cambridge University Press, 2005. pp 290-291. 

Over the course of it's history, western philosophy introduced all these distinctions between an object and it's class. But I'm a bit confused by this, because these all look very much alike. So what is the difference between them, besides their names and who named them? For instance, are "tokens" thought to be inherently concrete, while philosophical species need not be so? I mean, an actual bird ("token") classed within a biological species ("type") is always concrete, whereas the class of primates ("species") within the class of mammals ("genus") is thought of as an abstract thing. Or do universals have a larger extension than the other concepts? For instance, particular properties of different objects might be grouped into a universal, as I believe humorist pharmacology did when they grouped the different degrees of "coldness" of particular substances, which in salads causes people to feel refreshed but which in henbane causes death, into an universal "coldness" (unfortunately, I haven't thought of a less dated example). But the type–token distinction doesn't seem to be applied to properties and the classes of properties, but only to objects and the classes of objects. So what is the difference between all of these? 

What are the differences between these outlooks? What is a good source of information on this topic? 

I'll try to offer a brief sketch that moves from what I take to be "overarching" (more inclusive) complaints to more specific ones. Please keep in mind that I am, personally, very dissatisfied by most of Postmodern thought; I'm not trying to hide that fact or pretend to distance myself from judgment. Postmodernism, at its most basic level, is a critique of Modernism. This critique is motivated by a dissatisfaction with philosophical Liberalism, which amounts to a distaste for capitalism and an appreciation of individualism, among other things. It's obvious that people who consider these "Enlightenment values" to be good (useful, respectable, fair, successful) will already, at this relatively nascent stage, be suspicious of Postmodernism. This suspicion is not unique to "right-wingers" or what the average American calls "Republicans" because this critique flows from Classical Liberals, Libertarians, many Democrats and everyone who is opposed to most of contemporary Progressivism. Related to this is the Postmodernist's attitude toward science and rationality. Social constructivism, a distaste for "totalizing statements", and skepticism about objectivity, indifference, and progress are very important features here. To be frank, I think a lot of this stems from misunderstanding what these terms mean and what role they play in scientific investigations. "Objectivity" is parsed as "unchanging, universal truths", "indifference" is considered an anti-human (or life-negating) emotion, "individualism" is thought to be identical to selfishness and opposed to solidarity, and rationality is seen as an oppressive tool of the patriarchy. To be fair, I really do think that the concept of objectivity is horribly inflated and mis-used by scientists and lay people, but there are alternatives! We can all be fallibilists about knowledge (even the kind that arises out of empirical and formal efforts) without being skeptical about science and rationality. Another feature is relativism and subjectivism. This is related to constructivism and probably stems from it. Moral judgments are relative to cultural practices and reality itself is sometimes considered as having no residue of perception-independent stuff. Gender fluidity might not be related but the attitude is similar: since gender is a social construct, we can find ourselves anywhere along a spectrum. However, there are alternatives here as well: instead of becoming relativists, we can become fictionalists about morality and gender. As I mentioned earlier, many of these attitudes are the result of misunderstandings ... ones that might possibly arise as a result of not exploring the intellectual landscape very thoroughly. Please don't take this as a complete critique of Postmodernism. I can't clarify all of my attitudes and arguments here, and it's obvious that adherents will categorize these things differently. 

In the 16th century Europe, Skepticism became fashionable. Specially some forms of Pyhrronic Skepticism, which sought to undermine all knowledge in general (as in Agrippa's De incertitudine et vanitate scientiarum atque artium declamatio invectiva, and Francisco Sanches' Quod nihil scitur). Pierre Gassendi, a rival of Descartes, was a moderate Skeptic. So were the people in Gassendi's circle, which Mauro ALLEGRANZA refers to. In his Meditations, Descartes sought to reply to such Skeptic concerns. Though assuming at first that he knew nothing, he nonetheless couldn't doubt he himself existed. Armed with this, and with a revived ontological proof, he aimed at turning the Skeptic's game against itself. By starting from absolute uncertainty, he would arrive nonetheless at truth, winning back the whole world which he doubted at first. These are most likely the "irreligious" people he was referring to. 

The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy presents a paraphrasis of this argument when touching the modal interpretation of Parmenides' On Nature, but it's still general enough that it doesn't really lean towards any particular interpretation. Maybe it's a little bit clearer than Burnet's version: 

There is no flaw. The Aristotelian concept of "motion" implies in Newtonian terms that whatever is being moved, is moved from rest at point A to rest at point B, and thus that there are non-zero net forces acting on the object: it's pushed forward and accelerated at first, and then being held back and decelerated later on, all that by objects other than itself. That's because, for Aristotle, "motion" always refers to finite motion from somewhere and towards somewhere. He didn't contemplate the possibility of motion either from or towards infinity, which is what nonetheless better corresponds to Newton's concept of an unimpeded object in inertial motion. Also, though it doesn't bear on the question, St. Thomas considers God and thus the prime mover to be infinite (see Question 7, Article I). 

In an essay entitled "Why I am not a Conservative", Hayek distances himself from both "Continental liberalism" and "English liberalism", while calling himself an "Old Whig": 

This is a false dichotomy; into which category would you place moral fictionalism? To me, it seems to require an independent one. 

The first could be taken as a biological question or a religious one. The second might refer to counterfactual scenarios, to a question regarding the extent of human agency, or perhaps to an inquiry into the question of why a person makes one set of decisions rather than another (if the latter is true, then it's likely a psychological question). The danger I see is attempting to answer a biological, psychological, or religious question in a manner that is uniquely philosophical. Of course, that's not always an easy boundary to discern, but it often amounts to a person conducting some ill-formed study of life (for example) from the armchair. I don't think anyone will get very far if he intends to gather knowledge of mitochondrial DNA or the history of the cosmos by means of pure speculation. I assume that many immersed in the philosophical tradition would classify topics such as counterfactuals and human agency (especially if the latter amounts to a question of freedom of will) as being properly philosophical. David Lewis and Saul Kripke (contemporary professors of philosophy) wrote quite a bit about counterfactuals, and countless philosophers had something to say about the determinism debate (Hume in the 18th Century, and Mark Balaguer this century). Additionally, if your question is related not just to agency in terms of outward action but also to freedom of belief (doxastic voluntarism), many others have commented on the topic: Dion Scott-Kakures, William Alston, and Robert Audi come to mind. Final note: Philosophy does not ask questions, people do. However, I understood what you meant. 

For Kant, a tree falling in a forest will make a sound in so far as every necessary condition for it making a sound has been given. In the Critique of Pure Reason, he generally extends both causality and the principle of sufficient reason to all possible experience (A195/B240 [1] and A201/B246 [2])[*] such that, for any possible event, it's conditions to occur must have been given in the world. He also took causality for granted on a fragment [3] dating to 1788, immediatelly after the publication of the second edition of the CPR. Now, compare the problem of a falling tree with Hume's problem of whether the sun will rise tomorrow given that it has risen every single day before. For Hume, our expectation that it ought to rise is completely due to our generalization of the past experience. For Kant, if the sun happens to not rise one morning, it should very well have a darn good reason not to, because otherwise such an event would violate those two principles. On the other hand, it isn't impossible that a falling tree doesn't make a sound when no one is around for entirely empirical reasons but, just like it isn't impossible that the sun should explode overnight, we have no evidence to suggest that this is the case and thus we cannot think to ourselves that it might be without violating these principles, as whatsoever happens in the world ought to have a cause in the world. In anyway, the way this question is presented never suggests that humans ought to be considered a relevant empirical condition for it making a sound or not, but as a purely metaphysical question. The bit about whether it makes a sound or not if no one has the relevant categories to perceive this event is a different question. Because, if the event in question isn't merely not perceived, but imperceptible, it wouldn't be an object in any possible experience and thus nothing could ever be said about it with any degree of certainty. [*] With the caution of not extending their domain to the whole of experience, which would lead to the Third Antinomy of Pure Reason (A488/B516)[4]. 

It could be true that intentionally obscure writing might force certain readers to struggle with a text. It might also be true that struggling with a text (for some) might result in better comprehension since the reader was forced to re-read and ruminate throughout the day. However, none of this is necessary if a person wishes to adopt these good study habits. You appear to be asking something slightly different than the question presented in the link you've provided, however: whether imprecise (unclear, mysterious, poetic, verbose, etc) writing might be able to prove things that clear and intentionally clear writing cannot prove. In my opinion, the answer is obviously "no". I wonder if anyone within other disciplines (mathematics, logic, or one of the physical sciences) would give such a theory any serious consideration. Probably not! Why? Because demonstration, evidence, and clear-thinking is the best we've got (when possible). But even if obscurantism cannot have access to its own unique methods of proof or uniquely prove certain classes of assertions, it CAN entertain individuals who are easily bored or skeptical of dry sciences. Additionally, if the vast majority of the dry (or rigorous, unpretentious, evidence-based) sciences rule against some idea in unison, perhaps the only way to respond is by constructing a seemingly elegant, mysterious, and "deep" exposition that pretends to offer readers more than "mere" evidence or reasons for accepting some description of the world (i.e. a method of obtaining authenticity, life-direction, a new level of consciousness, or access to God's mind). My opinion, however, is that obscure writing is dishonest at best ... an unfortunate methodology often relied upon when the thinker is either unable to think scientifically (perhaps in terms of intellectual ability) or when he finds himself in need of an extravagant-sounding theory in order to convince gullible people of some alternative. Rigorous study, actual research, and creative problem-solving is infinitely more difficult than heavily politicized wand-waving. It's easier to feel like you're progressing and it's easier to indoctrinate people when you've chosen the latter as your M.O. But hey, do what you need to do, I guess.