So, key factors are obviously ice ages and glaciers, as well as the shape of the ocean basin. The movement of continents affects the shape and depth of the ocean basin, so continental movement likely has an effect. As a somewhat small but fun example, the Mediterranean Sea has about 3.75 million cubic km of water in it and the sea is thought to have been a dry valley some 5.33 million years ago that, once the straight of Gibraltar gave way, was quickly filled by the Atlantic ocean. That's just a theory. It may have filled much more slowly, and over 5 million years ago, it might have been a significantly different size too, but if we use the 3.75 million cubic km number over today's 361.9 million square km of ocean surface, that works out to a 10 meter drop in sea level to fill up the Mediterranean valley. 10 meters isn't a big change in the grand scheme of things, but if it happened over as little as a year, as one hypotheses suggests, that would have been quite something to observe a 10 meter drop in sea level over a single year or so. However long the Mediterranean took to fill, it's a nice example of how shifting land can affect sea level. Historic estimates are made (as noted above) by studying where the shorelines were and studying what was under water and trying to piece together an estimate from that. Formation of glaciers like the Antarctic Glacier, which would raise sea level 58 meters if it melted, affect sea level too. The antarctic glacier began to grow in earnest about 34 million years ago. Greenland is another 6 meters and that formed much later, over the last million years or so. Geological history of ice ages is fairly well understood, though the total amount of water in those glaciers might have some uncertainty. The shape of the ocean basin is (I think) less well understood over the last 600 million years or so. The ice age periods, 260 to 360 and 420 to 450 million years ago should correspond to drops in the chart, below. The recent ice age period is just 2.5 million years long, and too short to be well represented but the 34 million years when the antarctic ice formed is apparent. 

This is pretty straight forward. The traditional map is very good for longitude and latitude. It's pretty lousy for the shapes and sizes of the continents cause everything close to the poles is expanded. A more accurate map has to look like a carved up sphere on a flat sheet of paper. This one claims to be the most accurate: $URL$ Here's another nice accurate one but, I think, harder on the eyes. 

This answer assumes 280 PPM CO2, at least until the ice age and oceans begin to draw CO2 from the atmosphere. If we look at the Pleistocene and we measure how long glacial periods last and how long inter-glacial periods are, You could say, observing the Earth for the last 2.5 million years that being in an ice age is Earth's natural state, with only brief periods between ice ages. Ice ages have also followed pretty regular patterns that makes them, in theory, somewhat predictable. Ice ages mostly followed a 40,000 year cycle, between about 2.5 million years ago to about 1 million years ago, then switched to roughly a 100,000 year cycle over the last million years. It's not precisely known why the cycle switched from 40,000 to 100,000 years. That's known as the 100,000 year problem. But if we use the current 100,000 year cycle as a ballpark measuring stick or if we measure the length of interglacial periods (which are generally pretty short, 10,000 - 30,000 years), then the next ice age can be estimated at not too far off. Maybe 10,000 years. But if we look closer at what actually triggers ice ages, which is (simplified version), colder summers in the Northern Hemisphere, driven by orbital variations. We can get a better estimate when ice ages should come by looking for when the Northern Hemisphere summers will get colder. Milankovich cycles don't always neatly line up and the right conditions for the next ice age, based on orbital changes is a bit unclear. When the red line in this chart below is low ice ages are more likely to happen, and we're in a dip now, but coming out of a warmer summer period and relativly soon entering another one. There's a slightly bigger dip that peaks in about 60,000 years from now, another one 100,000 years from now and a bigger one, about 130,000 years from now. 

Any one of these research studies could have made a case for or against. Every one of them, and every research study I've ever read about has supported the man made climate change theory. Climate change has so much attention, that lots of research has been done. This isn't a case of one study that everyone agrees with, without proper cross-checking. It's been tested a dozen different ways a dozen different times and gone over by thousands of scientists and skeptics. Many studies have been done with the intent to disprove it too. There's a lot of special interest money out there to oppose the theory and they've failed to provide a single good research study that backs up their alternative theory claim. There's not one study that produced results against the prevailing theory and many studies in favor. That's science, not bias. 

Whether solar panels reduce the amount of suns rays reflected back into space depends on their albedo and the albedo of the surface that they cover. Desert sand, for example, is fairly reflective and solar panels might reflect less sunlight back into space than deserts, but it's not just the reflection that matters. You also have to account for energy production. If enough solar panels are built that fossil fuel generated electricity (usually coal or natural gas), can be reduced, by 5% or 10%, that works out to a pretty useful drop in CO2 footprint. Less CO2 from burning fossil fuels means less warming. The ratio of surface temperature by absorbed sunlight vs reflected sunlight is on average, less significant than the heat trapping of CO2. Explaining that gets kind of long and mathy and it's full of approximations, but as a ballpark estimate, 1 joule of energy produced by fossil fuels and the CO2 that's released by that process, that CO2 warms the atmosphere by several joules. We can see this by estimating the added heat to the air and oceans as a result of climate change and comparing that to the energy use of all mankind. I might add a crude calculation of my own later, but here's an article that says the ratio of heat captured by man made climate change to waste heat has a ratio of 100 to 1. However you calculated it, the added heat by increases in CO2 exceeds any albedo variation by at least an order of magnitude, possibly two. So even if Solar panels did absorb and retain more heat from sunlight than the surface area they cover, they still should lead to cooling by reducing the CO2 footprint. The more important question is whether energy from solar panels can effectively reduce CO2 output from power-plants, because power-plants need to cover demand and solar energy can be intermittent. Still, if there is any measurable reduction in fossil fuel generated electricity, there should be a net cooling due to how effective CO2 is in trapping heat even if the solar panels aren't efficient reflectors of sunlight. Also, 

Source of pictures Larger, deeper oceans would also provide a greater heat sink that would take longer to warm up or cool down with the rise and fall of glacial periods. It's possible that there would be no glacial periods with these changes, but predictions get kind of speculative there. That's all I can think of. I invite corrections and additions. 

The lapse rate applies to the troposphere. The stratosphere has a different set of rules as it's more affected by the sun's rays than the Earth's stored and radiated heat. The troposphere grows as the planet warms. It's higher over the equator than over the poles. The theoretical planet "G" has the same lapse rate as the planet "N" and a larger troposphere. 

The energy balance question is a fun one, especially when climate change "skeptics" use it to say "climate change can't possibly be right" - look at the chart they use, more heat leaves the Earth's surface than comes from the sun. 

Now if you're talking Major Extinction Event, the last once of those was 66 million years ago when that Mt. Everest sized asteroid crashed into the earth and was the primary cause in killing off the dinosaurs. So, part of the answer to your question is a problem of definition. I think the thawing Tundra, by itself isn't much to worry about, (unless you have a house built on frozen land that turns to slush under your foundation) - and yes, that happens fairly often) . . . but on a planetary scale, The thawing tundra in addition to the CO2 and warming planet is maybe 10% or 20% max added to an already existing problem, so the larger worry is the combination, not the Tundra in and of itself. There are some metheds already in use to help keep Tundra frozen, like thermosiphons Source. Brown skies and toxic air are statistically quite unlikely and certainly wouldn't be driven just by thawing tundra. It would take a lot more than just that. The ocean current stopping might cause such a problem, but trying to work a prediction around that beyond saying it's unlikely, is very difficult, even with everything we've learned so far. 

But, long term the CO2 isn't likely to stay at 400 PPM, though there's a good chance it won't drop to pre anthropomorphic levels of cycling between 180 and 280 PPM that we had during the recent ice age cycles. That might be enough to alter the recent ice age cycle, though long term predictions about CO2 sequestering are very difficult, but I do personally believe that by burning fossil fuels, we may have actually put an end to the ice age cycle. I'm by no means stating that as a certainty, but it's within the realm of possibility. We've also seen CO2 levels gradually drop over millions of years, so it's possible, in a million or two years, we'll see CO2 levels even lower than we've seen and perhaps a resurgence of ice ages. Continental drift over the next few million years is predictable and solar output over longer periods is somewhat predictable, but CO2 sequestering is enormously difficult to predict - so that's the wild card in this estimate. 

Weather modeling is crazy complicated so I don't want to make this sound absolute, but Venus virtually doesn't rotate and it has much faster trade winds than Earth. Venus has low surface wind speed but that has to do with the consistent temperature all around it's surface and a very dense almost viscus atmosphere. You might not get hurricanes with a slow rotation and virtually no Coreolis, but you'd still get weather. The heavy cold air from the night side of the planet would sink and the hot day side of the planet would rise, and you'd get a constant re-balancing of density and a steady wind and likely a lot of rain as the air cooled on the night side, perhaps continuous rain at a certain time during the night (the same process that creates dew but much bigger). Some good answers on a related question here. 

2 good answers to this already (one here, one in world building). To put some very rough estimates to it, CH4 or Methane has increased significantly over the last 250 years from about 0.72 parts per billion (ppb) to about 1.83 ppb. Source. This accounts for about 20% of the current man made warming, which might be estimated at 2 degrees C by 2100 (very rough estimate). If CH4 is .4 degrees C of that warming by 2100, that's not nothing, but it's still a significantly smaller problem than CO2. What's more, CH4's half life in the atmosphere is shorter than CO2s, 12.4 years vs over 100 (same source). If all the Tundra on Earth was to thaw at once (very unlikely), we'd see a big spike in CH4 and perhaps an uptick in yearly warming, but within 12 years, half of that extra CH4 might be out of the atmosphere. If the Tundra warms and thaws more gradually, which is more likely, we'd see an increase in CH4, but over time, the increase would level off. It's not like CO2 which continues to build because the earth's systems can't take out out of the atmosphere nearly as fast as we put it in. So in and of itself, CH4 from melting Tundra isn't a big concern and turning the sky brown or poisoning birds, as others have said, that's very unlikely. Perhaps it will turn our sunrises and sun sets slightly redder. (perhaps), I'm not even sure on that point. The CO2, as Gordan points out, is the bigger problem and precisely how world breaking a problem that is, or how soon it is till things get obviously problematic because of CO2 remains to be seen. It's enormously difficult to predict with any accuracy, but it's possible that CO2 is a real problem that deserves our concern and effort and I say that without trying to sound like a fear monger. It's simply the truth. Thawing Tundra will give a little push to already existing climate change, that's commonly called a feedback mechanism and such mechanisms are already included in the climate models by the IPCC and others. The thawing tundra is part of the by 2100 IPPC estimates. It's not something to worry about on top of what's already being estimated. Now, on "extinction level events" or extinction events. In a very real sense, the increase in human population and our taking over more and more of the earth is already an extinction event and has been for the last 2 centuries or so. Extinction events are relatively common, at least, geologically speaking, even the formation and recession of an ice age can cause a significant rise in extinction and what could be called a minor extinction event. 

That's not to say the Earth is perfectly balanced, it's definitely not, but the imbalance doesn't appear to follow mountain ranges. Google "Earth Gravity Map" for more on that. Article with pretty picture here. But I suspect, your question wasn't just real world but also a mathematical query, so, moving on. If we create a cone shaped mountain, a large flat one, lets say it's 6.371 km tall (reason I picked that number will become clear soon), and lets give it 4 times that as a radius or 25.484 km radius to it's base and a specific density of 2.7, the mass of our mountain, using 1/3 base times height is: 3.1416 * .333333 * 2.7 * 25,484^2 * 6,371 * 1000 (the 1,000 is for density of 1,000 KG per cubic meter at specific density of 1) = about 1.17x10^16 KG. So, on top of this artificial mountain that, if it was actually added to the earth, it would push the earth down and the earth would adjust it's mass around it over time, but ignoring that, the mountain is 1/1000th the radius of the earth so the distance from the Earth's center is increased by 0.1% The mass of the mountain, 1.17E16kg is about 1/510,000,000 the mass of the Earth, 5.97E24kg, So we have a mass increase of about 0.0000002% and a corresponding reduction in gravitation by increased distance to the center of the earth (the square of 0.1%), or 0.0001. or, 510 times as much is lost by the higher altitude than is gained by the increase in mass. Now if you make the mountain flat enough, you'd probably be able to increase gravity the tiniest bit, but past a certain point the foot of the mountain is so spread out that the calculation grows inaccurate. The short answer is simply, no, as the other two posters have said. The mass of any mountain is simply insufficient to increase the force of gravity more than it loses by what's lost in the higher altitude. A 3rd real factor, completely unrelated to your question is air density. Heavier air does create some buoyancy which reduces our weight and the gravity we feel, this effect varies with high and low pressure and temperature, but on an average day at sea level air buoyancy reduces our mass by about .12%, so if you weighed yourself in a vacuum chamber vs your regular bathroom routine, you'd find you weigh about 2 or 3 ounces more for an average person. Climb a mountain, the thinner air, you might gain an ounce due to loss of air buoyancy and that more than makes up for any small changes in gravity, so if you measure gravity by a scale and a weight, things weigh more on top of a mountain, because of thinner air, even though the G force is slightly lower. The rotation of the earth and the centrifugal force also decreases mass, depending on how close the mountain is to the equator, (see picture). as does the bulge of the Earth around it's equator, but all these changes are tiny.