In other words, for Kant, the conflict you describe is impossible, because Kant would not accept that God gives such a command. (In the Religion, Kant explains that Abraham is completely mistaken in believing that God commanded him to kill Isaac (see for instance here)). 

Background I don't have my copy of that text with me (it might be in my office or it might be 7000 miles away), but I'll do my best to answer from my familiarity with Taylor's work. As a bit of background, Charles Taylor's early philosophical work is actually in Hegel (as is mine), but interestingly Hegel is actually a type of Aristotelian (on both my and Taylor's reading). Body I think we can quote the key sentence as follows: 

The KKK and its views are racist and otherwise terrible. The KKK offends people. "Anti-abortion" displays offend people. Ergo, the "anti-abortion" movement is just as terrible as the KKK. 

Simply put, the problem is that the word consequences has at least two distinct usages. One usage is actual consequences -- meaning what happens after you did something. The other usage is logical consequences -- which refer to those things logically follow from an action. Both forms of consequences bear a necessity relation to their antecedents, but the former states facts -- the window broke when he hit a baseball into it whereas the latter states things hypothetically. In other words, if you were to scream at the one year old, it would start crying. The point Sandel is trying to make here is that Kant's test if we can say it looks at consequences only looks at these sort of logical consequences and then only as unrealized contingencies. Mill's objection to Kant confuses the two senses of consequences, because Kant's test finishes dealing with the hypothetical ones and is not concerned with the real ones. In fact, this is an essential part of Kant's moral philosophy. In other words, on the Kantian picture, it is completely possible for you to act morally but for the effect in the real world to be something terrible. E.g., when you tell the truth to someone who uses that to cause harm. In the Kantian picture (at least as Kant presents it), you have a responsibility to truth-telling, but your responsibility ends in terms of what other agents might do with the truth. In other words, the concern is not for actual consequences. At the same time, we can test our actions to see whether it would be logically incoherent to have a world that is built on everyone pursuing the same maxim of action (roughly meaning the same basis for action). For example, if I decide it is okay to cut in line whenever it is inconvenient to wait, then it's difficult to universalize this, because it would obliterate the sense of lines in the first place. 

There could be something wrong with such behavior but there are several features that are necessary to make sense of it.　First, we are going to need some manner of moral theory. Without that, we are just grasping at straws. There are three main moral frameworks considered by contemporary ethicists in the West (whether this is good or bad we leave aside): Consequentialist frameworks evaluate actions on the basis of their outcomes. They seek either to maximize or minimize some quantity ("happiness", "justice"). Such an account will actually have the hardest time identifying what is wrong with a person who is inconsistent in this regard. This is not to say consequentialists cannot give a reason why such inconsistency would be wrong -- just that it would be complex. Deontological accounts emphasize rules. Here, you could have a view that contains a rule of consistency or self-disclosure. (Truth-telling may not suffice if the person claims their views are genuinely changed). But it seems sensible to be responsible for what one says and does. Virue ethics accounts look at the development of character. Clearly, being inconsistent is an inverterate form of behavior that isn't going to develop the character of the individual involved. Here, the moral fault would be in having the sort of personality that can flip between such strong emotions rather than being more mellowed on an issue where one is uncertain. Returning to the consequentialists, they can argue that there is something awry about the consequences insofar some sort of inconsistency leads to a reduction in goods (e.g. if I can trust my business partners only 50% of the time, then this makes it impossible to work to maximize profits). But the word "wrong" can also be used in a legal context. It's hard to see how this is illegal unless the speaker is under oath in both cases. 

I think that's a pretty bad presentation of the anthropic principle on his part. But I wouldn't say the flaw rests in just saying he can lop off the first claim. It seem more flawed in that he's misunderstood the entire idea of the anthropic principle in presenting it that way. I take it the anthropic principle is not one thing is coincidentally right for life of the sort we are but rather that an extremely large number of cosmic values and equations and placements and configurations are so well-suited to the sort of life we are. And that the sum of all of these makes coincidence less likely than a coordinated basis. Or to put it another way, we can apply the anthropic principle to a lawn: 

There's (at least) two problems with this language for Kant and the Kantians. First, Kant does not think we postulate causal relationships; he thinks we impress these on sensibles as part of the act of understanding. Second, there is no causal relationship between noumenon and phenomenon in Kant's view, because causality is something we bring in understanding, and we don't understand noumenon. In fact, this is part of the point. Morality lies outside of our understanding for Kant. We don't know how people behave morally since we do not have access to the rational will that can act outside causality -- either in ourselves or in others. 

Some disagreements lead to discord (7b) If a disagreement is empirically resolvable, it does not lead to discord (7b) Disagreements about justice, truth, and beauty lead to discord (7d) 

X is true such that no argument can be given for X. Ergo, to ask for an argument for X is to misunderstand the nature of X. 

On the flip side consequentialism depending on what we are optimizing can be articulated in other terms as well. For instance, you could identify the the end as a teleology and make mean-seeking towards that end the implementation method. From of all of this, I personally would say, yes, any theory can be represented as a form of consequentialism, but for the key competing views the results are going to be so pretzeled as to make that a highly inefficient way of describing the view. Does that undermine Friedman's quote? I don't know, but I don't know if Friedman's quote is trying to claim that all ethical theories are consequentialist. If so, I'd say he's wrong. If instead what he's saying is that is actually a different objection masquerading as a truism -- then yes, I'd agree to that. E.g., 

While I would say it's not at the college level, I did like Sophie's World as a text to explain some of the basic problems in philosophy. The author (at least in English translation) seems to have misunderstood a really key bit about substances in Aristotle, but that was one of the few grave errors in something that can give you a rough outline of the history of philosophy. 

It's a very intriguing question. I think to answer it well and carry the analogy well, we need to distinguish between two uses of the word "language" and think about how they relate to the ideas at work in debates about moral realism. One a certain level, language as in "French language" refers to something that a group of people use to communicate. Clearly, the specific rules and conventions of this language are different from say the "Romanian language" or "Cantonese language." On a certain level, there are clearly no objective (and eternal) facts about "language" in the terms of a single specific language. Grammar, pronunciation, and vocabulary all change over time. Maybe at any given moment, we could say French has some specific set of these rules and practices. A second meaning of language which I think appears at some points in your question is the idea of language -- not as the specific linguistic practices of one group but as the features necessary for any language to work. I.e., are there "facts" about language in general. Morality too can bleed between these two uses (some authors use "ethics" for the systems of particular groups and "morality" for the universal type -- others the opposite; the usage is entirely inconsistent between authors and translations). I take it that the debate about moral realism is primarily about the second type of usage but bleeding into the first. Looking primarily at the second sense of language, I take it that Chomsky and others are committed to linguistic realism insofar as they identify deep features of languages that they think are quintessential to its form. Others will also be linguistic realists if they believe that languages relate to communicating about and manipulating a natural world that has objective features. (i.e., any language is a language precisely insofar as it enables us to talk to each other about this world, so this world-fit will be a feature of language per se). Linguistic anti-realists would tend to be post-structuralists and deconstructionists (e.g. Derrida) and others who think that the language blocks we're manipulating don't map onto "a real world" or "given" in any deep or meaningful way. In the second sense, I don't see late Wittgenstein as necessarily being a lingustic anti-realist. To acknowledge language is a tool that works in certain contexts implies that language works. Whether he then is a lingustic anti-realist hinges on whether he thinks that it works only in an imaginary play-land or in the actual world which would require words to at times pick out and meaningful link to the world. I'm not an expert on reading his journals (most of the writings outside of TLP and PI), so I don't have a strong opinion either way, but I would tend to read him as a realist about language in the second sense of "language" which I take to be a better parallel to moral realism than the first sense, which I take would be akin to moral philosophers debating whether the moral system of Finland is the one true moral system. 

In light of Robert's comment, I'm extending this answer in one respect. The thought experiment can be understood in two ways. Way 1: Linguistic opposites: We are merely changing the meaning of words. "2" means -2. "-2" means 2. The utterance "true" now means false and vice versa. This particular thought experiment is completely uninteresting, because it merely means that the language of this opposite world is somehow coincidentally reversed for all descriptive terms. Way 2: Metaphysical opposites: Here, the claim is that what is true in our world is false in this world, and what is false in this world is true in that world. In other words, it's not that they say "2" when they mean -2, it's that they use language in the same way but the objects that populate their world are opposite. But this is a self-defeating thought experiment, because when we move past trivial elements (like positional functions), not everything can admit of opposites in the way you're describing and that's what basically kills the thought experiment. Sure 2 and -2 can be opposites, but true and false differ not just as poles but as functions that relate to reality. E.g., I am bunny and I am a tarantula are both false. If you reverse the meanings of true and false, then they both become true which is self-contradictory. What this does show us, however, is that the units for position functions are arbitrary. (We can put the origin (0,0,0,...) wherever we want and just move everything from there). Mass functions and many other types of evaluative functions are not. To give an example: