Make sure that you install it in the negative(common, ground, black cable, etc) lead. It's good practice and for other appliances safer. Make sure to tape everything properly and if you can, get some heatshrink wrap. Fo the usb "The plug" I assume, just take it off as any spider cap and disconnect the terminals and take it off. 

This is by far the safest way to remove stripped bolts. Other method i've used include to drill a hole on the bolt, and then screw a special tool with counterclock thread to unscrew the bolt out of place, while you screw in the tool. Also you could just drill the bolt out, but you might get to damage the threads on your dereaullier. The last method, only works on a couple of situations where the thread are not seized, is to take the head of the bolt out. This will take tre preasure off the thread and you can fiddle with it until unscrewd. Did this on a KTM Duke 390. Cheers 

Get a hold on a dremel with a cutting wheel, and Draw a line from side to side(Over the center, like a Diametre line) about the same depth of the hex tool that was supposed to loose the bolt. If possible, rotate 90 degrees and do the same a point 1 Dip the the part in "Light Coke"(this thing works wonders on siezed bolts, not so much on your health tho) for about two hours. If you can do it overnight, that's ok too. Optional to (3.), pour some wd-40 on the bolts and threads. If it's has threadlocker then you will need a solvent, like Isopropil alcohol, acetone, or just a plain soldering iron to heat the bolt and soften the thing. Use a Slot ScrewDriver on the lines you made with your dremmel. 

It actually doesn't have a big impact on speed. Keep in mind when you're riding it's not just the weight of the bike you're dealing with. It's also the weight of the rider and whatever you're carrying. When you add that up losing a few pounds is rarely more than a total weight reduction of 5%, usually more like 1-2%. If you think dropping a pound off a bike makes a huge difference then next time you're out riding toss a full water bottle off your bike and see if you suddenly become significantly faster. You won't. Race results bear this out. Take a look at the average speed of the 2012 Tour de France and the 1982 Tour de France. During that 30 year gap the average bike dropped more than 6 pounds (25-30%!) in weight yet average speeds have gone up by less than 1mph. Also keep in mind bikes have also become more aerodynamic, teams have become more coordinated in their tactics (thanks to radios and live TV feeds in team cars), riders now train with greater precision (no power meters back in '82) and riders come into the Tour better rested due to a shorter racing schedule. Light bikes feel lighter largely due to a placebo effect. Also if a bike is faster it's hard to say if that's due to it being lighter. Only way to really measure that would be to take two absolutely identical bikes and add weight to one and then do a double blind test with data being captured on a power meter. People have done these studies and the results showed that weight isn't nearly the big deal most of us think it is. All that said, lighter bikes are more fun. They just are. ;) 

That's usual. I've had many rims in many sizes, width, walls, etc; and most of them are like that. But I don't know about rims for tubeless. I think that they are made like that for two main reasons. In first place, to allow for slack for the valve when you mount it, even thought they are standarized sometimes you can get a "fatty" valve depending on the tube brand. The second reason, if to compensate for deflexion of the tube material under pressure, so it won't get pinned and punctured when you inflate. Because sometimes the valve it's thicker at the base. Bye 

Having seen some mechanical disk brakes over my life, the Avid's 9 out 10 will emit some sort of sound. You indeed are correct about how a mechanical disk brake works, by bending the rotor. So it's most important to set them properly. This is my procedure: 

I'm 99% positive the noises you hear are comming from the bushes on the rear shock. It's common that dirt will get there and with poor lubing it would start making noises. I would really recommend to you take it out and take the bushes out of it. Those would be the piece at both ends of the shock, where the bolts go through when you mount the shock. There are two rubber groomits, take them off and then take the aluminium cilinder, on each of them bushes. Clean everything with isopropil alcohol, or something, then grease it(every moving a contact point and use just a dab) and put it together. Clean the contact points in the frame, grese it up and bolt the read shock. Noise should be gone by now. If after this you still hear noises, then you should check the pivot near the botom bracket. And plis no WD-40 on articulations. Also, the nut near the spring is the preload. You can adjust it if you want a stiffer ride, but it won't help you to reduce creaking. bye. 

Safety. Improperly glued tubulars can roll off in a corner. This is not to be taken lightly. Even top pros have rolled tubulars (Joseba Beloki famously went down hard in the 2003 Tour de France, effectively ending his career) On a long descent dragging your brakes can heat up the rim enough to soften the glue resulting in a rolled tire. Expense. A decent tubular costs significantly more than a good clincher. Repair. You can't patch a tubular during a ride. You pretty much have to replace the entire tire. This means you need to carry at least one spare tire per ride (and hope you don't get more than one flat!) This BTW pretty much negates any weight savings which are trivial to begin with. Hassle. Mounting tubulars is a multi-day process, especially if you're mounting them on bare rims for the first time. Getting the tire onto the rim is significantly more difficult than mounting even the toughest clincher. 

You probably don't need to purchase a new crankset. You can remove the the rings you don't need and simply add a new ring. You'll need to know the distance of the bolt holes of your current chainrings/crank. This is known as the BCD (bolt circle diameter) and you can usually find it stamped on the chainring. Common sizes include 130mm, 110mm, 94mm, etc. Ideally, you'd want a chainring designed for single speed use. Rings designed for multi chainring drivetrains have pins, ramps and cut away teeth to help the chain smoothly move from one ring to another. Since the chain isn't moving, you don't need them. You will also need single speed chainring bolts which are shorter than double ring bolts. You may or may not need a new bottom bracket. In a perfect world you want the chain to be in a straight line to the middle cog in back. If you mount your single ring in the middle position of a triple ring crankset you'll probably be good to go. If you decide to go with a dedicated single ring crankset you'll likely need a new BB with a shorter spindle length. Chain needs are more a function of the rear cogs/derailleur than the front. Any chain made for a 7,8 or 9 speed drivetrain will work fine. 

As the comment by @Chris H, pointed out, you may have some air in your system. This is easely solvable by bleeding the brakes. Dependening on the design, you may need a big syringe, small hose(ideally translucent) and a small discardable bottle, or a propietary bleeding kit. Hydraulic system needs to be bleeded at least once a years, IMO. WARNING: Never mix mineral oil with DOT, those are incompatible. You must choose properly your fluid Dot or Mineral Oil. Mixing DOT5 with DOT6, is fine, not recommended but fine. Check the fittings on the handle and the caliper, tight them if needed. Some air may be getting into the system due to loose fittings. Also check the bleeding valves too. Lastly, check the hydraulic lines while you pump the lever. If they seem to stretch, wide, or inflate a small ballon, etc. You will need to replace them. 

I know this type of hubs a Open Bearing hubs. You can have a "basket", a sort of ring that holds the ball bearings in position, and just ball bearings sticked with grease. The way the axle sits on them, fully asambled should be like, from left to right: LockNut(quick release if you have one),dropout,Counter-Nut, Cone,hub, Cone, Counternut, dropout, locknut. So, your problem is that you have play, but when you mount the wheel it goes stiff. For this problem you have to tight the CounterNut and Cone, together on one side. Then tight the other cone, just enough so you don't have play and runs smooth. Grab a thin wrench, if you have a cone wrench will be better, hold the cone with it and then with a second wrench tight the counternut. Don't overtight the nuts, as a cheap axle is really easy to stripe. If the nuts keep loosing themselves get some preassure washers(the spiky ones) and put one beteween the cone and the washer. cheers. EDIT: Probably the black thing is just a dust seal, which makes seem like a sealed bearing. 

Ride off-road. Riding a road bike on dirt is a great way to improve your skills. Get out on dirt roads or mild MTB trails (just be mindful that large rocks or tree roots can cause a flat or even a dented rim if you're not careful) Bonus points: you get some great looks when you pass people on full suspension MTBs! ;) 

One thing you haven't mentioned: when does the noise occur relative to crank position? Does it make the noise through the entire revolution of the crank arm? Is the noise loudest at a certain point in the crank revolution (say 2 o'clock)? I had a customer come in one time with a sound they absolutely could not get rid of and they went through most of the steps you mentioned. Turned out is was one of the chainring bolts. A little grease on the threads and the problem was gone. It was a ridiculously easy fix for a ridiculously maddening problem!! May not fix your problem but it only takes a couple of minutes to try this solution. You should make sure that all threaded surfaces have grease or anti-seize compound on them. Bare metal threading into bare metal is no-no as it leads to annoying noises, bolts coming loose or bolts seizing/corroding. Good luck! 

Even tought there are many great answers I want to weight in, with my very personal perspective on the matter, also I'm from Chile were traffic laws are somewhat questionable for cyclist. In first place, over anything else it all comes down to your cycling experience. I've been a rider since 3 years old, now 31 and have never stopped. Been riding BMX, Downhill, CrossCountry, Freeride, Street and Road. Why this matters you ask? Well is all about reflexes and habits. People is not really well educated about traffic, driving test are a joke(I drive a truck, motorcycle and bicycles), so most of the drivers will put everyone in dangerous situations without thinking. Furthermore people can park on the right side of the road, so you have to watch right and left when going on your bike. So in my opinion this should be the way to cycle around a city: 

Finally, just try to avoid routes that are flooded by cars and people. Bikes are excellent for using alternative routes, as you can make use cycling paths, roads and sidewalk, when you plan properlly.