You should not leave your current job until you are certain you have one to go to. There are several reasons for that, some of which you have touched upon in your question: 

My suggestions below are a non-confrontational way to work through the problem using orthogonal issues that are related to it. These are not perfect, but if you want to avoid the direct approach these may give you a way forward (or give you ideas about other approaches). The main issues with these is that they can backfire - if the boss sees them as non issues you are back in square one. Additionally, they skirt the actual issue - again, this may be the way to go, depending on your boss. 

This point is realy bothering me , have you thought about the fact your lead knows his job , and asked you to "school" some stuff because you don't yet have the required level to help on the next tasks ? I know it can be hard to acknowledge but maybe you don't have what it takes yet to work alongside the team on bigger tasks. But if it's not the case then you should totaly do what François Gautier told you. Come up with tasks you can do , or see with the team members if they'd be ok to share some work with you. 

I think you should put the contracting agency on your resume because you don't know what kind of contract was signed between the companies , and the client might not want other people to know about it. 

That's what you are there to do then. Learn what you can from the people currently working on the projects until you are in the position where you can take over. The way to achieve this is to not let "them take the lead" - that's OK to begin with as you are just learning the ropes, but you need to take a more active role. Once you are comfortable that you have a good understanding of the projects and work involved, the ones that will be redundant are these people and the third party company. 

It is not a bad recommendation as such, though it is something extra - that is, optional. The idea is to let the company know that you plan to follow up and how - it gives them a chance to respond directly if the timing or manner you plan to follow up with is not suitable. It also shows them that you are serious about the job. If you do later on follow up in the manner and on time, it shows you mean what you say and that you follow through. In general - anything that gives you a better chance to secure an interview is a good thing. 

You should ask your friends more details about what the job realy is, how's a day at work, details about the environement could also be great. You could dislike an intresting jobs because of a negative workplace. Basicly it's up to you to list what you like and what you lack at your current job, and compare with what your friend will describe his job like. 

The point of a resume is to get your possible future employer to want to meet you. As long as it is in adequacy with the job offer then there's no reason it shouldn't be in your resume. Even more if you learned a lot and ended up working with a known company ! Be carefull though to keep your resume clear and readable , recruiters see a lot of resume and don't have much time to spend on it. You must adapt your experience to what the company wants. That's the important point. The breaks don't realy matter as long as it's not 2 years of break on 3 years of freelancing. To highlight it you can develop this part more than the others but be carefull , don't overload you resume. 

You would ask him the same questions you would ask someone who is a programmer that is interviewing for the position. Don't confuse the current job title of an applicant with their technical (or other) abilities. 

No one will look twice at an email address that is used on a job application, unless it is something explicitly unsavory (politics, sex, racism and such for example). In that respect, whether it is a gmail, yahoo or any other address doesn't matter, at all. There is no expectation that you will spend money on a personalized email address / domain name. 

Of course it is OK to separate the two. There are well known issues with mixing the two too much (office romances that don't end well, for example). It is entirely up to you how entangled your work life and personal life are. To some people, the two are one and the same, to others the two are completely and utterly separate. Most people fall somewhere in between these two extremes. Do keep in mind though that keeping such a strict separation can have consequences on your professional life - the people who are more sociable are more likely to advance in the workplace (for various reasons - being better acquainted with different people in the workplace, not being known as anti-social in the workplace etc...). This may very well be an issue that you can live with - it is your decision and it is OK. 

From my experience I tell you that you should ask. I've been in the same situation and being honest turned out pretty well. I told them I was interviewing at others companies at the same time , and that some of them already made an offer but they (company C) were my first choice , and that I would realy like to have an answer from them before accepting (or not) the offer from an other company. They told me they understood the problem , and scheduled an interview pretty fast. As long as you show them you're honest about them being your first choice , I don't see how this can give a bad impression. In the case they disagree , as suggested you should try your best to manage your timeline the closest possible way to what you want. You could ask A how much time you've got before giving your answer because you need some time to reflect and make your choice. Same goes for B if they make an offer. 

It depends. Some people may have 20 years experience as software developers but in practice are juniors (no idea about separation of concerns, design patterns, SOLID and DRY). Some people come out with CS degree and need to learn software engineering from scratch (never worked in a team, wouldn't know maintainable code if it hit them in the face, source control is a new concept etc, etc, etc...). My point with the above two paragraphs is that the comparison is meaningless. Experience does not translate to a CS degree and vice versa. What matters is provable capability - some of that comes from experience, but not all. If you can show your developer chops (open source projects or your own private projects) and impress them, they will consider you. 

You seem to have to deal with a real brat , and there's not a lot of things to do in this situation. You're not his manager , you can't chose to fire him because of his behaviour but you're actually too nice when you answer him , which lets him think he can keep doin doing it. (Which he does) You have to remind him who you are , prove him you are his superior due to your experience. Play his game , better than he does. Stop giving him the choice. He complains about your tasks being easier ? Give them to him , and take his tasks , without giving him choice. He shouts to the office earlier due to personal reasons ? Ask him about his overtime , and how you're doing much more than him. He speaks about statistics ? Nice , this one is an easy to deal with one. Asks for the statistics , and if he can't show them ask him to shut up until he has any proofs about what he's talking about. I cold give you many other ways to deal with him , but you have to understand that you don't have to be polite to him. Always be ready to challenge him , about everything. He'll soon prove to everybody how much of an arrogant jackass he is. There's a reason for ppl to respect seniors (even if that's just a work title). They have more experience and knowledge than we do. Make a use of this to remind him why he should respect you. 

Yes, you should. The thing to do is split the period into the different roles and how long you were doing each. 

Looks like the company is getting ready to give you gardening leave, which is very common in the UK. Which essentially means - you go home, you don't go back to the office, you don't produce work for the company. The keep paying you until your end date. So, you are still employed till your last day, but not doing any actual work. The company may just not want you around (could be various reasons - effect on other employees morale, risk to the codebase and company computers etc...). 

The term, as far as I know is - self learning. In your cover letter, or in the personal summary, you can post this as a skill - you have a couple of very good examples on this. 

I think the best thing to do here is to be honest with your team , just tell them the way you told us. You want to eat healthy and have some personnal tasks to take care of. There's nothing wrong about it , just try to go once a week or once every 2-3 weeks to the restaurant with them , it'll make them feel you're part of the team , and or not just trying to avoid them when you go eat at home. 

@Roland pointed something interesting out : If your thing realy is learning as much as possible because you love it then academia may be what you're searching for. If not then you may want to work for a realy big company at a big post where every of your skills (IT , law , management , etc) will be required and where having all theese degrees and be 30+ won't be a problem. But it's not an easy path and theese jobs often come with low personnal time so if it's not 100% what you're searching for you may not be happy with it. There's also the possibility you're not interested in working for a big group but still want to get all theese degrees. In that case since you seem to be a great developper already you could try to save time freelance to get the money you want. But if you're not sure you need theese degrees , are afraid of how having 3 degrees can prevent you from getting a job and don't mind working right after your PhD then maybe you could find an intresting job right after this PhD and fulfill your learning thirst on your free time !