One science-fiction author who has written a series of short stories dealing with interstellar communication, as opposed to space travel, is Edward Lerner in his Interstellar Net sequence. The link gives publication details plus an article about the background to the series. The stars where the communication is taking place are much closer than fifty to one hundred light years away. The astrophysicist and science-fiction writer Fred Hoyle has argued the universe would be a more interesting place if space travel wasn't possible because the number and variety of alien civilizations and intelligent lifeforms would be vastly greater. Then millions of alien civilizations could communicate to each across the galaxy. Alas, no citation for Hoyle's remark. Generally, science-fiction in any form has mostly avoided communications scenarios preferring the space travel option. 

Source: $URL$ The available energy on a hot jupiter suggests this could be conductive to the formation and evolution of life. However, it will generally be a 'hotter' biosphere than that on an Earthlike planet. 

Also, worthy of consideration are Manhattan and Hong Kong Island. These may be useful starting points for further research. 

Basically the majority of nations would come together and once they compare notes realize there is nothing they can do. Especially since their scientific advisers will be saying there is nothing humans can do against such overwhelming power. Act against the aliens and they might drop the Moon on our heads. What they would have to start doing is begin planning for the long-term. How does the human species accommodate itself to living next door to a hypertechnological civilization? Can we go out into the solar system without upsetting the neighbours? Will humans be allowed to do so? A form of collective planetary governance will need to be set to try and communicate with the aliens and negotiate a mutual position between humans and the aliens -- if we are allowed to have one. Probably the best course of action may be to keep a low profile. Try to communicate with the aliens in the hope they will speak to microbes like humans. Organize the infrastructure for the research and development to build a fleet of spaceships and space stations (both orbital and Moon-based) so we can a foothold on circumterrestrian space. Consideration will be given to constructing deep bunkers in case, for example, the Moon drops on our heads. Generally the policy will be nice the new neighbours. It seems reasonable that Earth's governments will realize their only option will be to work together collectively. No single nation on the planet will have the resources or the manpower to do anything effective (no matter how impotent that will be in relation to the alien's superior technology). There is little else they can do. 

The ordering of the future and past at FTL velocities may be resolved by a so-called spacelike causality. See this paper by Han & Choi. What they call relativistic causality which applies to sublight inertial frames of reference might be better called timelike causality. This is the causality that knotted and twisted into paradoxes when special relativity and faster-than-light travel collide. Han & Choi conclude that spacelike causality is a stronger condition for no-signalling than relativistic causality. Now admittedly their paper is about quantum nonlocality, but nonlocality is physicists' code for things happening faster than lightspeed. Strictly speaking, it means events with spacelike separations. The ordering of events involving superluminal velocities may be well behaved and the usual paradoxes may be simply the result of involving the wrong sort of causality. This suggests that FTL vessels will move forwards in time, always, provided their motion is confined to a preferred frame of reference. The most suitable candidate for a preferred frame of reference is the cosmic microwave background (CMB). The solar system moves at approximately 627±22 km/s relative to the CMB. Assume a starship with a FTL jump-drive, but because we don't want to multiple impossibilities it only has a plasma fusion sublight propulsion system capable of an acceleration of one cm/sec/sec. This is a realistic plasma drive based on Mallove & Matloff's The Starflight Handbook (1989) where they devised there would be limits on the ratios of mass, power and thrust for interstellar spacecraft. The starship will first accelerate to the third cosmic velocity or as us lesser mortals refer to it: escape velocity from the solar system. However, it would be reasonable for it to continue accelerating for roughly six months until it is travelling at 150 km/s. Now it aligns itself itself relative to the CMB and commences decelerating until its velocity relative tot he CMB is zero. This will take nearly 720 days (or exactly 719.91 days). The starship realigns itself to its original velocity vector of 150 km/s and decelerates for the next six months. Now it is truly at rest relative to the CMB. By this time it will have travelled twelve light hours from the solar system. It's asafe to assume that this far from the gravitational mass in the solar system local spacetime will be sufficiently that the starship can engage its jump-drive in safety. The jump-drive is engaged and the starship shifts instantaneously the standard Asimovian jump distance of one hundred light years closer to the galactic centre. Now it sets course for the planetary system that is its destination. Without knowing the relative velocities of this system we can't accurately determine how long getting there will take. But it is safe to assume if it took three years for the starship to get into position to make its FTL jump, it will take another three years to travel there. "Time to make space pirates eat hard photons," snarled the starship flexing her prosthetic muscles as the starship sets course for the planetary system of Googolplex Minor. "The six years will be well worth the wait." Yes The Space Pirates of Googolplex Minor can be found in all good book stores. OK, I admit, there is one big fat fudge in this scenario of the six year trip. That assumption is that if the jump is instantaneous the time inside the starship will be zero. However, if the jump is at a finite velocity but happens very, very, very fast in the rest frame then starship time during this transition will be equal to the light-time distance of 100 years over the 100 light years travelled. This means captain and her crew will be in biosuspension, so they while-away the century without growing old or getting incredibly bored out oft heir brains. The concept of shiptime being equal to the light-time distance travelled appeared by papers by R T Jones. You can google them but they are either available for sale or not on the net. Jones RT. 1960. Analysis of accelerated motion in the theory of relativity. Nature 186:790 Jones RT. 1963. Conformal coordinates associated with space-like motions. J. Franklin Inst. 275:1–12 Jones RT. 1982. Relativistic kinematics of motions faster than light. J. Br. Interplanet. Soc. 35:509–14 Of course, starships with high-acceleration, long-duration sublight propulsion systems will spend less time manoeuvring but they still will take time getting to a point, say, 12 light light hours out, where spacetime is flat for jump-drives to operate. Pity that no-one knows how to make high-acceleration, long-duration sublight propulsion systems like this. Lots of non-trivial problems with the physics for starters plus the engineering is insane. If it could be done, this would cut down travel time to only a century in biosuspension. 

Essentially the History SE answer has done all the heavy lifting. Use that information to, hypothetically, change the result 

Take your time. Fertilize women in your conquered territories. Make sure many of their male children can migrate to the rest of the world. Marry off your cast-off women and encourage their spouses to embrace any children sired by your imperial self. If Genghis Khan can spread his genes until 5% of the human population carry them in one generation, what can an immortal emperor do if he continues a similar program over centuries? Consider this is now a millennium after his gene-spreading activities, so if your gene-spreading is carried on without surcease then they will be disseminated on a massive scale. Presumably eventually every person on the planet will carry some of your genes. Do what Genghis Khan did, and keep on doing it -- forever and a day. Then your genes will flood the gene pool. 

Publishers don't like being sued either. Sensibly they will make you out your use of the Uruk-hai name. You will be asked to change it and they may further requesting changes to your descriptions and the nature of your orc stand-ins. Worst of all, publishers may take one look of your use of Uruk-hai, drop your submission back into the slush pile and move on to the next manuscript. Publishers are busy, busy. They don't have time to waste. Anything that makes their job harder will work against a writer's submission. Definitely not, without permission. However, the concept of Orcs is essentially non-copyrightable. Better to create your own version of Orcs and call them by whatever name you like. 

The most effective and efficient way of dealing with space junk is the same for any waste cycle: Keep everything clean and tidy from beginning to end. Cleaning up after the fact is always much, much harder. So, avoid doing it. Any technical civilization capable of 0.1 c spaceflight and robotic mining should be able to produce and operate swarms of robotic mini-spacecraft. These would congregate around any orbital site of manufacturing or industrial activity including normal space operations. The sensors of these collector vehicles will be extremely advanced by out standards since they are the product of an interstellar civilization. Therefore, even the smallest piece of material that wanders away will be detected, pursued and collected. In fact, any reasonably organized interstellar technological civilization should be quite capable of fabricating collector craft to meet their junk collection requirements on demand. A whizomatic wrench floats away from where maintenance robots were doing repairs and a suitable sized and functional collector drone emerges from the fabricators setting off in hot pursuit. Whizomatic wrenches are too big for the usual collector drones to salvage. The flecks of paint and hull material dislodged by those selfsame maintenance robots (really they need to go back to the workshop for a long overdue service) and the usual micro-drones zero in on them for collection. The collector drones will place all salvaged items and materials in mobile containers for delivery to recycling units. Not messing up in the first place is always the best policy. If a mess does happen and space junks results, then make sure there are swarms of collector drones on hand to clean up. Also, ensure there is additional capacity to fabricate additional collector drones to handle any junk of non-standard sizes (both big and small). Follow these sensible rules and the Chief Engineer will sleep easy. Perhaps, a book at bedtime and a glass of hot milk wouldn't go astray either to help him rest. 

This is simpler than might appear to be the case. The person is now immortal or, at least, so he's been told. When if anyone lives long enough eventually they will die except, of course, if you're immortal. Essentially sooner or later anyone will be faced with circumstances that will kill a normal mortal person. Therefore, the best way to test your putative immortality is to continue living, preferably as if you're mortal, and when that fatal day comes and you're involved in a car accident, fall off a cliff, caught in a fire, drowned while swimming or whatever fatal incident occurs and you're still alive then you've tested your immortality. Basically if you're immortal you have all the time in the world to test your immortality. The odds are in your favour. Something fatal will always occur to everybody. If the test fails and you're not immortal you haven't lost anything (except your life and that happens to all mortals). You will have lived your life taking all the normal precautions of staying alive. Good luck to you fellow for doing so too. If, of course, it turns out you are immortal and you aren't dead, now you can begin to enjoy your immortality in style. Living normally long enough itself will be the best test for immortality. 

Gerry David Nordley is a major proponent of particle beam propulsion. Taking his proposal to send a probe to Alpha Centauri at a large fraction of lightspeed (0.8667 c) with an acceleration of 3 g over 122 sidereal days. 

The simplest way of achieving inaccessible fossil fuels would be to arrange the geological history of red dwarf planet so that the strata of its equivalent of the Carboniferous Era remained buried deep underground. The Carboniferous Epoch of planet Earth produced the majority of our coal and oil. If those strata were inaccessible, then we wouldn't be able to access or use fossil fuels. Possibly tectonic processes such as continental drift with its attendant recycling of geological material was either running slowly compared to the Earth's or had come to a halt. This geological solution avoids the necessity of requiring some form of astronomical catastrophe to happen. The other problem with astronomical catastrophes is they aren't likely to achieve the carbon disappearing act you want to achieve. 

Source: Vernor Vinge, Encyclopedia of Science Fiction Vinge's version is more structured than Anderson's. Undoubtedly Vinge would have been aware of Brain Wave's inhibitory field. His version also included results why faster-than-light travel wasn't possible in our region of the galaxy. The device mentioned in your question might work in reverse to Anderson's inhibitory field and Vinge's Slow Zones. It might accelerate neural processing making all humans effectively super-intelligent and therefore able to advance and develop technology far faster and catch up with the advanced civilizations. 

This is a fascinating challenge. Motion without kinetic energy. I frankly don't understand the 'perpetual motion' part of your question unless it refers to Newton's First Law. Namely, a body remains at rest or in a state of motion unless acted upon by a force. OK, then, a vessel gains velocity and kinetic energy and potentially becomes a weapon. Wormholes will work, but this cuts out the whole sense of travelling between planets. There are two concepts that involve pseudomotion by teleportation. Poul Anderson had a drive based on the uncertainty principle and the vehicle 'moved' in many millions of micro-seconds per second. Anderson's drive was for faster than light travel, but there's no reason in principle why something similar couldn't provide a basis for fast STL interplanetary travel. It would get up to maximum speed (or pseudovelocity) at the flick of a switch. Turns or swerves would be easy. No momentum or acceleration problems to worry about. The other teleportation system was devised by Larry Niven in his article "The Theory and Practice of Teleportation." A spacecraft consists of two halves, with each half equipped with teleportion transmitters and receivers. The transmitter on B beams half A to its other side where its receiver is located. Section B is now sitting in the transmitter of A, and is beamed to A's receiver. if each step is done often enough and fast enough, this constitutes a kind of bootstrapping motion. Niven never used this concept in his SF, but Bob Shaw did in Who Goes Here? (1977) and Dimensions (1993). Again this was a FTL drive, but STL drives based on this contrivance make more sense. 

Coral polyps may not need to be genetically modified to become lethal. Toxins from coral spores are already deadly. This was demonstrated recently when a family of seven were poisoned by toxins from coral spores released from an aquarium in their house. 

Oxygen toxicity could be a problem. This isn't a straightforward issue. It depends on the length of exposure and the organs of the body affected. For some preliminary research, try the Wikipedia entry on oxygen toxicity and Oxygen Toxicity: a brief history of oxygen in diving. A number of the research studies involved pure oxygen at short duration. There is the possibility of harm at prolonged exposure, for example, people living and working in a dense atmosphere. 

Besides the sad truth is that the biological radio concept has been solidly debunked. However, I can give two semi-plausible forms of science-based forms of biological telepathy. The aliens have abilities like electric eels. They have build up charge in a battery of storage cells and produce short bursts of electric discharges. The aliens also possess the sort of magnetic sensory detection that again electric eels and other underwater creatures possess too. They can detect the discharges. The range won't be brilliant. The discharges might be modulated into a language. Animals with this ability live in environments where visual contact is extremely difficult like the murky water at the bottom of rivers. The aliens have massively developed mirror neurones. This means their capacity to read each other's emotions and behaviour would be boosted far beyond anything we mere human beings can do. This would look like telepathy. It's doubtful if they could read humans and vice versa.