This is based on market share, which are new sales, while one would be more interested in installed user base. In which case you'd have to take two things in account: firstly OS X market share used to be lower, thus installed base is likely to be also lower than current market share. Secondly there is significant piracy in case of Windows, non-existent in case of OS X, as later only runs on Apple computers. Thus real life difference would probably be even bigger. However, there aren't ways to measure installed base which would be reliable enough. 

And indeed the plane in the picture turned out to be the very same aircraft, that was later serving MH370 route. This is believed to be on of the last pictures of the plane. This is the reason why Reuters has bought exclusive rights to the picture (hence it's credited "Reuters/Tomasz Bartkowiak" creating misconception that he's "Reuters photographer") However, he claims to have captured the photo one month prior to MH370 disappearance. SuperExpress (polish daily) reports: 

Not that in countries with progressive tax scheme, there is significant difference between pre-tax and post-tax Gini coefficient. 

The most visited museum in UK is the British Museum in London, with 5.93 million visits in 2009. Which is far more popular than any royal heritage related site. Thus it's clear that being current royal residence isn't that much of tourist magnet. 

On the other hand, keep in mind that such experiments talk about detecting scintillations on images, that are very dark. 

Depends on the interpretation. Common one would be interpreting that as any of business that he owns has filed for bankruptcy. That is undisputed fact. But Trump says that he has never filled for bankruptcy it is technically true as he never filed for personal bankruptcy. This is however misleading. 

In recently published video and press release SBU (Security Service of Ukraine) claims that intended target for the SA-11 operated by Russian separatists was Russian Aeroflot flight SU2074 (aka AFL-2074) from Moscow to Larnaca, Cyrpus. They claim that their flight paths crossed over with just 500m of vertical separation just 11 minutes prior to MH17 being shot down. 

Plausible Not a scientific paper, but Q&A from Health Physics Society describes experiment with disassembled CCD and CMOS sensors. 

No, it's a huge overstatement. There is a Consolidated Cryptologic Program, which receives 21% of $52.5 billion "black" budget (source). However, this is an umbrella program, which includes whole NSA budget. Only 4% (circa $440 mln) of CCP budget is allocated to Research & Technology (source). It's not disclosed how big a part of these $440 mln is allocated to cryptoanalisis research. 

Depends on how you define "profitable". But either way it's not the top one. I couldn't find more recent data, but in 2008 pharmaceutical industry wasn't the most profitable, although it was high in various rankings, not so high in others (source CNN): Profit as percentage of revenue 

In 2009 Greenland had 52,000 internet users, which are over 90% of the population. Greenland is connected via fiber-optic to Canada and Iceland. Now, is 45-50% reach in case Facebook accounts something impressive? It isn't. Facebook's global average reach of active users is 44.5%. 

I've heard the claim as urban legend many times. Allegedly in 1970s KGB has sponsored various Western "anti-war" movements, especially the ones that could hinder Western nuclear tests. Fact is Greenpeace was one of such a movements, created in response to nuclear testing in Alaska, which allegedly won them help of KGB. Quite vague claims. But recently I've seen political discussion where more concrete claims where made: that the original Rainbow Warrior, after it has been bought by Greenpeace, it has been refurbished in a shipyard in Tallinn at KGB's expense. Allegedly the information comes from the Mitrokhin Archive. Is there any truth to any of these claims? 

In case of the banknotes issued by Greece, they may have been physically printed in 5 different locations: Austria, Netherlands, Germany (both locations) and the Greece itself. 

As for alternative "investigation" by conspiracy theorists, it's based on opinions of 3 "experts", all of them academic scientist, neither of them directly specializing in aviation (their specialization is: civil engineering, spectroscopy and explosives). All of them are friends (from the 1980's opposition times) of Antoni Macierewicz, the man behind the conspiracy theory. These scientist did not visit the crash site, they had no access to any physical evidence. The opinion of the "explosives expert" is based on allegedly holding a small piece of metal (allegedly plane fragment) in his hand for a few seconds. Other "expert" based his opinions on the model he created using software to simulate... car crashes. Opinion on plane's aerodynamics was given by... spectroscopy expert. Some more "mainstream" conspiracy theory points, and why they are not true: 

Yes, WiFi is significantly more efficient, as the protocol is completely different. Once association with access point is established, WiFi only uses energy for actual transmission of data. On the other hand 3G remains in high-power state even after transmission is done. 

Yes, Israel has been known to have nuclear capability since the late 1960s. As recently declassified documents show, they've reached secret agreement with US administration, which'd turn the blind eye. On the other hand Israel would maintain it's policy of deliberate ambiguity. National Security Archive Electronic Briefing Book No. 189 

Again, no claims that it was taken after disappearance. The Reuters caption of the picture is (emphasis mine): 

New York Stock Exchange claims that the downtime was due "internal technical issue" and denies claims of cyber attack. 

The Lying Dutchman already admitted that it was indeed a hoax. His real name is Floris Kaayk and he is a movie animator. $URL$ 

So countries with active water fluoridation (meaning they don't have ban on national level) account for 30% of EU population. 

In 2004 FCC ruled, that CALEA applies to "Internet phone services", which they defined as "providers of interconnected (with the public switched telephone network) Voice-over-Internet-Protocol (VoIP) services". Skype is such a service. The ruling was upheld by U.S. Court of Appeals in 2006. 

Images from www.ssu.gov.ua Allegedly this was supposed to serve as casus belli, and provoke full scale Russian invasion of eastern Ukraine. 

Refresh rate: First of all, in case of modern flat screens, be it LCD or OLED, refresh rate is misnomer. It's actually frame rate — rate at which the TV is able to change image from one frame to another. Pixels on these panels are constantly on, thus there is no flicker on LCD or OLED. On the other hand, CRTs had refresh rates, since pixels would glow fully only after the refresh and then gradually go black. Hence flicker in case of low refresh rate on CRT. However, on CRT refresh rate did not mean frame rate. In fact even 100Hz CRT TV would still have frame rate of SDTV - 25Hz. HDTV resolution and frame rate: In the future HDTV will go beyond 60Hz, H.264/MPEG-4 AVC — code used in modern HDTV defines frame-rates up to 172Hz. However, at the moment it's purely experimental. Highest standard currently in commercial use is 1080p60 (1920×1080, progressive, 60Hz). ESPN HD transmits sports in 720p60 (1280×720, progressive, 60Hz), they argue that lower resolution progressive (ie. non-interlaced) gives smoother experience for sports, than 1080i (1920×1080, interlaced, half-frames at 60Hz, roughly equivalent to full frames at 30Hz). Ok, thus far it seem like having TV with more than 60Hz doesn't help you much. But there is a catch. Actual parameter for LCD (similarly for OLED) is response time/pixel latency. Higher pixel latency leads to ghosting (motion blur). In case of TVs LCDs with lower response time are marketed as TVs with higher "refresh rate". (source: TFTCentral) Conclusion: 

It's heard of, as dyslexia has much broader meaning than just phonetic problems. There is for example FEDIS (Spanish Dyslexia Federation), which advocates for special treatment of children with dyslexia in Spanish education system. However, there is grain of truth in this. Indeed Spanish children affected by dyslexia have much less problems reading and properly pronouncing words, than English speaking children. It has been demonstrated in this study: "Valoración del procesamiento ortográfico en niños españoles con dislexia: El papel de las unidades léxicas y subléxicas" (roughly translated title: "Evaluation of orthographic processing of Spanish children with dyslexia: The role of lexical and sublexical units"). Part of the conclusions: 

It's clear that from a legal point of view, the are obliged to do so. The Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (CALEA) wiretapping law was passed in 1994. 

If you go to the source, it's clear that there is no proof that it can be done. Abstract for Jerome Radcliffe's "Hacking Medical Devices for Fun and Insulin: Breaking the Human SCADA System" presentation: 

How much antibiotics affect gut flora is open subject, there are studies showing there is long lasting negative effect. Eg. "Gut microbiota disturbance during antibiotic therapy: a multi-omic approach" This matters, because gut bacteria does help immune system. Part of an abstract of paper published in the European Review for Medical and Pharmacological Sciences: 

Operating balance is something completely different than reserves. As for reserves, current assets of Federal Reserve are worth $2,907,837 million, which is almost 40 times more than Apple's reserves. 

So it seems to me that the quote in the article you're referring to must have been taken out of context. 

Wholesalers: Health Care 3.91 Food and Drug Stores 2.78 Wholesalers: Electronics and Office Equipment 2.63 Automotive Retailing, Services 2.62 Wholesalers: Diversified 2.10 Specialty Retailers 2.03 Engineering, Construction 1.93 Petroleum Refining 1.90 Health Care: Pharmacy and Other Services 1.78 Food Production 1.75 

As for Global Consciousness Project, they are using their own "random events generators". However, unlike other commercially available random number generators, this one has no independent certificates at all. One would expect such a device to be tested independently, and conform to at least basic level of NIST FIPS-140-2. 

As for question if they plant in pot would be able to charge cell phone, for example iPhone 6+ has 11.1Wh battery, charging losses on Li-Po batteries can be neglected. Giving a Bioo very generous benefit of doubt, and assuming that they did something revolutionary to bring that to do 20 W/m3, such a flower pot might generate 100-200mW. Which would take 120-60 hours to charge iPhone. So it's not really feasible even with generous assumptions in their favor. 

However, I couldn't find any claim that Office 39 finances N. Korea's nuclear program. Most sources suggest that it manages leaders' private slush funds and imports embargoed luxuries for them. AOL News: 

But how does it look from evidence based point of view? Is there statistical data which would corroborate these claims? 

However, private viewing in private house is exempt from these rules, so at home you can have as big TV as you'd like. This includes having a private Super Bowl party at home. Read more in ArsTechnica: "Will your big-screen Super Bowl party violate copyright law?"