Currently there aren't any available studies that I can find that examine IF solely for weight loss/fat burn effects. I can find quite a few studies showing the efficacy of intermittent fasting and calorie restriction on a whole host of body systems, but I can't find any addressing IF by itself, which means that you can't distinguish between weight loss with calorie restriction and weight loss with calorie restriction AND IF. 

As JJ references in his comment, having high testosterone does not translate to easier bodybuilding. Fluctuations within the normal range do not appear to have much effect on building muscle. It may however have an effect on bodyfat levels. The actual studies are behind paywalls, but the abstracts can be referenced in the cited studies in this article. Also, you state "but with lower bodyfat, naturally". It is unclear whether you mean through natural methods (no drugs) or that "naturally you want lower bodyfat" referencing the guy in the photo. That guy is actually in the 5-10% bodyfat range already, which is about the lowest healthy, maintainable bodyfat level. Lastly, your statements about being weak one week, strong the next, and building less than 6 lbs of muscle a year points at something not quite right either in nutrition or your workouts. Working out religiously doesn't automatically translate to huge gains unless you are also doing so intelligently. The statement "I've added 10-15 lbs to my curls in the last 2 years but stuck at 13.5 inches" is especially telling. 10-15 lb increase in 2 years is basically nothing. Instead of going on about your high test levels, put a question with a full delineation of your last month of workouts, rest and food levels. That will be much more telling than hormone test results. If you aren't tracking that, then you aren't "religious" about working out, you're just someone who goes to the gym a lot. 

They both are correct, although the one with Coleman where he moves slightly doesn't really add much, and does add slightly higher risk. The theory is that by leaning forward on the eccentric phase you can get a greater stretch on the lats, and thus a better exercise. However, what you are really doing is simply changing the angle of the upper arm in relation to the upper body, and getting slightly more activation out of the lower back muscle groups. If you watch carefully, the arms don't really start pulling in the Coleman video until his back is almost straight again, and they end in the same position, with upright back, shoulders pulled back tight, and elbows close so the grip is snugged in against the body. The main differences is that by allowing the flexion forward, you can get an increase in the momentum of the weight, as it is already moving by the time your arms get into the act. If you are going for high weight, this can help, but it does increase the risk of injury because of increased activity/strain on the lower back. Assisted higher weight exercises and strict form exercises both have their place/uses, definitely what you want to avoid is going past vertical away from the weight stack in either instance. 

It depends on the exercise. There are some very common names (Such as bench press) that are fairly universal, but your trainer may have some unique exercises that are different. As far as universal terms, you would have to list the ones you would like, or look at some weightlifting sites. For example, a press is generally a movement of the weight from close to the body to further away. A bench "press" is where you lay on your back, lower the weight and then "press" it up. Shoulder press is the same, but in a vertical plane (From a sitting position, press from your shoulders to over your head). 

Trying to actively engage the core muscles is like trying to control your breathing. It can be done, but it's likely to hinder your progress. Unless you have such bad form that you need to think about it, you just want to run and let your core area take care of itself. Generally for endurance running, you want things to be as relaxed as possible. Artificially leaning forward or back will place an unnatural stress on your body, unless as said you have really bad running form. The vast majority of runners self select the stride length and foot strike pattern that best suits them, so unless you're having problems, just run and concentrate on the purpose of the workout rather than what your erector spinae might happen to be doing. 

This is not a traditional gymnastics move, and in addition would be nearly impossible to pull off without assistance. (Note the guy holding his body out vertical with the rope). It is impressive, but it is solely a strength move, much like the people that can "spider walk" while hanging from a bar and other similar strength moves. Training for it is really nothing more than getting really really strong in your delts and lats, so pretty much traditional training with an addition of practicing the strength move that you are trying to emulate. One of the most basic is the "flag", which you can see him doing later in the video (Hanging sideways from a post, arms in a Y position, body sticking straight out). There are some basic traditional gymnastics poses on the parallel bars and the rings shown, but most everything in that video is purely strength and flexibility. 

Unfortunately, it's hard to impossible to tell what kind of running/plant style you have by looking down at your feet. Mainly, this is because you can't really see the mechanics of what your heel/ankle/foot are doing in relation to each other as you go through the land/plant/push cycle, especially when in shoes. It almost requires a rear view of some kind. I would recommend going to a good running store (Here in the US, I usually recommend RoadRunner Sports if there is one near) that has treadmill and video capability for gait analysis. At RRS, it's usually free, but it's a worthwhile service. They will show you your gait and plant, and help you pick out shoes geared for your specific style. 

Tracking information is always a pain, because there really aren't any good apps for during, as you always have to be interrupting your workout to enter your weights, reps, etc. What I ended up doing was tracking food and sleep along with workouts in just a regular notebook or datebook, and then adding notes about how I felt if I had a particularly good or bad workout. I've had good success with the "at a glance" books that have a day per page for that. Every few months, I'll go through and review things, and try and correlate any workouts with what happened the previous few days. "Oh, my 10 mile run sucked, but I only got 6 hours sleep the two nights before", that kind of thing. Personally, I either like hand writing it or putting it down in an excel spreadsheet as Kneel suggests, but I rarely update anything but a throwaway notebook at the gym. I don't like sweating all over a touchscreen trying to update # of reps, worrying about a weight dropping on it, etc. A small (3x2) spiral is great, as that can get trashed and it's no big deal. Some of the sports I do (Such as cycling) I use a powermeter which is great, and it records in a downloadable format with loads of data, and they have it for running as well, but nothing really great yet for lifting purposes. 

Studies have consistently shown that when it comes to a nutrition plan (Note: I do not say diet. Diet implies a close ended, limited lifespan process), calorie restriction is king when it comes to weight loss. Don't buy into paleo, atkins, . Track all the food you eat for three days. Even if you eat a spoonful of peanut butter, write it down. Weigh and measure your food so you know you are eating specific portion sizes. (For example, I used to think that my 2 cups of morning cereal was actually 1 cup). Once you know your daily calorie intake, then you can compare it to your daily basic and activity level needs, and see where you need to either increase exercise or decrease intake. Spend the $10 (US dollars) or so and run your diet through an analysis calculator, that will give you how much protein, fat, and micronutrients (Vitamins, minerals, etc) you are consuming. This will show you where your diet has weak points. Once you have all that information, take one day a week, plan all your meals and shop for them. Allow yourself some treats. I usually go on the 80/20 (ish) rule, that if 80% of what I eat is good and healthy, I'm ok with 20% being not so healthy. 

Unfortunately, there aren't any readily available standard tests, as I don't believe they have established any guideline levels for blood yet. You can get home kits such as this one and get your levels, but it's really kind of an academic number. The blood tests for porphyria (some people call it the "vampire" test) include an ALA level, but that's the only clinical one I'm aware of that tests for any of the Omega 3 fatty acids. Also, be careful about suddenly just ingesting tons of Omega-3's, somewhere in the early 2000's the FDA published warnings of health risks associated with large quantity Omega-3 supplementation. Part of the problem is that they just aren't really understood yet, so while they know that Omega-3s are beneficial and that the ratio is important, they haven't really established WHY they are important or what good levels are, that kind of thing. 

I will respect your wishes to talk "only about protein", but that is simply a repetition of a lot of the fallacies and myths that have grown up around the ingestion of protein. Protein is simply a macro nutrient, and needs to be consumed in balance with other macronutrients. All of the "rules" you state about no more than 30 grams of protein (Which is only 120 calories) at a meal are pretty much bunk. So, how much protein do you need? RDA in the US states for adults, .8 grams per kilo of bodyweight. So for you, that would be 50 grams per day. For exercising adults, the RDA seems to think that it makes no difference, although they recommend higher protein intake for infants/children who ARE growing. Here are some studies to take a look at: Peter Lemon review This review of studies suggests an intake of 1.6 - 1.7 grams/kg per day, and that more doesn't really have an impact, and suggests there is a "ceiling effect". Another Lemon study - Suggests that among novice weightlifters, 2x the RDA (or 1.6g) is beneficial, but more isn't. Protein and Nitrogen balance - Suggests that maintenance protein for weightlifters is not that much more than sedentary individuals (Maintenance, not growth). My nutritional classes have usually gone with 1.5 to 2g per kg of body mass as a protein intake (For athletes, not sedentary population), which seems to fit in line with the above studies, and as part of a balanced diet across the board. There are a couple of studies that I have seen that suggest that intense weightlifting requires intakes in the 2-2.5g/kg range. I have not seen anything to suggest that a smaller framed person is going to have different protein requirements when scaled to a larger diet, it's still a function of grams/kg. They aren't written for "bigger, fatter, people", they are written as a result of studies, and apply to just about anyone. Now that being said, every person is an individual, and you need to find where your own balance is, but I think that if you start with around 1.5 g/kg of intake and experiment from there you will find where your "sweet spot" is. As far as the "per meal", just make sure that you have some high quality protein with almost every full meal, and that you ingest some sort of protein/carbohydrate mix soon after a workout. For endurance athletes, refueling with a 3:1 carbohydrate/protein ratio (oddly enough, which is the exact ratio in milk) is ideal, you may not need that for weightlifting recovery.