Arguing such cases is not trivial. Both sides are often vehemently opposed to the other side of the logic. I don't think I can get away with holding such a debate in this format (SE is not designed for it). However, I would like to draw an analogy. The analogy is from electrical engineering and amplifiers. I leave it to you to decide whether such an analogy is well drawn from your question, but I find it has several ways in which it could be connected, so I find it useful to offer. Amplifiers are usually built with transistors. Here is a graph of the behavior of a transistor (technically a FET, but this is analogy so that detail will not matter). I will ignore many details, but the details which will matter are: 

Like the others, I must look at the premises you provide. The topic your friend is exploring is very detailed and complex. It is very easy to dismiss it because one of your initial premises simplifies the argument to the point of simple rejection. Only once the premisses are accepted can one begin to look at whether they agree with or contradict your friend's position. 

Even with that definition of "rights" the answer is not clear. Consider The Cairo Declaration of Human Rights in Islam, which is an alternative to The United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights used in select Islamic states where the UN version was deemed in conflict with Islam. Under the Cairo declaration, there are plenty of behaviors which are not provided as a "right." For example, it declares that belief in "true religion" is protected, but does not specify what that phrase means (which seems like a very sage balance given the strong religious opinions which permeate the cultures that drafted the document). 

I think it might be best to define 2 to be the result of , because that leaves underlying mappings to set theory or anything else wide open. The thing that distinguishes the meaning of the symbol "2" is its behavior in arithmetical operations. In that case, when you define integers via set theory, such as von-Neuman ordinals, You take care to define 0 and 1, then the definition of 2 is , which is trivial to show as {0, 1}. However, remember that von-Neuman ordinals define just one construction of natural numbers. When you extend this to rational numbers, the definition is still , though now that definition has become an equivalence set. If you wish to narrow it down further, Peano arithmetic could change to . In Peano arithmetic, that is "simpler" than . In other arithmetic, it might not be. Remember, "2" is just a symbol. Its a curved line intersecting with a low horizontal line. It's only the rules of arithmetic that give it meaning beyond that. 

The quotes, of course, are needed because you'd never say "to believe that the sky is blue is true," but you would say "to believe that 'the sky is blue' is true." Tarski was only interested in formal languages at the time, because their truthhood can be explored using nothing but mathematics. Donald Davidson later extended it to natural languages. Tarski's material adequacy condition works rather well up until pronouns get involved. once P has a pronoun in it, you can get curious and sometimes paradoxical constructions. 

Atheism is a belief that there are no deities (from the Greek ἄθεος, or "without gods"). It has nothing to do with their "existence," "minds," "personalities," or "selves." There are also degrees of atheism. There is the hardest of atheism, which believes there are no gods, and there are softer atheisms, which are not certain there is a god. (The latter used to be known as agnosticism, but has been rebranded as a soft variant of atheism recently. Linguistics does things like that) To the best of my understanding, the belief that atheists disbelieve in other things, such as "existence" is a side effect of theists trying to make sense of an atheists's point of view, and something getting lost in translation. Trying to manage such a wording is an intellectual challenge, as is trying to handle any wording between two opposing points of view. 

One approach is to love something higher, such as Arne Naess' ecological self: "The ecological self is that with which one relates." Most of the effective arguments I have seen regarding loving in the face of evil rely on one of two assumptions (or both): 

All of the reasonings you mention start from an assumption of moral absolutism: the belief that there is indeed a universal "right" and a universal "wrong" which is common to all agents. If one believes this, and believes that the particular moral code they claim to follow is the one and only true moral code, it's easy to see why one would come to the conclusion that anyone who does not profess being bound to that particular moral code must be less moral. In anything less than this perfect case, cracks in the argument start to form. If you are unsure whether your particular moral code is exactly the true one, you may be put into situations where the difference between your moral code and the true one become important and you repeatedly make the same moral choice over and over. From this perspective, a moral code that can move a little is capable of becoming more optimal. (This is highly related to a traditional religious claim that the universe as a whole is good, or just, or a similar claim. Otherwise the universe is in a position to take advantage of one's fixed nature). Likewise, if you are incapable of perfectly following your moral code, it may not matter whether it is true or not. Consider a moral situation resembling the phase "the straw that broke the camel's back." Perhaps you are capable of acting morally through situations X, Y, and Z, but if you have to handle X, Y, Z, and W, you start to falter, and end up acting immorally in all 4 situations. A flexible morality may falter in W, but be able to adjust so that X, Y, and Z do not cause immoral behavior. There is also the other side of the argument: moral relativism. If indeed the true moral code is different for each individual, you may find yourself being less moral because you simply don't understand why your moral code isn't shared by all. Finally, consider that most moral "dilemmas" are in the form of very cut and dry yes or no choices. In the real world, there are many fuzzy regions where you may have more choices than that, and the best answer is less clear. You "know" its bad to steal, but they stole it from you first, so maybe stealing from the thief is okay? In all, if you assume you are a perfect being with perfect knowledge of morality, and the universe is ruled by moral absolutism, those who do not agree with you are inherently less moral than you, atheists included. In other situations, it is less clear. As a fun final takeaway, if one explores formal morality, where ones moral code is codified into a formal system, one can run into all sorts of interesting logical trickery, such as those discovered by Tarski and Godel. As a result, we find all major moral codes have some situations they do not handle in a formal manner, or we find they elect not to prove the morality of their code in a few key situations. 

You're overthinking it! Just kidding, as a fellow engineer, I have an inkling where you are digging at. Welcome to the fascinating underbelly of mathematics, which is constantly churning and mixing with the philosophy of mathematics. It behaves a bit differently than the upper tiers. Instead of trying to make powerful earth shattering statements about our reality, like proving there are countably infinite primes, they're trying to define the most subtle and intuitive assumptions you can make to get there. Your concept that it is an appeal to intuition is valid, because that's what it is. Once you accept such a definition, such an axiom, it gets brought into a tremendously powerful system. Most of mathematics accepts some form of inductive proof, so the acceptance of an axiom is a very powerful thing. It means you accept any and all consequences that can arise from applying it an infinite number of times. There's a good reason they need to be intuitive. Proof systems that admit induction literally go, "1, 2, skip a few, 99, 100, skip a few more, infinity. See, I proved it!" (Edit: Jan felt this was not a valid use of "literally." For a more precise wording, see the Peano Axioms. A version of "literally" I can use properly is to say that the purpose of induction is to literally skip an infinite number of steps in your proof.) If your definitions are not extraordinarily in line with reality, an infinite series of skipped steps will contort your definition until it looks absurd. Consider Xeno's paradox, which proved you couldn't move anywhere through an infinite number of steps, and yet we move places all the time! Euclid's definition of a line is really two pieces. The first doesn't care about how it maps to the real world, so he could have said 

Rex Kerr took a stance which is valid if you start from the assumption that we have an innate moral sense. It is also possible to raise issues with necrophilia if one does not assume an innate moral sense. Consider that one is never as 100% certain about the environment as your hypothetical example. There is always some possibility that you have not actually predicted everything that the world will do with regards to your act. Someone may discover you in the act, or you yourself might blab by accident. These situations can cause harm, and must be accounted for. Alternatively, instead of accounting for them, one can take the position that necrophilia is simply not worth the calculated risk, and leave it at that. This position would be behaviorally similar, if not identical to the innate moral case Rex brought up. 

From these, we can infer that there are chaotic systems are a proper subset of systems defined by nonlinear equations. Weather is explained as being nonlinear, but that's as far as you can go. However there are a few fun issues: 

I love playing with words, and using this word or that. In the end, the reality is that the best word for describing something is the word which conveys the meaning the best. Sometimes that requires using a non-standard word, and other times the existing typical word is simply the best choice for communication. When trying to find the "best" word for this concept, it's worth noting that it does not appear in all interpretations. The Copenhagen interpretation has it, but MWI and Pilot wave interpretations do not. So whatever term one uses should remember that other interpretations are equally credible, even if they don't use the term. MWI and Pilot Wave interpretations have a concept of something being measurable, so I fear using a powerful term like "actualize" for Copenhagen and Copenhagen alone is a dangerous precedent. "Collapse" has a nice feel in Copenhagen, as the quantum waveform has subtle nuances which are permanent lost upon this kind of event, like a tower of cards collapsing into a pile of cards. It conveys a sense of loss that I find fits well with Copenhagen, but which does not necessarily appear in other interpretations. Another word that might join the fray is "realize," because "realism" is a concept which already has a meaning in the world of quantum mechanics, and there's some fun connections there. If one wanted to write a book on the philosophy of quantum physics, and wanted to tie this concept of collapse into the concept of actualization from philosophy, I don't think anyone would find it troubling (who am I kidding, it's philosophy... someone will find it troubling!). But I think making the claim that it is misnamed is a bit strong. 

The "need to survive" may be nothing more than a sampling bias. Consider that of all the mass on the earth, only 0.00000001% of that mass is living things. Thus most of the mass of the earth could be said to "not survive." One major question that must always arise when discussing necessities of life is "what defines life anyway?" That's known to be a very difficult question to answer. However, if one is watching out for sampling biases, one really needs to understand one's domain. Something I find notable about life is that it retains some measurable quality far longer than one might assume if using nothing but base physics. In the forest, a human corpse becomes liquified in a month, but a living human being obviously retains "human" attributes far longer than that. If an entity decomposed as fast as a corpse did, we would likely find it too uninteresting to call it "life." Even the mayfly retains the characteristics of a mayfly remarkably long compared to how long they might last if they weren't alive. Thus it may be fair to say that, from a pure biological perspective, the apparent effort to survive is fundamental to life because the things we call living all need longevity to be included in this group we call "living." Beyond that, one could consider the metaphysical arguments about life, and seek to explore the effort to survive in those terms. However, from your question, it appeared those considerations may not be all that pressing, so the biological classification argument may be sufficient for your needs. 

The position you are taking is one of proximate cause. It implies that the last human to make a decision which lead to an undesirable outcome is the one who is "at fault," for whatever that phrase means. (it's a tricky phrase) Here's an interesting thought experiment to challenge your thought experiment. Let us presume that Jigsaw is not at fault, because the heroin junkie makes the final decision. They are responsible for their character flaw. Now as Jigsaw, you put the person in one of these rooms. They succeed, picking the good door. You then pick them up and take them to another room, with another good door and a heroin door. They pick the good door, so you take them to another room. In this room, they pick the heroin door, die, and you say "see, it was just their character flaw. I can't be held responsible for their character flaws." And by the logic we assumed at the beginning of this experiment, his decision was never the proximate cause for a death. At most he could be held responsible for wasting somebody's time making them go through room after room rather than spending their time more productively. Hopefully the result of that thought experiment is that one comes to the conclusion that responsibility is a more complicated concept than proximate cause, and a deeper understanding is needed.