Can't really claim to have personal experience on the matter, but I happened to stumble upon a video that might be of interest. The claim is that the training regime has lead to a final figure of 3%. In short, the concept is to work out 5-6 times a day, a few hours each. In terms of nutrition the advice given there is to eat high protein low fat/carb products (like eggs, chicken breast etc) as well as cutting carbs after 8 PM. Now I do not claim that this is completely true, or that it works as claimed on the video. However the person in question is pretty well known, you might have even seen him in a movie or two. :) 

At an age of 24 your physical growth is more or less settled by now, so "no" there are no easy ways of getting taller, I'm afraid. I have heard of stories where people get operated on their bones to get them to break and heal, break and heal... gaining maybe half a centimeter each time. I don't know the truth of it, but I can only imagine that it's not common, it'll not be covered by any health insurance and that it's probably painful to an extreme. Coming back to "normal" growth, growth in height occurs around the cartilage ends of the longer bones that make up the skeleton (e.g. femur). Cartilage tissue slowly builds up calcium and eventually turns to bone a process called "osteogenesis" (note that this description of the process is oversimplified). This happens usually from childhood to teen years, and is occasionally associated with joint pains in children. By the time you're 18-20 any major changes that were to occur has already happened in the height department, and the body starts to "fill in" the bones and build in the thickness instead of the length (again oversimplified). There are several things that are rumored to invoke or facilitate growth in height, one such example is fish oils. I have not used them myself, as they were pretty expensive but I knew some people who did back when we were smaller (~14-15 years). Admittedly some have gotten significantly taller, but yet again you never know if it is due to the fish oils, or whatever else pills they were taking, or that their natural growth kicked in a higher gear. A twin study would be interesting to read, where genetic factors can be assumed be equal among the subjects. I have unfortunately never come across such an article. Lastly, diet is important as well of course. Consumption of milk products are linked to growth in children and teens, however it's likely that the relationship is more of a substrate than an active component. In other words, milk might not cause you to get taller than what you ought to be (based on your genes) but consumed in good quantities it will likely help you reach your growth potential. 

I am soon turning 27 and am in bitter realization that the years are working against me, physically speaking. I have a very compact body, at 177 cm.s I weigh around 94 kg.s even though I do not have a large gut (but instead wide shoulders and a big chest). Can't say I have ever been perfectly fit, but I've always been sportive and played any kind of ball sports I could through-out my youth up until a year ago or so... Over the years I have had a couple of nasty injuries (such as shoulder dislocations) which essentially limit my options in training. The latest injury being some peculiar chronic pain in the lower back region just above the hip. The physios and chiropractors I have seen could not really find a reason for the problem, but the reality of the matter is; I work in front of a PC and the more I sit the weaker I get. I need to train to increase/recover my stamina, condition and strength however when I do my usual sports I just get serious cramps in my lower back. I have never managed to like pure cardio training as in spinning (indoor cardio biking), or jogging. I find it incredibly boring as nothing really happens, in comparison to a football game where you have to follow up the events, read the game and other players and act accordingly. Besides it's a very individual-based type of training, meaning that there is no team interaction like I'm used to. I guess the majority of the people here are somehow fitness buffs, so the description I gave above might sound alien to some, but if there is anyone out there with a similar mindset or if anyone can relate to my situation, I'd really appreciate some advice on: 

Is there a kind of cardio training I could do that is more suitable for someone like me? How can I make jogging/running more fun? (Where I live it's rainy or worse the majority of the year) How can I improve my self discipline, pushing myself through the annoyance when it's needed? (I'm a very competitive-minded person so I was excited when products like Nike Fuelband and Jawbone UP came out, unfortunately the Fuelband is still not sold in Europe and the UP is retracted from the market without a word on when it will be available again) 

I am not a nutritionist but I have read lots about breakfast being a very important part of the diet, as it's supposed to be the refueling of your body after sleep, which is when your body goes into a self-maintenance phase. The reason that you feel completely beat after the rowing is probably that you're pushing yourself to a hard exercise when your body is low on fuel. Try moving the exercise routine to lunch time, half an hour of rowing and maybe a quick lunch with a sandwich. I have been doing lunch workouts for about two years now, and am very happy with it. If nothing it's a good way to break the routine of sitting in front of the PC, and the shower afterwards is a great way to wake up midday. :) PS: I also work as a programmer/data analyst. 

Once you get your coordination in place you can vary these (and other variations) into a routine which you can go at 10-15 min, even for more if you can manage. One last note stretch your calves before and after jump rope training otherwise you might have pretty nasty cramps :) 

100 regular jumps on a more or less steady tempo alternate between one leg jumps (3-5 on one foot, 3-5 on the other) which will ultimately push your tempo up once you feel like you are really up to the game throw in some criss-cross if that's not pushing your heart rate enough add some double or triple jumps 

Here's some reference information: from LiveStrong article - "How to Eat Protein in the Evening for Maximum Weight Loss" 

I am normally very reserved towards food supplements in powder form, but after reading a bit about protein supplements, I decided to try it out and decide whether or not it's something I am willing to take on a regular basis. I train often, in form of team/ball sports such as football or squash, and go to the gym to lift weights and do physiotherapy for old injuries. My goals with training are strengthening the muscle groups affected by injuries, and genuinely getting in better shape (better condition and some weight loss). So keeping that in mind, I started looking at different products from the local distributors here, and noticed that there is a wide variety of products available. I have read about whey and casein, as well soy-based products. I see that they have different pros and cons, each, and I wonder whether or not it makes sense to blend them. Considering that I am slightly lactose-intolerant I think a mix of soy, whey (Optimum Nutrition have a version which has 1% sugar) and casein based supplements could be an interesting option. I would like to know if there are any potential problems with this approach? 

This might have been asked before, phrased in a different way but how do you go back to your training regime after a couple of weeks break, due for instance to a cold infection? I normally try to train 3-4 times a week; 2 sessions of football, and 2-3 sessions of weights/cardio. But a couple of weeks break seems to revert me back to a weaker, slower state. How do you get back on schedule, without straining your body too much after a minor infection? 

Background: I am 33 y.o. about 1.77 (which is like 5'10in) around 200-205 lbs. According to BMI measurements I am overweight but in reality I have a big frame, broad shoulders and compact built, fairly athletic but perhaps not fully fit. According to my impedance scale (which are not entirely reliable by default) body fat index around 20-21%. I am at the gym 3-5 times a week, combined with basketball, soccer and squash depending on scheduling. I bike to work and back 30-45 mins every day. What I am trying to get to is that I do have a fairly active lifestyle, despite being in front of a computer all day. I have started noticing that while I notice improvements on the appearance (bigger arms etc) I am not really getting stronger, in the sense that I can't really do more pull-ups than before, just to give an example. I haven't been able to make much progress in terms of weights in bench press, squats etc. My main goal for the workout (besides being healthier) is to shed the extra weight, to get better into better shape so that I strain my joints less when I do ball sports. I don't really need to bulk up as I am fairly heavy-set by default, but I don't want to lose any strength by focusing solely on cardio training. Given the goal of shedding the weight without losing any muscle strength, and the fact that I am not making much quantitative progress, do I need to take supplements like BCAA or creatine etc to make sure I am not burning through the muscles throughout the workouts? I see people taking pre-work out shakes or some suspiciously colorful stuff during the workouts. What is that about? 

I agree with Sancho on team sports, but also I'd add racket sports, especially squash. After an initial period of getting used to the sport (assuming you have never played before) you'll be giving yourself a great workout when facing a somewhat even opponent. Otherwise I find jump rope much more challenging and fun than jogging. You can do high intensity intervals or just keep a steady tempo. I find it particularly fun varying my jumps, it almost turns into a somewhat silly dance :) Here's what I normally try to do when jumping rope: 

I recently signed up for a new gym closer to where I live. Together with the signup they were offering structuring a workout schedule with a personal trainer, which I gladly took. After talking about my goals for training and any old injuries, I was told that their general policy with overall workouts is one set and as many reps as possible though at least 10-12 reps, and increasing the weight next session once 12 reps is not tough anymore. I have to say I was quite unsure about this regime, so I asked the trainer about if they had any reason for recommending this regime and was told that the advice is based on shorter but intensive sessions and is a company policy that is recommended nationally (it's a large company that have gyms overall in the country). I wonder if there is any physiological reason behind this regime being superior to the usual/conventional 3 set with 12-15 reps? Have you been recommended this regime at some point? If you have followed a similar regime, how does it compare to more conventional regimes? I should note that my goals for workout is recovering from weakness that some old injuries have left as well as my sedentary life style causes, as well as generally getting in better shape. 

EDIT: I have mentioned that I have had several injuries without explaining what they are... I have had serious problems with my shoulders, as both have been dislocated more than once. I have been operated on one shoulder and have some rotation limitation (about 5-10 degrees on outwards rotation). With my weight it gets pretty painful in both shoulders, very quickly, when I attempt to do proper dips and pull-ups With my lower back, I have had less but still painful problems, due to relatively sedentary life as well as some weird movement I did on the football pitch at some point. I have some sort of minor issue with discs but they doc said it wasn't serious enough for a surgery. I pay more attention to stretching and try to be more active during the day (at work that is) in order to help with that. Hope that helps to give a better picture of my physical situation. 

I have been doing team/ball sports as far as I can remember, even though I was never the star of the team. Consequently it's not very surprising that I did not end up training on pro or semi-pro level. Now I realize that after a couple of years in relatively low pace daily life, I am a second or two slower than I'd like to be in my reaction time when I'm on the field. It's like you see the dribble, you are fully aware but your body is just not as quick in acting even though your brain is shouting out orders to your arms/legs. :) I'd like to work on is my agility/quickness but I'm not quite sure what exercises I could do at home or at the gym. Any advices? Photos/videos are really appreciated. Edit: I play football mostly, but also squash, basketball and at times even badminton and beach volleyball. The reason I didn't ask for a specific sport was precisely to keep it as general as possible. 

Some background info: I am 28 years old, about 177 cm tall and my weight fluctuates between 92-96 kg. Despite the unfavorable height/weight ratio, I am pretty heavy built, with wide shoulders and a broad chest. While I would not consider myself really fit or strong, I am also not really out of shape. I spend a lot of time in front of a PC at work and at home. That being said I try to train at least twice a week; primarily playing football (indoors or outdoors) and try to work out at the gym on a regular basis (even though I cannot claim to have good discipline). I recently got introduced to the idea of obstacle races such as (Tough Viking, Warrior Dash, Spartan Race...) and come to like the idea. Especially setting the goal to finish such a race before I turn 30 in two years. I do realize that these competitions are tough, and that they are aimed primarily at training-enthusiasts that invest much more time and money to their training than I do. However considering that I don't care about the racing aspect of it (i.e. I dont care my "time", but only to actually make it to the end without giving up), I think it's still a reasonable goal. My specific questions are as follows: