So you would apply the same process as for a no ball, and dead ball. So while the ball is not dead the batsmen may score runs. 

I was pretty sure I'd seen this mentioned before and Wikipedia supports it. Dick Kerr's ladies who were an extremely famous and popular exhibition ladies team played some mens teams certainly whilst on a tour of the US in 1922. So it certainly has occurred. 

In short for hitting a bird it would be considered out as under law 23 the ball would not be dead. With regards helicam that is a little more tricky. I am trying to look for the regulations regarding its use. I suspect it would be a dead ball, but under simple law it would also be out. 

As an umpire, it would be a distraction not a help. We stand with our eyes generally over middle stump, although this can change if leg stump is particularly important say for a left arm over bowler to a right hander. The extra lines would act as a distraction and would not help with the decision making process. 

Another reason batsmen will tap on the pitch is to compact the pitch a little where the ball has bounced erratically in the hope of settling it down and restoring more normal bounce. They will also do it to repair arears where a mini divit has occurred. 

This is a fair ball, the ball never touches foul territory, so therefore it can't be a foul ball. MLB Rules State: 

Yes, an overseas player can join the NBA DLeague during the season. If a player wants to go to the DLeague, he is placed in a player pool, and is able to be selected by a team via waivers. 

So let's say, for the sake of the question, that the player being traded is Clayton Kershaw. Situation: Kershaw is selected as the NL's starter in the All Star Game. Couple of days before the All Star Game, the Dodgers shock the nation and trade Kershaw to the Yankees. Question: Does Kershaw still start for the NL? Does he start for the AL? Does he not start, but still play for the AL? What happens in this situation, in terms of him and his All Star Status? 

Absolutely they can. Many players play multiple positions. Most common is probably guys who play both Running Back and Wide Receiver(Example being Dexter McCluster - Tennesee Titans). Granted I'm guessing you're probably looking more for guys who play on offense and defense in the same game or at least the same season. One notable guy who has played both offense and defense is Mike Vrabel who was a career linebacker, but lined up on the offensive side of the ball multiple times, with a career 14 targets in the passing game, 10 receptions, all 10 going for Touchdowns. Multiple times have offensive linemen lined up as Full Backs or Tight Ends. JJ Watt has caught multiple touchdown passes in his short career. Now will we see a player line up on both sides of the ball on a consistent basis, game in and game out, probably not too often. It would probably lead to the player tiring out too quickly and not being as effective. But yes, a player can play multiple positions in the same game. 

Technically possible, you could mount a small wireless camera in the ball but and something similar in the bat. However in the ball it would only be able to face in one direction and there would be no gaurentee that would be of any interest. The repeated impact forces would probably destroy it fairly quickly, and it would also alter the weight of the ball and probably change the way the ball is made to be able to fit the camera in so I doubt it will ever be attempted. For the bat it would be easier to ensure it looked in the right direction but motion bluring would be an issue and then you would have the impact issues around the lifespan of the camera. It would also introduce a structual weakness in to the bat. Or if surface mounted would effect the pick up and stroke of the bat. So its extremely unlikely to happen. 

The Schedules of the ICC full members is controlled by the ICC and the member boards. The ICC have the future tours program, the latest copy of which is here. This outlines who will play whom and when. It also identifies what matches will be played and includes the ICC tournaments such as world cup. The member countries can also arrange other fixtures as well for example England often play ODI's versus Ireland and or Scotland as a local agreement. As to arranging what grounds the fixtures are played at I believe its a matter for the home board. Certainly that is the case in England where there is a bidding process run by the ECB to decide which matches are played where. I believe the ICC has minimum standards for international grounds but I cant find them at the moment. 

I took an umpiring class this past Spring (2012), so I can offer what we were taught. Regardless of whether a pitch is a strike or a ball, we were taught to wait a "tick" to be sure of what we've seen. If nothing else, this mindset helps one watch the pitch all the way into the glove. If the call is a strike, one should rise from the slightly crouched stance, raise the right hand into a fist and pump it forward with authority and confidence while calling out 'HIKE'. Why 'HIKE' and not 'STRIKE'? Simple, it's easier to call (especially for 7, 8, 9, or more innings), and it sounds close to the same. The main point is to both call and signal the strike with authority. Oh, and swinging strikes are signaled, but not called out. In addition, we're taught to make all strike calls, including strike three, where we're allowed a little bit of showmanship, while facing forward – not looking to the right. Why? Well, home plate umpires in MLB, and I believe umpires in AAA along with umpires working certain special games, are the few who have the luxury of having another umpire on each of the bases. In the lower minor leagues, I believe there are typically only two base umpires, and in much, if not all, of amateur baseball, there are typically only two umpires total, one home plate ump, and one base ump who moves around the diamond depending on the number and position of runners on base. (Unfortunately, sometimes one umpire is unlucky enough to have his partner not show up, and he's force to make all the calls.) If the call is a ball, one should not rise and not signal in any way – calling "ball" with authority, but usually not as much volume. At the amateur level, the call should be loud enough for the pitcher to hear it. Obviously, that goal becomes more difficult the larger the crowd is. As a final note, remember that this is what we're taught. Once out of the classroom, personal style will naturally change some things. However, if one tries to be too much of a showman, it could degrade one's performance in the eyes of the coaches who submit the umpire game reports, which results in one being a showboat umpire in Little League (no offense meant to Little League umps – I've been one – I'm just saying that a poorly graded/ranked umpire won't even earn a chance to work Varsity HS games, much less move on to college games and beyond). While this may not have answered the original question, I hope the insight is useful and/or enlightening. 

As you cannot be out bowled from a free hit you may score runs as the ball has not become dead. The same would happen if the batsmen was caught any and all runs are scored regardless of the catch. The free hit Regulation is here 

It is possible to take umpiring as a career BUT it is very difficult to get to the level at which it is a proffessional option and it takes a lot of time. The first step in getting involved in umpiring is to contact your local cricket association and ask about umpire training. They will offer some, in the UK it's the ECB ACO, in europe its ICC Europe, I am fairly sure the BCCI and PCB also offer the same. Then it is a matter of getting out on the field and umpiring and over time if you have the abilities needed you will rise towards the top and may eventually be able to do it as a career. However given the competition it will take time and luck. There are for example only 12 elite umpires employed by ICC. The ECB employees a further 33 on its 1st class and reserve lists. Ben 

There was a similar instance in the local league a couple of seasons ago, and we took the view that law 19 mentions other people, that we should award boundary 4 in this instance, and report what happened. Ben 

Here is an actual example of a squib kick so people get the gist of what the procedure is, and why it happens. $URL$ 

It's called "Eye Black". It is used under the eyes of athletes to help reduce the glare of the sun and it does improve an athlete's ability to differentiate between light and dark, making it easier for a player to track moving objects in a bright environment. 

From my experience and reading, it doesn't seem like many "spontaneous" plays are made up during the course of a game, at least in most situations. A coach sits down with his playbook, and film of the other team, and narrows his playlist down to a certain number of plays he thinks will work against said team. He then sits down with his Quarterback and various coaches and goes through what they think will work, and narrow the list down further. Now obviously there are going to be variations of plays called, like the same play can be run from any set(ie: single back set, i formation, spread, etc.) and there will also be variations on the actual plays, like a WR going right instead of left on a given play depending on the tendency of the other teams defense, etc. A coaches gameplan is very particular and they usually hash out everything before the game, as it'd be tough to just draw up a random play and have all the players understand it and make it work on the fly. The play's the coach draws up for any given game are usually run quite a bit in practice the week before the game. Here is a small article that kind of explains what goes into planning for a particular game. Doesn't say anything about making plays up on the fly, but it will give you specifics on what goes on during gameplanning in general.