I am not familiar with RunKeeper so I couldn't get some info needed but are you running intervals at all? Tell us more and I may edit my answer... Since time is of the essence, I recommend this plan for the next 2 weeks assuming race is on Sunday. Tues this week - warm up and then do 12 x 400m at 1:20 with a 400m jog in between each one. If this is too intimidating based on your current mileage, cut it to 8 OR make it a 1:20 walk in between. Idea is to run a little faster than 5k pace (1:27 per 400) but not too much faster. Thursday this week - warm up and then do 1 x 2400m at 8:30 pace or a little faster. Jog an 800 and then "sprint-float" 6 laps. Sprint the 100m backstretch and then jog the other 300m for recovery. Saturday of this week - Warm up and then run a hard 1600m. Rest 3 minutes. Run 8 laps of 200 on, 200 off where you run 200m at race pace (about 43 seconds so not all out at all) and then jog 200m easy. Sunday - no race Tuesday next week - Do a 3k easy run followed by 6 "sprint-float" laps. Thursday next week - Do a 3k easy run followed by 4 "200m on, 200m off" laps. Friday next week - rest Sunday - PR Good luck. 

Low reps with high weights don't add mass because the duration of the exercise is kept short. As a result it is an anaerobic exercise that utilizes the ATP-CP energy system and never enters the glycolytic energy system. The breakdown of ATP-CP creates the energy and Oxygen isn't used. If one rests long enough for this system to recharge (about 3-5 minutes) and then tries another set of low reps, high weight lasting less than 10 seconds in total duration, strength will increase greatly and mass will not. Decreasing rest and/or increasing work time will cause mass gain as the body works into the glycolitic and/or aerobic energy systems. 

Minimalist running shoes are shown to increase cadence and decrease stride length. Decreased stride length - many heel strikers become forefoot strikers. This usually allows for more efficient pace because the leg lands under the body's center of gravity. It also means the big muscles are being used for propulsion and the small muscles aren't "braking" from too much overstriding. Increased cadence means more foot strikes per minute. Without getting into the speed debate (stride length & speed vs force generation), increased cadence usually means increased speed in inefficient runners. So, in the end, you are probably more efficient and with a better cadence. This can make you faster. BUT, accumulated fitness also may be a culprit. The more time you spend running, the better you usually become at running. Also if you have increased total body fitness say through bouldering and you experienced better spring weather allowing for more consistent running as well as higher quality running, well those are all factors too. The minimalist shoes have probably helped you for a variety of reasons. I caution that many studies show that minimalist shoes have a limiting factor because in time your body adjusts to cushion the landing which reduces elastic recoil which reduces running speed. Maybe try a shoe around a 6mm heel to toe drop that is specially fit for you at a local running store. That will let you get the best of both worlds. 

For ease, you could use Hal Higdon's Novice #2 program. I recommend removing weeks 2 and 4 since you only have 16 weeks if you start next week. Hal's program is straight forward but good for 1st time marathoners as it gets them ready for enduring the distance. Obviously you have good talent so if you'd rather learn some more, I'd recommend checking out the videos on CoachRunning.com. I'd also recommend doing 1 run a week over rolling hills. Even better, using your midweek longer run, do the last 1/2 mile up a gradual hill (or rolling hills). Each week make the uphill portion a 1/2 mile longer. Week 2 would be the last 1 mile, Week 4 would be the last 2 miles, etc. This recruits more muscle fibers stimulating muscle growth and improving confidence. Good luck. 

In my opinion (backed by scientific evidence), there is a lot more to healthy minimalist running then shoe marketers want us to believe. Here is what I would recommend after LOTS and LOTS and LOTS of research. 1) Strengthen the most effected areas using these Barefoot Running Exercises. Barefoot / Minimalist Running increases torque to knee flexion, knee varus and internal hip rotation. 2) Wear them for walking as often as possible - office, home, neighborhood. 3) Work them into a workout 1 day a week. In my experience there are 2 great places to introduce them. a) in a short cool down after a workout b) during form drills (if you do any) and right before a short tempo run. That helps to reinforce the muscle memory. 4) Slowly increase their usage in your workouts. I believe a 1 year patient plan is the best for maximum adaptation. Barefoot running / minimalist running has been shown to cause 2 positive changes when introduced correctly. It should increase cadence / turnover and also increase VO2 max. I am not sure the V02 max changes and would be interested in opinions on that. 

Numbness of the foot and tightness of the Achilles usually has to do with tight plantar fascia. (See below for another cause also). There are 2 easy ways to relieve this pain. Do these the night before a run. It is best to do 3-5 times a week for 6-10 weeks in order to see maximum change. 1) Release fascia tissue - get a lacrosse ball. Stand up and stand on the lacrosse ball with your arch bearing the majority of the weight. Move the ball back and forth with your foot for 3 minutes. This breaks up scar tissue and tightness in the plantar fascia. 2) Stretch your calves. This is the Jay Dicharry (UVA Speed Clinic) burrito stretch. Roll up a towel tight to the size of a Chipotle burrito. Do this Calf Stretch. Put the towel parallel to the foot that is back. Rest your big toe only on the burrito. This will extend the big toe and release the pain in your calves. Hold for 3 minutes a side in order to lengthen the tissue. The pain and specifically the numbness may be caused by a tight sciatic muscle. The body is a closed system and sciatic issues can manifest themselves in the lower limbs. One of the best ways to break up scar tissue in a tight sciatic is to sit on a lacrosse ball. Roll back and forth and find the tight / sore spot. This could be anywhere from upper hamstring to lower back to hip to butt. When you find it, you'll know. Finally, check this blog for more serious medical issues. 

I would advise to train as you are going to race. If you are running a trail race, do most of your training on trails. Similarly, if you plan on racing in supportive trainers, practice mostly in supportive trainers. It is great to use vibrams / minimalist shoes as they (positively) change your stride, cadence and foot strike BUT I would try to take a long, long time of easing into them before attempting a marathon. You indicated you are easing into them over the last 4 months but that is still a relatively small amount of time given a lifetime of running. Maybe try 3/4 days a week in Vibrams and 3/4 days in trainers and then racing in the trainers. Both shoes will provide benefits as you continue transitioning to 100% minimalist. Keep up the minimalist work and good luck with the marathon. 

2 MUST HAVES as far as gaining strength with minimal muscle mass increase. 1) Underground Secrets to Faster Running by Barry Ross focuses on his success with Allison Felix but is directly applicable to all distance runners. Used in great programs including Bill Aris's Fayettville-Manlius 6 time NXN Champions. 2) Coach Running DVDs which touch on EVERYTHING a distance runner needs to be successful. Steve Magness talks in depth on how to structure weight sessions and aerobic training in order to gain strength without mass. Jay Dicharry also provides TONS of strength training information. These are the best DVDs I've watched on running and recommend them highly. The cover it all and is applicable to all levels and all distances above 400m. Best lessons I can share... monitor the rest and lift heavy with few sets . Yes this is counterintuitive to the high reps, low weight programs often suggested. It works! The 2 resources above will provide you with tons more support and information as to why that is correct. Best of luck. 

Those are Calf Raises. Calf raises are used to strengthen the lower legs. Calf raises may sometimes help with shin splints depending on the location of the pain. Toe raises are the opposite lift and should be done in conjunction to avoid muscle imbalances. Stand flat footed and lift your toes towards your shin bone. 

Absolutely. First, why WON'T it happen? Aerobic activity following Strength training impedes the mTor pathway. What the heck does that mean? It means if you lift and then run, the hormones responsible for hypertrophy will be inhibited and prevent mass gain. When strength training, rest periods greater than 3 minutes allow the ADP-CP system to refill which also can prevent hypertrophy (ok, that is oversimplified but the idea is long rest prevents hypertrophy). In order to achieve hypertrophy while also running... 1) Run first and then lift 2) Lift more reps with less rest between sets. Limit rest between sets to less than 2 minutes and usually a lot less. Try working 3 by 10 with 45 - 60 seconds between sets. And be sure to keep your calorie intake up but focus on nutrient dense food sources (skip the junk food). 

Lots of good answers in here so I will keep it simple. 1) Doing the same thing everyday will make you (and your body) bored with the stimulus. Instead try going Hard one day and Easy the next. Repeat and take off 1 day per week. 2) Start slowly and progressively build. The body takes a while to change. Keep track and try to say 10% per week with a "down" week every 3 to 4 weeks. 3) Definitely strength train either with or without weights. 4) Watch diet and increase water intake. What that looks like is this... Week 1 Day 1 - 45 minute cardio (Hard day) Day 2 - 20 minute cardio (Easy day) Day 3 - 20 minute cardio followed by 15 minute strength training (Hard day) Day 4 - 20 minute cardio (Easy day) Day 5 - 30 minute cardio (Hard day) Day 6 - 20 minute cardio Day 7 - rest Sample Progression: Day 1 - add 5 minutes a week until Week 4. Week 4 roll back to 45 minutes. Repeat with Week 5 beginning at 55 minutes. Add 5 minutes a week to Day 5. Add 1 more day of weight training Keep the "Easy" days under 30 minutes. Remember it is a "slow" progression if you truly want this to be life changing. These needs to become a lifestyle change and not just a short term fix. The slower the build, the less likely the burnout. Best of luck! 

In the case of injury, consult a doctor as needed. Physical therapists may also help to prevent the injury from becoming serious. If you don't believe it to be serious, try to stretch the surrounding areas. Jay Dicharry of the UVA Speed Clinic recommends Standing Calf Stretches to target the soleus and gastroc muscles of the calf. For a better stretch, roll a towel up like a burrito and place under the big toe of the foot that is in back. Calf issues, especially tightness, can also be from tight fascia in the foot (plantar fascia). Press the area on the bottom of your foot near your arch until you find a tender spot and/or a tight spot. Continue to apply pressure to that area and flex your toes back and forth for 3 minutes. Repeat on the other foot. That will help to break up any tightness in the foot and achilles, also helping the calf. Finally, try self massage of the calf area. Run your finger down the bone on the inside of your leg (tibia). Find a sore spot just behind or to the side of the bone. Again apply pressure and this time, flex your ankle back and forth for 3 minutes. This one almost always clears up calf issues for me personally. If you want more information on Jay, check out the Coach Running Videos.