If 'something similar' to Latin -que is good enough for you, present-day Spanish conmigo contains an old preposition or prepositional clitic suffix -cum hidden under the current from -go. [Our conmigo actually derives from cum mecum, where the -cum part of mecum was originally an adposition/a syntactic affix meaning 'with' arguably similar to the -que clitic meaning 'and'. That construction was, of course, redundant, a remnant of the stage at which late spoken Latin was becoming a head-complement language, what Romance languages soon were to develop into, but still contained important residues, mainly in VPs and PPs, of the earlier complement-head phase]. Less obviously, present-day Spanish quisqui, as in todo quisqui (= every body), cada quisqui (= each person), is a reflex of Latin quis-que (originally perhaps = somebody else). 

No serious attempt has ever been made to justify in semantic (and ultimately ontological) terms the extremely rich inventory of functional categories that Cinque has been elaborating since the late 1990’s for both the clause and the DP (and the categories of their complements, i.e., the ‘entities’ that e.g., Cinque’s adverbials must predicate higher order properties of!), and I’m afraid, for the time being (and for many years to come, at best) you may as well abandon all hope of seeing most of the functional categories posited in his cartographic work grounded on empirically credible ontological/semantic categories. Ernst’s 2002 book, Jackendoff’s much earlier (1972) one, Ross's and other 'generative semanticists' work in the late 60's and early 70's, Beth Levin's work, Abney's dissertation, and a few other works (including those in other linguistic traditions, especially Fregean-Montagovian and Categorial Grammar, but also Dik’s and Rijhoff’s FG work on the structural levels in the clause and the NP, respectively, and Hengeveld’s recent work on Functional Discourse Grammar, however sloppy its 'LF' may be) have contributed to some extent to ground a few of those functional categories, but most remain purely stipulative (actually, most of the base-generated categories a Cinquean analysis entails do not even have an adequate descriptive name, not to mention the innumerable additional and completely ad hoc categories that must be posited if observed surface order is to be derived from a Kayne/Cinque-style account of base-generated structure). Although ontologists as austere as Quine (or the less austere, but still austere Davidson) may not be in business any more, I suspect, not even the most extravagant contemporary philosophical ontologist would subscribe to the kind of ontology that a Cinquean theory of Language would call for if his syntactic categories were to be invested with credible semantic/ontological content. Hence, although the empirical evidence that has been brought to bear by Cinque and his followers on the existence of such extremely articulated and scope-wise rigid hierarchies inside both the clause and the DP is impressive, all that - in itself excellent - work will have to remain empirically adequate (i.e., predictive enough) perhaps, but merely stipulative, ontologically/semantically vacuous, and unable to really 'explain' anything, at least until linguists decide to investigate intra-linguistic ontology (as opposed to extra-linguistic ontology) in depth. Unfortunately, as far as I know, no sustained work has been done on intra-linguistic ontology since ‘structural semantics’ and particularly Coseriu’s semantic programme became extinct, or at least confined to very obscure academic quarters, in the early 1980’s. The early Chomskian programme(s) (e.g., Aspects, Language and Mind, Reflections on Language, Knowledge of Language), of course, entailed the elaboration of a proper linguistic ontology as a basis for the semantic component of the Language Faculty, but ever since the mid 1970’s the Chomskian programme has given up on that crucial goal, and, particularly since the Minimalist Programme was launched in the early 1990’s, the content of the Language Faculty has been quickly contracting into triviality. Once the lexicon is factored out, what remains is basically Merge (recursion); practically everything else has now been irresponsibly declared the psychologists’ or the cognitive scientists’ job, and, of course, such specialists, like all, or the great majority of, philosophical ontologists, do not believe in an independent linguistic ontology. As a consequence, nobody knows or, I'm afraid, is even likely to ever find out, what entities correspond to most of the Cinquean categories. Individuals (> DPs), sets (> unsaturated predicates), events (> saturated VPs, or hidden components thereof), states of affairs (> predications/IPs), modal predications (> ModPs), maybe propositions (> Polarity Phrases), and speech acts (> ForcePs) may be ontologically justified (if your ontologist is very generous), and it is relatively easy to justify their respective scope, but that’s about it, as far as I can see. That’s what makes life so hard for any syntax and semantics teacher that seriously tries to convince his students of the existence of a transparent, compositionality-based, relation between minimalist syntactic representations and the 'semantic' representations the C-I systems are supposed to derive from them at the conceptual-semantic interface. 

(something like : By this huge void and these vast and silent realms...) It's a dactylic hexameter with the "hoc" being treated as a long syllable (for another example, confer this line in Eneid 2.664 : Hoc erat, alma parens...) 

By the way, the so called "t euphonique" placed between some verbs(*) and their subject in a VSO construction, like in : 

Even if these languages belong to the Indo-European family, there's a huge gap of time and space standing between Pre-Italic and Pre-Germanic languages. "A probable cladistic tree of the IE family"(a) shows e.g. that the Italo-Celtic subfamily and the "Central IE" subfamily (including Germanic) diverges long before Germanic and Indo-Iranian diverged. "The last common ancestor of Germanic and Italo-Celtic was probably spoken at least 5,000 years ago".(c) "We can [...] say [...] that PGmc was spoken [...] not earlier than about 500 BC"(d) By contrast, "There are [...] four or five Latin inscriptions datable to before 600 BC" and "A number of [languages other than the Latin one] are known from Italy in the first millenium BC".(b) The differences are consequently innumerable; I will take only one consequence of such a huge gap between Germanic and Latin languages, described in (e). When these last two languages enter in contact, each one borrowed some words from the other one and applied to these words its own linguistical rules. E.g. Latin "Caesar" > Proto-Gmc *kaisaraz . 

So verbs have tenses (present and past in this example), voices (active and passive in this example), moods (indicative and imperative? Or would this be called something else?). These are three different BLANKs. With which common noun does one fill in this blank? Or is there none? And are there more things besides these three that belong in this list? 

By contrast, in German, "werden" is more deeply embedded in the language than "tun". "Tun" is used in German counterparts of "What will you do?" or "That's what I did." but it does not have the other uses listed above. "Werden" not only means "become" but 

Is there a name for the phenomenon in which a phrase consisting of several words is mentally parsed as a word? Two examples are when General Patton used as the plural of "son of a bitch" the phrase "son of a bitches" or when Donald Trump said Hillary Clinton was "one of the worst secretary of states". Trick question: "Do they have a fourth of July in England?" The answer, obviously, is "no" when "fourth of July" is parsed as a word rather than as a three-word phrase, and Americans usually parse it mentally as a word. (The etymology is that that word is derived from the three words "fourth" and "of" and "July".) I suspect that when dogs follow instructions given as a complete sentence, the dog understands the sentence as a word. 

The only book I have (A guide to Old English, 6th edition, pp 14-15) only recalls that the diphthongs "eo" and "ēo" exist in Old English and that "[b]efore e and i, [...] g is usually pronounced like [...] y in MnE 'yet'". 

This verse is analyzed here as a (Bliss) 2A3b verse and a (Hutcheson) 1rAn [pxSpx] verse. I'm not sure to understand what's behind [pxSpx] : is its something like /herespēd caesura /ġyfen ? Seiichi Suzumi describes 64b as a Sievers' "A1s" verse (The Metrical Organization of Beowulf: Prototype and Isomorphism, p. 498) and adds the following remark about 64b : 

I'm looking for a detailed description of the Old English syllable. Wikipedia gives me clear information about the onset and the nucleus but nothing about the coda. I'd appreciate any document describing the last part of the "(C)3V(C)3" structure given by Wikipedia; alas, this information is not sourced. Any help would be appreciated ! 

I'm currently using espeak, an open-source software. Not so bad, even if the voices sound artificial. Details here. E.g. : (Seneca, Epistulae ad Lucilium, 1.1.1) 

1st person: myself, ourselves 2nd person: yourself yourselves 3rd person: himself, herself, itself, themselves, oneself In Latin, French, Spanish, Italian, and German there is only one reflexive pronoun, used only in the third person, except that in those last four it's also a second person "polite" as opposed to "familiar" second-person pronoun. In Swahili there's a single reflexive infix. 

(The initial letters of German nouns are capital.) My question is whether some book or web page has tabulated a moderately comprehensive list of examples of this, and of other similar phenomena? 

I'm wondering if there's a name for a phenomenon that I think of in the following way: Some words are far more deeply embedded within a language than others. I'm contrasting the words "do" and "become" in English with their respective German counterparts "tun" and "werden". "Do" is more deeply embedded in English than "become". 

"Everybody [?] knows" that there are these pairs of corresponding words in German and English in which an "f" appears in German where a "p" appears in English: 

"A guy that you can see" makes sense; "A guy that you can walk" does not, unless the word walk is used in the sense of walking the dog rather than in the sense of walking into a bar. I.e. that verb is intransitive. Therefore my tentative idea was that "walk into a bar and see" is being used here in effect as a compound transitive verb. But on the other hand, if you say "I walked into the bar and saw him.", I would say simply that walked is an intransitive verb and the pronoun him is the object of the transitive verb saw. So how would syntacticians analyze the quoted sentence? 

The existence of adjectival or adverbial complements of prepositions is very improbable on purely conceptual grounds, because a) all true prepositions are two-place predicates, b) by definition, a predicate must take one or more arguments as its complements (broad sense, 'subjects' included), c) arguments must be encoded by referential expressions (names referring to 'entities', including time intervals, space regions or states of affairs) and d) both adjectives and adverbs are themselves predicates (of 'nominal' expressions in one case, of verbal or 'extended verbal' projections in the other), not arguments (note that they name nth-order properties, not individuals or situations). Hence, all, or the great majority of, the cases of P+Adj or P+Adv you might think of if you just look up the part of speech of words in commercial dictionaries are not real adverbs (or adjectives). Typical examples are words like yesterday, today, tomorrow, now, then, here, there,... traditionally considered adverbs, but long ago reanalysed by serious syntacticians as NPs or deictics pointing to temporal or spatial regions. In some cases, their nominal character becomes obvious as soon as you consider that they may take genitive inflections (cf. yesterday's/today's/tomorrow's newspapers). In others (now, then, here, there,...) that evidence is not available for purely morphological or historical reasons (e.g., Modern English deictics do not inflect for case). As to apparent P + Adj constructions, the evidence for 'nominal' status of the adjective is perhaps less compelling, and in some cases, there is no obvious analytical alternative yet, but some of those adjectives are the reflexes of translations from Latin (where 'altus'[> high], for example, was both an adjective and a noun meaning 'heaven' amongst other things), or nominalizations of a special kind (e.g., the use of guapo or listo in Spanish expressions like ir de guapo por la vida, pasarse de listo, etc.). Apart from that, in many cases, the would-be P+Adj constructions have been re-analysed (at least within certain syntactic theories) and there is evidence that what seemed to be a preposition is not really such, but an 'inflectional' category or a complementizer (e.g., in English, the as or the for of consider somebody as intelligent, or take something for granted, etc.). In general, thus, given the conceptual difficulties that the mere existence of P+Adj constructions raises, would-be cases of adjectival complements of prepositions probably result from the fact that most grammars have not yet analysed such constructions in sufficient depth, or, if some have, due to the fact that commercial dictionaries are very reluctant to change the 'part of speech' attributions that Greek, Latin and mediaeval grammarians established centuries or millennia ago and that remain in use in the elementary school grammars by which most of us learn the little we know about the syntax of our native languages. 

"Mr. Hemmingway, do you write books?" "I do." "Did Mr. Hemmingway write this book?" "He did." Just as the pronoun "he" or "I" stands in place of the noun "Mr. Hemmingway", so the verb "do" or "did" stands in place of the very "write" or "wrote". This is complicated by the way in which English uses "do" or "did" as an auxiliary verb in questions: maybe it could be argued that "do" or "did" in the answer is merely the same verb, "do" or "did", that is the main verb in the question. That "do", "does", or "did" would stand in place of another verb when it is expected to be understood what the other verb is, is very far from the only way in which the verb "do" is used in English. However, this inspires a question: might there be, in some languages, some verbs whose only function is to bear the same relation to verbs in general that pronouns bear to nouns? 

I heard a non-native speaker of English saying something would be "split into". After a fraction of a second I realized that what was intended was "split in two". The difference appears to be that in the two-word phrase, the stress is on the second syllable. And possibly it's a bit longer. Dictionaries tell you which syllable should get the primary stress and in some cases the secondary stress, but only within each word. That there's more to getting the stress on the right syllable than doing so in each word separately is something I might not have noticed without this example. Is there some explicit systematic account of this phenomenon?