Utilitarianism says that what we ought to do is maximize overall pleasure/happiness, or at least what we ought to do is what we reasonably expect will maximize pleasure/happiness. More generally, consequentalist theories of normative ethics say that what matters is well-being (here you fill in your favourite theory of well-being), and because well-being matters we should try to bring about as much of it as possible, i.e. maximize it. If by saving the data cubes you maximize overall happiness, then utilitarianism says that saving the data cubes is the thing to do. But this isn't necessarily the utilitarian's response: we can imagine scenarios where utilitarianism says that it would be morally wrong to save the cubes. Suppose the woman is a utility monster, or that the cubes won't actually help anyone, or whatever. The important point is that whatever you do, you're maximizing happiness. Utilitarianism doesn't care how you go about doing that, just that it happens. As far as other normative ethical theories go, I think they'll also say that the (im)morality of saving the cubes depends on a number of factors. Take a Kantian, for instance. They'll say that so long as you're acting on a maxim that you could reasonably will to be universal, or that you're not using anyone as a mere means to an end, it is OK to save the cubes. And a virtue ethicist will say that so long as by saving the cubes you act virtuously, it will be permissible, or maybe even obligatory, to do so. The difficult part is accounting for all of the non-moral features that bear on whether your are actually acting virtuously, or treating people as a mere means, or whatever. As far as utilitarianism/consequentialism goes, you might find this page useful: $URL$ 

Sentence three "But we judge these degrees only by comparison with a maximum." is utterly false. Tallness, for example, is a comparison which is entirely relative, and is not compared to some sort of maximum. There are many comparisons that are not in reference to some theoreical maximum. Given that this premise is wrong, the argument can only stand if one then justifies that "goodness" is measured relative to a maximum. Such a justification is not included in Aquinas's "proof". The argument presumes that goodness is an objective standard. This assumption is directly contrary to reality. There are man competing definitions of what constitutes good versus evil. As another answer pointed out, a woman crusading for women's rights would be considered "doing good" by some people and "doing evil" by others. Even if you did accept the premises of the argument, it is not a proof of the existence of God. We know that Oscar the Grouch is a fictional character, despite the fact that we have defined him to be the quintessential of smelliness. As a mathematician would say "The existence of an infimum of a set does not imply that the infimum is a member of the set." Even if we did accept that "God" is the maximum of goodness, that does not imply that God exists. 

The room is only a way to isolate the human from outside influence. It is not the computer. There is nothing for the room to learn. The human needs to learn or understand Chinese by running the program. Running the program is what counts not which computer is used to run the program. The program can be moved around to different computers or different humans and the results should be the same. The question is does running the program anywhere generate not only a correct result, but also understanding of Chinese? If it does, then this would be an alternate way for someone to learn a new language. Reference: John Searle, "Minds, Brains and Programs" 

What believers of a religion follow is the reality referenced by their scripture, not the scripture itself. The scripture keeps that reality in the believer’s mind, but it is not that reality. If the text were what was followed, the text would be a kind of idol. Accepting the scripture or an interpretation of a scripture is something a believer chooses to do or not do after the believer understands the scripture. If the reality referenced by the scripture is infinite and the text is finite, the mapping between the finite text and infinite reality cannot be expected to represent a bijection. See the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy's Maimonides reference for a suggestion that silence may be a better interpretation of the content of some scriptures. This would also be true for sentences dependent upon human understanding, not only scriptures that a believer uses. By contrast, if a text were codified so transformations of the text could be checked by a computer, an “interpretation” of that text could be defined as any valid transformation. Then acceptance or "following" of the original text or an interpretation would be based on the computer's logic, not human understanding. That, however, is not what is going on with human understanding of a scripture. 

The theoretical foundation of the concept of waves came from the first time someone looked at a body of water. Oceans and lakes have waves lapping upon the shore. Static bodies of water get waves of ripples whenever something disturbs the surface. Someone had to postulate a theory of atoms--the notion that there is a limit to how small things can be broken down, especially if that limit is too small for the eye to see. Waves, on the other hand, are a phenomenon as readily observable as dirt, rocks, or food. No one had to postulate the existence of waves. 

One obvious specific scenario that comes to mind is that the "sensitive matter" is a sexual liason and that when it occurred, Moonlight was an adult and you were a child. You made the promise because you were emotionally manipulated not because it was an appropriate thing to do. In this scenario, you should definitely break the promise, especially if the statute of limitations has not yet expired. If the liason were merely taboo and not illegal, some experimentation that you both decided not to pursue but don't regret, and yet would be tremendously embarassing for Moonlight now, then it would probably be best to keep quiet. 

The beam would be continuous, or rather a continuum, if that statement were true, but is it? Unlike Zeno’s arrow which we can watch going to the target, we can’t see the beam go to the measuring device. Is the reality surrounding the measurement of the beam also a “basic particle”? If it isn’t then the target photon and whatever that beam was prior to acting like a photon at the target are not the same. If the beam does not contain its limit point as a set of reality like itself, then it would be like the rational numbers lacking an irrational limit point and the beam would not be continuous. So to answer the question, Is anything truly continuous?, would require answering the question about what happens during a quantum collapse. 

This is not something I think you want to happen. If we did only accept what we know to be empirically true, and nothing else, then we would have to abandon mathematics, logic, ethics, and a whole host of other non-empirical areas of knowledge. Simply put, there are more things that we can know than there are things that we can know empirically. 

You may want to re-examine this belief. Most contemporary philosophers are compatibilists about free will: they accept that some kind of causal determinism is true, but that this has no bearing on the issue of free will. You will find this link helpful: $URL$ $URL$ 

Yes. Some philosophers give pride of place to deductive power. Here I've got someone maybe from the Dummettian inferentialist tradition in mind. By their lights, what logic is for is formalizing arguments (at first-order). Given this goal, semantic incompleteness is undesirable, because it means that some entailments cannot be captured by your proof system. These philosophers will regard a failure of semantic completeness as problematic (as in the case of second-order logic, as Mauro points out), because their project requires a tight connection between logical entailment and deductive validity. Other philosophers, however, give pride of place to expressive power. Mathematical structuralists are an example here. By these philosopher's lights, what matters is that we pin down structures - of the natural numbers, say. Since you can only do that at second-order, you have to give up semantic completeness to do it. These philosophers won't regard second-order logic as having 'failed', even though it's semantically incomplete, because it does precisely what they want it to: precisely characterize structures. 

One way to make sense of this is to view moral anti-realism as a means for evolutionary change to occur without a determined goal. The libertarian free will provides the ability to make a change and the moral anti-realism provides different paths that change could take. One could look at the position of blaming and praising as coming from a specific group the individual belongs to. The individual belongs to multiple groups and a different position may be taken by each of these groups in judging the value of the free action. The success of some groups over other groups leads to evolutionary change. Hence one can make sense out of both libertarian free will and moral anti-realism. Another question asks how to “nail down” libertarianism. 

This is taken from Rosen, Gideon, "Abstract Objects", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Winter 2017 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = $URL$ Based on this "great deal of agreement", since "my death" describes an event occurring to a concrete human being, one can assume that "my death" would also be concrete rather than abstract unless one prefers some other way to make the dichotomy between abstract and concrete. 

This view obviously avoids Lewisian modal realism. Even if 'external things' exist and are the semantic values of certain expressions (I trust this is what you mean when you say that "external things are what give propositions meaning"), we're not thereby committed to thinking that the external things in question are Lewisian possible worlds. They could simply be abstract objects like numbers or sets or universals. Of course, this view is still a 'modal realist' view insofar as it accepts that possible worlds exist; but it departs from Lewis when it comes to their nature. (Could you be an anti-realist about possible worlds yet go in for possible worlds semantics? Maybe. But you'd probably have to be some sort of error-theorist or non-cognitivist about modal expressions. I don't know of any particular views in this neighbourhood, or why you'd be motivated to accept them). Does anyone hold this kind of view? Yes; Robert Stalnaker comes to mind. And similar sorts of views are clearly possible, each with their own tweaks - the literature on philosophical semantics is replete with them. Now, it's worth pointing out the Lewisian will deny that you can correctly capture the truth-conditions of all the sentences you want to capture on the above view. He's going to say that you need possible worlds, in his sense, to do semantics. The Stalnakerian, say, will disagree; the Stalnakerian thinks we can do the semantics we want without committing ourselves to Lewisian possible worlds. None of this should be surprising; whether or not modal semantics need Lewisian worlds is something of an open question. The point is that philosophers are very resistant to Lewis's conception of possible worlds and have gone to great lengths to preserve the benefits of the possible worlds semantics while eschewing Lewisian worlds. As far as references go, you should really check out Robert Stalnaker's work. He's been writing about this stuff for ages. In particular, check out the first part of Stalnaker's Ways a World Might Be as well as his Mere Possibilities. The third chapter of Ways a World Might Be contains a very nice little dialogue between a Lewisian and an anti-Lewisian that you might find helpful. 

Although I agree with Alex’s answer, I think the following offers a different perspective. I don’t think it is in the best interests of religions to link too closely with the “energy” concepts from physics. Energy is an idea that describes reality. Subjectivity is removed from this description and the description becomes data. We try to isolate our subjectivity further by using mathematics to manipulate the data and look for patterns. We then project those patterns back onto reality and proclaim that the patterns are not just in our mathematical models of the descriptions but they are also in reality as laws of nature. Since subjectivity was removed at the start of the process, subjectivity has no place in the resulting laws of nature. Religious ideas are also descriptions of reality. Subjectivity turns these descriptions into stories and we project them back into reality. Out of this comes various deities. Since subjectivity was not removed, our deities are conscious like we are. These deities are like the laws of nature except the deities are conscious and the laws are not. I assume that honest descriptions of reality reflect some truth about reality no matter their source and no matter how small. However none of the descriptions are reality itself. They are not complete descriptions. What I presented above is itself a description of reality and people may disagree with it. How far should someone with a predominantly religious perspective associate with something like the first law of thermodynamics which describes reality in terms of unconscious energy? To what extent should that person align with an unconscious description of reality? Furthermore, a law of nature can be viewed as an unconscious deity that is deterministic and valid throughout all space and time. To what extent should that person align with a deterministic law? Given a physicalist perspective, one can ask similar questions about various religions. They do provide stories about subjectivity, but some of those stories contain conscious deities. Conscious deities and unconscious laws of nature conflict with each other. 

Evidence can establish proof that a theory is wrong. If I find a white crow, then I have conclusively proven that "all crows are black" is wrong. Proving a theory emperically is logically equivalent to proving that all opposing theories are wrong. If an opposing theory could be correct, then clearly we cannot have proven that our theory must be correct. For example, we have proven that "The Earth is round" because all other possible shapes for the Earth have been ruled out by evidence. It cannot be flat, it cannot be a cube, it cannot be a torus, because we have experimental evidence showing those shapes do not match reality. Likewise, we have proven "The Earth is about 4.5 billion years old" because all other possible theories about the age of the earth have been ruled out by evidence. (The theory "The Earth is actually 6,000 years old, but God made it appear exactly as if it were 4.5 billion years old" is by definition experimentally indistinguishable from "the Earth is 4.5 billion years old" and as such, does not count as a separate theory). Likewise, there is no theory other than Evolution that explains the evidence we see in biology. There is no theory other than Anthropogenic Global Warming that explains what evidence we see in climate studies. So, to answer your question, "enough evidence" means we have enough evidence to eliminate all other opposing theories. 

It may be clearer to restrict the concern to Plantinga’s “naturalism” which implies a belief that there is nothing “God-like”, that is, there are no agents and everything is the result of event causation. See Plantinga’s Evolutionary Argument Against Naturalism (EAAN) in Where the Conflict Really Lies. The problem of evil may challenge not just a certain group of theists who believe in an omnipotent, omniscient and omnibenevolent God, but it also challenges this naturalism. The problem of evil has four premises assuming the concurrent existence of both a particular type of God and evil: 

Plantinga argued in his Evolutionary Argument Against Naturalism (EAAN) that given naturalistic evolution we cannot expect our cognitive faculties to be reliable. This contradicts our experience that these cognitive faculties actually are reliable. According to a set of lecture notes, page 2, Plantinga claims that Quine and Popper do not see a problem with naturalistic evolution, however, others, notably Darwin, do see a problem. In Where the Conflict Really Lies (WTCRL, 316-325) and these notes (page 3) he calls this “Darwin’s Doubt”. Traditional theism has a way out of the problem since God gives human beings what is needed to have knowledge. It seems that non-theists should be able to do something similar perhaps with panpsychism or punctuated equilibria as an evolutionary theory as long as they avoid the materialism with respect to human beings that Plantinga references in WTCRL. The justification for the truth of the content of our cognitive faculties need not go all the way to a God. How do non-theists, who do see a real problem with naturalistic evolution, explain the reliability of our cognitive faculties?