Are you sure you're next in line? It's not uncommon for tech shops to start the hiring process for a more senior developer after someone submits their notice, so that they can keep their development schedule on track. In spite of that, given that you're worried if you will succeed or fail, I'd advise that you hold off stepping into a bigger role, as I don't think you're quite ready for it yet. Your expertise in the system is an important asset, but if you want to step into a more leadership role, you have to have both the knowledge and the temperament to weather you through potential success and failures. 

Once you have your offer in hand, and only when you do, should you start mentioning any perks. Nothing is guaranteed until you have the offer letter, so I would advise against mentioning it until it's finalized. That said, it is unlikely at best and detrimental (to you) at worst for the company to make a counteroffer for you to stay. All things considered, you're an inexpensive employee for the experience and education you currently have. If they wanted to find another college rookie and they felt that they had success with you, they'd be more open to trying that again as opposed to giving you that huge raise. It's also more detrimental for your experience to not move to other opportunities. As a fellow software engineer with 2 years experience, it makes tons of sense to go out and try something new in the field, especially if you'll be more engaged in it. 

I've used my Stack Overflow profile to help me with my job hunts before. I've got my specific profile ID listed on there, too. But I don't have it listed as a skill. I have it listed under what I refer to as "Community Contributions". Participating on a website isn't a skill. It's something you learn how to do over the course of many years, and there's no fine art to it. Anyone could contribute to Stack Overflow and not be an ideal candidate in the slightest. However, it does say something when they are an avid user of Stack Overflow, and have contributed lots of helpful knowledge to the site. It helps when you can demonstrate clear and concise communication between yourself and others. It also helps if a prospective employer can thumb through your contributions to see whether or not you're up to their standards. So I'd advise you to list it on your resume or CV, but not as a skill. 

You know your comfort level at a position better than anyone else ever could. If you genuinely feel that this isn't a good fit for you, then don't feel ashamed about leaving. If you wind up placing this job on your resume, you will have to defend your considerably short tenure there, though. 

Adding something like that really depends on the audience you're speaking to. I'd imagine that, more or less, since you're talking to people that know Javascript, are familiar with Node, and would know what an asynchronous operation is, then putting code in the slides would be OK. That said, there is a limit to how much code you should put in a presentation. If you can, keep it context-specific, and make your snippets small. Consider the audience once more. The likelihood is that they can't thoroughly inspect or ask questions about code that appears on screen for a short amount of time. They might prefer to look at it in their own time, or want a copy of it to preview before/during/after the presentation itself. Ultimately, you don't want to give people in a presentation lots of lines of code to look at. If it's at all possible/permissible, throw it up on a code hosting repository (GitHub, Bitbucket, etc), and then use that as the key reference. You could say, "This is the repository for the full code which I have written, and if you want to take a look at the whole thing, it's all over there." 

Depending on how your company is structured, your peers may also have to validate these assertions. You also haven't personally been given a lot of extra work yet; the responsibility of this person has been distributed between you and the rest of your team. Until you can clearly demonstrate that you're coming out ahead and producing at a higher rate even with the added work, it's just too early for you to ask for a raise. 

You claim that the two groups haven't talked with each other in person, yet. In my mind, it seems like you may be preempting a scenario that may not actually happen at all. The only realistic thing to do is to familiarize yourself with company policy; if there is a policy against political conversation, then that would be what you would want to lean on to avoid the conversation. But in all honesty...the only real way that anything will happen is if someone ignores basic polite discourse. Your teammates very likely know when to disengage in any impolite political discussion, and if they ignore the cues from the other side, they will have to deal with an HR issue anyway. If you're feeling like the issue could still come up, then it's fine to mention to them that you don't think they'd appreciate the political banter. From there, it falls out of your hands and firmly into HR's lap, should the matter escalate or become tense. 

Instead of indicating how much you charged per hour, you should look to clarify what those specific things you did were. It really doesn't matter if you charged $75/hr for work and only did one hour of work, but it would matter if your efforts helped markedly improve the efficiency and clarity of a company process. You want to showcase your abilities here, not how much you believe your time costs. If a company wants to bring you on, you can start talking about salary (and you'd be quite blessed if a full-time company would voluntarily pay a fresh college graduate $150K/yr). 

Suppose that this isn't your boss that you're painting for. At that point, what would you normally charge someone that commissioned a painting for you? If it were a close friend or acquaintance, then what discount would you offer them? Value your time fairly and charge according to the effort it took to produce the painting in the first place; this includes total labor and materials. If you're honest about it, then there shouldn't be any issues between you and your client. 

...and, there's no real context to figure out why the network is down, since it could be all manner of things - power failure, ISP failure, some dude digging up the fiber, some dude taking the copper out of your building, etc. But to answer the question more pointedly, what you want to do is understand what clarifying questions are and what purpose they serve. For example, if I were asked the question, "Describe at least 3 practical differences between Windows and OS X," I'd look to frame it in context to the job I'm applying for. In context... 

Not good. It's fine to have one person expressing a different opinion than others, but it's not fine when it starts to impact work. Which leads me to... 

Since that question is wide open, you have to ask questions to narrow the scope or context of what you're doing. 

I don't necessarily disagree with this opinion, and it also gives you anecdotal, real-world verification that being late does leave a negative impression on your opportunity. On the flip side, I've had experience with a late interviewer; I declined any further work with them because they had disrespected my schedule not once, but twice. (Why twice? It's a long and complicated story, one which doesn't involve me necessarily looking for work at that time.) Their tardiness and inability to really pencil me in at the specific agreed-upon time left me with an impression that that they wouldn't respect me when I walked in the doors, either. To your question, here's what I'd recommend: 

Be direct with them. If you're not interested in leaving your current company anymore, just say so. There is no sense in anyone going back and forth in the interview process if you're not interested in looking around anymore. It often works in your favor to be up front with a company or a recruitment firm that you have decided to stay in your position. At the very least, you'll know that you haven't lied to them, and in certain scenarios, you'll be contacted again by the company should your decision change. 

You could try to meet in the middle with your employer on this one. There are standing desk converter kits which are available which will give you the benefit of being able to raise your desk when you need to and have it seated at all other times. I've not heard of any medical note being required for anything like this - it's a matter of comfort at work and being comfortable at work makes you more productive - but if you show them that there are kits which are inexpensive and can accomplish what you're looking to accomplish, then perhaps they'll be more lenient. I would respect the fact that there is a cost associated with this, and if they refuse to bend, I'd make sure that it gets noted down - who you talked to, when you talked to them, and what the decision was and why. When you decide to leave that employer - and no, it's not a matter of "if" at this point; your health is too important - you can use this reference material as part of your exit interview with HR. 

I've experienced Google interviews in which I've delayed the interview process to ensure that I had a better crack at the job. It was less of a matter of worrying about my circumstances and more about communicating with their recruiter and setting their expectations in the matter. If you're in doubt, talk to your recruiter. They are the authoritative source on the timeline that you have. You won't miss your opportunity if you ask them for a bit of time, but you would miss it if you didn't study properly. From every Google engineer I've talked to in and outside of the interview process, taking time to study is not a bad thing. 

Burning bridges or causing some ill will between you and your previous employer would basically be something like this; you either don't give two weeks' notice, you give the notice and you go on a vacation during that period, or you give the notice and don't really do anything during the last two weeks of your tenure. Giving notice means that you're agreeing to work for the next X days as specified in the notice while they look to fill your upcoming vacancy. Going against that is a sure-fire way to earn ire from your former employer. My recommendation: if you really don't want to work the time, then just be honest about it. Don't give two weeks' notice and then do nothing, since that'll be a much harder bridge to rebuild later. If I were a personnel manager, I'd rather you give me no time than faff about for two weeks. 

It is my assessment that you need to replace your existing project managers, and hire people who are capable of proper schedule management. You state that this sort of thing happens often. As a salaried software developer in the US, and having worked with PMs who haven't managed a good schedule, the main thing that comes of it is frustration. Regardless of how much you start offering me in overtime pay, I'm still going to be frustrated with the way that this project was managed. That sort of thing can leave an impression that lasts for a career; I've had those same PMs ask me for a reference, and I could not in good conscience ever give them one. In my assessment, the only thing that makes sense is to manage expectations of schedule. You're putting a lot of burden on your employees by asking them to make up for gaps in those expectations, and you're also negatively impacting your project managers' confidences in being able to accurately describe the schedule of work. However, it's very important that you get people in the building who can accurately manage schedules. Speaking as a worker bee, I'm relatively easy; I will do the work asked before me and I will accomplish it to the best of my abilities. However, asking me to have to work overtime doesn't jive with my work-life balance. You make reference to an "easy life", but most don't see it that way; work-life balance determines just how loyal and happy your employees are, too. Don't underestimate it. Your company makes enough money to have it worry about deficits of millions. Surely a percentage of that should be used on beefing up your management team. 

His concern comes from a candidate not showing the discipline to turn up on time to an interview, and how that may translate to their performance on the job.