The ancient Hindus did not regularly use "days of the week" (although they are attested). The reason for this was that the Hindu calendar before 1100 AD used mean times (called madhyama) and this can shift days from one month to another. They did have a division into days assigned as one day to each planet as follows: 

So others know what is being talked about I am inserting a picture of the versal (ie the ornate capital letter): 

With help from user4419802's answer I have found pictures of at least two of these monuments. The first (in Palestine) is at Nahr el-Kalb north of Beirut: 

Most countries had laws making it a capital crime to draw back or show cowardice in battle. For example, in the military acts enacted by George II, any kind of failure to "engage the enemy" was punishable by death. In some cases soldiers would be discharged if they were judged to be "insane". So, if your "PTSD" manifested itself in battle, you could count on being killed right then and there, but if it only showed up later during peace, you might just get discharged. In the Civil War period, PTSD was often conflated with "demoralization" and this word was widely used in the 20th century as well. Soldiers that were permanently demoralized were typically deemed to be "insane" and committed to asylums. Here is a ledger from the Civil War showing expenses for transporting "insane" soldiers: 

The traditional price for a bottle of cheap whiskey in a cowboy saloon was two bits (25 cents). See the Kansas City Post Gazette, March 3, 1886, p. 6. Hard drinks were not sold in "shots". They were sold in a small glass which normally held a gill (4 ounces) and cost 5 cents. These prices could be much higher in cities or for name brand liquors. For example, a fancy bottle of brandy might be 3 dollars. A good quality bottle of whiskey in a nice hotel might be as much as 2 dollars. 

The secession of the southern states was a violation of Section 10 of the US Constitution, to which all of those states had agreed. That part of the Constitution reads: 

I already answered for an oared warship. Sailing speed varies enormously depending on the winds, the season, cargo etc. An unladen, very trim ship could make as much as 100 nautical miles per day. A laden knorr might be more like 20 nautical miles per day. The more cargo it has, the slower it goes. 

Associated Press International Saturday, December 25, 1999 "Jordan shifts weekend to Friday-Saturday" AMMAN, Jordan Jordan said Saturday it will change the weekend for government offices to Fridays and Saturdays instead of Thursdays and Fridays, putting it more in step with world business. State-owned Petra news agency said the change goes into effect starting the week of Saturday, Jan. 8. It was not immediately clear if the government decision also applied to schools and universities. The government had on Oct. 7 switched from a Friday-only weekend to Thursday-Friday. Friday is the Muslim Sabbath. Economists had argued that that complicated commercial activity, because banks and the diplomatic corps had already taken Saturday as a holiday. Businessmen said the Thursday-Friday weekend isolated the country from the Western world, where the weekend is normally Saturday and Sunday. Financial institutions and many private businesses had introduced a Friday-Saturday weekend starting last March. The other day weekend in Jordan is Friday, the Muslim day of prayer. 

The problem with a pole arm is that you can only kill one guy with it. If the unit with the spears outnumbers the enemy, fine, but if the enemy outnumbers you, then things will go bad. For this reason elite units always fought with sword and shield because you may need to kill many people. With a spear you can stick one of them, but if you are facing five or six enemies, you need a sword. Another issue with a spear is that it can take a long time to kill somebody because the wound is relatively minor. You could stick somebody with a spear and he might just keep going like the energizer bunny. With a sword you can cause massive wounds that put the enemy into shock and disables them almost immediately. 

Your premise is wrong. The statement, "Based on this question and an answer, it appears that although almost all southern white men of draft age were in the military during the Civil War." is untrue. The relevant "evidence" from the question is: 

Like anything, it's a sliding scale. Donald Trump is a "carpenter" in a manner of speaking. You might think being a trash collector is a minimum wage job, but if you own a fleet of 50 trash trucks, you can be a pretty rich trash collector. Likewise, take plumbers. The average apprentice plumber makes maybe $45k a year tops, but a master plumber with four or five guys working for him can easily pull down $250k a year. Same deal with carpenters. My guess is that Joseph was pretty well off, since he was a second husband. My experience with women is that they usually make sure the second husband has some money. 

The Le Chapelier Law was a French law. In 1862, there was a notorious strike by Parisian printers and book binders which garnered international attention and was followed by other strikes by other craft groups. The Emperor, Napolean III, pardoned these strikers "effectively making moot" the laws against association, such as the Le Chapelier Law. In recognition of this, in 1864 a new law was drafted allowing the formation of trade unions with a right to strike. Discussion of these matters can be found in various books on the labor movement, such as "The Labor Movement in France: A Study in Revolutionary Syndicalism" by Lewis Levitzki Lorwin. 

The growth of literacy was a gradual process, but certainly during the Reformation (1520-1550) literacy grew significantly due to the wider availability of printed materials and proliferation of printing presses, which made books much cheaper. Most education was centered on the monasteries, which were occupied by people known as "friars" (brothers). Friars were very common and they were taught to read from a young age so that they could read clerical materials such as liturgies and gospels. The easiest way to learn to read was to simply to pay a friar to teach you, and many people did this. It was not unknown for curious women to seduce friars in sex-for-reading deals. There were, of course, many other ways to learn to read, but learning from a friar was the most common method, especially for a middle class or lower middle class person. 

In the pre-1760 period, most land was settled by squatting, but in some cases it was bought from the natives. The colonial government did not sell land to any great extent. In general, the colonial government was trying to encourage people just to come to the colony, which in itself was extremely expensive. The last thing they wanted to do was anything that would discourage them, like charge them for land. The main point of contention in the early days was between adjoining farms. The general rule was that you owned any land you could surround with a stone wall three feet high. For this reason, if you drive around New England today, you will see drystone walls everywhere. They are the remnants of property stakes. 

A "primary" source is the first or original source of information about a fact. It has nothing to do with time. Even if an event occurred hundreds of years before, the source is still primary if it is the first or original source of information. For example, let's imagine Henry Neville (1564 – 1615) wrote a letter in 1594 which said that George Neville (1440 – 1492), one of Henry's ancestors, killed John Beufort at the Battle of Tewksbury (1471). This letter would be a primary source for this fact even though the event occurred over 120 years before the letter was written. If a historian later wrote a book about the War of the Roses and included this fact, citing the letter as evidence, then the book would be a secondary source for the fact. Secondary sources cite primary sources as evidence. Primary sources do not cite any prior sources because they are the first source of information. Since the New Testament, including the Gospel of Luke, records many facts for the first time, it is a primary source for those facts. In fact, the very name of the Gospels, the New TESTAMENT, indicates the role of the Gospels as a primary source. A testament is the account of a witness. Any account of a witness is a primary source, even if it is written down long after the event being witnessed occurred. 

The idea that there were "Buddhists" in ancient Rome is completely unattested except in the imagination of some revisionist philosophers bent on deprecating the importance of European culture. Ancient Rome certainly sponsored a vast variety of long-forgotten cults and strange foreign traditions, but there is no record of Buddhism as being one of them. 

As you can surmise from the diagram, before 1943 any bombing beyond the area of the English channel or other allied bases was unescorted. 

There is a book recently published entitled "Christian Slaves, Muslim Masters: White Slavery in the Mediterranean, the Barbary Coast, and Italy, 1500-1800" by Robert Davis, a professor at Ohio State University. According to the book, slave markets with Christian slaves kidnapped or raided from Europe or from European ships were on sale in Barbary coast slave markets until the trade was shut down by the invasion of Algiers by the French in 1830. 

The woodcut above that dates to around 1500 shows a typical counting table. It functioned much like an abacus. The user would draw lines on the table and then arrange pebbles to do calculations. In Latin the word for a pebble is "calculus". This leads to our words such as "calculation" and "calculus". After Fibonacci, some people started to do calculations using Arabic numerals and it became a competing system. In fact, believe it or not there were contests between "algorists" that used Arabic numerals and "calculators" that used the old Roman method using pebbles. This dual system continued well into the 1600s, more than 400 years after the Liber Abaci was written. 

(This answer-comment was originally posted as a comment when the post was locked and no open for questions.) The use of Anno Domini ("in the year of our Lord") was first used in narrative history by Bede (although it had been used very slightly in some annals before that). It was invented, more or less, by Dionysus Exiguus (circa 470 – 544). Before Bede's use of it, there was no use of a year number in everyday use in western Europe. In other words, Anno Domini dating was original. The normal mode of specifying the year before that time (8th century) was by regnal years, or consular years (Rome), or Judges/Archons/Olympiads (Greece). Note that ancient historians sometimes used the Era of Nabonassar to do synchronisms. When Rome collapsed and the consular dates no longer could be used, the Eastern (Byzantine) Empire adopted at first the era Anno Mundi beginning on 25 March 5493 BC, developed by scholars in Alexandria around 200 A.D., and now known as the "Alexandrian Era." Anno Mundi ("year of the world") posits a "date of creation" going forward from Adam and Eve. Later, in the 7th century, the Byzantines adopted a different Anno Mundi system based on the year 5509 B.C. and beginning on September 1. 

An "overnight" change in the value of a currency is a devaluation, not a depreciation. Probably the biggest overnight devaluation ever was the January 31, 1934, devaluation of the dollar from $20 per ounce to $35 per ounce, a 40% devaluation. The money supply was about $8 billion plus at least another $12 billion in gold-backed bonds. So, perhaps the total erasure was 40% of $20 billion or $8 billion dollars, worth 400 million ounces of gold (before the devaluation). As of right now 400 million ounces of gold would be worth $480 billion dollars (2014). If the U.S. government was to pull a stunt like this today, it would result in a loss of about $12 trillion to people around the world. Another biggie on this list is the Gorbachev erasure. In 1989, the Soviet Union under Gorbachev invalidated all 50 and 100 ruble notes. There is no telling how much cash the Soviet citizens had squirreled away, but it could easily have been 100 billion dollars.