The census numbers included 325,000 individuals who hold Palestinian residency permits, but had been living abroad for more than a year. Personally I would regard this a legitimate criticism of something purporting to be a census The census numbers included 210,000 Arabs living in Jerusalem. The status of East Jerusalem is incredibly sensitive in Israeli and Palestinian politics, but to me this seems an unreasonable criticism of a Palestinian census, especially when the State of Israel does not regard most of these individuals as its citizens. The BESA 65 authors are on stronger ground in saying that double counting needs to be avoided if adding these numbers to Israeli census numbers which count all residents in Jerusalem. The BESA 65 report claimed to identify an unexplained 113,000 increase over Israel Central Bureau of Statistics records. They state that voting records in 2005 confirm their analysis. This seems to be the weakest claim: a census is designed to inform administrative estimates rather than the other way round. 

As with any such research, stating a possible link to climate may suggest that more research needs to be funded. When the magnitude of the links to climate are uncertain, as with all such climate-related claims of "could" or "may", they should be treated with the skepticism they deserve, whether they point upwards or downwards. 

In summary, there is a debate over the 1997 Palestinian census figures, but Caroline Glick severely overstated it when she said "In all, the PA added approximately 1.4 million people who did not exist to its population rolls." Even if you add all three points stated in BESA 65, you get less than 0.7 million, and I suspect that a figure half that might be more reasonable. The rest of Glick's 1.4 million claim depended on other claims in BESA 65 unrelated to the 1997 census, and probably even more debatable. A challenge and rebuttal to this was published in the Israeli magazine Azure in 2007. Much of the debate was political rather than statistical. For what it is worth, the CIA World Factbook gives population estimates in 2013 of 2,676,740 in the West Bank and 1,763,387 in the Gaza Strip. Allowing for modest natural growth, this looks between the extremes of the positions put forward in 2006/7. 

By this stage Lloyd George was in opposition, so it is unclear whether the comments are made with approval or not, and indeed whether the specific word is his own or something he was putting into the mouth of the Government. Many years earlier in 1920, Winston Churchill, Secretary of State for War and Air under Lloyd George, had ordered the RAF to Iraq to help quell a local revolt, where they dropped 97 tons of bombs and fired 183,861 rounds so this kind of approach was not novel. 

The statement "only about 2 percent of households [in the EU] have access to broadband networks with 100-megabit-plus speeds" is wrong, or at least badly worded. The figure of 2% is for subscriptions to 100Mbit/s services rather than availability of such services. The European Commission's Digital Agenda Scorecard says there are "about 2% of European homes subscribing to at least 100Mbps". It also shows (Figure 16) that Docsis 3.0 cable broadband has a coverage of 39.4% and Fibre-To-The-Premises coverage of 12.2%. In the UK, the Virgin Media cable broadband network covers almost half the country (more than 2% of the EU on its own and there are similar networks elsewhere) offering its customers a choice of 30, 60 and 100Mbit/s at different prices, and most choose the cheapest; prices at the lower end are kept down by competing ISPs (especially BT, Sky and TalkTalk) offering VDSL FTTC services at speeds of up to 40 or 80 Mbit/s. But even if this point was misspoken, it does do not detract from the US still having a faster network covering covering a higher proportion of the population (at a higher price). 

Since 1986, Herbalife have been under a permanent injunction from the California Courts, which restrains it from 

If you follow this and other similar mattress marketing back, it leads to a product called Purotex made by Bekaert Textiles. They have a promotional leaflet which has clearly been supervised by lawyers checking against laws which restrict health claims. The leaflet says: 

The two points here are that NOAA revises its historical numbers from time to time when it has new information or better methods, and that July 1936 and July 2012 have similar figures with the relative ranking sensitive the the precise details. I do not see any issue with either of these points. What is controversial at the moment is how NOAA moves from raw local reports to final data, how it deals with missing or estimated values and with breaks in local reports, and whether its methods lead to a bias over time. But that is a different question 

This is a US Government translated transcript of a video recording of a conversation, apparently made with bin Laden's knowledge. It includes: 

So your claim is true to the extent that Suzanne Coleman's death was ruled a suicide. There does not seem to any evidence for the affair or pregnancy claims; if there had been then both these quotes would have said more 

Looking at the study, it gave nurses alcohol-free beer when eating supper, and did not give the control group beer when they ate supper. I might have thought it could have been slightly more convincing if they had given the control group an unhopped fake beer, to reduce any mental association between beer drinking and sedation. 

The word abortion does not appear in the CPC 2011 platform Here for Canada Added: In a CBC interview in January, Stephen Harper was asked whether he would re-open the abortion issue if his party won a majority. He replied: 

There are plenty of studies suggesting within a given society that more religious people are happier than less religious people. Suggested reasons for this include having a higher purpose and current rewards making difficulties such as unemployment or marital separation less painful as reported here, or giving a sense of community and contribution to wider society as reported here. There are other studies suggesting that the effect of religious belief and practice on happiness is greater in more religious societies as reported here, and that in societies which a strong social safety net such as northern Europe relatively low levels of national religious belief can be combined with relatively high levels of national happiness as reported here. 

I doubt anybody would test humans on a diet of any single product, especially one which is 30% fat by weight, and which is low in vitamins, iron and some other minerals. That does not mean you could not survive for some time on enough of it (and water). You can find many studies in the last 20 years of aspects of Chia seeds via Google Scholar or from similar sources. A systematic review of Chia (Salvia hispanica) in 2009 said 

The Register report is not particularly informative. This is news from the American Astronomical Society meeting in New Mexico State University in Las Cruces, being widely reported, for example here. The often skeptic site Watt's Up With That has a copy of the press release, which seems to have been the basis of the Register story. While the current sunspot Cycle 24 started late and is predicted to be lower than previous cycles, as discussed in erekalper's answer, this is not news. What is news is that different organizations are failing to see the usual precursors of Cycle 25, and so are suggesting that it may be very low. Whether this turns out to be correct will be seen. The press release has quotes from Dr. Frank Hill, associate director of the National Solar Observatory’s Solar Synoptic Network. It ends with 

Martial law was in operation in Poland from 13 December 1981 to 22 July 1983, so the article might suggest an increase in births in 1982 and a further increase in 1983, followed by falls in 1984 and 1985 It is true that birth rates were higher in 1983 in Poland than in the immediately preceding years or the immediately following years, which is consistent with the hypothesis in the article But Russia, Belarus and Ukraine saw a similar pattern, so there might also be other regional explanations, whether political, cultural or meteorological. The effect seems to have been relatively small and might not justify hyperbolic language like "soared". The decline in birth rates up to 2000 was much more dramatic The following chart comes from Google using World Bank data showing birth rates in some selected countries: Poland is the blue line at the top with a peak of 19.8 in 1983