Certainly. If you aren't receiving what you were promised, you should raise the issue. It was probably an honest mistake, and you should approach this issue as such. 

While some suggest indicating a level of expertise next to each skill (Novice, Expert, etc), I find that unnecessary. You do need to be ready to explain the depth of your knowledge of the skills you have listed when asked. And if the particular position demands depth in one of these skills you may be asked to demonstrate them (sometimes through answering questions, sometimes on a whiteboard, etc). When asked, don't lie or exaggerate. But prepare ahead of time as best you can. Think of it as "cramming for a test" so that you can show yourself in your best light. 

You can be irked if you like, but I think you are overdoing things a bit. Perhaps most people don't put as much emphasis on LinkedIn as you seem to. I don't personally know anyone who would ever equate LinkedIn with a resume. That includes individuals, recruiters, and hiring managers alike. 

Of course. Every time you make sure management is aware of your accomplishments, and the accomplishments of your team - you are playing politics. Every time you take extra care in a project for an important person or department - you are playing politics. Every time you decide to include key members of the company in a decision - you are playing politics. etc, etc... There's nothing inherently dishonest or deceptive about politics. It only happens when you choose to make it that way. 

Experience you gained while trying to start your own company is extremely valuable in many cases. The technology, processes and perhaps business skills you honed may very well be an asset to your new company. Concentrate on these - just as you would if you had been employed by a company at the time and had worked on projects that didn't happen to get launched. 

All of those attributes factor into what makes the person the right person. Now, if someone came in with let's say just 4 years of experience, but carried all the other attributes in the right amounts, she would certainly be considered. And if I didn't have another candidate with better credentials, she might be chosen. On the other hand if someone comes in with 6 months experience right after college in a different technology for an internal IT department, she probably won't get past the resume screening. She may be very smart, and really motivated and excited about learning xyz technologies, but my requirements don't allow for the training period she would almost certainly need to be productive enough. Perhaps I'll have other entry-level jobs that could support it, but not this job. Job requirements are seldom absolute. But ignoring them completely almost certainly means you won't be considered for the job I'm offering. 

It's acceptable for you to discuss this with whoever is the person who can actually hire you full-time. If that person is at corporate, talk with her/him. If that person is local, then talk with him/her. It still might make sense to let your local supervisor know. This is at least a courtesy, since he has been trying to help you already. And when you indicate who you are going to talk to, he may still be able to offers some pointers or other assistance. 

In most companies, you cannot refuse to wear the uniform or promotional costume and still keep your job. You could ask, but it's doubtful. 

Companies that hire folks with Visa issues understand how these things happen. Ask for whatever time your lawyer thinks you will actually need. If that's 2 weeks, then go with that. If your lawyer thinks you will need more than 2 weeks, then ask for that. You will be better served asking once, than asking for 2 weeks several more times. You might even have your lawyer draft a letter to the company explaining how much more time is needed and why. It's possible that at some point the hiring manager will give up on you and need to move on to another candidate. But that's not within your control. Ask for what you need and hope for the best. 

It sounds like that would be a good point to address, particularly if you think you might want to resign earlier than the contract period. I know that I would want this point stated explicitly in my contract, to avoid later confusion and conflict. 

In my experience, networking is by far the most effective way. Beside networking, you can still hook up with a good agency and get what you want. Just make it very clear up front what kind of "contracting" you want to do, and what kind you don't want to do. And be prepared to wait. The variety of contracting you desire is far less common (as you've already discovered). 

Earlier in my career, I did whatever I had to do in order to get ahead in my company. That involved working some evenings, and some weekends as well. Later in my career, as I became more established and more trusted, I changed that. Since I'm an early riser anyway, I found that I can get the most done by: 

I guess I don't understand the conundrum here. These sorts of work arrangements sometimes work out, sometimes not. Just be conversational, and be honest. Sooner or later you always need to move on. Unless there is a contract between you and your friend which specifies details regarding break-up, you simply tell Y something like: "Sorry, Y. I've come to the conclusion that this isn't work I enjoy. It's different from the "stack" I prefer, and the "work" I prefer. I also suspect you need a higher skill level than I possess. I've given it a good try, and really enjoyed working with you, but I feel like I need to move on." If asked, you might choose to expand on your answer a bit. You could give Y a reasonable notice period. You could also offer to help find and train a replacement, but you aren't obligated to do so. If you have a contract, your actions/strategy must be guided by the terms of that contract. In the real world, the "Y" folks are sometimes reasonable, and sometimes not. Sometimes people will choose to reject future mutual opportunities no matter what you or X or anyone else says. In the real world, you do your gracious best, deal with the consequences, and move on. 

It probably doesn't make sense for you to resubmit the corrected algorithm. The judgement appears to have already been made. It seems that your lack of experience was the main factor, rather than the incorrect algorithm, and that won't change overnight. Instead, continue learning on your own. Gain more C++ experience. In another 6 months or so, apply for a position should one come open.