There is little to nothing a materialist would agree with from the Phaedo. This is because Plato's main argument in the dialog is that the soul is immortal, and this argument presupposes that there is a soul. The main content in the dialog are his four arguments for the immortality of the soul; if we take a materialist view and reject that the soul is immaterial, those four arguments are no longer relevant to the conversation because they all presuppose a dualism. The arguments might be used by a dualist to argue for dualism against a materialist, but the materialist will find noting to agree with in the arguments themselves if she retains her view. The Greek word that is translated as "soul" is "ψυχή" ("psyche") which is believed to be "the immortal part of a person." Important to the argument is that the soul lasts after the body dies and to this extent Plato's idea of a soul is at least some form of dualism, even if it isn't exactly what DesCartes argued for. Plato introduced his tripartite theory of the soul in the Republic. From the SEP: 

*Additionally I'd like to say, of course I am not suggesting that we should treat people "like objects," I am just using a metaphysical distinction. Material objects are things that are created from matter and physically exist; the societal and cultural issues of referring or treating somebody as an "object" is a completely different matter. I'm not mixing the two. 

Notice that in this example I have switched the order, (5a) is now the de re example and (5b) is the de dicto This was done to match Quine's examples that I will now quote (I've changed the numbers to fit with my example): 

The results of what our mind can and cannot prove if we are formally equivalent to a Turing machine and a set of axioms is very interesting, but it requires idealizing the human mind to such an extreme degree that it becomes very unclear what exactly we mean. I haven't mentioned it yet but this is why none of the results gone over above have any impact on materialism. If the human mind is a Turing machine, all it takes is some being smarter than us whose internal mathematical axioms are stronger than ours and can prove the consistency of ours. There doesn't need to be a supernatural being involved, just some being that is smarter than us. This points out an even harder question for mechanists, who do we choose to idealized? There are obviously some people who have less competence in mathematics than others. Do we take the smartest human and idealize their mind to an axiomatic system? Do we take the average of all humans who are alive at this point? What if humans continue to evolve, how would changes in our brain change this topic? These are some of the problems in idealization that Shapiro points out. There is ample literature on all of these discussions and you should follow the bibliographies in the linked posts if you are interested in more. I would highly recommend The Godel Theorem and Human Nature by Hilary Putnam (this might even be where that quote I couldn't place earlier is from). 

Russell wrote this example long before we had the ability to send objects into space and into orbit around the Earth. So, interestingly enough, his satellite example we can now see is clearly false. At the time of his writing, the Moon was the only Earth satellite that we knew of. Today, however, the Earth has many satellites, including the International Space Station, for example. If someone were to assert those two sentences today, the first sentence is true, however the second is not. This is because there are other objects, such as the ISS, that satisfy the predicate. So, while that sentence might have been true during Russell's time, it is not true now. However, whether it is true or false, it is one or the other so it is still meaningful in Russell's theory. So, ultimately how Russell's analyses of descriptions purport to mean the same thing as normal English sentences is by trying to explain that the simple sentences we say actually mean more complex things. If they did not, we would continuously run into Frege's puzzles and we would not have any sort of theory of meaning. It is an empirical fact that language does have meaning, so we know that whatever theory explains the meaning has to answer Frege's Puzzles. That being said, Russell's descriptions are not the only proposed theory of reference or meaning. Saul Kripke's Naming & Necessity is the most famous criticism of Frege and Russell's theory of reference (they had different theories but he critiques them both) in regards to proper names, at least. I'd recommend starting with the IEP's article on philosophy of language if you want to understand more about how this problem arose in the study of logic and mathematics and how the field has developed since then. I'd recommend Lycan's Philosophy of Language: A Contemporary Introduction for a very approachable introduction to the field and Soames' Philosophy of Language for a more advanced introduction. 

This example is using the word "logic" in a colloquial way to mean something similar to "line of reasoning" as opposed to the technical definition used in philosophy, computer science, math, etc. 

You might be lost if any of the central ideas discussed in the philosophy of language are foreign to you. There is a lot of attention paid to Wittgenstein and Frege in the beginning of the book. To that extent, if you've never read the Tractatus or Philosophical Investigations, or Frege's Sense and Reference or some of his other philosophical essays, you might not have a grasp of what is being discussed, even if you have had light introductions to what the work says. In this book he also dives heavily into Tarski's study of semantics, both his formal results in model theory as well as the philosophical impact it has had. If you aren't familiar with model theory or you've never seen a proof of Tarski's undefinability theorem you will probably want to find those things before reading this book. With a background in logic, even just a focus of CS related logic, it won't take that long to understnad them. Davidson's truth-conditional semantics and Quine's meaning holism are also discussed, elaborated on, and critiqued. It would help to have read their canonical writings on these issues such as Davidson's Truth and Meaning and Quine's Word and Object and From a Philosophical Point of View. Dummett offers his rejection of Tarski and Davidson's definition of truth, and its relation to the interactions between object and meta languages, so you will be lost without an understanding of those ideas. Additionally, of course, there is also the terminology that is used in contemporary metaphysics. It's not enough to merely understand what the terms "realism", "nominalism", "reductionism", "idealism", etc. mean; you should also be aware of the common arguments against, arguments for, and critiques of these ideas. Granted, it's not as if the book is unreadable if you don't have this background, but there will be a lot of things taken for granted, or things that are assumed as background knowledge, if these concepts seem foreign to you. It is also not traditionally the best thing to introduce yourself to concepts by reading a formal critique of them intended as a piece of professional philosophy, you might come out being heavily biased against them. For a beginning introduction to the metaphysics that is being discussed I would read the third section The Problems of Metaphysics: the “New” Metaphysics from the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy's article Metaphysics as well as the SEP article Realism. I should say that a lot of what I've said before now sounds very harsh and off-putting. The Logical Basis of Metaphysics is not some arcane tablet that is indecipherable unless you've spent a decade studying it; it's not even that technical of a book, comparatively to some of his other work. However, it isn't an introduction either. It's a professional philosopher's critique of a lot of other professional philosopher's views mixed with his own theories as to how we are going to be able to solve major philosophical problems. It references a lot of work that is central to some major branches of philosophy and as such it would be a good idea to understand those works, or better yet the ideas illuminated by those works, before reading this book. In terms of Dummett's other work, using his classic text Frege: Philosophy of Language as an example, I would suggest the same sorts of things. That text is not an introduction to the ideas of Frege for someone who has never heard any of them, or has never heard any discussion of the philosophy of language. It is a heavy philosophical text that uses logical notation freely (sometimes even modal logic) and assumes an understanding of terminology such as "intensional transitive verbs", "opaque quantification", "referential opacity", etc. The writing is very heavy as well, an example from page 5: