I wouldn't use any 'grease' on a hand-actuated drum brake unless I saw something from the manufacturer. Instead, for noise I'd first try drum brake cleaner from the auto-shop -- and if that doesn't work, maybe use some sandpaper on the drum shoes to deglaze them and take off any leading edges. Related: When do I know the drum brake is at the end of life and needs replacement? 

This is called the spoke guard and prevents the chain from getting tangled in the spokes if the rear derailleur is improperly adjusted. Properly adjust your rear derailleur and you will have no need for the spoke guard and can throw it away. 

You could switch to a saddle that isn't as abrasive. That's one of the reasons people like leather saddles such as Brookes -- even if they're more expensive and heavier than plastic wonders. The leather saddles also breathe and wick moisture and I've found that wet cloth abrades much faster than dry cloth. 

You must, however, have an orange or red tail reflector at night that is visible if a car shines its high beams at you from 100 meters away: 

From rack strength perspective it doesn't make much difference. Most of the weight is going straight down to the rear dropout. The front connection is mostly for stability and isn't bearing much weight. 

A. Rear drop-out (single-sided, usually left/NDS drop-out) 1B. Rear drop-out (both sides; often found in BOB trailers) Rear rack Seat stay 

Finally, with all that being said, you could use a front derailleur with an IGH rear hub if you wanted extra mountain climbing gearing (there's also front internal-hub cranks). Some people put schlumpf mountain drives on their Bromptons so that they have a 3-speed IGH, a 2-speed rear derailleur, and 2-speed IG front crank. 

Most people have their single pannier on the left side for balance reasons because they are using single-leg kick-stands, which usually mount on the non-drive-side. I have a double-leg kickstand so it doesn't matter which side I mount the pannier -- at least for balance reasons. So I mount it on the right (drive) side. The reason I do this is because when I'm walking the bike, I walk on the left (non-drive) side. Having the panniers on the drive side means that I am not bumping my legs/hips against the panniers. Having the pannier on the right side also means that I have better visibility of the mounting points as I stand on the left side trying to attach and detach it. Some panniers have easy attachments that you could do blind, but my ones require just a tad of fussing. Fine print: I should note that my office-bag pannier was not symmetrical so I had to flip the mounting points to mount it on the right -- i.e., it came from the factory (Ortlieb) designed to be mounted on the left (nds) side, but was easily reversible. 

As Sheldon Brown notes, 650B rims are 19mm further away from the brakes than an equivalent 700c. Given that your frames were designed for disc brakes in the first place, you will have some difficulty in finding rim brakes with enough reach. You might need an unsafe hack -- especially if you are using fenders. Furthermore, your brake cabling is set up for disc brakes so you'll need to get new braze on guides or use ugly zip ties. Most people would wonder why you'd go to such lengths to have worse brake performances and worse looks in order to keep your hubs. There are a number of great looking disc brake hubs now available. If you found one with the same spoke count, you could keep your rims. 

Shimano doesn't make parts available for repairs. If you're under warranty, you could ask your LBS to have it swapped out for a new/refurb. Your LBS might also have a used or like-new in their parts bin. Otherwise, what most people do is to step up and buy a new shifter/brifter. The prices are such that it makes sense to buy above Sora and to get a Tiagra or 105 series. 

Clean your derailleur with a degreaser and relube with a good oil. Then try to lubricate your cables (unless you have teflon inner cables, which are only found on more expensive / newer bikes) with a dry graphite or teflon lube. If that doesn't work, I'd replace your front derailleur cables. The cable housing and inner is about 10-15 eurodollars and you might be able to do it yourself. The only special tools you need are hex wrenches, Allen keys, or a screwdriver for the derailleur, cable cutter for the inner derailleur cable, and neednose pliers to crimp the cable ferrule. 

If you have an e-bike with a rear hub-motor (and with the battery pack over the rear tire), you should note that you have considerable unsprung weight on that rear tire. You should try to make sure that you have the tires properly inflated -- on the high end of the maximum PSI the tire can handle. Try to ask your LBS when you're replacing the tire what type of puncture you're getting. If you are getting pinch flats, then you need to think about inflating your tires to a higher pressure. If that's not possible, you can also explore getting wider tires. If you're getting road debris punctures, then kevlar belted tires will help. Also, as ow3n notes, having some sealant inside your tube might help although I find that this often just creates a huge mess when you get a flat that is too large for the sealant to contain. 

They use a tiny MEMS gyroscope to measure RPM. These are solid state devices that can measure axial rotation so it can count how many rotations per minute the bike’s axle is rotating. The actual structure of the MEMS gyro is quite interesting (and different from a MEMS accelerometer)- there’s a good description on Wikipedia. Because the gyro is measuring axle RPMs and not speed directly, it does somehow have to know the tire size so that it can convert RPMs to travel speed. See further discussion below. 

I don’t know if the fat tire bike fad has also hit Europe, but if it has, then fat tire mountain bikes give you many more options. Fat tire bikes tend to be massively overbuilt. First, they’re not trying to be lightweight in any way. Second, the thick wheels and tires mean that forks, axles, dropouts, and frames also need to be thicker. Spoke counts also tend to be very high. 

Because ring locks only lock the rear wheel to the frame, they are very low security. They're fine for low-theft environments and for heavy steel utility bikes or mommy-bikes, but if you have a nice, light bike, it's easy for thief to just pick up the bike and throw it over their shoulder or throw it in a truck. Essentially, ring locks keep people honest in honest communities. Source: I've lived in Japan for several years where ring locks are the main style used, and had to replace locks for family members who have lost keys.