So you can pick any distance from the black hole where tidal effects are not overwhelming. If I assume arbitrarily for a second that you care to find out where the gravitational acceleration is the same as that of the Earth surface, i.e survivable easily (no spaghettification), and relatively easy escape velocity. For a black hole (or whatever spherical object) the mass of the sun, $g=9.8m/s^2=g_{earth}$ at $3.68×10^9$ m 3.7 billion meters from the central singularity, well inside the orbit of Mercury in our solar system (58 billion m from sun). At this distance, tidal forces should be essentially nil $<10^{-8}N$ for a human-sized object. The general formula for a small mass object being acted upon by a large mass M is: So multiply as desired given your chosen black hole mass. $g=G(M/r²)$ That would make your structure is $2\pi r$ that length, so about 23 billion meters around. That's so large that it would take a human about 1500 years to walk the length of it, if they walked 8 hours a day. 

Birds, as we currently know them, build nests and lay eggs on the ground. People and things with sharp teeth live on the ground. There are also things with claws and beaks up in the air, but fewer. I was wondering if a bird-like animal could exist that would spend its entire life in the air, and only fall to the ground upon death. I already know that birds can sleep while airborne, but I need help with: 

Magic? Surely you mean Thaumaturgic Engineering! An important point: engineering is not science, and science is not engineering. Engineering may use science, and science may use engineering, but the two are not identical, and often even dissimilar in scope and purpose. We were able to use many properties of reality long before we were able to get a near-complete mathematical description of the underlying principles. You can be sure the Wright brothers had not worked out in detail the Aerodynamic properties of their machines before taking off, although I think they did build a wind-tunnel. We knew how to make gunpowder (and made, and used a lot of it) long before we understood the chemistry of rapid oxidation. In a similar way, magic could be employed productively and on a large scale without being completely, or even partially understood. This would be done in the same way technological progress was made before the advent of theoretical scientific advances: trial and error, filtering out what works from what doesn't. Encyclopedic and procedural knowledge, rather than theoretical and formulaic. Not Another Physics Sub-Field! Magic is generally distinguishable from physics thanks to a few characteristics. In popular lore, magic tend to rely on sympathetic principles or contagion principles. 

You finally have it. Technology, decades ahead of the rest of the world, that if scaled up will allow you to conquer the entire planet, to finally achieve your dream of bringing peace and mandatory cat ownership to mankind. You have a modest endowment of a few billion USD thanks to the obscenely profitable legitimate cat food business you ran as a cover (you are a genius, after all, just bent on world domination). What you need to do now is set up an initial base of operations. Completing this first step is needed to allow you to set up your (fusion-powered) droid and drone factories. Where is the best place on Earth to get started and, more importantly, why? 

There is a common dining hall, and all staff have individual sleeping quarters (all subject to monitoring, of course). Labs house 5-20 people, and the full staff is about 250. The agent has access to most labs, including the one of their target, but no direct access to sleeping quarters, security center, facility maintenance areas, server rooms or medical area. Yet, for the safety of the nation, one of the researchers must perish. I have one agent inside the facility. Yet it is imperative that the agent not be captured, lest brain-damaging truth serums used on them would extract a confession and the scandal could bring my organization down. How can he/she do it and avoid detection for at least 5 days, which is half the average interval between (the randomly timed) arrivals of transport shuttles (access is by military helicopter or boat) at the facility? More specifically, I'm still thinking poison. Is it possible to poison someone, and have it be slow-acting enough that my agent can get away? (I am however open to other avenues if poison does not work). 

So, how do you construct a ghost? EDIT: I was asked if I wanted mere ghosts (not necessarily visible) or full-fledged apparitions (visible). If you feel you have a good answer that would necessarily render ghosts invisible, I'm listening. 

Well, in part that would depend on the population and GDP ratio between Earth and the Rest-of-Universe. This would be plausible if the Earth were a Venice- or Salem-like touristic backwater ('this is how the originators lived') populated by the 25th century version of medieval fare re-enactors. Similarly, if it is inhabited by a very conservative population of Hassidic-Amish technology rejectors. Socio-economics Now, if the technology exists for fast interstellar voyages, unless there is some conveniently-located-alien-artifacts trick going on, the amount of energy available to the Outer Space civs must be billions of times higher than our current civilization's. This would make most current economic concerns meaningless (we could end hunger and homelessness in about 2 minutes). Unless the Outer powers are, dunno, genuinely evil, forcing billions of humans to risk death by cancer, get their bodies polluted in all sorts of horrible ways, and act by the ethics systems of 5 centuries prior would be unconscionable. Imagine the Chinese invading the US and forcing them to live by 15th century tech and morality. Those barbarians living by 21st century tech might even boil animals alive... Enforcement Obviously, this won't be handled by the locals. Again, that's like asking 15th century sentries with torches, arrows and wooden ships to watch out for drone-drops, speedboats and submarines. A joint 'peace-keeping' force by the Outers would handle all this stuff in orbit or even at the Solar System Restriction-Zone borders. IT and IP As long as a proper star-system-wide quarantine is in place, even electromagnetic pulses can be cancelled out, and each tourist could be tagged by a nullifier that prevents unauthorized communications between tourists and Outworlders. Again, this reeks of North Korea to me, unless you stipulate that the conservative locals simply have no need of these newfangled technologies and perverted morals. Other stuff Well, there's the usual handwavium around FTL travel. You could avoid that if you make your Outer empires restricted to the (still huge) Solar system, with potentially millions living in habitats in the Asteroid belt. Also, without space elevators, building up a population of billions off-home-world would be a challenge in a time-frame of mere centuries. Perhaps vat-grown humans? 

So how do you get there from here? Oh, that's the tricky part. Most autocracies transit through an oligarchy before they become democratic, and many young democracies revert to autocracy. However, you might want to read up on the positive examples, such as the formidable Old Swiss Confederacy and their Landsgemeinde and the Icelandic Althing. 

Raw Power: Having machines that can make superintelligent decisions and warmachines that can engage the enemy in a millionth of a second is believed to be a potentially enormous tactical and strategic military advantage. Robot lives don't matter: It is politically advantageous to the rulers to fight a war where no mothers come to the presidential palace clutching pictures of their dead sons and daughters. Cold hard cash: It is economically advantageous to have ever smarter machines play an ever-growing role in your economy. 

Congratulations, your politicians did it! Champagne bottles popping everywhere, right? Not so fast, it's getting really tidy in here Of course, the tides caused by a moon that much nearer would be immense (hundreds of meters). Add in the tectonic tidal heating (earth crust movements of several tens of meters each day), and the associated earthquakes and volcanos, and you might get (briefly) angry voters anyway. PS: The magnitude and duration of the tides will depend on how quickly the moon decays in its orbit, and that will dictate if and how it turns into a homogenous ring (no tides). Moreover, the tidal fragmentation is likely to result in chaotic impacts among the fragments, which will likely send significant amounts of material barreling into the Earth, for a bombardment worse than the one that killed the dinosaurs. 

This is a great start, but you can't leave it at that. If you can get any material thing within a mass range with equal probability (mass-wise, atom-wise?) you're getting either: 

However, one can easily imagine a specialist class eventually (it could be decades, it could be millennia) emerging within the framework of the bureaucratic institution that is relatively nimble and open to new ideas: think DARPA within the US government and the Jesuits within the Catholic Church. 

General Purpose Technologies as Gamechangers This should go without saying, but in reality, this frontier is a hypersphere. The Hypersphere of Human Possibility, if you want to sound a bit grandiose about it. Imagine new technologies as little pins that push outward at the frontier. Now most technologies (say the little cardboard coffee-holders at starbucks) are not that impactful, and only push the frontier outward a little locally. Other technologies such as the combustion engine, electricity or computers are different -- these technologies have a virtually limitless range of applicability - they can push the frontier outward in many directions at once, and by a lot. Even more interestingly, one such gamechanger can open the path towards another. Combustion engines were used to generate cheap electricity, and eventually cheap electricity was used to construct delicate electrical equipment, such as computers. Computers then were used to design better combustion engines, power distribution grids, better computers etc. Visibility of New Technological Possibilities The fundamental question is whether there will ever be diminishing marginal returns to new technological research. In other words, was it just blind luck that each gamechanger opened the PPF towards accessing the next PPF-expanding gamechanger, or is this reinforcing nature a fixture of human progress? In other words, is it possible that we'll reach an area where the next gamechanger is forever out of reach of our most advanced PPF, say in the way Fusion power always seems to be 50 years away? This could be the case if some technological insight requires, say, an IQ beyond the reach of humans, or energy density levels unattainable with the most advanced technology. Our history so far seems to indicate that if there are diminishing returns, we are far, far from reaching them. The key concept here is the visibility of new technologies. For instance, consider the brilliant leaps of insight achievable by genius: Leonardo Da Vinci could use concepts extant in his world to imagine flying machines and tanks, concepts centuries beyond his society's energy-wise capability to implement. Despite that, these were visible to Da Vinci. 

I predict that most replies here will be of the "Dinos Dumb, Dinos Birdbrained" variety. Here's my attempt at preempting that. 

TLDR: So, the Precurors engage in relativistic travel, and want to make sure the idiots they left behind don't run out of hot chocolate in 20,000 years when they'll come back, 10 or so of their subjective years later, due to silly things like nuclear war, the occasional dark age or ecological collapse. Solution: build Great Depots in space (stuff them full of cocoa, and glass beads for the prols), where there is no weathering aside from micrometeors. Planetside, go for monolithic style bulk diamond or somesuch material. With Zero-point-energy drives, you can have powered nanites going around eating dust and healing microcracks. Electromagnetic fields keep away dirt and maintain a good seal inside. Might get a little stuffy, but hopefully you've vacuumed it first. That still leaves you vulnerable to 9.0+ Earthquakes, but with a proper reactive foundation and heliotropic gyros for stabilization, you can probably get a decent life expectancy. Coco powder will be waiting patiently. Eventually, enough junk accumulates in LEO (low earth orbit) that coming back becomes such a bother, and the Precursors simply move on to bigger better things. Or die off of boredom. Big hulking relics (with surprising amounts of cocoa powder) litter then landscape. See, easy. 

You'll need a whole network of these radiation 'guns'. Each individual 'gun' is too weak to damage the walls or the person it's targeted at. You fire all 'guns' simultaneously at the same target (say you've arrayed them in a hemicircle around the building. The amplitudes add up in a single convergence point. Your victim. 

Given the politically left-leaning proclivities of most scientists and the bad reputation eugenics got in the 20th century, unless a colony is founded specifically on these principles and self-selects for individuals with these values, such an outcome is unlikely. 

A rigid completely enclosed Dyson with 1g internal-face gravitational acceleration build at a radius of around 1 AU (thus requiring magic-like technology) would be incredibly bright, with an temperature following the formula: $T=[E/(4 \pi \eta \sigma r^2)]^{(1/4)}$ where $\eta$ is the emissivity (=1 for a blackbody), $\sigma$ the constant of Stefan-Boltzmann's law ($5.67032e-8 Wm^2K^{-4}$)and E the total energy output of the star measured in watts. All the energy of the sun hits the Dyson, which has an Earth-like albedo of 0.37. It's gonna be hot. Earth is cooled by its rotation, reducing the flux in half effectively, and by its spherical shape resulting in light hitting it as shallow angles. The Dyson does not have this features. A back of the envelope Wolfram Alpha calculation suggests that at about 1AU with a sunlike star, the sphere would have an equilibrium temperature of about 400 K. Not sure about seasons, but you can easily boil eggs. Or people. 

There's a pair of excellent YG Acoustics Anat Reference II speakers I would recommend. At $107,000, they should be a bargain for said ultra-intelligent alien race. Their precise transducer replicates signals sent from the amplifier with absolute fidelity, ensuring that even dumb Earth-bound apes can hear (enviously) what the aliens wish to communicate in a premium, non-distorted package. 

Anti-matter annihilates on contact with regular matter. It can be seen as time-reversed regular matter, but that's beside the point, which is that the 'ants' will never make it to the ground. I doubt their 'intergalactic' wings will help much, or their 'immunity to photons' (anti-matter emits and absorbs photons much like ordinary matter, and interacts very weakly with neutrinos). It'll be a nice set of fireworks in the upper troposphere hundreds of km from the ground, or most likely, at the heliosphere at the borders of the solar system. XKCD on antimatter ants: 

Depends what you mean by robotic army. There are many levels at which a robot army would have to operate, to win an extermination war against mankind. Whether the answer is in the positive or not likely depends on the technological sophistication of the AI and the AI's manufacturing capabilities, as well as on the percentage of the planet's industrial capability under AI initial control, as well as the share than can be captured intact and operated for AI purposes in the first stage of the conflict. There are many potentially robotic military devices that can be used, depending on the level of sophistication of the controlling AI minds, with a wide range of sizes to be considered: