I have had good luck with Headsweats. They are pretty absorbent and keep my balding head somewhat protected from the sun under my helmet. 

My relatively new Garmin GSC 10 Speed/Cadence unit has started losing connection to my Garmin 500. I'm assuming that the battery is running out, since I'm still using the original that came with it. I have done about 35 hours of riding. So I am wondering: how long should a CR 2032 battery last? I know this is a little subjective and will depend on ambient temperature and to a lesser extent speed and cadence for transiently illuminating the LED each pedal stroke/wheel revolution. But generally, how many hours can I expect to get from a battery? 

From my experience, this sound comes from crankset/crankarm, that is not tightened properly on the bottom bracket axle. 

Once you unlink the cable from the hub slide the sheath away from the cord. Then, slide the plug marked on the photo to open the hole. 

But note - they use components available at the market, priced about or below the average. From my observation, the most severe problem to this systems are: thefts, vandalism, flat tire, not mechanical failure. Popular IGH's are quite durable, it does not suffer from weather condition. Have a look at countries (DK, NL), where lots of bikes park outside for most of the time. Bikes equipped with roller brakes, full chainguard and IGHs remain serviceable for years, without frequent maintenace. It would be also very (too) expensive to order dedicated component for bike sharing system. Let's say that popular systems grow at most by few thousands bicycles every year. Compare it to to SRAM company that quit making IGHs because of low demand, reaching 200k units. Instead of making bikes super-ultra durable and theft-proof companies balance cost and bicycle "life expectancy". The less bicycle costs, the better for the company, when it gets stolen. 

crazyguyonabike.com is a set of forums and blogs for long distance trekking by bicycle. I have seen such requests there before. The Regional: North America forum is a common place for people looking for riding partners, discussing routes, etc., across North America. 

I think it depends on several factors, as you note. If there is no traffic (car or bicycle), then just stop (if a tree falls in the woods...). If there is car traffic only, then move as far to the right as to can to be safely out of the way. If there is bicycle traffic, then it might be worthwhile to move completely out of the bike lane to avoid hindering other cyclists. 

After a bit of thinking I filed off cogs from the outside. So far so good, hub presents good enegagement at all gears. After few weeks it still runs good. Left is "fixed", right shown for comparison. I fixed (filed) both. Be careful to make them equal shape and that sharp border is not too thin and ortogonal to the side surface 

Set the shifter to 7th gear. Push the cord toward the shifter. The cord ending should appear in the hole. Pull it. 

Despite changing hand positions often and switching to more "cushiony" gel gloves, I'm still experiencing intermittent numbness when I ride (sometimes I get tingling and sometimes not). Are certain types of handlebar tape likely to help? The tape on my bike is several years old. I see gel and cork tapes (and those that claim to be both gel and cork), neither of which I have tried. I realize that I don't actually know what the real purpose of handlebar tape is (perhaps that's another question). It might be that it is only for helping you keep a grip on the bars when they get sweaty. 

Old, plain, one-gear Velosteel-like hubs had this feature thanks to using rollers instead of cogs, but I suppose it does not meet your expectations. If you REALLY need this feature you can modify Shimano Nexus 3 to obtain what you want by removing four cogs from part no 4 shownhere. You will lose 1st gear, rest will work as before. 

I would search for "Pininfarina bicycles". I saw one time bicycle with similar basket. The basket was very uncommon for me, because basket and the handlebar is one piece. That bicycle had nothing else in common with your bike, BUT when you browse for "Pininfarina bike", 

I'm building a wheel with double butted spokes, 2.0 mm at the ends, 1.8 mm in the center. The Park Tool Spoke Tension Meter has a conversion sheet to determine the tension in spokes of different diameters. My question is which scale to use: 2.0 mm or 1.8 mm. Logically, I think that I should use the 1.8 conversion, because the center of the spoke is 1.8 mm diameter. But the entire length of the measured section is probably not 1.8 mm, because it is tapering to 2.0 mm at the ends. The answer to this question suggests there is some acceptable variation, so I was thinking about aiming for somewhere in between. 

Poland In my country, a bicycle that is power-assisted with the <=250W <=48V electrical engine, that assist rider up to speed 25km/h is still a bicycle, no matter how energy to power the engine is obtained. All the laws for regular bicycles applies to it - dimensions, equipment. Speed limits apply to such bicycles as to any other kind of vehicle. There are no additional restrictions. 

In my native language for "bicycle" we use word "rower", that is not self-descriptive. It comes from UK company name "Rover". Are there some examples in other languages when the etymology for local word for "bicycle" is different than etymology of word "bicycle"? Edit: more detail about "rower" etymology. Saying, that "rower" comes from "Rover" is small simplification. Both words have common ancestor in the name of the company product, "Rover Safety Bicycle". Rover was treated as proper name, otherwise it would be translated to polish equivalent of german "Wanderer". Citation from wikipedia: "In 1885 John Starley made history when he produced the Rover Safety Bicycle". Citation from comment in national dictionary by respectable linguist and lexicographer: "Word 'rowerzysta' (pl. cyclist) (...), comes of course from word "rower", and indirectly from the name of british company „Rover”." Citation from local bicycle advocatory group's page from Toruń: "Because bicycles produced by Starley and Satton company become popular in Poland, its name become polonified and that's why we had rower " 

My wife and I recently rented a tandem for a day. I found that, because everything needs to be communicated -- starting, stopping, changes in cadence, shifting (which might cause changes in cadence), etc. -- we were talking continuously. This was good. What I would like to have is a simple, efficient vocabulary for communicating the essential information. Does this already exist in the same way that riders communicate on group rides? While I realize that we could just make up our own shorthand, if someone has already figured it out, that would be better. 

But for your actual helmet you should have not any doubts - throw it away. As for motorcycle helmet it is very old. Even when new, your helmet presented worse performance than contemporary mid-end products. Note for off-topic voters: It is off-topic. but It is very important safety issue. 

From the photo you posted reasonable option is to drill a hole in the bit and use drill extractor, spinning it anti-clockwise. Bit is made of hardened CrV steel, so drilling it may be hard, since it should be precise and centered. If you feel unsure about your skills, give it to professionals, to locksmith or to your local bike service. It may appear cheaper, since damaging caliper housing would be much more expensive than spending some extra euros to have it fixed. 

I don't trust drivers, particularly the ones here in California. Riding alone, not it a group, makes me harder for drivers to see. Helmets are basically disposable, so I don't mine gluing a mirror to mine. I don't care about looking like a dork. I do that frequently enough in my regular life that time I spend on a bike is a drop in the bucket. 

I use a mirror (a CycleAware Reflex) because, as others have said, it allows me to see what's coming behind me. Where I ride, the "bike lanes" are little more than poorly maintained pavement on the side of the road. So when it is safe, i.e., no traffic, I ride to the right in the roadway. I tried bar-end mirrors and glasses-mounted mirrors, but I didn't like either one. It did take some trial and error to get the mirror correctly oriented on my helmet, but now I get a good view of the road behind me. I've gotten fairly used to glancing back to see what's coming, so there are never any surprises. In fact, the other day in the grocery store I caught myself trying to look in my mirror to see if there were any carts behind me. I decided long ago: