I can't speak to the rigor of this survey, but perhaps it's a little more objective than just naming people, at the very least. 

As you note, there can surely be no solid rebuke of solipsism, for the possibility is wholly untestable. However, I personally believe solipsism is bordering on incoherence and egoism, and exploring what it would really mean if all of existence as we know it was solely for us or perceived by us may help demonstrate that. Two possibilities arise: 1: The universe is some sort of simulation or model, all beings we perceive are merely agents of that system, and we are the sole target of the simulation. All of existence, therefore, is created for our benefit. We must then ask, why? Why are we so special as to merit all of this? And furthermore how? How, despite being special, are so many millions of mindless agents able to function in a way that I am unable to distinguish them from myself? 2: The universe exists largely as we are taught in school, the big bang, atoms, molecules, evolution, and the whole shebang, and yet we are the only being that actually experiences or "lives" - we are the only being with a mind. This should similarly raise some alarming questions, why do we have this ability, and yet all others do not? And again, how is it possible that we are so fundamentally and critically different from all other beings in the universe, and yet we cannot identify a difference? To me, both cases seem highly implausible. Unprovable, but does it not seem very strange to think that either of these situations are how existence "really is"? Personally, the alternatives, that either 1: we are part of a simulation or other matter-less existence (like Berkeley's idealism) wherein the beings we perceive as similar to us are in fact thinking minds like us, or 2: the physical world exists largely as we understand it, and therefore again, things we perceive like us have reasonably similar mental states. This is somewhat related to the philosophical theory of Functionalism, which could be vulgarly summarized as "if it walks like a duck and talks like a duck, then it's a duck!" which might be a more robust response to solipsism than most other philosophies. And, now that I've discussed why I think solipsism is bunk, let me share with you this wonderful short story, The Egg, it's a beautiful perspective on solipsism, and no matter how many times I read it, I get chills and a little smile every time I get to the end. I hope you enjoy it. 

You seem to be presuming that anyone who is "suicidal" should have successfully killed themselves. There is no such casual link - having suicidal thoughts and even attempting suicide, does not mean that one is predestined to do so. Can one violate predestination by simply changing their mind? Surely it's not that easy. Before exploring whether your example breaks determinism you need to establish more clearly what it would mean for any example to do so. Just having a though and not going through with it in no way disproves (or proves) determinism. Remember that your thoughts are (determinism posits) the result of electrochemical interactions in your brain. Just like your actions, these can be causally linked back to the beginning of time in a purely physical universe. There's no requirement that Thought A lead to Action B. The standard solution to disproving determinism and/or establishing free will is to identify something "extra" about free-beings, such as a soul, that transcends physics. If your philosophical thesis (or religion) grants humans' souls then humans are not limited by physical limitations like causality. Unless you're willing to grant humans some extra-physical characteristic it will be difficult to disprove determinism. 

The point raised in the quote is not the same as the question that you are asking. In the quote: It is a difference whether we define what one is, and then we define what two is, and so on, or whether we define the abstract concept of (natural) number (as pointed out by Mauro Allegranza in the comments). Of course we can say that natural number refers to the totality of the numbers we have defined, and that is a separate definition, and we may or may not be happy with it. (If you want to learn more about problems with this, look for non-standard models of Peano arithmetic). Your question: There are many concepts of numbers of some kind that differ from the natural numbers. Examples are integers (including negative numbers), rational numbers, real numbers, complex numbers, (transfinite) ordinal numbers, (transfinite) cardinal numbers, surreal numbers. They have all nothing to do with the point raised in that quote, though. 

There are different kinds of mathematical truth, and depending on what you would want in a notion of absolute truth, some of these may fit - or not. My personal stance would be that absolute truth is not a fruitful concept, and probably not worth thinking about too much. The agreement about truth amongst mathematicians A defining feature of mathematics as a field is that mathematicians can generally reach consensus about the truth of a particular mathematical statement, by providing a purtative proof, critizing its weak points, shoring them up, etc. This process can require clarification/abstraction: If the a priori assumed axiom systems of the involved mathematicians differ, they may have to move from "X is true" to "Axiom system Y proves X". If a statement written by a mathematician using classical logic is read literally by a constructivist, it will often be false - but constructivists know how to read classical mathematics in a way that retains truth. Even on the "fringes" of mathematical foundations, say the ultrafinitists would typically attack results as being meaningless, rather than being false. We thus see evidence of a notion of truth that trancends individual view points or perspectives, in manner that most fields of philosophy are not privy to. This also differs from the one in the natural sciences, where experiments can provide an arbiter of truth. On ontology The notion of truth described above is - on purpose - divorced from any assumptions about the ontological status of mathematical objects. One can refuse to entertain this question at all (which essentially leads to formalism, and the unresolved questions of why we are playing this game, and why math works so well to describe nature). The stance that most readily leads to a notion of absolute truth would be platonism in the strict, "one mathematical universal", form. This does not mean that any mathematics not done in the "one and only correct system" is invalid - since we can translate between the various systems, we can recover (almost) all other systems as a fragment of the chosen true reality. A stance that seems widespread amongst mathematicians working on foundations is that of mathematical relativism (described very nicely by Andrej Bauer here). We just accept a plethora of mathematical universes, and study those we find most fascinating. Depending on what is meant by absolute truth, this might be incompatible with such things. Conclusion Mathematics offers far more absolute truth than other areas, but asking for perfectly absolute truth probably doesnt make much sense. 

There is a particular philosophy that I am trying to find the proper word to describe. An exemple of this philosophy is from a short story I once read (From Jack London's short story "To Build a Fire") is where a man tries to build a fire in the winter, and in his confidence takes his boots off to warm them. Whereupon snow falls from above, extinguishing the fire, soaking his foot, and we are left to presume dooming him to death. Another example (that I cannot source sadly) is the story of a particular man who abandoned society and built himself a log cabin in the middle of the woods, and lived his entire life there. The core concepts invovled are thus: 

As an example, imagine that I am a boss looking to hire a new employee to a firm. Two candidates apply to the position, one a woman and one a man. The woman is superior in terms of ability to perform work, but I choose the man for a discriminatory reason, which denies the woman a chance at a job. I do not tell her this, and she never finds out. Is this situation just because I did not tell the woman why she was rejected? No. Would the situation only become unjust if she were to find out about the situation? No. Regardless of her knowledge of the situation, my decision not to hire her was unjust and discrimination. 

For the sake of this argument, I will assume that you are referring to intentional social discrimination as defined in this article (And for the sake of your debate, I recommend you agree upon a singluar definition of discrimination, becuase it is not as clear-cut as you might think). Furthermore, we will have to assume that the action that is being taken is in fact a negative one, or one that sets the individual at a disadvantage. We could argue about whether or not restrictive dress codes are a disadvantage, but for the sake of this argument we will ignore whether or not it is, and assume that whatever discrimination is taking place, it is known to be in some way a disadvantage to the one being discriminated. Finally, let's make one more assumption - that the individual performing this discrimination is fully aware that it is a disadvantage to the person being discriminated. Whether or not discrimination is happening if the person doing it is aware of their discriminating actions is a subject for another debate, so I am going to focus on this and this alone. Now, if the individual is being told to act in a certain way throughout their life, and this is based on traditions and not deviating from the individual's treatment of any other person of that type, and they are unaware of any other way to be treated, it is still discrimination, because the person performing the action is well aware of this choice, and is choosing to perform this action based on this person's status as a woman (Or any other factor that could lead to discrimination). The actor's awareness of another option is what makes this discrimination - it has nothing to do with the discriminated person's knowledge of the act. More importantly though, this activity is completely unjust if it does indeed put the person in question at a disadvantage. Whether or not a person is aware of the discrimination does not change whether this action is just or unjust. And putting a person into a situation that knowingly sets them at a disadvantage, even if it is institutionalized and common practice, is still unjust. Whether or not the activity itself is unjust is an entirely separate debate - but if the action is unjust to the person, it is unjust regardless of their lack of awareness to it being unjust. 

What is going on here is the implicit use of a criterion like Popper's falsifiability to assign the burden of proof; and a helping of Laplace' "I have no need of such assumption". If a sufficiently specified God is discussed, then it becomes reasonable to ask for evidence for either existence or non-existence. We have climbed Mount Olympos, and found no sign of Zeus, etc. However, typically such debates are about very unspecific notions of God. The believer could still offer evidence, by specifying God however he wants, and then suggesting matching evidence. The New Atheist argues that until that happens, the default position should be to assume non-existence - just as we do with many other hypothetical constructs. 

Fundamentally, category theory does not seek to model "having a structure". It rather starts from the realization that the way how we use the structure is typically via the structure-preserving or reflecting maps; and that it is only the maps that really matter. For example, in topology the topology is just to define what continuous functions are. Everything else can be expressed in terms of continuous functions (not at least because we can recover the topology on X by looking at the continuous functions from X to Sierpisnki space). Sticking with topology, one can then see that for many results in topology, the precise nature of the continuous functions is irrelevant. Most theorems have natural counterparts in the setting of computable functions. This is because the relevant categories have very similar properties. 

An approach to make sense of the necessary vs contingent truth distinction is by considering a theory $T$ and a model $M$ of that theory. Theorems of $T$ are the necessary truths in $T$. Statements that hold in $M$ but are not theories of $T$ are the contingent truths. If we follow this approach, then the question of whether AC (if true) is a necessary or contingent truth essentially depends on the question what our chosen foundational theory is. We could consider all models of ZF as potential mathematical worlds, and just explore one where AC is true right now. But we could just as well start with ZFC as theory, and thus deem AC to be necessary. Ultimately, this question does not really lead us anywhere, I believe. 

There are some misconceptions here. First, we do not know whether quantum computers are better at some stuff than classical computers. There are problems where we know quantum algorithms that are faster than all known classical algorithms, but so far noone has been able to prove that are no equally fast classical algorithms. Second, there are many computational tasks humans are very bad at, despite the tasks being very easy. A core aspect here is that for something like combinatorics calculations, we are using concious, higher level style reasoning. A "hardware" implementation in our brains might have been much better, but just never evolved (being good at combinatorics is probably not strongly selected for). So from us not being good at something we cannot conclude that the basic computational machinery of our brains is not suited for that task.