Polymorphs are similar to allotropes, but the term allotrope applies only to elements, while polymorph applies only to compounds.  Polymorphs are most often found in minerals and organic compounds (e.g., pharmaceuticals).  There are polymorphs of ice (solid $\mathrm{H_2O}$), but the ordinary ice that forms on puddles in winter (and that we make in our freezers and put into our drinks) is the only one that can exist at standard pressure.  However, Kurt Vonnegut’s novel Cat’s Cradle stipulates that there are others that can exist at standard pressure.  In particular, one called “ice-nine” has a melting point of $\mathrm{45.8\:°C}$ $(\mathrm{114.4\:°F})$, so it is stable at room temperature — and, indeed, on most of the Earth.  It has the additional property that if any liquid (or gaseous) $\mathrm{H_2O}$ comes into contact with ice-nine, it immediately freezes and also becomes ice-nine.  For most of the book, the ice-nine is kept carefully controlled and locked away.  But eventually it escapes into the environment and causes all the oceans to freeze, and it’s pretty much curtains for mankind. Oxygen has allotropes, too.  The best known ones are ordinary, atmospheric oxygen $(\mathrm{O_2})$ and ozone $(\mathrm{O_3})$, but there are others, including tetraoxygen $(\mathrm{O_4})$, which is unstable (or metastable).  Wikipedia notes: 

Do this in a handwavium mine, and you’ve got parallel universes. You should look at the “Apprentice Adept” series by Piers Anthony.  It takes place in two parallel universes that have limited points of contact / overlap.  He doesn’t explain how this came to be; 

The answer to this question sits on the shelf at the BBEG's local hardware store. It's called d-CON. No, seriously. The second-generation superwarfarins (such as brodifacoum) are exactly the poison you seek -- they have a long half-life in the body (in the weeks to months range) due to being highly fat soluble, are capable of being quite insidiously lethal due to their mode of action, and can easily be antagonized by a steady diet of green vegetables (as said vegetables are high in vitamin K, which counteracts the effects of coumadins). However, if Joe gets out and reverts back to his fast-food-eating ways...he'll be in the hospital or worse. 

So, I have a character who has an interesting quirk: they cannot wear flat shoes or boots (i.e. where the heel is at the same level as the ball of the foot or approximately so, within 1.27cm or so) without risking pain/injury to their feet and legs. What sort of physiological trait or "defect" would cause this in an otherwise normal human being? Said trait can be heritable or idiosyncratic, but needs to be present from birth or young age, should not interfere with their ability to walk/run when suitably shod, and should not affect the appearance of their feet in any clearly noticeable way. 

Now suppose that $\mathrm{O_5}$ is stable at standard atmospheric pressure and temperature.  And suppose that, like ice-nine, it acts as a catalyst, converting $\mathrm{O_2}$ (and maybe also $\mathrm{O_3}$) into $\mathrm{O_5}$, and that this conversion is very hard to undo (think particle accelerator).  It would be quite reasonable to expect $\mathrm{O_5}$ not to react chemically the way $\mathrm{O_2}$ does (remember the differences between the characteristics of diamonds and graphite).  Once this stuff got into the lungs of an oxygen breather, it would convert all the ordinary oxygen (including, eventually, the stuff in hemoglobin) into $\mathrm{O_5}$, which would not give the cells what they need.  You’d suffocate. Or maybe it’s just very, very bad for you — like ozone. I don’t know how $\mathrm{O_5}$ would be created with pre-WWI technology, but the existence of tetraoxygen $(\mathrm{O_4})$ was first predicted in 1924 as a result of experiments with liquid oxygen — so that technology existed then.  You would need very little handwavium to explain how somebody cooled oxygen, past the point where it condenses into a liquid, near to its freezing temperature, and this caused $\mathrm{O_5}$ crystals to form.  When allowed to thaw, they did not decompose, but rather started a Cat’s Cradle-like chain reaction that converted all the oxygen on the planet into toxic $\mathrm{O_5}$. 

Golden colored tools are already a thing The native state of engineering TiN (Titanium Nitride) coatings is a bright golden color -- it is quite common to see high-speed machine tool bits that are coated this way for its anti-galling, anti-corrosion, and anti-wear properties. An example is the drill bit depicted below (pic from Binter on Wikipedia.DE): 

Precision shooting from an aerial platform at low altitudes (below say a couple hundred meters) is certainly possible -- the USCG uses .50 cal snipers on helicopters to interdict drug-smuggling fast boats. The main problem is when that platform starts to move -- hitting something when you're on a moving platform isn't much easier than hitting a moving target, and at significant speeds, figuring out where to aim in order to hit the target is quite hard. Hence, aerial gunnery at anything faster than early WWI biplane speeds practically requires rapid fire weapons -- look at how rapidly machine guns were mounted to aircraft in WWI for your guidance here. Furthermore, if you try to put your shooter way high up -- the winds just become awful as winds at altitude are in no way reflective of surface winds, and can move much faster than the surface winds as well. 

The law isn't precise enough for this The law in a common-law country is not just a set of statutes and rulings, it is a living entity -- a body of knowledge that changes with changing social norms (for instance: trespass law is almost entirely dependent on its surrounding social norms to function, an issue that's caused great problems with attempts to define the digital equivalent). Furthermore, interpretation differences between courts arise as a natural part of the legal system's functioning -- eventually, these are settled by a high court, but can persist for years until a suitable case appears. A great example within the US Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) was recently pointed out by the EFF on their blog: 

The great Isaac Asimov seemed to think it was possible.  He wrote many short stories featuring Multivac, the ultimate supercomputer that spans the globe — and more — and slowly acquires control over everything, encroaching on personal privacy and freedom.  In his story “The Life and Times of Multivac”, one man analyzes Multivac’s structure and finds a weak point.  Then he physically attacks that point, triggering the downfall of the machine. Resources: 

Building on one aspect of AndreiROM’s comprehensive answer, I am reminded of The Space Eater by David Langford, in which 

This page at the The Internet Speculative Fiction Database — I don’t know what good it is. This page at Asimov Wiki — I don’t know what good it is. 

They learned it by listening to our radio and television broadcasts.  They could have learned other languages that way, but America’s Got Talent and Britain’s Got Talent were the only shows they liked. 

I haven’t done the math on this (but (a) you specified science-based and not hard-science, and (b) you’re allowing magic):  The chasm lies under a deposit of some substance that’s many times denser than rock (neutonium?).  It exerts an upwards gravitational pull on the space immediately below it; with enough mass, it should be able to create a region where the gravitational field is zero (or infinitesimal).  Unfortunately(?), that also produces a higher than normal gravitational field on the surface above the deposit (i.e., above the abyss), but (handwave handwave …).          It’s hard to image such a structure occurring naturally, or being stable if it does exist.  It would probably collapse under its own weight.  So enter deus ex machina… it’s a constructed artefact (perhaps by a lost civilization, or by aliens).  (The builders might still live a mile lower.)  To support this notion (pun intended), I’ve added a second layer of the substance below the chasm, with pillars holding up the upper layer. This doesn’t address the viscosity of the air.  But, if you stipulate that the chasm is accessed by tunnels from the ocean floor, you can argue that the atmospheric pressure is much higher than that at the surface, and that’s a start. 

George the Dragon here, stepping out of the time machine into 1933. I would start by making sure I was as light as possible for the outbound trip. Needless to say, a pre-sortie bathroom break would be most certainly in order! Next, given the presence of the guns, I would study whatever maps I had, looking for likely ammunition stockpile sites. Given that the 8.8cm FlaK 18 was only good up to 25,600' due to limitations on shell fuzing and accurate target heightfinding, and I can get up to 32,000', I can outmaneuver the gun's ability to accurately deliver shells my way by maneuvering in the vertical plane, in a not-fully-predictable sinuous fashion as they need to accurately determine how high up I am to set the shell to go off next to me, instead of going off prematurely or bouncing off me without detonating. As a bonus, they might send a convoy out to deliver ammunition to a gun-site, which would allow me to follow that convoy back to the dump. Once the ammunition stockpile is sighted, I would strike swiftly, using a maximum-speed dive to get within striking distance of the target. Since they are using time or altimeter fuzes on their shells, getting an effective hit on me during the pass would be a matter of sheer luck or swift changes in shell settings, not aiming alone. Now that the ammunition dump is burning brightly, I simply use the speed to enter a zoom climb initially before transitioning into a maximum sustained rate climb back to cruise altitude, and can cruise home, performing a penetration descent on arrival to again minimize my time in the 'hot zone'. No food yet tonight, but boy, they'll be in a pinch for a while! Serves 'em right for shooting at me, morons...and maybe I'll be able to hunt in peace for a few days or weeks while they bug HQ for replacement 88 ammo. 

This is a little crude, in more ways than one.  Perhaps somebody can suggest improvements to (cough cough) clean it up. First of all, they’ll want to have a reservoir (or cistern) at (or, more likely, below) ground level.  This would allow them to capture and hold spring water temporarily, in case the spring and/or the pumping mechanism have varying flow rates.  (I’ll get back to that.)  If they’re collecting rainwater at ground level, they’re probably already doing this. As in initial capability, immediately after the apocalypse (or maybe even before), this could be as simple as a pond around the spring.  Given time to establish some infrastructure, there should probably be such a cistern in each building; this provides some security against bandits/raiders.  Rig something so that the water from the spring runs through pipes or other channels into the holding tanks in the basements of the buildings.  (Try to make it hard for attackers to slip poison into the reservoirs.) One added security measure is “security through obscurity” — after you have built a plumbing system that pipes the spring water into the buildings, bury it.  This may make it somewhat harder for adversaries to steal your water or tamper with the system.  Ideally, it will make the spring invisible. The question of getting the water to the upper floors remains.  Renan suggested a “bucketwheel”: