The first thing to do is making sure what you're asking needs to be asked and that you can't just find it yourself within a decent amount of time. You should be limiting the amount of times you're interrupting him by spreading the questions around and making a list of questions to ask. Ping them on slack first or shoot an email marked low importance for him (unless this is a task blocker) Ask questions that help you learn rather than just give you information. Make sure you REALLY need to ask the question and can't find the information yourself elsewhere. The biggest thing is just come out and tell him not to worry about being polite and to just tell you what's up. If he's busy let you know he's busy and tell you a time to come back. Take cues from his body language. If he looks like he's invested in his work right now, don't even interrupt. If he looks more relaxed or is browsing reddit, give him the old 'hey you' While not work related, my neighbor is very much a talker. He works an overnight shift at the hospital and if I run into him on my way out of the apartment building I can get sucked into a 15 minutes conversation about photography or something. At first I was polite but I've since started speaking up if I don't feel like talking and telling him I just don't have the time to talk. Unfortunately not everyone is comfortable being so forthright, so you need to learn to read his body language and cutting the discussion short and holding off until tomorrow or later in the day to bug him. 

I think you are setting yourself up to be fired. First, and most importantly, you have broken the contingency on which your higher salary rests. Your manager laid out the conditions for your increased salary and you violated them in less than a year. By bringing up the other job offer in any capacity, you will be showing your manager that he cannot trust you. Second, I wouldn't expect that you could negotiate a higher salary twice in five years, let alone one. You would be sending a message that you are not committed to the company at best, and that you are manipulating them for higher salaries, at worst. I would not bother with an employee who threatens to leave twice in one year. I'd either let them leave or shove them out the door myself. So the short answer is you don't negotiate for a higher salary twice in one year. You did a good job of it the first time around, but that is the kind of move you only get to pull a handful of times in your career. If you want a higher salary, then you're probably going to have to leave your job to get it. I don't know how you are going to do that without burning bridges with your current manager/employer, for the reasons outlined above. 

Proper leadership requires regular feedback to employees. Whether that's weekly, bi weekly, or monthly. This doesn't include yearly evaluations. During this time managers should be setting SMART goals (Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Realistic, Timely). When I was a manager this was handled with a notebook containing all my direct reports' biweekly forms we filled out for them, which I then used for their yearly evaluations. It doesn't have to be anything specific. But at the very least managers should be meeting with employees on a monthly basis to go over this type of stuff. The weekly/biweekly/monthly reviews are for short term things. Discuss just the previous x time. The yearly evaluation is more serious, longer, more detailed, and is used for things like promotions and transfers. IMO any company of any size should be doing this, whether you have 5 employees all together or 500,000 A lot of the stuff discussed in these meetings can be also handled in standups and retrospectives but the individual meetings shouldn't be skipped as that's the time managers should be using to mentor their direct reports and helping them achieve both their goals and the company's goals. There's tons of software out there. You could write your own. OR you can use paper. How you do it doesn't matter so much as doing it. Our bi weekly forms had specific KPI's that showed the previous period's numbers, the goal, the current periods numbers, and next periods goal. There was a section for managers to put their feedback down. And for employees to put their response and feedback down as well. As well as a section for the action plan. Our yearly evaluation was 2 parts. A self evaluation. And one done by your manager that included their responses to your self evaluation. You always give the employee an opportunity to say in their own words how they feel they did for the period especially for yearly evaluations. This way they can highlight some things to you and you as a manager don't forget the biggest thing they did that year (the employee will bring it up in their portion). It's always a good idea to include both what was done well and what needs improvement, both in the managers and the employees words. Edit: Larger companies do them more to be able to trim the fat when they need to lower numbers. There's some companies that straight up fire the bottom X percent of the company. I don't really like that second approach as I feel that someone that needs to be fired should be fired long before a yearly review. That's one of the big reasons for regular shorter periods of reviews. Yearly reviews should also generally be reviewed by the managers manager as a sort of checks and balances role. 

"When I started working, I felt overwhelmed because there was so much I didn't know but needed to know to fulfill the responsibilities of my position. I felt like I was not qualified for the position, and had somehow "lucked out". But since I didn't want to just quit, I decided to learn the things I didn't know and get to that point where I felt like I was right for the position, as fast as I could." Welcome to every job I've ever had. This is really how internship and entry-level employment works, as far as I can tell. The early stages are not just you doing work, they're extended training for the position. And since you say that you felt much more qualified at the end of the internship, the training worked exactly how it was supposed to, and all is right in the world. For entry-level positions especially, employers will hire based on potential as well as current skill. They'll expect you to be a little out of your depth at first, and they'll give you the guidance you need to be 100% qualified. Employers aren't charities; if they say they're happy with your work, it's because they are. If they've seen your work and they're happy with you, then you're qualified for the position. The only barrier is your own confidence. As @simbo pointed out, the people who feel the least qualified can often be the most qualified. Keep plugging away, and don't worry about how you think your work is. Your employer's evaluations will be far more objective (and more important). We are our own worst critics. 

Recruiters are a dime a dozen. Even within recruitment firms. Just hitup LinkedIn and connect with recruiters in your discipline. Recruiters have no business knowing what you do outside of interviews they get for you. You're nothing more than a product they're trying to sell to a company. Don't forget that. They ask these questions because they want to both see what companies may be interested in hiring a recruiter to fill some posts as they have a demonstrated rejection which means they've already wasted time interviewing people and they also want to know why people are rejected for specific jobs so they can better qualify their leads for not only a future contract with them but hiring managers in general. Some things become a trend and a recruiter is usually the first to notice it. They will ignore you if they don't have anything you're a good fit for. Just like any other salesman. They give attention to the most likely client to land them a big check, and work their way down. If they don't have anything for you or there are higher commission jobs they'll just keep you on the backburner. Edit: For this reason you need to keep the same type of attitude you would have about a salesperson or business. If they're hassling you pressuring you coercing things from you you want to sever that relationship and not shop from there. Make them work for you to earn their paycheck. Don't fall into the product mentality. Edit2: You also don't want to work with someone that tells you confidentiality expires. Their ethics are obviously pretty warped. 

While I was interviewing at a handful of companies in the past for a tech position, one of them (Company A) asked what I thought was a very interesting interview question which required some creative thinking. I did not end up joining that company, and went to another one instead (Company B). Fast-forward to today, when I am thinking of learning how to interview candidates; I feel like that question would be a good one to ask. Is this unethical or otherwise a bad idea? Am I adversely impacting Company A's ability to recruit? There would be no publishing of the question anywhere; it would be kept secret as any Company B interview question would be. 

Going to turn my comment into an answer. Depending on how you asked the question, yes, it can be considered rude. Firstly, there isn't really a need for you to know this information as it will not be relevant to your job. Second, because it's not relevant to your job and probably won't help you interview better, it's easy for them to assume that you're asking because you intend to question their competence or capability. This is especially the case if you asked it at the end of the interview. It's even more so the case if the person you're asking is a woman, who tend to have their credibility constantly questioned in ways that simply don't happen to men; she was probably bracing herself for a condescending follow-up question. Often times when I'm doing a technical interview, the person conducting the interview will volunteer their position on their own. I would say that you should probably let them volunteer the information if they want you to know it, or think that you should know it, and leave it at that. Otherwise, they are just "the person currently interviewing you". That's all you need to know. 

First of all. 7 years is a LONG time to be waiting for a promise, especially when others are getting it. Now that's not necessarily a valid complaint but I think it would be a valid question if you're denied yet again. How far away is this review? IF its' more than a month I wouldn't wait that long. I'd have a sit down sooner. If it's within a month sure go ahead and wait. In that review I would bring in the details of what I wanted to go do, and I would present them to my boss. If that didn't work and he still denied to send you I would immediately start looking for a new job and not give more than 2 weeks notice (or whatever your contract may specify). At this point of 7 years of repeatedly lying and stringing you along you don't have any reason to give them loyalty. They've hampered your career growth for long enough. You're number 1, always remember that. 

I feel like if you weren't allowed to apply for both company A and company B, they would integrate their two hiring systems into one. Plus, if you did end up potentially getting offers from both companies, it would probably be easy for them to realize what has occurred and come to their own resolution about what offers they should give you. Under normal circumstances, a company that you are interviewing with will generally ask you if you are looking at any other places. That would be the appropriate time to tell them that you're also applying to this other position at the other company, and let them sort it out. You don't have any additional responsibilities beyond that. 

There is nothing wrong with wanting to leave a job that leaves you unhappy, unfulfilled and unchallenged. However, it sounds like you blindsided your manager with your job decision, and that isn't the best thing to do. Maybe there is more to the story than you wrote in your question, but it sounds like you never communicated to your manager that you were unhappy enough to potentially leave your job, which in my opinion is the first thing you should do in this scenario. What you should do is arrange a meeting, tell him that you have no work to do and that it's heavily affecting your job satisfaction. If you two can arrange something where you're given more work that you enjoy, then great. If not, then your manager will at least understand where you're at and won't be blindsided when you find another job, even if he isn't too happy about it. Similarly, you should not quit your job via email, unless you suddenly discovered your lifelong passion in the mountains of Peru or something. It's always better to have this conversation face-to-face, and you don't run the risk of him not noticing your email until it's too late. With that all said, it doesn't sound like you have a very good manager, either. He completely mismanaged you by giving you nothing to do for months on end, and he ignored his email for two weeks on top of that. He should be upset at himself instead of you, for letting a good resource slip through his fingers by not doing his job. So basically, you should always communicate directly with your manager if you're quitting or if you're unhappy, but also you ultimately made the right decision and you may never have gotten a good recommendation from a poor manager. Forget about this incident, get yourself ready for your new job, and just remember to never give out this guy's name on any future applications. 

If there is a widespread fraud (which is exactly what is happening here from how you describe it) then eventually one of your clients will figure it out, and the will subpoena anyone that works on these projects. I would personally seek legal counsel at this point. You sound like you're in a bit of a legal situation that needs the guidance of a professional that you can talk freely to and that can help guide you through this. 

When you run out of items and still have time tell your boss you're gifting him X minutes of his day back. Managers shouldn't be doing 1:1's to fill time they should be doing them to give and receive feedback to/from an employee. You should be using this time as a means to getting a promotion. This is the time you use for your manager to mentor you and help you gain that role you want. If you're a developer, and want to be a developer lead, you should ask your manager for mentorship on leadership topics. I'd also propose a bi-weekly meeting of 1 hour or weekly meeting of 1/2 an hour. This is also a great time to bring up any issues you're having with tasks. If you have a task due in 2 weeks for instance, and you are running into a block of some type this is the time to bring it up with your boss. This is also a good time to go over any HR type stuff with your manager if you have anything. As an employee or manager I've always loved when 1:1's are shorter than their allotted time. I definitely could always use an extra 15 minutes even if it's just to pee. 

You are playing an incredibly dangerous game here. If they refuse to give you a counter offer, then your options are either to quit and have no job, or to stay with the company anyway, in which case your credibility has been destroyed. If they find out, your boss will know that you are a liar and that is not something you want. Something similar happened to a friend of mine: they went to their boss with a real offer and asked for a counter-offer, which they did not get, and decided to stay in their current job. They basically lost their negotiating position with the company for the rest of their employment there. Management knew that their threats were toothless. As others have pointed out, they could even decide to end your employment right there and then. If you are unhappy enough with your current salary that you are willing to take action, then you should actually go out and get a better offer from another company. Do not make one up. You have far more to lose than you have to gain. 

What have you said to the person that actually oversees the team/you? What have you said to your companies human resources? As an Intern your entire job is to learn and get coffee and do menial tasks that help you learn that more experienced people don't want to do. If anything is getting in the way of your education, including your teammates, you need to speak up to someone. If that doesn't work you need to go to your academic adviser at your school and discuss this with them (or whoever your internship is managed by at the school). "They don't care" really isn't an excuse not to do anything. It's your education, and only you are responsible for it. That includes making sure you are in a positive environment to learn. Your school should at the very least consider not sending new interns to this company as well if they're not willing to handle the problem. If the Front End Dev is supposed to teach you, that's what he's supposed to do. And you should also be willing to stand up for yourself (a little don't go overboard). Tell the team members how you feel tell them to stop treating you badly and remind them you're there to learn from them. I know a lot of people are anti-confrontation but bullies need to be met head on. You may be able to cut everything out without having to go to your boss. I'd speak up, give them an opportunity to change, then go to your manager personally.