You don't put all your eggs in one basket If you want to go on being a civilization for a long time. If you value your cultural addition to the universe. You will want to make sure your species and base culture will survive extinction level events. Because once the big asteroid hits your planet there's no coming back unless you have a fairly decent breeding population somewhere else. Thus you may just as well forgo creating art, literature, technology and religion. It's all pointless endeavors anyway, just passing the time from here to oblivion. So why planets Well, people do like room to move around. Also, provided we have terraforming capability, a planet will be self sustainable. You don't have to figure out how to get around having almost no gravity at all. You have all the basic building materials you need for you colony. You have room enough to grow food. A planet colony will be much more resilient than some free floating tube or a hole on an asteroid. Those are nice for farming materials. But for a long term strategy you want a planet. (Preferably at least one in another solar system as well.) 

The smart dictator minimizes corruption. The happier the population is the less the need to oppress them, and removing corruption and arbitrariness from everyday life goes a long way of doing that. In order to keep western media happily ignoring you you should also try to avoid declaring for any controversial political ideology. Socialism/Communism is a big no. Full on neo-liberal laissez faire capitalism may create too big social rifts which may cause unrest, which in turn causes unwanted attention. (Also, there are western media who'd love to poke a hole in that.) Aim for some watered down social liberal approach. Make sure people are well fed and have jobs to go to. Skim of the top percent of GNP into your private bank account. Try to present yourself as a man of the people. Don't live too opulently if your people starves. Always strive to make sure you don't get too greedy. Play the long game. You want to retire a billionaire by 50 or 60, not get strung up by your intestines in a gibbet on Liberation Square. The less unrest you have internally the less interest foreign media will have in you. Now, if you've already messed up and installed a corrupt regime where the poor starve and your sons and nephews drive golden sports cars in the street and claim droit a seigneur with every comely maiden don't panic. There are steps to be taken. 1) Bite the bullet, you'll catch flak in the media but it's time you let some heads roll. Preferably not your relatives, they can be kept in check in some less drastic way. But pick a few choice corrupt officials and have them hung. (Alternatively imprisoned, but who deals in half measures these days?) 2) Declare yourself for liberal market economy and open up your country to foreign investors. Liberalize the internal market and allow people to start small businesses. 3) Take steps to reduce every day corruption, especially when it comes to foreign investors. 4) Declare the new era to have begun. Regret that the transition period from the old regime was so rough. Blame someone else, have him or her hung. Promise free elections as soon as the situation has stabilized itself and your country is ready for western style democracy, then start planning your exit. 

"You know", Sog-Yogthot (no relations) said to I'g-m'ell over by the Shoggothnut table at the committee meeting for the betterment of the human realm. "The humans world is really dry, how can they breathe? I'm going to send them water. Does forty days and nights of rain sound roughly enough?" "Dunno", said I'g-m'ell (who was more of a creature of eternal fire itself) "But they do look a bit like Deep Ones, all bipedal and furless, and they sure didn't like when I set their forest on fire. Can't hurt." 

Mountains are much more defensible than plains or hills. It only makes sense that dwarves would build their fortified cities in the mountains and then if there is a lack of minerals at the city site (and really, who wants to live in a mining site) go down to the foothills to mine. Also it's probably easier to carve your huge halls and gigantic statues out of a big mountain than to dig through the silt on the plains down to the bedrock. 

You might want to check out Ebenezer Howard and the Garden City movement, it might not be the best selling point for circular city planning though, no garden cities evolved into cities you'd recognize the name of. However, the main problem with Howard's idea, might not be the circular structure in itself but rather the anti-urban approach. The popular wisdom (at this point in history) is that the main benefit of the city is density, It's a people and talent aggregator. People tended to meet in unexpected ways when they all were cramped in inside the city walls which lead to ideas meeting money (and so forth, you can check out Jane Jacobs for a bit more on urbanist ideas). The exact shape of houses and public space is not extremely important, but there are some factors that you want to keep in mind in designing the city. 1) DENSITY: Stores, restaurants and other businesses all require a certain amount of potential customers to be viable. (This varies of course and factors such as customer segment, employee wage levels and rent levels at the location will guide what is sustainable at any given location.) This means you want not only people living close by but also the next point on the list. 2) COMMUNICATIONS: Urbanist (although not anti-urbanists or modernists) agree that the best locations for businesses are close to communication hubs and along thoroughfares. (Such as the main street.) You want fairly straight streets which cross through more than one neighbourhood. People who pass along from one place to another are the life blood of the city. 3) SECONDARY LOCATIONS: You can't just have major thoroughfares, those locations will quickly be filled with the business owners who can pay the premium prices (like real estate agents in major Swedish cities) and that will stifle creativity in your city. You want smaller streets and alleyways which connects the major streets. The spoked wheel city design suggested by James is a good start but also consider how the Burning Man site is laid out in Len's post. The grid pattern might not be the most practical use of space if all houses and quarters need to be circular, but you might want to give it a thought. How are people flowing in your city? Where do they go? How can their way be effectivized? The shortest path for the most people will be where the prime locations are. Radiating off from the prime locations will be the secondary locations. The reason I bring this up is that we can see how cities who grew organically and gave space for these factors are the most successful cities. Cities planned according to modernist ideals about separation of function and city plans which looked great on a map (most famously Brasilia) tend to be very dependent on political power to stay afloat. Which of course is another idea. A ceremonial political or religious city can be designed along totally different ideals. Maybe there is no need for commerce as we recognize it, the goods needed to sustain the perfect city is brought in and distributed to the elites from the outside. The only thing that matters inside is your social standing which is greater the closer you are to the center of the circle where the seat of power resides. 

My guess is that you can't really have a steam punk civilization without having roughly 19th century understanding of chemistry and with that you're probably home free. As evidence I would like to quote Wikipedia: 

Possibly the common vampire has a rapid healing factor and regeneration which does not work for the heart. (Either by not being able to heal damage to the heart or by any damage to the heart causing massive blood clots and/or tumour like scar tissue growth.) A wooden stake could deliver splinters into the heart causing infection and exacerbating the problems. 

Building walls take time that you probably don't have a lot of when being beset by the infected. (Depending on the severity of you apocalypse, but I guess we're talking the standard zombie 70-90% of the population here.) But sensible? Yes, definitely. As long as you subscribe to the theory that people get together under pressure and cooperate in a crisis. Walling in your living space and farmland makes it easier to keep safe and frees up resources that otherwise would have to be spent on defense. You could feasibly start off with smaller separated enclosures that gradually grow and connect with each other over the years to produce something like what you want over the years. As long as the infected don't master siege weaponry or the art of ladder-making the inhabitants should be able to live inside their fortress with regular patrols along the perimeter (cleaning out anything that could be used to climb the wall such as huge piles of corpses and making sure there are no weakenings or breaches). My money would be with one of the European cities who still have more or less intact medieval walls though. Such as Saint-Malo intra muros or Visby. (Make mental note: write a Zombie apocalypse story set in Visby before someone beats me to it...) Because building a pallisade or surrounding yourself with chain link fence is one thing. But when it comes to non-siege warfare nothing beats a ten meters high stone wall, and those take time to build. Considering what you've told us about the infected I suppose a spike filled moat could be carved out with access to the proper digging tools and then you can errect barbed wire and chain link fences to get a first defensive perimeter. But it is risky work while being onset by hordes of ravenous zombies. You'd have to figure out a way of protecting the workers who will no doubt attract a lot of unwelcome attention. 

It depends of course on the nature of the healing magic and how fast it's working. I'll assume the magic is more or less equivalent to modern day medicine and that it can be used without the prerequisite of an existing condition to cure. The three things I'd try: 

Necromancer is usually considered to come from the greek Nekrós (death) and Manteía (divination). Thus a lifesorcerer in greek would presumably be a Biomancer (Bíos meaning "life"). As the joke goes, mixing greek and latin roots is unnatural. (However, so is necromancy I suppose... so it may be a moot point.) 

As previous posters also has stated there is no direct correlation proven between brain size and intelligence. A possible venue of investigation would be brain wrinkles or folds. (Gyri and sulci) These create a greater surface area in the brain and may be linked to intelligence and greater processing capacity. 

The usual basics are probably still needed. Food, tools and clothing/adornings (I'll assume they don't need clothes to protect them from the element (singular because it's just water) which they should be adapted to, but likely from the point of modesty or fashion). Grooming services will be needed and basically any activities which comes with the level of technological advancement you desire. A hunter/gatherer tribe does not need much in terms of economy as there is very little degree of specialization. But as soon as you need to specialize you get the need for services such as childcare and schooling. With medical advancement you need to set aside tribe members for various medical professions. With religion you get a priestly caste and probably also a need for a military/constabulary profession (to keep the flock in line and to enforce the laws of Neptun/Dagon/Old Father Shark). These are no longer producing their own food and as such need to sell their service (collect tax). And of course you have the old trope about the "oldest profession" though if they procreate like fish that might be moot. (Also you probably need to invent shame and sexual repression for it to be a viable trade, so presumably priests come first. Properly refuted by Perkins, we agree that shame and sexual repression does improve the market though.) Also, the question (to me at least) is what kind of trade will occur between land and sea. If they are isolated and have no contact with humans, just pick a technological level (pre-civilzation, ancient, medieval, pre-industrial, post-industrial, information age... whatever suits you story) and assume that there will be analogues to whatever land economy you're mirroring. (Herding dolphins instead of cows, harvesting kelp instead of wheat, using lava flows and heat vents to cook food and make tools.) If they have contact with the other element you want to think about what's made where. Perhaps tools are made on land and traded for pearls and corals (or hard to fish from the surface fish and crustaceans). Currency: G0BLiN asked, so I'll see what I can think of. Paper currency is of course out and metal might be unfeasible as well depending on the tech level. (Whether they can use lava flows to forge or not.) But there are a lot of other viable currencies. 

I would make it a cultural thing. Having the robot mature in a smaller less powerful body makes sense both in terms of resource conservation and to minimize damage caused by individuals who do not conform to the societal norms. A new, and more powerful, body is earned piece by piece as you mature into your role in the greater good. Once you've passed a certain threshold your guardians will either install new body parts or activate parts of your programming which allows your nanobot maintenance system (analogous to our immune system I would hazard) to reconfigure your existing body to new specifications. The benefit would be that robots who can't cooperate with other robots will just stay small obnoxious machines which can be easily contained. (Unless they evolve the skills to to hack their own configuration.) While the largest and most powerful robots would usually be the ones who contribute best to society. 

Lack of terraforming capacity. Even though a planet is in the goldilocks zone it may still be inhospitable to humans, or life at all (see Mars). And while your humans have the capacity to build a huge ship (probably a number of self containing large ships attached to each other and ready to split up or shut off injured hulls in an emergency) they do not have the ability to actually create a liveable biosphere on a planet. So, it makes more sense to mine the asteroid belt (and subsequently other solar systems which failed to provide a liveable world) for resources to maintain their swarm. Ethics I've thought about this a lot for story reasons of my own, and it does make sense. It's likely that planets with the capacity to sustain life also already does that. From a moral perspective it's better to live aboard a colony ship and suck up resources from planets who don't have the capacity to develop intelligent life than to be the murderous locust scourge of the universe. Essentially it's the difference between passing the great filter and being the great filter. Evolution Also, lacking FTL travel in the generations it would take to travel to another star system (and discover that while the goldilocks planet is rich in iron and carbon it has neither an breathable atmosphere nor an protective magnetic field and all the liquid water has boiled off into space) your crew will probably have adapted to life aboard the ship. 

Are you fully committed to wheels? I suppose they're only working because of extremely light weight construction but I thought aboute Theo Jansens strandbeests. $URL$ They can be fairly fast when the wind is blowing. A bit of magical handwaving and suspension of disbelief (adapting the insect like leg system for a trimaran structure) should allow them to be practical for troop transport. They would also be (at least in theory) less sensitive to wear and tear than a setup with very few large wheels as a couple of legs can break down without the crawler losing balance or speed.