This thesis is manifestly false, and is indicative of the weaknesses of "Guns, germs and steel". For example, the making of iron tools was probably passed up the Nile, to Kush and Meroe, and then across to East Africa; they were making iron tools well before 1000 AD; evidence of iron work by the Nok of Nigeria exists as earlier than 400 BC. 

Saudi Arabia is a very new country, having been founded in 1932. Yet it has been invaded: Saudi–Yemeni War (1934) 

Battleships became obsolete with the rise of air power; this was clear to General Billy Mitchell at the end of WW I. 

The Vermont Secretary of State maintains a site, Vermont Constitutions, which contains a link to the Records of the Council of Censors, which downloads a document, published in 1991, and containing 841 pages, which states: 

This varies with the culture - in ancient Egypt and Babylon the temples claimed ownership of the land, but the peasants had rights to their plots. You will find something similar in all very hierarchical systems. If the society is flatter, ownership may be communal, with the individual plots assigned annually by the village elders, or by some heredity rule. Note that in none of the above societies could the peasant alienate (sell) the land. Similar societies continued to exist down to and well into the first millennium BC. OTOH, within the urban environment the rental, sale, and purchase of land and buildings, by individuals, is well documented before 1500 BC. With the introduction of coinage, in the 6th century 600 BC, small scale transactions were facilitated, and land holdings could be monetized. As a result you see the development of a "middle class" of small land holders, often with mortgages, marked by stones on the boundaries of the land to indicated the debt. Some even borrowed against their own person; indeed, money is the source of many evils! So if they could keep out of debt, and pay their taxes to the state, these middle class landowners could thrive, as they did at Athens and Latium. The tendency, of course, is for the person with more capital to buy up more land, concentrating it in the hands of the more wealthy. But even in the late days of the Roman Empire, there were still plenty of small free-holders in Italy. It requires peace and prosperity for the free-holder to exist; in times of trouble they would sell out, or bond themselves to the local lord, who offered protection via his private militia. This was a common event in late Roman times, and even after. This is not really an answer for your question, but perhaps a guide as to how to search the histories for an answer. 

Dachau concentration camp; if too graphic, feel free to remove. Photo from Dachau concentration camp memorial: A chilling reminder of Nazi atrocities 

Ann Boleyn and her brother, George, were executed in 1536. It appears that her family had taken a great interest in the early writings of Martin Luther, some of which he translated. Though there were a number of protestant sects by 1530, the reform movement of John Calvin was not yet in existence, nor were Anglicans, Presbyterians, or most other modern denominations. This does not necessarily make Anne Boleyn a Lutheran, for that would have required a Lutheran Church, which was lacking in England. 

Tribute items: quetzalcoatl feathers and sacrificial victims For good reads try: The True History of the Conquest of New Spain by Bernal Díaz del Castillo (1492–1581), one of the lieutenants of Cortez. The First New Chronicle and Good Government by Felipe Guaman Poma de Ayala, (1535-1615), a Quechua nobleman known for chronicling and denouncing the ill treatment of the natives of the Andes by the Spanish after their conquest. 

A 2,000 lb. bomb "near-miss" severely damages Ostfriesland at the stern hull plates (1921) A series of tests were conducted between 1921 and 1925 which conclusively showed that battleships could be severely damaged or sunk by means of aerial bombing. It took time, and repetition, for the lessons to "sink in", but they did, and this lead to the creation of the air craft carriers which played such a prominent role in WW II. The balance is found in "cost to build and operate" vs "cost to destroy"; air power is cheaper and more flexible than the battle ship. Note that coastal defenses in the form coastal artillery were also rendered obsolete by air power. 

Did militia companies have cannons? The answer is Yes, they did. For example, Chapter XLV Militia and Militia Companies, from The History of Detroit and Michigan: Or, The Metropolis Illustrated; a Full Record of Territorial Days in Michigan, and the Annals of Wayne County, Volume 1, by Silas Farmer (1889). The Legionary Corps, created in Michigan by an act of the Governor and Judges in 1805, included cavalry, artillery, riflemen and light infantry; this was in addition to two regiments of infantry -- all militia. On p. 317 describes a volunteer artillery company: "On December 27, 1821, on the occasion of the execution of two Indians for murder, the First Regiment of militia was called out and also the volunteer artillery company commanded by Captain Ben Woodworth." Ben Woodworth kept a hotel, and held several minor posts during his long career in Detroit. The "volunteers" would fire their cannon on the 4th of July every year. 

Such a study would be quite local, requiring a detailed study of church records for baptisms, marriages and deaths. I can provide some information from 19th century: 1802: Lucinda Pixley, age 19, married at age 19 to David Powers, in Vermont They had two daughters, in 1802 and 1808. The family moved to New York; the husband died in 1813, while serving in the US Army. They may have had some other difficulties as well, but documentation is sparse. 1817: Vinera Powers, age 15, married Samuel Stillman Glover, in upstate New York. They had 11 children, with one set of twins, between 1818 and 1847. Most of the gaps were 2 years or so, with one much longer gap of five years. The family moved to Michigan. The mother and new born twins died in 1847. 1860: Annette Glover, age 16, married Jesse Youngs in Michigan. They were married for 64 years. They had 17 children, of whom 9 lived to adulthood, between 1861 and 1898. There were several long gaps of 5 and 6 years. She was 54 when her final child was born; the final seven all died as infants, and were left out of the family bible record, but have birth and death certificates. 

All three stories are told by one witness, Rosti Ponago, a Greek merchant who had been in Khartoum for many years. The account is given as reported in the Daily News, as reported by their Dongola correspondent in June of 1885. The report continues, and states that of 42 Greeks, only 8 escaped; etc. Note that most of the western Europeans had been evacuated previous to the closing of the siege of Khartoum, though some of these were captured and killed along their way down the Nile. From the referenced footnote: *"Such is one of the most probable accounts of the hero's death but a different version was communicated to the public towards the end of June 1885 by a Dongola correspondent of the Daily News. He derived it from one Rosti Ponago, a Greek, who had kept a store for some years in Khartoum, had been forced to wear the Mahdi's uniform, but ultimately succeeded in effecting his escape. He thus describes the fall of Khartoum and the death of Gordon: And now the day arrived that was to separate husband from wife, brother from sister, and parent from child. The streets were soon to run with blood I was not at my house. I was with some Greeks, eight in all, near the mosque, when we heard a hideous uproar as of men shouting and yelling and of women wailing around about on all sides. Near and nearer did this long continued roar approach swelling as it were and now bursting close on our ears. Men with frightful gashes on their faces and limbs came flying by and towards us women with torn garments and dishevelled hair shrieking screaming 'Jesu Christo!' I shall not forget that horrible din to the day of my death. We are lost! We are lost! we cried. The place is taken! But no one could tell us exactly what was the matter. We ran up to the top of the mosque and saw that the town was given up to massacre and bloodshed. We ran to a house, barricaded the doors and windows, went upstairs, shut ourselves into a room and determined never to surrender, but die like Greeks, for we, mindful of our ancestors, fight to the last. Listen I pray you. Have you not asked me where Gordon Pasha was slain? You say everybody has said he was either killed on the court-yard steps of the palace or outside going to the Austrian Consul's house. They all lie. If you choose to believe them you may it matters not to me. I am a respectable Greek merchant not an Arab. You want the truth I tell it to you. True, I did not see Gordon slain, but everybody in Khartoum knows where the event happened. An Arab rushed upstairs and shot him with a gun as he was reading the Bible. Another Arab cut off his head and put it on a spear and so went forth into the city carrying it and brandishing it on high. The Copts in the palace, in the rooms below, were slaughtered at the same time. The Arabs came pouring in; they slew every man they could find, no mercy was shown to any one. There was no resistance. I don't think a hundred shots were fired by Egyptians or blacks. Men ran in and shut themselves up in houses, but doors were burst open and spearing, cutting, and slashing went on bravely in the streets, in the market square, in the bazaars. It was a horrible scene, this bazaar afterwards, I went through it. Gay curtains crimson coloured and orange stripped golden edged satins, silks and muslins lay smeared and splashed with blood; everything was upset and strewed about and trampled on. Everywhere was the wildest disorder. You know how narrow it was and how it winds. One corner was so full of corpses and dying that we could not get by. I had my hands tied and I fell several times in the road slippery with blood. The havoc went on till eight o clock. Then Mahomet Achmet, the Mahdi, sent over word from Omdurman that Allah had revealed to him that the slaughter must cease. We were told this. It was shouted about the streets and those that were still hidden were bidden to come forth. Of forty two Greeks only eight escaped. There were ten Jews, these were killed. I think Gordon's head I saw on a spear. It was taken over to Omdurman and shown to Mahomet Achmet. It was laid before him. A grim savage smile passed over his face He gazed long at the countenance of his late enemy. "God be praised!" he cried "can this be his?" He did not express anger at Gordon's death as you say has been reported; he made merry at his death when it was told him. The head was then borne away and men plucked the hairs out of his head and beard and spat in his face. His body was cut up into little pieces. This was his end."* Note: the punctuation was not preserved by the transfer, but I restored some to make it readable. 

The Constitution of 1793, and the discussions which took place in 1792, are recorded on pp. 101-152. You should be able to find your answers within. 

The St. Lawrence Island Famine and Epidemic, 1878-80: A Yupik Narrative in Cultural and Historical Context reports that at least 1,000 lives were lost. 

Anything that has already happened is a fit subject for history. Some topics can be studied from documents; others from oral records; and others from archaeological remains, such as pre-Colombian Indian civilizations, or pre-Roman Celtic and German peoples. So much for my opinion. Philosophy of History starts with "History is the study of the past in all its forms." They go on to quote Thucydides: 

'In perils oft': romantic biographies illustrative of the adventurous life (1886) provides three versions of Gordon's death, pp. 533-534. These are: 

The Ottoman Empire was in a state of decline, both internal and external, during the 18th and 19th centuries, accelerating during the latter period, and ending with its total collapse and dissolution during the events surrounding World War I. Richard Hooker's The Ottomans tell's the story briefly. Note that by 1800 the Ottoman's had totally lost control of the Barbary Coast and Egypt; European interference in the Lebanon was also disruptive. The Balkan Wars of the late 19th century were preceded by the successful Greek War of Independence. All of these events signal the weakness of the Ottoman Empire, the "Sick Man of Europe" The rise of of nationalism in the Ottoman Empire was primarily a 19th century affair; the systematic Ottoman response was the Tanzimat, reform and reogranization that lasted from 1839 to 1878. Many of the reforms were inspired by Western ideas, but failed to accomplish the goals, which were "to bring the benefits of a good administration to the provinces of the Ottoman Empire through new institutions." Economic stagnation, the refusal to modernize, and the slow loss of territorial integrity means that peace and stability were lacking. As reported in The Oxford Encyclopedia of the Islamic World: "Government and Society. The reign of Sultan Süleyman marked the peak of Ottoman power and prosperity as well as the highest development of its governmental, social, and economic systems. The Ottoman sultans preserved the traditional Middle Eastern social division between a small ruling class (askeri or “military”) at the top, whose functions were limited largely to keeping order and securing sufficient financial resources to maintain itself and carry out its role, and a large subject class of rayas (reâyâ, or “protected flock”), organized into autonomous communities according to religion (millets) or economic pursuit (esnaf, or “guilds”) that cared for all aspects of life not controlled by the ruling class." The article provides details, but even this summary makes it clear that modern theories of police were lacking, and that order was primarily the responsibility of the autonomous communes, with a military presence as a reminder. Thus there are no statistics for criminal activity. Rebellions in the Ottoman Empire (in Turkey) lists many rebellions, and provides links to the details. The article also provides rebellions by era; the period 1606-1699 is called Stagnation, 1699-1792 is called Decline, and 1792-1922 is called Dissolution. 

One of my uncles was an intelligence officer assigned to evaluate and document the camps. He also took pictures for his private albums. He retired after 30 years as a colonel, and would offer to show his WW II souvenirs to visitors. I once (~1990) made the mistake of looking through his photo albums, and had nightmares for months. The pictures of the living were very disturbing, but so were the pits filled with the dead. As they say, seeing is believing. A few years later I visited Dachau; it gave me the creeps. It's really hard to believe that people could do the things that were done. 

Prehistoric Textiles: The Development of Cloth in the Neolithic and Bronze ... By E. J. W. Barber, a text devoted to the development of cloth in the neolithic and bronze ages, on p. 261, describes the evolution of Indo-European words related to the shearing of sheep: 

In wartime: The main concourse is crowded with people on Dec. 14, 1941, during the unveiling of a government mural above the mezzanine level that encouraged Americans to buy savings bonds and stamps in support of the war. Down the hallway to the right, an archway points travelers toward the nearest telegraph — how quaint! (AP Photo) 

Napoleon had been declared a criminal and a madman in the Declaration of the Powers against Napoleon. "Accordingly, the Powers declare that Napoleon Bonaparte is excluded from civil and social relations, and, as an Enemy and Disturber of the tranquility of the World, that he has incurred public vengeance." Napoleon had abdicated, and sought asylum in Britain The wars were over by the time of Napoleon's abdication 

The original report comes from Report of the cruise of the U.S. revenue steamer Thomas Corwin, in the Arctic Ocean, 1881, by Calvin Leighton (C.L.) Hooper, of the US Revenue Cutter Service. I found this by reviewing the references in the OP: 

The US Army had standardized dates as Month day, year by the War of 1812; I've recently been going through record books, and the clerks are consistent. Federal records published during the 1830s are consistently in this format. For example, see the records of Prize Money awarded for the Battle of Lake Erie, as published in American State Papers: Documents, Legislative and Executive, etc. series 23, 1834. Older documents, and British records, are mostly Day-month-year, which makes the US Army and the Federal Government the innovator. OTOH, Civil records are mostly DD-Month-YYYY "this day Detroit, 7th February, 1813.", and continue this way into the 1830's, where both systems are found in court records, receipts, and family bibles. You can see the change occuring in family registers. By the late 1840s, at least in Michigan, most records, federal, local, and personal, have gone to the Month day, year format. You also see the decline and disappearance of the long s from the script.