Fact: Buddha ate meat. He died from food poisoning eating pork. Are not thousands if not millions of living being slaughtered when you harvest vegetables (worms, insects, micro-organisms etc.)? So how is vegetarianism morally superior to eating meat in a Buddhist context? 

To say after so and so years you will earn stream entry is utter nonsense. You can advance spiritually in a second the same way a single momentous decision can transform your life in a second. The truth is nobody knows squat about what stage you are at spiritually. In the time of the Buddha, deciples were achieving full enlightenment in a matter of weeks. 

The Theory of "Emptiness" is the concept that all phenomenon are empty of inherent existence. Something has the illusion of existence when the right causes and conditions arise. Example: there is no inherently existing chicken soup. You only get chicken soup when you put together a dead chicken, hot water. Veggies etc. in this theory, you illusory sense of self comes from the right causes and conditions, parents, a body, a brain etc. following this logic, upon death, the self should simply cease to exist because that which made you a self has dissolved and since you do not inherently exist you should just vanish, and yet the Buddha is clear we take rebirth. This is illogical and makes no sense. Perhaps this is why the Buddha never taught a theory of emptiness. This idea is nowhere in the entire Pali Canon. 

if you are offered a seat that seems luxurious, and simply using the seat available, as opposed to seeking out "the best seat" your intention is appropriate. if you hear music someone else is playing, its very different from intentionally seeking out music to listen to. these are very useful opportunities to meditate on the nature of such phenomina and your reaction to them. like, if your mind tries to attach to the other persons music, or if you experience gladness about being stuck with a nice seat. others conforming to your lifestyle is not necessary (and may be inappropriate, especially if you impose your beliefs on them) no one else can violate your precepts for you. understanding things in this way may be helpful. one example... if someone has to go out of their way to accommodate a low seat (a specific preference) then that seat becomes (in a way) a phenomenon of luxury. 

If you do not follow (or know) what the Buddha taught, yet seek and reach enlightenment on your own, you are working on buddhahood. So in a sense yes. Though not meditating can also be a state of not doing the actual practice that the buddha taught. Considering the theory of rebirth even without meditation one can start down the path as they noted above and develop kammic building blocks for the next round. 

what is the effectiveness of removing triggers for temptations (food, entertainment etc ) ? i for example took apart the stationary (to avoid watch youtube videos for example for fun) computer i have but after some time i reassembled it if there wont be one attachment there would be others than even if less obvious attachments - can they be less bad ? monks try to avoid this triggers as well i believe (like asking woman to dress modest when visiting monasteries) so i guess it has its merits i wonder how much of a change to a practice this can make - would love to hear general thoughts on this subject 

Yes - the answer is yes with no doubt - you can practice vipassana meditation and gain great success with it in this day and age in the lay life - even with a demanding life Is it better to be in a monastery ? yes also - its more easy to practice at a monastery 

I am looking for a solution for my complete lack of control - tried many things (doing lot of meditation doing 1 minute meditation - no formal meditation - but i never manage to keep it more than a few days usually 1-2 days even with only 1 minute meditation a day) what im trying to do now is to avoid doing bad stuff in hopes to do good stuff but i have no self control and always fail in it thought about a way to change that using some self-hypnosis - auto suggestion something i asked about here : Should I use autosuggestion to make myself meditate now im thinking of doing chanting of sabba papassa akranam (As to the focus of avoiding doing bad i will do good) maybe during the day maybe just repeat it 108 times one time a day ? Do you think this will have a benefit ? can this "work" and cause a big change ? any tips advice on how to this ? 

no an arahant learns from a buddha, a buddha discovers the path on his own. ive also heard that buddhahood has additional powers, its not just nibbana attainment and thats it. i coukd be wrong on that. 

Question closed... i noticed Soma was a link in Ven.Yuttadhammo's comment. Apparently soma is ancient slang for something widely speculated on being either an amphetamine or entheogen. Its probably both. The link Ven.Yuttadhammo shared had an excerpt; "The Graeco-Russian archeologist Viktor Sarianidi claims to have discovered vessels and mortars used to prepare Soma in 'Zoroastrian temples' in Bactria. He claims that the vessels have revealed residues and seed impressions left behind during the preparation of Soma. This has not been sustained by subsequent investigations[19] Besides the residue of ephedra, the archeologists discovered the residues of Poppy seeds and Cannabis. The vessels also had impressions created by Cannabis seeds. Cannabis is well known in India as Bhang and sometimes Poppy seeds are used with Bhang to make the ritual drink Bhang Ki Thandai." So i would imagine it was much like today, different strokes for different folks... or mix and match. So, since it was obviously (which i already basically knew) available... and mentioned... the question is answered. Thank you Ven.Yuttadhammo Sadhu Bhante 

It happens at about 20 minutes every time lately... either in half lotus (a traditional position that i would like to honor), or with one leg laying in front of the other, or indian style... doesnt matter, my left leg goes numb. sitting up in a chair doesn't seem conducive to a meditative state and laying down i just fall asleep. id really like to do some intensive and very long blocks of meditation (advice on this would be appreciated also) but im not sure how to approach this severe distraction and get past it. 

I practice mahasi sayadaw - and from my personal understanding its best not to eat meat cause its wholesome - its hard for me to explain all the ways it is wholesome but i think it helps in compassion and in self control like another extra precepts that can help the practice even though its not a must i also found this text but not of theravada which talks about meat eating : Many of the Bodhisattva precepts are about not harming, either oneself or others, or animals. The first major precept is to ‘Refrain from taking life’. It points out in great details that one should not kill oneself, nor cause someone else to do it, nor do it in a roundabout way, nor create the cause or conditions, nor the means to kill. It is an exhaustive list that makes us reflect on the many ways by which we might cause harm. We might not kill other people or any living creatures but do we cause them harm in any other way. And if we cause them harm, how do we do it? Do we do it in a round about way so we do not feel responsible for it? Do we create the causes and conditions for causing harm needlessly? These precepts show us that wisdom and compassion help us to reflect on our actions and intentions. Then the precept explains why we should not kill and that is because the duty of a Bodhisattva is to be always compassionate and to lead others to liberation. There are several precepts that investigate what it means to be non-harming due to a compassionate attitude. The third major precepts, which encourages proper sexual behaviour, states that the reason for doing so is that otherwise perverted, indecent, indiscriminate sexual behaviour would cause compassion to disappear. When one is in the power of lustful thoughts or feelings, can one reflect on what would be the compassionate things to do for all involved in that moment? This precept reminds us: “It is the duty of a bodhisattva to always present a state of mind which conforms to the Buddha-nature and to lead others to liberation by teaching them the pure Dharma.” The third secondary precept encourages vegetarianism on the ground that if someone were to eat the flesh of animals he would destroy great compassion and great kindness and the seed of the Buddha-nature. To this day monasteries and nunneries in China and Korean are completely vegetarian. Since it seemed more difficult for laypeople to be fully vegetarian then six specified fasting or vegetarian days a month were created as well as three special months of abstinence, i.e. times when one avoids animal food. taken from : $URL$ 

"The purification of one's own mind/will (citta); this is the Doctrine of the Buddha" [DN 2.49] "How is it that one is called a 'Buddha'?...gnosis that the mind/will (citta) is purified (visuddham)...such is how one is deemed a 'Buddha'." [MN 2.144] [DN 2.157] "Gotama who is steadfast in mind (citta), inherently quelled from all desires the mighty sage has passed beyond. With mind (citta) limitless (Brahman) he no longer bears sensations; illumined and unbound (nibbana), his mind (citta) is definitely (ahu) liberated." [SN 3.45] "The mind (citta) being so liberated and arisen from defilements, one is fixed in the Soul as liberation, one is quelled in fixation upon the Soul. Quelled in the Soul one is unshakable. So being unshakable, the very Soul is thoroughly unbound (parinirvana)." "The Soul is Charioteer"[Jataka-2-1341] "I leave you now, having made my Soul the refuge (saranamatta) DN 2.120 "The Self (atman) as refuge, with nary another as refuge" DN 2.100 [KN J-1441] “The Soul is the refuge that I have gone unto” “the body cannot pass that gate to fare beyond,..only the Soul (The Self)” -Udana “Whatever form, feelings, perceptions, experiences, or consciousness there is (the five aggregates), these he sees to be without permanence, as suffering, as ill, as a plague, a boil, a sting, a pain, an affliction, as foreign, as otherness, as empty (suññato), as Selfless (anattato). So he turns his mind/will/spirit (citta, Non-aggregate) away from these; therein he gathers his citta (nous/spirit/mind) within the realm of Immortality (amataya dhatuya). This is tranquility; this is that which is the most excellent!” [MN 1.436] [MN 1.511] “For a long time I have been cheated, tricked and hoodwinked by my citta. For when grasping, I have been grasping onto form, for when grasping, I have been grasping onto feelings, , for when grasping, I have been grasping onto perceptions, for when grasping, I have been grasping onto experiences, for when grasping, I have been grasping onto consciousness.” SN 1.96 “The nihilist…goes to terrible hell…from darkness to darkness” [SN 2.17] ‘Nonbeing (asat, natthiti [views of either sabbamnatthi ‘the all is ultimately not’ (atomism), and sabbam puthuttan ‘the all is merely composite (atoms)’ [SN 2.77] both are heresies of annihilationism])'” 

Mindful living is another form of meditation (typically an advanced one), if one no longer needs to formally sit or walk in meditation... then i guess that would be that. But the way you phrased it, it seems it could be any reason. 

its a pretty straight forward question. facts only please, no opinions, and i request that only an experienced and well practiced zen buddhist answer this question (to avoid speculation). thanks. 

yes. well theres a couple of ways... 1- you could study more about the stages of insight and enlightenment, and 2- you could practice with a monk regularly and ask for help. Im sure there are other ways (and feel free to explore them) but these are traditionally how progress is made and verified in buddhism to he best of my knowledge and really, if you want to know how you're progressing on a buddhist path... theres only one type of person likely to be qualified to evaluate you (though not all monks are valid choices). Here is a video my teacher made on the stages of insight through vipassana though for a short run down so you can make a general assessment. $URL$ 

Yes it is asking for opinions, which i will investigate further on my own. opinions would be helpful in this particular circumstance. 

How to get back to practice after failing ? i always try and fail try and fail meditating for some years- had and have a teacher - did retreats - but i never manage to keep meditating for more than a few days - tried going all in - tried only meditating 5 minutes - or just being mindful ect ect cause every time i fail i take a month or two break if not more so how can i get back to practice each time ? the more i "fail" and take this breaks i feel that its for no use cause i never manage to persevere no matter what i try 

Its very clear that dogs are conscious and feel the same pain as humans do and the suffering is the same suffering If by self aware you mean mindful- than most people arent mindful 99.9999% of the time --- many many monks if good ones are not mindful most of the time About bacteria i cant say much 

Would be interested to hear all similes about removing the difilments step by step What i vaguely remember is a simile about purifying gold - and maybe there was one on purifying silver ? 

I am thinking about making a practice based on enjoyment to help gain motivation to do stuff - a positive incentive but not sure how to do it (or even if i should do it) - all tips appreciated even if its just one i do correct vipassana meditation finished with a short metta meditation - still i dont enjoy it really not the 1 minute meditation not the 2 hour meditation and i am aware of benefits of the practice from study and from experience but not enough to combat the hindrances - and since i stop practicing for few months try and stop try and stop my motivation is really low maybe if i say i eat a piece of chocolate/listening to music/watching videos etc after i meditate ? but that is to much greed and will probably harm the meditation cause i will think about the "prize" at the end im asking based on an answer i got here on a different topic which made me think about it :