Well, this is what wolves do. After being loyal to the pack leader, eventually a mature wolf will challenge the aging alpha for top spot. Can be male or female. And since most wolves would have been born into the pack and only the alpha pair breed, the challenger is invariably an offspring. 

There are several problems with your visualization of this moon, especially concerning the day/night cycle. I think you are confusing some research about tidally locked planets with tidally locked moons. The moon shows one face to its planet, but from the moon's point of view the heavens still rotate and the sun rises and sets. Wikipedia has an entry for habitable moons that discusses possible orbital periods around the planet between 10 and 60 days, but likely under 45. This is the length of your moon's "day". The shorter your day, the larger the planet will be in the sky because you are closer to it. The same entry also discusses tidal forces potentially being a stronger factor in mantaining a living planet than proximity to the sun. The larger the planet the larger it's tidal zone will be, but it might be almost any distance from the sun so you can safely put it around 1AU. By definition of it being a moon, the majority of tidal forces will come from the planet, but the sun could play a small role. Rather than a "night" and "day" side, there would be a "planet" and "space" side. Even directly under the planet, it would be large but would not fill the sky. The planet would wax and wane like our moon in the sky, but it would not progress across the sky. It would always be in the same position day and night. Some nights would have a spectacularly bright "full planet" depending on the albedo of your planet. Some days would have an enormous sliver of the planet in an otherwise blue* sky (or whatever color your sky is). 

I am aware of being a newbie in the field I am asking my question... please be kind and explain what I did wrong if I make a mistake. The idea from where the problem bloom I love worldbuilding. Whenever I have a spare moment, I try to invent unique features for my world and how I can make them believable. This time around, the idea came from an article that talked about moons of gas giants habitable by humans. Immediately, I told myself 'wow, that's awesome! I need my world to be one of those!', and got into the process of collecting information about how to make it believable. Quickly, I found a lot of useful information (in particular questions on Stack Exchange, and some blogs found thanks to Google). Then I saw an article that made me think of another crazy idea : 

Switch the projection to actual lamps, it would be more believable and require less power than your bounce-light on an aluminum ceiling. Stars can be point lights. The sun would be a bright lamp on a track which could cast shadows. Existing technology would probably use a plasma lamp for the sun, or a high-intensity discharge lamp. Unless you need the sky to be ever-changing, and occasionally replaced by advertising or psychedelic visuals, or it needs to be reconfigured instantly to some other sky complete with different star patterns and a sun that can be positioned anywhere (or three suns on Thursdays), I don't see the advantage of one central lamp and a silver screen for the entire sky. I think you are better off with individual lights attached to the dome, and a mechanical track for the artificial sun. Instead of aluminum, the ceiling could be made from a nano material that can alter the spectrum of light it reflects, this is called structural coloration, and it's the reason peacock wings reflect an iridescent blue color despite having brown pigments. The novel Steel Beach by John Varley uses something similar for artificial skies in underground moon caves. However I believe his "sun" was a burning nuclear something-something on a track (it has been a while since I read it and he is not the most science-based author in the universe). 

Fish That is a surprisingly easy thing to farm. Make it the primary source of food for your nations, and massive buildings breeding them in thousands, and you're free to go. You can feed the fish with many things that is available at high altitude. Edit: You can also use insects as food, though I do not like the idea :p 

Sparta-like government The population is about the same that your City-States. Two kings rules the city, with a 28-member 'council of elders' limiting their powers. These men are recruited from the highest social class, the aristocratic Spartiates. Beneath is a middle class, called the Perioeci. Made up of farmers and artisans, the Perioeci pays taxes and can serve in the army, but they have no real political rights. At the bottom are the helots: a slave class. Classical Athens democracy For a City-State, I would think of no better choice. But I believe your City-States are a bit... too small for this kind of government. I will leave this here in case you want to adjust the numbers and give you a second option. 

Solar storms. "Streams of particles launched from the sun in the solar wind increase the number of lightning strikes on Earth by 32%." From the article: "Activity on the sun significantly increases the rate of lightning strikes on Earth, say researchers, making it feasible to predict when lightning strikes will become more frequent. They discovered that when streams of high-speed solar particles strike the Earth's atmosphere, the average number of lightning strikes increased by 32% for more than a month afterwards. The study is the first to implicate the solar wind – the stream of particles launched from the sun at over a million miles per hour – in triggering lightning, a phenomenon that has puzzled scientists." The original paper is here: $URL$ In summary: it was previously assumed that galactic cosmic rays (GCR) was a source of lightning, and the solar wind helped shield the Earth from their effects, however the study which included 16 years of data shows the opposite effect. For 4 to 5 days after a solar event the amount of lightning drops, but that is followed by a period between 8 and 40 days after the solar event where lightning activity increases. The researchers suggest some mechanisms involving the solar wind alone, and the solar wind interacting with GCR, but they admit they do not know the actual reason. 

If your doing an alternate history, I would say you could change the whole context by changing the one simple fact of the Atlantic exchange that decimated the native civilizations of the America's. Without most of the natives being wiped out by disease the whole of the "conquest" would of been something much different then it turned out. My thinking is that not only would nations be possible, they would be likely and what the Europeans would be dealing with rather then the isolated groups of survivors that made the Americas a relatively easy conquest. It would resemble something more like our western relations with China and the east in the sense that the west while practicing varying degrees of influence over the area never really conquered them. The civilizations of the Americas would of continued to emerge. Maybe at an accelerated rate with an Atlantic exchange that resulted in an exchange of ideals and technology, rather then death by disease. just a thought. 

No it wouldn't make it harder to crack Because the cipher key remains with the same complexity. For someone who wants to crack your code, he will proceed with the exact same process and crack it in approximatively the same time. Which means the book cipher is invisible for him - its as if it doesn't exist. Changing it every two weeks does make it harder to crack though. 

Anti-nuclear technology Or how to defuse a nuclear weapons safely after it has been launched, with a relatively guaranteed success rate. At some point in history, this MUST have been researched by the countries of the world. If you imagine that the scientists actually found a way to prevent nuclear weapons attack, then MAD is not assured. After all, why would anyone fear launching a nuke when they can annihiliate the danger of any incoming retaliation ? If this sort of technology existed, the world would keep their nukes like a tool of pressure, but it would have a totally different meaning. Maybe they would try mission to sabotage the anti-nuclear technology of their enemies ? 

It reminds me of the old Douglas Adams joke about dolphins. Let's define "intelligence" as an improved mental capacity that has given a species an evolutionary advantage – it must effect the birth / survival rate of the species or it doesn't play a role in their evolution. By that standard some of the things we consider a hallmark of higher intelligence (philosophy, rocket ships) aren't actually contributing to population growth, but medicine and microbiology have lead to child-immunization causing the population to boom and society to diversify. This creates opportunity for genetic evolution in all directions, not just intelligence (consider poor eyesight, deafness, allergies, and other genetic "defects" that are no longer severe handicaps thanks to technology). But the impact of technology is not always straightforward. Genocide and war kill millions but presumably there are winners whose genetics supplant the losers. And counter-intuitively, birth control leads to healthier children who live longer, and stronger cohesive families due to mothers surviving childbirth and helping to raise their own grandchildren. It's not always about quantity. In both these cases it's about the allocation of resources to fewer survivors. We use to believe that intelligence meant the use of tools and advanced engineering, but now we've observed so many animals creating tools and building complex structures it hardly seems special anymore. We are starting to recognize animal intelligence in more subtle ways, like their understanding of physics, language skills, social fairness, and the ability to empathize with what others are experiencing. Any of these might have a daily impact on survival. Some types of intelligence we recognize in the animal kingdom (that aren't top predators) include: 

For a crazy worldbuilder always in search of new unique features, this would be the straw on the cake. I would have two worlds for the price of one, and inhabitants filled with dreams at the sight of their twin world crossing their path and showing the lights of a more advanced civilization. But... I am not a clever man. I did a lot of research, but could not even find a start to begin my calculations to see if my idea was realistically feasible. I knew I probably had all the necessary information to make it, but I can't seem to approach the start of an answer. So in the last approach, I am asking for help to fool-check my concept. What I am seeking In short: Is my concept realistically possible? And what are the differences between Earth and one of the two habitable moons (related to the impact of the inhabitants everyday life -> aka. the difference in the weather, the look of the sky at night and daylight, can people see the giant storms of the gas giant, does the tides change as the twin cross the path of the other, are meteorites more likely...) ? Longer version: I know there is a lot of parameters to take into account when creating a whole system like this one. The idea is only about finding one setup where it can work. Here is what I can comment on, and what I know is needed : 

Retirement at the end of a long life like we know it now is simply not going to happen for most people that live 4-500 years. The genetic clock running out is not likely to be the cause of death for most people. Untimely deaths due to accidents and disease will kill many more people then old age. Planning for retirement may very well be considered an exercise in futility for most people. It is extremely difficult to come up with a number for people that die accidentally. About 250,000 of 2.4 millions of Americans who die, die accidentally each year. Of everyone who dies in a developed country, 7 out of ten of those deaths are people over the age of 70. With that in mind we can say that accidents and disease account for about 30% of the death rate each year, or about 800,000 people die of the 300,000,000 in the US. If your multiply the one third of a percent that dies of unnatural causes each year you have roughly 3% of a population dead every decade, about 30% every century who die from accidents and disease. We could lower that figure by removing a lot of deaths that occur from heart attack, making an assumption that we would not tend to drop dead from heart attack so much because at fifty we would have the hearts of twenty year olds. And perhaps when you add war into the equation the rate might go up. If you consider super bugs that are making antibiotics less effective, then the figure might go up to plague like stats in some years. Over the course of 500 years a lot of things can happen that make it the exception to live to be a 500 year old. This kind of begs the question, at what age does social security kick in? Anyway back to retirement, you would not retire. At some point in your life you might become disabled, unable to work and there would be some program to take care of you. For most people, depending on how mundane the job is, short retirements more akin to sabbaticals would be the norm. You might take a couple of years off to play. You may after fifty years in a job decide to change careers and go back to school for a decade then get a new job. You might sell a business and be able to cruise for a couple of decades, dabbling in shuffle board and basket weaving until the money ran out. You may just have a very good time with your career and never do much besides vacations. 

A golem-like mech You are in medieval europe. People do not have the highly resistant alloy we possess. That alone, make it impossible for your mech to ressemble one of these giant metallic machine in science fiction. Instead, they will most likely build giants made of muds, rocks and stones and use your crystal core as the catalyst to make it fully functionnal. Then, because they will found out about the power of big freaking things in the world of physics, they will discover that the golem self-destruct easily. For people of this time, who don't have much option when it comes to protect a body, they will most likely try to add layers to the golem. They will make him an armor, ressembling that of a knight in the first tries. With trials, they will throw out the iron layers (which doesn't protect anything) and replace it with leather.