How could astronomers in the ancient world determine that the winter solstice was occurring? According to whoever edited the Wikipedia article on the winter solstice, it's too hard for modern amateurs to recognize when it happens. By "ancient world", let's go with the definition of 500 AD or earlier. Note that I'm asking about their methods for determining the solstice, not whether they could do so. 

Taoism is not generally known as a proselytizing religion these days, but was there ever a time when Taoist missionaries were found? 

I'm looking for an inventory of the principal goods, buildings, livestock, and workers of a European farmstead; preferably before 1000 AD. I know I've seen a primary source document like this before. It may have been for a Roman villa, which would be just fine. 

Are there any surviving maps of the Delhi Sultanate that were made in India during that era? I'm having a very hard time finding any maps surviving from that period of Indian history that actually come from India. 

Today, there are many different kinds of aromatic substances used for incense. What kind of incense was used by the ancient Sumerians? 

During WWI, Austria-Hungary fielded an army of approximately 7.8 million soldiers. They fought against Russia in the east, Italy in the west, and Serbia (mainly) in the south. What proportion of the Austro-Hungarian army fought on each of these fronts? I've been searching for some rough numbers for a while, and I haven't been able to come up with anything. There's plenty of information readily available about the western front, and very little about any other fronts of the war. 

During most of the colonial era, Virginia used its own currency, the Virginia pound. Today, the pound sign (£) is used to designate the British pound as well as other "pound" currencies. Was the pound sign (£) in use during the colonial era to refer to the Virginia pound? 

Around the two Italo-Ethiopian wars, did any Ethiopian leaders side with the Italians? By "around", I mean anywhere from about 1890 to 1936. By "leaders", I mean noblemen, military officers, popular leaders, government officials, etc. 

Sumerian texts speak of a worldwide flood that wiped out most of mankind's achievements on earth. I had always suspected such a flood -- even if only covering all of Sumer -- was mythical, but then I read the following on Wikipedia: 

What did people think would happen to human beings in weightlessness? Ideally, I'm looking for medical opinions from before 1961, but any reference would be better than what I have right now. 

At the end of the American Revolution, Britain ceded the Northwest Territory to the US as one of the terms of the Treaty of Paris. I stumbled across a very interesting statement on Wikipedia that says: 

Were there ever any farming societies without a calendar? For example, the Egyptians had a calendar to help them know when to plant and when to harvest. The ancient Greeks had a calendar, as did the Romans. Were there ever any societies that lived by farming (as opposed to pastoralism or hunting/gathering) without a calendar to keep track of the parts of the year? 

During the early English settlement period in North America, did settlers buy their land from the government, or did they simply find some land and build a home there? To be more specific, I'm looking at 

(I'm expecting the answers to be yes (regarding the states) and no (regarding the colonies), but I have no evidence at this time.) 

Carnivals with games of chance and skill are mostly an invention of the 19th and 20th centuries. One source credits the 1893 Chicago World's Fair for the start of the traveling carnival. A better choice for the Middle Ages would be tournaments and hastiludes, festivals showcasing various sorts of military-based games. Wikipedia's article on tournaments has a lot of information for you. Their article on hastiludes doesn't have a lot of depth, but it briefly mentions many other types of military sporting events. You might also take a look at the various village sports of the Middle Ages like mob football. Cheese rolling is also a good fun traditional game, though it's not known how far back such an activity dates from. 

James Ross led an early expedition to the Antarctic from 1839 to 1843, aboard the ships HMS Erebus and HMS Terror. After his voyage, nearly thirty years passed before the next Antarctic expedition. I've been able to find plenty of information about the clothing worn by the late 1800s and early 1900s explorers, but I haven't been able to find anything about the clothing on the Ross expedition. What sort of cold weather clothing did they wear on the Ross expedition? 

In the US, there's a proper way to fold the flag. From what I can tell, there is no equivalent method in the UK. When did the US adopt this special method for folding the flag? 

How long did it usually take to sail from Philadelphia to Boston in the 1700s? I've been able to find lots of sources talking about sailing time between England and the colonies, but I haven't found anything yet about sailing time between the colonies. 

El Mirador was a major city in the Yucatan during the Preclassic Mayan era. The name is obviously Spanish. What was it called by the ancient Maya? 

As you can see, out of the million and a half Japanese soldiers in WWII, a vanishingly small number of them became holdouts after the end of the war. Earlier this year the New York Times wrote an article on the occasion of the death of one of the last holdouts, Hiroo Onoda, who surrendered in 1974. 

Another Wikipedia article might hold your answer. News of Japan's surrender didn't reach everyone all at once (as you'd expect), though it is surprising how many Japanese soldiers were still holding out for years. According to that article, the following number of soldiers surrendered or were killed (by decade): 

I've heard that the Islamic world was closed to European merchants in the Middle Ages. Is this true? If so, when did it close and when did it open again? 

In short: no. Culturally, the Vikings are well-documented to be part of the Norse culture of the Dark Ages, which in turn is clearly descended from an earlier common Germanic culture. Linguistically, the Vikings spoke Old Norse, which is part of the North Germanic branch of Indo-European. The Israelites spoke Ancient Hebrew, which is part of the Semitic branch of the Afro-Asiatic language family. If the Vikings had been an Israelite tribe, you'd expect them to speak Hebrew, or have Hebrew borrowings in their language (which they don't). Israelites picking up a Germanic language would be expected to end up with something more like Yiddish, which is riddled with Hebrew influence. Genetically, there's some very interesting material to look at about Y-chromosomal haplogroups. Jewish communities worldwide have a high proportion of certain haplogroups (such as the famous J1c3, common among Kohen families). Scandinavia (where the Vikings lived) has an extremely low proportion of those haplogroups. Here's a Wikipedia article on haplogroup J1 to get you started. The website you linked to makes some interesting claims, but they don't link them together very well. For example, they make a claim that the tribe of Dan might not have been Israelite at all, and then they jump straight into assuming that the tribe was connected to Tarshish, without any evidence of that. Later, they identify the tribe of Dan with the legendary Tuatha de Danann without any evidence other than having vaguely similar names. Then, they claim that the Scythians were Israelites, based solely on the Jewish holiday called Sukkot. Here's a great article from Mark Rosenfelder explaining this phenomenon: How Likely are Chance Resemblances between Languages?. 

Today, an infection isn't usually too serious of a problem, with so many kinds of antibiotics available. Was there any way to deal with infections in pre-modern times? Let's say before 1700. 

Once again, it's Google Ngrams to the rescue. Both British and American English show a very strong preference for "Uncle John" over "Uncle Smith" during the Victorian era. 

During the Spanish Colonial period, the California missions were run by a priest with the title of Father-President (padre-presidente). I'm trying to find more information about this office, specifically: 

In Europe, when the Bronze Age ended and the Iron Age began, was it a peaceful spread of technology, or was it a violent conquest where the newcomers were able to win by their more advanced technology? 

Gregório Amúrrio was a Franciscan missionary in California during the late 1700s. He was one of the five original missionaries to Alta California, and the co-founder of Mission San Juan Capistrano. When was he born and when did he die? 

During the Spanish and Mexican eras in California, there were five presidios in the region: San Diego, Santa Barbara, Monterey, San Francisco, and Sonoma. Were any of these ever conquered, taken over, or destroyed? (During the Spanish and Mexican eras, that is.) 

Note: If your answer doesn't say anything about finds on or related to Baffin Island, you're probably not answering the right question. I'm not asking about Polynesians in Peru, nor Welsh in the Midwest, I'm asking about Norse contact with Baffin Island around 1000 AD. 

Before the Civil War, there was mail service between all the different states. During the war, could you still send a letter from, say New York to Georgia, or did the post office shut down services to states on the other side? 

The Jesuits established a number of missions among the Huron people of what is today Ontario during the 1600s. Unlike many other proselytizing groups of that era, the Jesuits were known for permitting and incorporating much of the local culture of the group they ministered to. How did people dress at the Jesuit missions among the Huron, both the Jesuit missionaries and the Huron neophytes? 

I keep seeing Mesopotamia described as a floodplain, and I'm finding inklings of evidence that some cities in ancient Mesopotamia were actually destroyed by floods. But how common of an occurrence was this? And when did these floods stop, since I've never heard of modern Iraqi cities being wiped out by floods? Ideally, I'm looking for an answer that would cover Mesopotamia during the 4th and 3rd millenia BC. And, as always, evidence is preferred over conjecture. 

Is there any documentation or evidence of anyone finding gold in California before the discovery at Sutter's Mill in 1848? 

Bad-Tibira is one of the oldest recorded cities in the world. The Sumerians believed it was the second city to exercise kingship (after the more famous Eridu). I can't find the Sumerian spelling of the name anywhere. I'm looking for two things: 

In 1866, the US Congress transferred the majority of Pah-Ute county from the Arizona Territory to the state of Nevada. This was done against the wishes of the territorial legislature of Arizona. Why was the county transferred? 

Who is the earliest person recorded in history? Whose fame has survived the greatest amount of time to come down to us today? 

Today in the US, people from Spanish-speaking countries in the Americas are called by various names: Hispanic, Latino, Chicano, etc. What was the term used by Americans for such people in the 1800s? If you answer the question, please also let me know if the term you give is/was considered derogatory, so I'll know if I have to be careful to put it in the right context. 

The Chicago Board of Trade was the world's first futures and options exchange, trading various kinds of commodities (I think mostly agricultural, but I'm not sure). When it first opened in 1848, what commodities were traded there? Any data on commodities (particularly with volumes traded and/or prices) would be very useful. 

(I don't really know how to ask this question, so help in editing it to better fit the StackExchange format would be quite welcome.) From what I can tell, Classical Mayan civilization was exceptionally gruesome. So much so, that I have a hard time accepting it. Reading articles on Wikipedia, this is what I see: the cities were almost constantly at war with each other, war captives were often sacrificed, kings and nobles would frequently pierce their bodies for blood in public ceremonies (in horrifying ways involving thorns, ropes, and delicate body parts), there were sacrifices of children, and I've heard there are a few examples of cannibalism. Can that be right? Can Mayan civilization really have been so horrifying? I know very little about the period, and I'm hoping these aspects of it didn't really exist.