How common is this across the world's languages? In English, we're basically saying that 0 is expressed with the plural, 1 with the singular, and 2+ with the plural. I could easily imagine a language that expressed 0 and 1 with the singular, but I don't know how common such behavior is. 

Question 2 is more general. A language that dies out can leave traces on the languages around it -- the same traces that a living language can leave. Words can be borrowed; phrases can be borrowed or directly translated. Look at the concept of a Sprachbund for some interesting types of borrowing between languages. 

inserting an epenthetic /r/ between vowels of adjacent words. Which consonants are most commonly used for this purpose across languages? 

IPA can be used to render any dialect or accent you like. (Here's an example where IPA is used to show differences between two dialects of English.) It can be used in a narrow way, transcribing more precisely the sounds of a particular accent; or in a broad way, ignoring certain distinctions in favor of larger features. English itself has no standard dialect, anyhow. Even the high-level split between American and British English is far from sufficient to describe how English is actually pronounced across the globe. 

There is no "famous, red, blue, wet, dry, lethargic, celestial", as in Esperanto they're "fama, ruĝa, blua, malseka, seka, letargia, ĉiela". All are adjectives in both languages. "angrily, wetly, very, lethargically, on Mondays" are "kolere, malseke, tre, letargie, lunde". All are adverbs. "sincerity, hound (dog), dilapidation, epoch, eczema, shoulder-blade" are "sincereco, hundo, ruinigo, epoko, ekzemo, skapolo". All are nouns. "pony, puppy, kitten, duckling" are "ĉevalido, hundido, katido, anasido" (ido means "an offspring", so it's like "baby horse"). 

Grammar (how are words constructed and orderly connected? what classifications / parts of speech does English / Esperanto have?): It is extremely like Japanese, where there is a root word (that has no stem-change) which simply changes in ending or prefix according to which role in grammar it is playing, and where verbs can (and often do) compound onto each other. Also it's the same in where there are very very few exceptions. This basic concept is modernly very different in English, as for example, we have many mismatching pairs like "city, urban", "rain, pluvial", "fear, coward/poltroon, scary" and so on. In Esperanto every single pair stems from the same root, and there are a few more suffixes than in English, ex. one for "to cause" and one for "to become" (this was present in Old English and we have remnants of it today, ex. in bedazzled). For example: 

No. Theoretical linguistics would have many different ways to answer your question. There are two basic foundations in your question; "comprehension time" and "equal". "Equal" To compare two utterances, you could divide it into words. But you could also divide it into any of these(if not more); 

I am looking for language characteristics only found in one single language. (Maybe that could shed some lights on language development, since that could be a starting point to investegate why these characteristics are special. And further on, why / why not this characteristic would spread.) Any language characteristics you believe is found in one language only, is much appreciated. What language characteristics are unique to only one language? 

This could very well be explained in a difficult way, but it may also be that you are seeking an easy answer. Basically you could say; One clause=one syntax tree If a sentence consists of several clauses, you could draw several syntax trees. 

In Norwegian you could use two of the same words you used for tastes; sweet(søt) and sour(sur). You could in fact use that to describe several of the senses: Det smaker søtt. (It tastes sweet). Det smaker surt. (It tastes sour). Det lukter søtt. (It smells sweet). Det lukter surt. (It smells sour). Det høres surt. (It hears sour). Det ser søtt ut. (It looks sweet). Det ser surt ut. (It looks sour). This shows me that ( at least for Norwegian) this question is closely related to the general understanding of adjectives and adverbs. 

Unfortunately, my sources for this are in Swedish and/or from old periodicals from the actual time when Esperanto was new, so I can't link anything. If you can read Swedish, find the book called "100 years of Esperanto", and in Esperanto there's another book you can try, "La Esperanto-Movado en Upsalo" (as I remember the title). Basically what happened is, the book first came out in Russian, and from there people just found it as something amusing or interesting to do in their free time. That's how it spread very minorly to other countries, through bilingual people who translated it. Once it got to Germany, some people who had visited Germany and who were students at the University of Uppsala noticed it and decided to not only form a club (there was also a German club at this time, but it was the only club in the world I think) but also, when they heard that Esperanto was starting to be banned in Russia/a Russian Esperanto periodical was closed down, they started their own which grew to be very big and influental in the first few beginning years. (Swedes are easily outraged about injusticies so honestly that's probably why they started it, also Uppsala is very well-known for being a "linguistic research capital".) They managed to get funding from people outside of Sweden, among other things, and used it to distribute flyers (they also got flyers from Zamenhof himself and wrote to him a lot, asking about stuff). Their periodical was simply called "Lingva Internacia" or something like that, but it included all sorts of stuff, like both local Swedish news and Esperanto news. The club and so on was written about in the Swedish newspapers too, among other things, so that's how it got some more publicity. Basically for about five years, Uppsala was the "capital of the Esperanto world" due to this, and they influenced other groups to start making their own periodicals. I believe the very initial list of potential subscribers was obtained by mailing Zamenhof himself and asking about it. When other countries started having more periodicals and clubs too, they also started being advertised in the countries' local newspapers - this was sometimes in a normal news-y way, but other times the members actually paid for advertising in the hopes that it would make new members; this was a very expensive thing to do at the time. This doesn't mean that the clubs or periodicals were any big (it only takes two people to form a club!). Don't forget that this is also a time when you did normal advertising in the newspaper, so anyone looking for an Esperanto penpal or teacher would likely use the newspaper to place the ad. It was also possible to subscribe to periodicals even if you lived abroad, so ex. there were French readers of the English Esperanto periodical. Of course, this was also a different time from today, where it was extremely normal to try out new things and different clubs and so on. It seems like most of the people simply heard about the language from friends or from various newspaper articles about it. A lot of people simply told even strangers they met about it (ex. on the train). Even back in the 1920's and earlier though, there were elementary schools (among other things) who were teaching the language to children in preparation of either "the general future" or for them learning another language later. The craze about this was honestly slowly growing to be very big, even train personnel and the police in a few different countries were being instructed in Esperanto for training for dealing with foreigners. Though of course, the world wars and then the monolingual English speakers growing to power really squashed a lot of it. And of course, most people used it as a hobby instead of thinking about it as a serious world language, but they did at least consider it fun so that's how it was propelled. I also remember reading that news about Esperanto was randomly broadcast on the radio in its early days; that's how I heard it reached the Faroe Islands for example. Also, a lot of the people who initially learnt the langauge were very educated to begin with (ex. rich French people, rich Swedish University students), so they had some influence on other people already. Those days were also different from today in that people needed a world language, but there really was none - English certainly wasn't big (German and French were much bigger!), but it was an age of new technology, new ideas about psychology, and easier/cheaper travel between countries and so on. But honestly I think the main point was that people were bored and thought learning a new language was simply fun when they heard about it, and it was an easy way to make foreign friends and get foreign news (this is a point I've read about quite a few times when I read texts from the same era - the local news was usually not at all accurate regarding foreign countries, and people loved collecting stuff like stamps and postcards). Edit: Something I forgot! I've read that people used to take a text (ex. a book) in Esperanto, and then translate it in their head, reading aloud, in real-time in front of their friends in order to convince them of how easy it was to understand and how fast it was to learn. This is mentioned in that one book that's a collection of Zamenhof's answers about grammar and vocabulary questions. Teachers were mainly pressing the fact that it was a good test of how good students were at language ("if they fail at Esperanto, we know they're no good at language and it's useless to teach them ex. French in secondary school"), and that it really gave the kids enthusiasm about history and geography, since the teachers were having the main part of learning Esperanto center around having the students send letters to lots of different countries in it. This is mentioned in quite a few places and pretty much corresponds with what modern educational tests with Esperanto are saying today, but I remember one source for this is here: $URL$ 

This is a very common phenomenon, where a sound in a language can be spelled in multiple ways, or a certain spelling can have multiple pronunciations. To give a quick answer to your question: Written and spoken forms of a language can change independently. Let's start by looking at the two cases you mention: |x| and |c|, and we'll also look at silent |k|. We'll follow the convention of putting spellings between |vertical pipes| and putting pronunciations between /slashes/. |x| might as well be |ks| Why do we have |x| at all? Historical accident -- the letter |x| was used to spell /ks/ in Western Greek, then was borrowed by the Etruscans, then by the Romans, then by the Saxons. Usually when people borrow a writing system, they borrow the whole thing, even if it's not a perfect fit for their own language. |c| says either /k/ or /s/ Two questions come up here: Why does |c| have two sounds? Why do we have |c| in the first place? 

So if I'm talking to you about something that's here in the same room as us, I'd say it's . It's here where both of us are. If I'm inviting you to come across the room to sit over here by me, I'd invite you to come . This emphasizes that it's over here by me, not "here" where we both are. If I'm talking about something over near you, I'd say it's . If I'm pointing at something far off, something far from both of us, I'd say it's . 

6 vowels. Saueøye (sheep eye, in Norwegian. This is a real life example) 9 vowels. Saueøyeeier (the owner of the sheep eye, a constructed word) 7 vowels. Niøyeøye (the eye of a fish called Niøye, not very common word, but possible) 12 vowels. Niøyeøyeøyeier (the owner of an island named after the eye of a fish called Niøye, this is a constructed word, but still understandable) 

Do anyone know where to find the most extensive collection of Swadesh lists? And with how many different languages in the collection? 

(In that sense your two utterances are not equal in the first place.) Some of the things I have listed will have much bigger effect on "comprehension time" than word division. "Comprehension time" This would take a lot of resources to make a scientific test. I anticipate a lot of individual differences for "comprehension time", which is determined by many other factors than language alone. To compare "comprehension time" between two languages, and eliminating all other factors, would be a major task. The result you possibly can get, if you actually manage to eliminate every "polluting" factor, would be difference in milliseconds. This small difference will never be bigger than the risque of "polluted" data, and therefore you could never possibly come to a scientific conclusion to your question, other than no. 

How exactly this change came about is actually rather interesting from a historical point of view. The suffix marking verbal nouns (like in "a building") was "-inge" in Middle English, while the suffix marking progressive participles (like in "I'm running") was "-inde". The two merged together in southern England in the 1300s, spreading slowly but never quite taking over the whole English-speaking world. 

Question 1 leads to a long list of languages. Proto-Germanic is conjectured to have existed somewhere between 500 BC and 500 AD, roughly the period of Roman ascendancy over Europe. We look at where Germanic languages are spoken today, then look back to the Roman period, and we can see that: 

Proving a newly-discovered language is in fact a language. Proving a newly-discovered language is in fact newly-discovered. 

Exact figures are always hard to come by, but here are the Non-Pama-Nyungan with the most speakers, as far as I can tell: 

What do you call a suffix that gives an "anti-pejorative" meaning to a word? For example, imagine if you could do this: 

Let's look at the example of Spanish. It started just in Spain, then spread to many parts of the world. This happened because the Spanish conquered other groups (like the Aztecs) and imposed their language and because their population grew in the new territories and they raised their children in a Spanish-speaking environment. Now let's look at Welsh. It was once more widely spoken in and around Wales, but is now much reduced in number of speakers. Many people who once spoke Welsh now speak English in their daily lives and don't teach Welsh to their children. The number of people who speak a language depends on the rise and fall of the community that speaks that language. 

Ease of learning, reading, and pronunciation. Therefore there can't be consonant clusters (imagine Russian), or sounds not in most languages (ex. English's þ, ð, and w, the distinction in its two l sounds, or its many vowels), and the alphabet/syllabary should look distinct even if the person hasn't learnt it yet (ex. katakana, runes, hobo symbols, or most of the roman letters - not Arabic, Braille or kanji). This is not just so that the language doesn't feel impossible, but also to help hard-of-seeing people and dyslexic people who recognize letters slightly more based on "shape" (it's hard to explain, but telling the difference between o and 0, or n and h in bad handwriting, can be very hard for example). 

And so on and so forth. Changing the prefix or suffix is the way to get the corresponding related pair (unless you want to use a synonym, but this is the normal way). Kolere is angrily, kolero is anger. Ĉiela is celestial, ĉielo is sky. That sort of logic is the basis of the entire language. Patro is father, bopatro is father-in-law. Words are basically constructed in the same way as English - the starting word of a compound modifies the ending word of the compound (an oft-cited example is "songbird and birdsong"). Most of the prefixes and suffixes have some sort of equivalent in English too. The difference is that in Esperanto, practically any word can be compounded — this includes prepositions being compounded to each other, or prepositions being prefixed to verbs etc. (as is done in Swedish, among other languages). For example, "to pick out" can be said in exactly that word order, but "to outpick" can also be said. Prefixes and suffixes can also be compounded to each other, for an easy example pra-avo (grand-pa), pra-pra-avo (great-grand-pa). Numbers can also be compounded into words, ex. unu-op-ulo ("one-collective-being/person", meaning "individual"). As for word order in general, it has very little rules. The definite article and the word "no" have to come before the word they describe (but the adjective that describes the noun, can come either before or after the noun, for example). Words marking questions (like "does" in "Doesn't he want to eat?") have to be the very first word in the sentence or clause that introduces the question. The rest of the so-called word-order rules are basically just trends, people have decided that one trend or another gives a certain flavour and so on. The same is true for compounds, in that it's just usually a trend as to whether a word is written as a compound or written separately, both are allowed in the language. So in Esperanto it's perfectly acceptable to have sentences just as in English, with "I eat apples on Monday", but also perfectly acceptable is as in Swedish, "On Monday eat I apples", or even bigger variations like "I apples on monday eat". This is thanks to an accusative case existing, but even then, the rule is that "the accusative doesn't have to be used if the meaning is obvious". As for verb tenses and moods, everything that can be said in English is perfectly able to be said in Esperanto. The difference is that Esperanto speakers tend to not use all of the more precise forms. For example, Esperanto can easily say "I had been going", but instead people will simply say "I went". This mirrors Japanese, Swedish, etc. In a similar vein, Esperanto verbs do not conjugate according to number or gender, so it essentially looks like "I am, he am, they am". The parts of speech are just the same as in English if you ignore that it has the accusative case, and there are a few items that are simply more clarified than English. There are nouns, adjectives, adverbs, exclamations, prepositions, conjunctions and "particles" (I forget what they're called - words that aren't really any of these categories). There's present, future, and past tense, also the subjunctive and command form; other forms like "I want to go" are expressed with compounds or prepositions etc. The more clarified parts are that Esperanto has a distinct word for reflexive pronouns, like "I did it to myself", versus "I don't like it, myself". The only cases are nominative and accusative, but there is effectively a genitive because the same ending for adjectives is also the possessive ending (though we can also denote a posession using "of", as in English "the hair of the dog"). There is no indefinite artcle in Esperanto (which mirrors Icelandic, Japanese, etc) but if necessary we can say "one dog", for example. Vocabulary (from what languages does English / Esperanto borrow terms / derived words?): Originally, most words were from Latin and German. This branches into similarities with languages such as French, Yiddish, English, and Danish. Modernly, Esperanto borrows either the most international word, or the only word that can be borrowed (ex. "geisha" is of course only available from Japanese). In some cases, authors took words from languages they knew and so even if there were more international words, those words became the common ones (some vulgar words are like that). So, just as with where most of English's loanwords come from, most of Esperanto's new/loanwords nowadays come from Latin or Greek. Most technology words are therefore basically the same in both languages, such as "television" or "internet", where there's just one or two letters in difference between the languages. The Esperanto is "televidilo" (a compound of "tele- + see + tool"), as the Latin roots themselves are tele- and videre (to see); for internet it's "interreto". Medical and botanical/animal words however are pretty much always borrowed from Latin. There are a few trends like that how most time words (day, month, year, minute - tago, monato, jaro) were all originally borrowed from German. When Esperanto doesn't borrow words, it simply makes them up from existing roots. For example, bildliteraturo means comics, and bild is picture in German, Swedish, etc. Of course, literature comes from French and Latin (in Latin it's literatura, apparently). The same word in Swedish would be "drawn series", and in Japanese for example the compound includes "picture/painting" instead of "literature", so as you can see Esperanto creates the word from its most logical form instead of directly borrowing the way another language created it. Semantics (words in what languages share similar connotations and implications with English / Esperanto words?) There are a great many of these in base/root words, thanks to English's large vocabulary and the fact that, of course, no language uses words completely literally and everything can be a metaphor or implication anytime one wishes. For example: pluvial - pluvia hound (dog) - hundo paper - papero to comprehend - kompreni The main difference is that, once a word becomes a compound word, it usually ceases to look the same as English. Also there are cultural implications of certain words that are different from country to country, so they aren't always the same in Esperanto. This is especially true because Esperanto is least known about in the English-speaking world, and English's effect on Esperanto is actually very minimal compared to most other languages (ex. only 20% of translations into Esperanto come from English; other languages tend to be more like 60-80%). But here are synonyms with shades of meaning in Esperanto that correspond to synonyms with shades of meaning in English, yes. You didn't ask about it, but I figure you're probably wondering - Esperanto has made "neologisms", slang, and sometimes has its own special implications on words. For example, a "green pope" is someone who talks about Esperanto constantly (green is the "colour of Esperanto"). A "necessary-place" is a toilet/bathroom. There are also verbs and so on named after people, this is equivalent to saying "he's a Marxist", or "a McCarthy-ism", where the name of a certain famous person has taken on a particular meaning; only of course Esperanto has its own famous Esperanto speakers it takes the names from. Outright slang words are relatively few as it would complicate the language too much, but there are also unique meanings strongly implied with certain words that are only known to people who know Esperanto and/or its history (which, frankly, is most Esperanto speakers). As mentioned by the other person who replied, if you really want to know it you have to learn it (you don't have to become fluent even). It's honestly very fast to learn, all you need to do is get a dictionary like this one which has a list of prefixes and suffixes, then look up words on the online dictionary on lernu.net (which often breaks them into their compounds too).