Well, the platonic forms don't have to be entirely separate from spatial concepts. After all, Plato explicitly referred to geometrical objects as examples of platonic forms. The form itself is an object, an that object has to be aspatial--but that doesn't mean that what the form corresponds to in the material world must be aspatial or atemporal. Moreover, it's pretty clear that if lines can be forms, then it should be true that vectors (directed line segments) should also be forms. Now whether or not equations can be forms, seems to me a bit less clear, but I tend to suspect that they are. I think it's easy to imagine that, if Plato had known about coordinate geometry, he would admit that the 2D plane is a form--and since a circle in the 2D plane is the solution set of an equation (x-a)^2 + (y-b)^2 = r^2, then we should say that the solution set of the equation is a form. That still doesn't quite get us to the point where we say the equation itself is a form, but it's pretty close. I'm not sure how to argue it the rest of the way; I think, for that, you might need someone more thoroughly familiar with Plato's work. 

You're right, that's not the best expression of Godel's result. His result is that there is no finitely axiomatizable theory of arithmetic. To unpack that some (but not all, because unpacking it all will make us be here a while an I haven't a Snickers), a "theory of arithmetic" is any set of sentences entailed by a first-order language together with a set of non-logical axioms which entail exactly the true arithmetic equalities. A "finitely axiomatizable" theory of arithmetic is any theory of arithmetic for which the set of non-logical axioms is finite in size. If I were to put it in my own, near-as-I-can-to-natural-language expression, I would say: "If a computer were given any program designed to produce all and only the true arithmetic equalities, there would always be some true equality which it will systematically miss." 

Any such example will probably be controversial as it would have implications for open debates on logic. But in general it will probably turn on the same principle by which "and" can express different things based on order. "He went to get beers and drove home," is different from "He drove home and went to get beers" because it suggests temporal ordering. If a murder happened at his home, the argument that he couldn't have been there could be stronger or weaker depending on which of these you use since one might suggest that he was there at the time and the other might not. If you want a more purely logical argument, then you could say, "Premise 1: he went to get beers; premise 2: he drove home; conclusion: He went to get beers before driving home," would apply. If you don't like this way of appealing to order then you're probably not going to like any examples of arguments that appeal to order. 

Since the mathematical point has been made above, I'll just comment on the ontological side: One could ask the same question about everything, from the number 1 to human beings. Is there just the one number 1, or are there many isomorphic mathematical objects with its properties? Is there just one me, or are there many other isomorphic (upon some agreement of which physical objects are isomorphic) me's? Since I doubt that one can come up with a reason for having a multiplicity of such objects (except possibly when talking about modal identity), it is probably best to have just one such object in one's ontology. 

It's true that, under one understanding of "accessibility" and "determining", your accessibility relation is determined by your axioms. While that perspective is a valuable one, there is a more direct on in which the accessibility relation is just some subset of the cartesian product of worlds. Neither of these perspectives are, I think, helpful to understanding the meaning of an accessibility relation. It is more helpful, I think, to talk about the sorts of applications to which they are relevant. One application is in the sort of modality that philosophers like David Lewis tend to employ, where we are able to quantify over all possible worlds. Here we are essentially in the simplest accessibility relation, "determined" by S5, wherein every world can access every other world. On the other hand we might use a modal operator to express something about moral obligation, wherein box-P means one is morally obligated to make P true, and diam-P means one is morally permitted to make P true. Here, box-P does not imply P, and therefore the accessibility relation that models this modal operator will not allow any world to access itself. On the other hand, it is an open and debated question whether box-P implies diam-P. So hopefully this helps clarify the answer: You choose the accessibility relation you want to model the phenomena you want. It's like the choice between using natural numbers or real numbers--you can use either, depending on the sort of thing that you are trying to model. If you are counting things, you use natural numbers. If you are measuring or describing smooth processes, you use real numbers. If it is not entirely clear (maybe you have a tank of water mixed with a chemical, and it's not obvious whether you want to model every discrete particle of water and chemical using a natural-number system, or maybe you just want to treat these quantities like continuous variables in a differential equation) then there is a debate to be had, or distinctions to be pointed out. 

It's my understanding that Aristotle believed 1) that gravity is a constant force toward the center of the earth, and 2) forces cause objects to move but not accelerate. It seems to me if those are both true then the same object dropped from two heights would experience the same force and, upon arriving at the ground, hit it at the same speed with the same force. Did Aristotle have a resolution for this puzzle? 

So I did it by contraposition which is not my favorite--I'd like to prove it directly but this will suffice. Let w,w' in W such that R2(w,w') but not R1(w',w) and take the valuation V(p)={w}. In this case w ||- p but not w' ||- <1>p which implies not w ||- [2]<1>p and so w not ||- p -> [2]<1>p hence it's not valid. 

Depends on what you take a "construction" to be. Some self-described constructivists accept the Axiom of Choice (Bishop) and therefore accepts the existence of all reals. Other constructivists do not accept their existence, although as far as I know, everyone thinks their expression is well-formed. While the common way of expressing a real is "something you approach by a sequence of rationals, which is not rational" it isn't necessary to do so. You can just ask "Does this sequence converge, and if so, does it converge to a point that exists?" Some constructivists would agree that the sequence converges (distances become arbitrarily constrained as the sequence continues), but that it does not converge to a point. I suppose a very hard-lining finitist constructivist might not accept the formulation of infinite sequences, but that's a pretty zealous constructivist. 

I know of none, and that's probably for good reason--I doubt there is a good argument for considering it a contradiction, given that the sentence A --> B should have truth conditions distinct from the truth conditions of those for A and B. It is a new sentence that shouldn't imply A itself or B, or else the "conditional" nature of the expression would be pretty thoroughly violated. Therefore A --> ~A should not necessarily imply that A and ~A are both true, and so it probably shouldn't imply a contradiction. But note that I do not mean to suggest that First Order Logic is in any sense the "correct" logic, and like most philosophers I recognize the failure of the material conditional to express the same content as is contained in most "if-then" English constructions. But I do suggest that, of the failures of First Order Logic, the fact that the sentence A --> ~A is not considered a contradiction isn't one of them. 

user107986's said that Socrates was suggesting that we cannot have certainty, and this is a possible reading. I'm not sure I agree that this is what Socrates had in mind, but it is a worth-while consideration; and whether or not that's what Socrates was saying I do think it's a good thing to think about anyway. It certainly is an answer to your question, since it demonstrates one way in which Socrates wouldn't have to check everything in the world to see whether he knows none of it. I would suggest, however, that another reading of Socrates is that he means to tell us some mixture of the following two things: One, there is nothing he can identify, which he can claim to know it. This is subtly different from saying that there is nothing that he knows. Two, he may also be indicating that we don't even know what knowledge is--we do not have a definition of it, although in one dialogue he may eventually accept that justified true belief defines knowledge. After that point, it seems that perhaps one thing he knows is what knowledge is. But before this point, he might have meant to say that without knowing what knowledge is, then you cannot be justified in claiming knowledge of anything. Also, especially when dealing with the ancients, if you could take their claims and replace a single nearly-synonymous word to make the claim more sensible, you should probably assume that this was or could have been the person's original intent. After all, you're getting a translation of a language that is no longer even in use (ancient Greek is sufficiently dissimilar from modern Greek that we're not even completely sure how to translate certain loaded words like knowledge or belief). So the English that you're looking at is, at best, an approximation.