Addendum requested by OP: Except for station personnel, most people wanting to see Emperor penguins or other Antarctica wildlife fly to the tip of South America or to New Zealand and take a ship from there. SA is the departure point for the Antarctic Peninsula and the Weddell Sea. NZ is the departure point for the Ross Sea area. 

The article says that both sexes have antlers, and there is significant overlap between young bulls and mature cows in antler characteristics. Antlers are not useful for identifying males. Nor can you use testicles as a mean of ID-ing a male. Testicles on a bull look like the udder on a cow. The direction of the urine stream will help. The urine stream from a cow goes backwards; from a bull, forwards. Whether you need binoculars to spot the penis sheath or the absence of the black vulva spot on the white rump is not absolutely clear from this article. The article advises you to stay 200 or 300 yards away so as not to spook the animals; at this distance, you will need binoculars. But the article assumes that you are hunting. 

This paper is based in Norfolk, about a four hour drive from my house. It is a far from a scientific article, so I won't quote more. According to the St. Louis Post Dispatch, February 2013, crows are returning to the Midwest. 

Several years ago, the Washington Post had an article titled This remarkable new exoskeleton slips on like a boot and makes your walking more efficient. 

Several decades ago, I read a book written by a man who rescued and raised two wolf cubs whose mother had been killed. He was sure his wife would welcome the cubs, but he was apprehensive about the reaction of his large, male German Shepherd. The dog took one sniff of the cubs, and adopted them, starting by licking them clean (they were filthy). I don't remember how the man and his wife fed them; I think they had not been weaned. The book focused on the pack that developed. The man was the alpha male, his wife the alpha female. The German Shepherd was initially the beta male. As a juvenile or young adult, the male wolf challenged the man, who instantly and forcefully responded, and thus maintained his position as alpha male. The male wolf and the German Shepherd worked out an arrangement where the GS was beta in the home territory, but when the pack (led by the man) went far afield, the male wolf was the beta. The man trained the wolves to live on their own -- Born Free with wolves instead of lions -- and eventually the wolves, who had started to roam on their own, left and did not come back. I don't know the title, I don't know the author (it wasn't Farley Mowatt or Barry Lopez or Jack London)), and I don't know where this happened, but my impression is the northwest US or Canada. The book was presented as the true experiences of the author. Does this go click with anyone? Does the premise of the book - the artificial pack -- jibe with what has been observed about wolf and dog behavior and their relationship to humans? 

I like to read for a couple of hours after getting into my sleeping bag, and I don't like to use the tent unless the weather is bad. So usually I am lying propped up against my pack (food removed) attended by a circle of no-see-ums or mosquitoes trying to dive-bomb under my hat, the brim of which is sprayed with deet. Tolerable, but not ideal. A head and shoulders mesh mini-tent would protect me when reading and allow me to commune with the stars. Does such a product exist? 

I agree with all of the tactics mentioned by @Tullochgorum, except for the bare feet -- Ouch! However, the terrain and your feet will thank you for wearing light weight camp shoes. As for looking for a suitable campsite, one or two people can do that -- six people do not have to go out scouting in all directions. Another way to reduce your impact in some circumstances is to remember that guidelines are just that -- guidelines -- not rules that must never be bent. If you are above timberline on an unfrequented trail, and especially if you are going to decamp early next morning, it may be better to camp on a sandy spot less than 100 feet from the trail than tromp down the wildflowers making an extensive search. Also a group of six well above timberline has little to fear from a black bear by cooking at their campsite. And bear canisters, while they should be placed outside the perimeter of the campsite, need not be placed 100 feet away. The rules that can't be broken have to do with waste, garbage, cooking scraps, washing up and litter. Please note that I am not recommending bending guidelines merely because one is tired or it is getting dark, or because one is dismissive of rules or thinks that one party doesn't make a difference. 

I can't answer about a small town in Canada, so I will answer about my own small town (really just a village center) in northern Virginia. I don't think there would be any great physical dangers here as long as you check and wash your feet at the end of the day and disinfect, bandage and watch cuts -- and wear sandals if you have a cut. Of the physical dangers, I think needles are the worst -- if needles are at all common on the streets of your town, your Mom is right. Disinfecting is not enough for a deep needle jab (which includes danger of HIV transmission.) Also, the answer of @Charlie Brumbaugh lists tetanus as a danger. He is right! Finally, although this may not be fair, how you are perceived if you walk in town barefoot is a danger. You are going to need the high opinion of your fellow townsfolk as you progress towards adulthood, and barefoot people who are no longer children are irritating to many -- here, if not in your small town. It isn't rational: a teenager in flip-flops exposes as much of her feet as a barefoot teenager, and the soles of her feet are no dirtier than the soles of the flip-flops. But it is so: if you were in my town, you will irritate people whose good opinion you really do want. This paragraph adds up to: pick your battles carefully. 

Check out the website $URL$ As of March 3, 2016, the website said this about General Conditions under the heading Wilderness Conditions 

Explanation of why my question is not a duplicate of What is the best way to store my tent?. I am specifically asking about an aspect not addressed in the earlier question or any of its answers: does prolonged storage (several years, not several months) in its stuff sack without ever taking it out affect the lifetime of a tent? We have two tents, one smaller than the other; we use the smaller one when we expect mostly fine weather. We use the larger tent only when the likelihood of bad weather is high. Thus, the larger tent may remain in its sack for more than a year. Once, after prolonged storage, the rainfly failed. Is it likely that keeping the tent in its stuffsack for a couple of years was the cause of the failure, and that its exposure to UV over its years of use made it really inadvisable to store it this way? 

Several years ago, I helped two men move a large turtle about 1,000 feet to a stream. They had been driving by and saw the turtle on the road, and saw me in my driveway. I got a hand-truck and a snow shovel. They slid the snow-shovel under the turtle and eased him onto the hand-truck. (I don't remember which end of the turtle went on the hand-truck.) One of them held the snow shovel in position (the turtle was at least half on the snow shovel) and walked backwards, and the other pushed the hand truck. Fortunately, this was a little traveled road, and the route to the stream was gently downhill. Success. (Meanwhile, I put several cones (which we happened to have) around their car and stayed with their dogs.) I don't know if this was a snapping turtle or not, but no one wanted to find out first hand. 

According to the International Society for Mountain Medicine, in its article Normal Acclimitization: 

We have long carried a backpacker's solar water heater on our trips. The bliss of warm -- nearly hot -- water in quantity for washing one's filthy self is worth the small extra weight -- especially when a packer is carrying all our gear up the first day -- the day of maximum elevation gain and minimum fitness. Our heater is similar to this, but is a different, earlier brand. The heater works very well when the ambient temperature is roughly 50 degrees F (10 degrees C) and heats cold stream water to about 100 degrees F after a few hours lying on a sunny rock. We have never used the heater in cold weather, and, looking ahead to a major power failure this winter (we are overdue), we wonder if we could get warm water when the ambient T is in the 20s (F) by laying the heater on our sunny patio table (cleared of snow), and on top of an insulating sleeping pad. Assume no wind. The only time we used the heater at home was in the derecho of June/July 2012, when the ambient temperature was in the 90s; it worked well then, obviously. If you think a patio table makes this Q off topic, assume a winter trip, a flattish rock brushed clear of snow, insulated sleeping pad, and water taken from a flowing stream. No wind. 

What, you may ask, is coasteering? Does saying it is similar to kloofing help? Thought not. Many sites describe coasteering; here is a brief description exerpted from outsideonline.com, What Is Coasteering, and Where Can I Do It?