Exchange 2010 server. Outlook 2007 clients. I have Outlook Anywhere enabled on the server. If I have a laptop connected to an outside internet connection not on our corporate LAN and manually configure Outlook Anywhere, it works and I am able to connect to our Exchange server. As soon as the laptop is brought into our network / domain, the incorrect Outlook Anywhere settings are pushed from the server to the client and Outlook Anywhere breaks. Here are what the working settings look like: 

Figured it out. All I needed to do was Bind an additional IP address to the server running IIS. I did this by going to TCP/IP configuration > Advanced. There you can add IP addresses. I added 199.5.83.238 and I was good to go. 

I just started working for a small-medium size company doing IT support. Maybe 150 or less users. Right now every user has administrative rights to their own machine. This allows them to install updates or whatever else they would like to. I'm tired of getting on user's machines that are bloated with crap they put on themselves. So my first thought would be to take away administrative rights to their computer. This would also have other advantages such as preventing a lot of drive-by malware on the web etc. The problem arises that users are unable to install updates. (Even though I find most ignore these anyway) How do large companies handle software updates on all client machines? EDIT: Windows environment. Most servers are Windows Server 2003 Enterprise. Clients are all Windows. Win XP, Vista, and 7. 

I am currently using Microsoft Exchange 2003 on Windows Server 2003 with various iPhone 3G, 3GS, and 4s. The iPhones have all been upgraded to the latest firmware. Users are using Outlook 2007. An example I am finding is that normal calendar events added from either Outlook or iPhone sync fine but if I am the "meeting organizer" sending a "meeting request" the event will show in my Outlook but not on my iPhone. Is there any good list of Exchange/iPhone ActiveSync limitations? Any workaround for the issue above? Thanks. 

Not really a solution, but we recently implemented a new Exchange 2010 mail server and we have not seen any of these problems with Exchange 2010. 

I just started working at a small-medium sized business after graduating school. So much of my knowledge is high level concepts without a lot of hands on. My understanding that according to rfc1918 only the following IP ranges are for private IPs: 10.0.0.0/8 172.16.0.0/12 192.168.0.0/16 How does this concept work with NAT firewalls? Does it not apply to internal IP addresses behind a NAT firewall? The reason I ask is because our internal network is on 199.5.83.0/24. My first thought when seeing this is that isn't private IP space. This internal network is behind a NAT firewall with an external IP of 74.4.9.x. Does this setup make sense? Does it go against best practices? Can someone try and give me a brief explanation to firm up these concepts for me? Any links to relative reading would also be appreciated. 

How do I disable Explorer View for select users in Windows SharePoint Services 3.0? Setting specific permissions becomes useless when my users could just go into explorer view and start deleting. Please help. 

1) I would like to send Sharepoint Alerts to an email distribution list. 2) I would like that email distribution list to include domain and non-domain users. 3) I would like that email distribution list to be editable from Public Folders in exchange. Is this possible? It seems like it should be. WSS 3.0 on Windows Server 2003 Standard Just getting 1 and 2 would be a great start... 

Our firewall was scanning files before it let users download them. Turning this setting off seemed to fix the problem. 

I started working for a medium sized company (approx. 150 users). When user's workstations need to be reformatted for any variety of reasons, we reformat, reinstall windows from an oem disk, install drivers, install shop desired software, and restore user's documents from latest backup. While the process isn't very difficult it is very time consuming. What are some options to simplify / speed up this process? Mostly a complete Windows shop with most servers running Win2k3 Enterprise and workstations running a variety of XP, Vista, and 7. Workstations are purchased through a variety of OEMs mostly Dell. 

I am testing downloading files from our SharePoint site from outside connections. When downloading files, you never receive total size of the file or time remaining within the download prompt. Why is this? Can this be fixed? It sort of makes the download experience seem longer than usual with an unknown time remaining. Thanks 

I am using WSS 3.0 with Microsoft Server 2003. I am running into the following problem. On a pretty frequent basis, outside users are having trouble downloading documents. Some downloads are completing while the download is still incomplete. So for instance, a PDF is a 17MB file. If I download it from within the office, all 17MBs are downloaded and it opens. If I download it from an outside connection, it may download anywhere from 5-10 MB of the file and then say it is complete. When these partial downloads are opened, it gives the user the error, this file is corrupt and cannot be repaired. I have solved this problem on some of the occasions by simply deleting the document and uploading a new copy of the document. This does not always work. Are there known bugs? Are the Internet settings that need to be modified on the outside user's machine? Does anyone else run into this? 

I am looking into implementing SSH tunneling as a cheap VPN solution for outside users to access Intranet-only facing web applications. I currently am using Ubuntu Server 10.04.1 64 bit with OpenSSH installed. I am using Putty on Windows boxes to create a tunnel on a local port to my ssh server. 

I then use tell Firefox to use a SOCKS proxy on localhost:9999. The -N flag will disable the interactive shell from the client side. Is there a way to do this on the server side? Besides disabling root access, using rsa key authentication, and changing the default port; are there any other obvious security practices I should follow for this purpose? My goal is to simply be able to tunnel web traffic. 

My company currently uses MS Exchange 2003 for company email, contacts, and calendars. We have approximately 150 users. Construction industry. I would like to look into migrating from Exchange to Google Apps. It will be an easier sell to the powers that be if we can migrate certain smaller departments first successfully than an entire company move. I would like to first migrate our field superintendents who are usually out of the office working remotely. Approx 30 users. Will Google App users be able to see our Exchange user's calendars and vice versa? How about public folders? Anyone's migration story is much appreciated. Thank you. 

I am asked to edit the website of a company I started working for. The directions I was given to setup Dreamweaver involve uploading directly to the live site. I wanted to create a test site to upload documents so I can preview the changes before putting them to the live site. I created a test site in IIS on the server hosting the website. I made sure its properties mirrored the actual site. I then copied all the files from the actual sites directory and placed them in the test sites directory. The problem is that if I visit actual/page.asp it displays fine yet if I visit test/page.asp I get an active server page error. It is the same .asp page in both directories. What should I be looking for to make this work? 

Can anyone recommend a utility that can scan specified directory locations (network shares specifically) and return all files older than a certain date? I am looking to implement a data retention policy at my workplace. As our amount of data grows it puts a large strain on our backup routines. I would like to move old data to some sort of archival system. Extra points for the ability to move queried old files to another location for archival and the ability to create schedules for when this occurs. Many thanks. EDIT: Windows Shop. Mostly Windows 2003 Servers. In this particular case, this isn't mission critical data. Just various user documents on network shares. The archival system would simply be to move old data to a removable device off site once a month. Most data will most likely never be accessed again but I would like at least one copy to disk as opposed to simply deleting it. 

One consideration is the RAM requirements of the virtual machine. You will find that MySQL and Lighttpd use more memory in 64bit Ubuntu compared to 32bit Ubuntu. So I like to use 32bit installations on small VMs with little RAM, such as 512 or less. You would see these lower end configurations often with many VPS providers like linode or slicehost. 

Lately I have been getting an increasing number of complaints regarding users not being able to download attachments synced from Exchange with their iPhone. The iPhones in question are either 3G or 3GS with firmware 3.0 or later. Exchange 2003. The majority of messages come in just fine. Some however display: "This message has not been downloaded from the server" where the email's text normally should be. At the bottom of the email, it states: "This message is only partially downloaded." It has a button labeled "Download remaining 0 bytes." If you click this button, it states that it is loading and then reverts to the same screen. The odd part is that this only affects some emails. Most come in fine with attachments working. I've taken the same email that was not working on my iPhone. Sent it to a gmail account that my iPhone had access to. The message and attachment opened fine. Any ideas of possible causes I could look into? Thanks. EDIT: The same occurs on 4.0 + 

I just started working in the IT department of a small-medium sized construction company with about 200 users. One of my responsibilities is to setup and configure all new machines that come in. I would like suggestions on how to best manage the installation disks and licenses of the software that comes with them. Plus any additional licensed software such as Autocad, Photoshop, etc as well as peripheral driver disks such as printers and scanners. Right now every machine is associated and labeled with an asset id. All asset ids are kept in a spreadsheet with applicable serial numbers, current user, warranty info, and software licenses. The physical disks are then kept within a folder in a cabinet. Each folder is marked with the asset id number as well as the current user. My problems with this is that the system was not maintained very completely before I came to the company. There are plenty of software folders with no asset ids labeled on them. Plenty of missing software folders (most likely are a lot of the unlabeled folders). Folders with names but not asset ids. Machines get switched to different users without the folders and spreadsheet being updated. I am not saying this method would necessarily be bad if it was better implemented and managed, but if I am going to have to take a lot of time to fix this system currently in place. I thought I would ask the community first on how others manage this process in case there are easier, more efficient ways of doing so. Thank you.