A CX bike is stable, strong, and will take wider tires. It is a great road and commute bicycle. It is built to race in city parks. It has a comfortable riding position. Just put touring tires on it (I like 35mm). I don't mean to advertise a bike but if you look at a high end CX like Moots the even say use as light touring. Rout You are not going to road race a CX but I will take it as a daily grinder and light touring every time. At the end of CX season in the US and you can usually find great buys on used bikes. As for risk of injury the only time I would rather be on true road bike is a 50 mph road decent. But I am 50 years old - I don't 50 mph decents. This is getting a bit of discussion so will add a little. I don't road race and gave up my only road bike as for me my CX is was better road bike. My road bike was limited to 25 mm tires and that is good for racing but not what I want for commuting or even a long road ride. In this pic it has 35 mm tires but with 28 or 32 mm tires it is a road bike. It even came geared more for road (52T). I would not commute on this as it is kind of my baby. This Salsa below is a bike I bought to CX race but I just did not feel as comfortable on it so I race the above Bianchi. The Bianchi is softer and not as quick. As a commuter and light touring this Salsa is an awesome bike. Other than spend a lot more money on a Moots there is not other commuter I would rather have. I picked this up used for $1600 US. It is light enough to get up and go and strong enough to take a beating and titanium does not rust. And it will take a rack. I also have a steel Salsa Vaya that I use for shopping but even at just a few pounds difference this bike way nicer for light commuting. I like 35 mm tires for daily commuting. 

It is hard to find a bike with eyelets that is not a full touring bike. I also have a full touring bike (Vaya) and loaded it is great but with a light load it is stiff. But you can find some faster bikes that are designed for light racks. This is a titanium La Cruz. Notice there are 4 eyelets. 

Since that search term "quality life span of a comfort bicycle" does not come up in google I would conclude it is not a standard. Just take it at the word. 

On a bicycle the store is the final point of assembly. The bicycle arrives in a box unassembled. So yes it makes a difference. The parts are in the box so unless you swap out some part you will get the same parts. I bought a high end bike at a general sports store where they also sold ski and camping equipment. It took me hours to get that bike running correctly. They just put the parts together and did not tune it up. I knew what I was getting but the price was right. A high end store will even do stuff like put the wheels on the stand to verify they are true. Back before pre-stretched cables they would stretch the cables. On mail order you will typically get what is call pre-assembled. Reading your question again. 

Yes higher end riders will go with a larger front chain ring on parts of some courses or they would not have one. Higher end will shift faster and it could also be an adjustment thing. And some riders go with just a single up front (e.g. SRAM has the CX1). With a 9 speed in back it is harder to get the range with a single up front but with an 11 speed in back it makes a single more of an option. You save some weight and also get a little more ground clearance. 

Those sound about right. Buy a kit (groupset) is typically cheaper. You can find them on Amazon (and others). None of the SRAM 1x11 are cheap. The cheapest 1X groupset from SRAM is more than your bike. The cassette is more a road cassette but you see them on mtn also. This link should help. 

If you are willing to spend up to $4000 then put titanium in the mix. Opinion on durability of carbon varies. By many measures carbon is stronger and more durable than aluminum. But there are people that feel carbon is fragile and the right answer is I agree. For race you are going to see a lot of carbon for weight. Training is a different. I like the ride (and weight) of a carbon but for my money aluminum. You don't want to clamp anything on carbon so if you want to maybe mount a rack some day then no carbon. Titanium is a little lighter than aluminum, more durable, and has nicer ride. Aluminum will fatigue. You can mount a rack to titanium. Could also use the bike for light touring. It would not be called an endurance bike but it would be nice for long distance training. If you are willing to go up to $4000 then clear the field and don't limit yourself to Giant. For long distance training you could get a very nice aluminum for $1200. Maybe even consider used. It is going to take some long distance training for you to know what you want in a long distance training bike. 

Agree with the accepted answer. Not sure it they like posting links on SO. Look up Ashton Road Bike Party on youtube. Cylcocross is designed for speed and mixed terrain. I have a cyclocross that I have set up as what I call urban assault. Went with 35 mm Pilot City. It rides efficiently and can take the trails. I use this as my play, workout, and road bike. The 35 mm is a little over sized for street but it is more comfortable and stable than a 32mm. The 35 mm to me is a step up on the trail - more traction and at mid speed can bang up roots without banging the rim compared to even a 32mm. I know it does not seem like much but at 35mm I could start to ride it like my mountain bike. A cyclocross will (should) have beefier and wider rims compared to a road bike so it will take some banging. If I am going on a long road ride then I will mount 28 mm touring tires. Without the knobs I do not ride it in mud (but even with knobs if there was mud I would take my mountain bike). In hard pack it does fine. Drop offs are where a mountain bike is better - you can get your weight further back to not go over the handle bars. I don't take jumps on this bike. But on the other hand a mountain bike on the road won't touch it. Most road bikes are limited to 25 mm tires. Yes you can off road with that but bigger is way better. Not just a traction thing - also pinch flats And you get greats deal on used cyclocross as you get racers that get a new bikes and flood the used market. If you are looking for towpath optimized bike then look at a gravel racers The name describes it Not going to put money into tubeless rims on this bike as it does not have disc. But cyclocross with tubeless would really make a difference as could run at lower pressure.