My situation was a little bit different because I was a software developer, not a sysadmin. That said I was in a broadly similar situation a couple of jobs ago where I worked with really nice people in an office where everyone went home on time every day and we had a schedule where we worked a little extra over a two week period and got every second friday off. There were a lot of things to like about that job, but I just wasn't learning anything and my boredom was showing in my work. For me, the answer was to leave. I was very lucky in that I got a large raise for leaving (although I still miss having every second friday off), but even taking a pay cut would have been better for my career in the long run. Since you're especially well paid, I would recommend saving as much as you can while you're looking for a new job to ease the pain of potentially taking a lower salary. I was also afraid I would become unhirable in the future, the organization my office was a part of didn't have the best reputation and sadly it wasn't entirely undeserved - while my office was pretty good, other offices weren't quite as good. tl;dr if you're bored, leave. Taking a pay cut to start learning again does not mean your career is going backwards. 

Start seriously searching for another job right now. Even if a strongly worded letter from a lawyer made your employer back down on the PIP, it would be a terrible idea to keep working for a company that unethical. No good can possibly come of staying at a company that is punishing you for reporting your boss to HR. 

I recommend asking them to explain how exactly the HR mixup happened and what they're doing to make sure it doesn't happen again. Mistakes happen, but that's a pretty serious one that would definitely shake my confidence in the company as a whole. Without a really great explanation, I can't recommend working for a company that messed up so badly. 

I recommend being a jack of some trades and master of one (or two). That is, curiosity is great and you never know when something you learned by testing out the new shiny thing will be useful, but depth is also important to progressing in your career. Without expertise in at least one area, you'll very likely start hearing "Well, you're okay, but we really need an expert in ____ to lead this project." You'll also learn things by going deep in one area that you won't learn by trying out the next new thing. Building larger projects and working with the same technology for longer will reveal details you just never would have picked up by playing with it for a few days. The more tips and tricks like that you learn, the easier time you'll have finding the same sorts of issues when you try out new things. 

Unless you have another offer, there's probably very little you can do and even less that you should do. Trying to rush the process may make you look desperate or like you don't understand how the hiring process works and neither of those are going to improve your application. 

Find a new job. Your boss will never do anything about this. Not only will he not do anything about you being harassed, but I personally would never trust him again because of it. Life is too short to work for someone who doesn't care even the tiniest bit about your wellbeing. Even if you can eventually force your boss to do his job (and it is literally his job to keep people from ruining his team's productivity, which is what your harasser is doing) by hounding him until he does it, do you really want to work for someone who will only look out for your best interests (and your productivity!) if you make it more trouble to ignore you than to protect you? Imagine that instead of a harasser your office had a broken electric tea kettle that shot sparks whenever someone turned it on. If you reported that to your boss and he didn't do anything about it, you would leave, right? Not even necessarily because of the kettle, but because your boss wouldn't do the simplest thing to keep you safe. 

If you don't feel comfortable saying "I'm looking for personal growth blah blah bla" (which I think is a perfectly good answer even if it's not the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth), you could say "I have some concerns about the long term future of the company" or "I would like to work somewhere I can have more input into what exactly we build" (but only if you actually do want more input). 

Of course, that only works if you really are willing to walk away. If I needed that job I really don't think I'd be able to bring myself to actually say that, so here's the pep talk part: what you need to remember is the whole hiring process is extremely expensive to the employer and you can actually get away with a lot. Interviewing people eats up a lot of time all of those senior people/heads of departments/etc could have been doing their regular jobs. Not only is the employer paying them to do something that isn't their regular day to day job, they're also getting less regular day to day work out of them because they're busy reviewing resumes, scheduling interviews, interviewing, typing up interview notes, having meetings with the other interviews to decide which candidates to move forward with, etc, etc. That adds up quickly. There's also the hassle to everyone else in the department who is waiting on an answer because the team lead is in an interview or has to schedule an important meeting for next week because that's the only time everyone is available now that the department head's schedule is choked with interviews. Now, if you had already poured thousands of dollars in the form of senior employee time and inconvenience into a candidate, are you really going to toss them out just because they wouldn't name a number? Not likely. Possible, but not hugely likely. 

You can try to avoid the issue by networking more. If someone already at the company recommends you, the application requirements may relax quite a bit. You can also ask if they have a coding challenge you can complete instead. If they directly ask why you don't contribute to open source, you should tell a nice story about how much more productive you are at work when you do something different during your off hours and how much you've learned from doing [some interesting hobby of yours] (for this to work you may need to acquire an interesting hobby). Depending on how the interview has gone until then and whether you're still remotely interested in the job, you could turn that question around and ask why open source contributions are so important to them and whether they might be ruling out excellent coders who simply want to do something else with their evenings and weekends. This may remove you from consideration for that position, but it doesn't sound like you would be happy at a company that expects programmers to train themselves on their own time anyway. 

You should absolutely make it obvious! Hiring managers usually review resumes on top of their day-to-day jobs and they need to get resume reviews over with quickly so they can get back to their actual jobs. If you make your qualifications obvious that's helpful, you're showing that you understand what the manager wants and can present it clearly instead of making them dig for it. I personally love seeing details of projects on a resume, just put them under "Projects" rather than "Experience" if they're personal projects. If it's a work project that you put extra time into, it could look weird to specifically mention that you worked on it outside of work hours, but you should definitely put those projects on your resume and you should go into detail about exactly what you did. 

Does it matter? Even if she really did have a meeting to go to, that's some extraordinarily poor scheduling and it reflects so badly on the company that I would recommend turning down another interview if they try to reschedule. 

If you're already interviewing with other companies or have another offer, telling the company about it may speed up their process, but only if you're a strong candidate anyway. 

Don't look at it as giving up because some creeper is harassing you, look at it as refusing to stay at a company that doesn't care in the slightest that someone is harassing you. There's one thing that the other answers seem to be missing that's frustrating me: actually suing the company for not doing anything about your harasser has consequences. As a woman developer myself, I hope you sue and win and the judge makes an example of them, but I'd be a real jerk if I didn't acknowledge the fact that a) going to court sucks - it's an expensive, grueling process that may not yield any good results - and b) it's wildly unethical and a huge red flag, but some employers will look at an employee who sued their employer as a troublemaker and not hire them. Absolutely consult with a lawyer, but you should in no way feel obligated to actually sue. If you do decide to speak with a lawyer, be sure to ask what potential downsides going to court could have. I thought of a better way to explain what I'm trying to get at: a lawyer is not a magic wand. You cannot wave one around and expect all of your problems to disappear. 

Everybody who works with her knows what kind of person she is, I wouldn't worry that anyone will believe her. I understand the frustration, but jerks are going to be jerks and there's nothing you can do about that. 

To be blunt, those aren't great reasons to change. If you didn't like the salary you were offered you shouldn't have taken the job (unless you were desperate, but you said you weren't having trouble getting interviews), and if you weren't given enough work you should have found something to do. That's part of what people are reacting to when they call you a job hopper. Another part of it is how you explain your reasons for leaving those jobs. If you take responsibility for having chosen poorly, that makes you look much better than blaming other companies for offering you jobs that you turned out not to like. To be fair, salary can be a good reason to change jobs if your expenses rose for a reason you couldn't control and I've heard horror stories before about people getting penalized harshly for supposedly "making their bosses look bad" by trying to do more work or working in a place where job duties are very strictly regulated and they really aren't allowed to "do someone else's job." That said you've got to be careful how you spin those. In a comment on another answer you mentioned that at the job with the low salary you expected to learn more in exchange for accepting the low salary, I would not mention the salary and instead say that you learned you would rather be judged on the results you get than on how many consecutive hours you can spend at your desk.