Your question is wrong, your view is also wrong. But I am going to give my 2 cents regardless. First; Deadlift is a pull, squat is a squat. Squat starts from the top, deadlift starts from the bottom. Knees do not lift anything, if you try and do that you are going to destroy them eventually. Doing deadlifts for repetitions and/or using little rest periods can make your lower back sore, not because you are shortening your erector spinae, but rather because you are using them isometrically. Back does not lift anything, it pulls. And that move is called a barbell row. While deadlifting, your back works because it is trying to stay neutral and stiff not because you are lifting. Actually, that lift is done by hamstrings. It seems like you think that lifting should be done via a deadlift or a squat, whereas it is done by both deadlifting, squatting, and pressing if necessary. Please watch a video of an atlas stone lift. 

Strength would help in everything. So, squats and deadlifts are going to help you in any sport there is. Are you sure your form is good or perfect? A video would help for us to analyze if there is any problem. 

It all depends on your goal. That phenomenon is also called reverse dieting, increasing your maintenance calorie so that it would be easier to cut it later for dieting. If you are following a meal plan, your macros are always the same. They all increase in size, not just one. 

Whatever you carry make sure it is close and tight to your body. Again you don't want it bouncing around. I got myself an SPI belt for this. 

I think grasping for air after 50m of running is quite normal when you never did it. I started running about a month ago, and was like running really slow for maybe 100meters, than walk a little, then run for 100 meters for a total of may 2km in 20min. Now about a month later I run over up to 40minutes and 5.5km so far. So once you start training it, you'll improve fast. Having problems to breath enough like you describe sounds a little like asthma to me. I think symptoms of asthma often increase in cold air. 

Of course @Lego Stormtroopr is right: Loosing weight, when you are in a habit of eating way more then you need is gooing to suck. But there are things that can help: 

Background: I picked up running 5 weeks ago and my longest run was (this morning) 6km in 45min as described above. My medium scope goal is to run 8km in an hour. My maximum heart rate is 180bpm. 

I'm not exactly living in the country side, but runing on tracks that basically circle around a village. What I found interesting when running outside without any own light source: It isn't a problem as long as there is no artificial light source. With stars or moon the eyes adapt to the low light pretty well, and I was able to see enough for my runs. But in some places strong lights from gardens and in the worst case from a sports ground where so blinding, that I basically saw nothing at all when it wasn't hit directly by the light. Of course is highly dependent on your surroundings. So my recommendation is: explore your new routes during the daylight and try if you actually need a light source at all. 

Smith-machine in any way is not superior to barbell squat. You have alternatives though. Front Squats Zercher Squats Hack Squats Goblet Squats 

There are primary movers and secondary movers. You won't have any problems with that split. The aim of muscles are to work :) By that logic, we should not climb stairs after we trained legs. Do not get into that much detail, just go with common sense. 

First, please read Stuart McGill's work, and his ideas about core training. Second, abs should be braced when you are doing forward flexion; and "glutes" must be contracted when you are doing extensions. The move you are trying to do is done before, in a better way, and it is called "not back extension", but a "reverse hyper machine": $URL$ 

You can look for Martin Berkhan's Leangains method here: $URL$ A guy did an AMA for that leangains program here: $URL$ There is a book named, Eat Stop Eat, talking about the benefits of fasting, here: $URL$ and here: $URL$ 

Well, without seeing your squat form, anyone giving any recommendations would not be correct. It seems like people think running is a great exercise; well it is not :) It can create problems, and many of us don't have any idea about running properly (not talking about you specifically) HIIT is not a must in order to lose fat, or exercise. You can do both without implementing HIIT in your training. 

The basic answer is that although there has been quite a bit of medical research on this kind of thing, research does not strongly support any specific advice for avoiding injury as a runner. People used to say that it was important to use good running shoes that provided a lot of cushioning against impacts, and to replace the shoes frequently because they could lose their cushioning ability. This conflicts with the fact that humans evolved to run barefoot, and the recent popularity of barefoot running and minimal running shoes has also raised questions about this belief. Kong et al. found that cushioning affected comfort, but not injury. Studies with accelerometers have found that people subconsciously adjust their style to avoid the discomfort associated with large impact forces, and this is probably the reason that cushioning is not beneficial. It then seems reasonable to expect the same to hold for running on hard versus soft surfaces, and although I don't have access to the paper, apparently there is a 1992 paper by van Mechelen (cited here) confirming that softer surfaces don't help. People have claimed that feet were normal, pronated, or supinated, and that you should buy shoes that were matched to your style. The classification is not supported by evidence. A study falsifies the theory that you need shoes to correct your pronation. People have claimed that to avoid injury, you shouldn't increase your mileage by more than 10% a week. Only one study has been done of the 10% rule, and it found no difference in injuries between those who followed it and those who didn't. In general, the evidence does not support claims that mileage is correlated with injury. In fact, there is some evidence that running very long distances is safer, possibly because the runners tend to go slower at those distances. People will tell you to stretch, but static stretching before going running doesn't seem to change the injury rate, and static stretching has a neurological effect that inhibits muscle from stretching more later. Keep in mind that for most sports, running is considered a warm-up. 

I don't have any papers, and I don't hate pulldown machines. The main difference is core activation. In a proper pullup, you brace your abs, you contract your glutes and keep your spine in a complete stiff position. Where in a pulldown machine, unfortunately this is very hard to do. 

There are different ideas about jumping exercises. I cannot show any references right now, but some people believe doing explosive work increases explosiveness; whereas some people only believe that increasing strength is the only way to increase explosiveness. I believe that one should work out as needed. For example, do you need to do box jumps? Do you need jumping in your daily life? Do you need to get better at jumping and jumping higher? If not, I do not believe that doing box jumps would bring you extra benefit than regular strength training. However, the risk of injury is higher with jumping, which means you need to be more careful with it. 

Do lots of push-ups :) It looks like a lame recommendation but it is the truth. Please look for GTG : Grease the Groove. I could not do 3 dips @ 93 kg of bodyweight. After doing lots of push-ups, I end up doing 30 reps @ same bodyweight. But please, do proper Push-ups, which is triceps push-ups. You can look at Martin Rooney, he is an expert in S&C. Good luck. Ps: I used to do lots of push-ups, like 200-300 at a time. Lots of sets of 10-15-20 reps. I would recommend you to try different variations, EMOM's, AMRAP's. Have fun doing that, eventually; your number will increase. 

I use a "Polar WearLink heart rate sensor with Bluetooth" while running and my smart phone with Run Keeper to monitor among other things my heart rate. I also use earphones to get information from Run Keeper during running. Normaly first measurements when starting running are at about 120bpm and ramp up during a couple of minutes to 140-145 only increasing slowly up to 150 or less in the first 20 minutes, depending on training intensity. But during the last two exercises I was getting a heart rate of 160! This certainly is bogus because it doesn't match at the way I felt. On the first run where this happened I was wearing a jacket with the cable of the earphones running under the jacket. On the second occasion I noticed that the cable of my earphones was banging against my chest right where the sensor of the heart rate monitor was. The weird measurements stopped after I opend the zipper of the jacket / tucking the cable to the side away from my chest. So my theory is: the beating of the cable against the sensor was somehow picked up as heart beats. Questions: Is this a reasonable theory? If not, what else might cause this wrong measurement? If it is a reasonable theory, what could I do to prevent this from happening again, apart from keeping the wire of my chest? A patch on the sensor maybe? Or some "better" earphones? I'd like to avoid fiddling with the cable during running since I find it rather distracting. UPDATE In another run I saw the same effect: firstly improbable high heart rate, then after some time more reasonable measurements, which I could confirm roughly by manually measuring my pulse. The difference was that my headphones cable was tucked away behind my shoulder, so it doesn't seem to be involved ... What else could yield this effect? 

If I run a fixed number of miles, is there any solid scientific evidence on whether running at a faster speed makes me more likely to get injured? I'm a physicist, so my tendency is to try to make models based on mechanics. Presumably injuries like plantar fasciitis are caused by strain that exceeds the elastic limit of the tissue, and strain should be proportional to the square of the speed at which I run. This suggests to me that injury should depend critically on speed: if my speed is below a certain threshold, then my tissues never go past their elastic limit, but once I get past that threshold, I suddenly start doing damage. So speed kills -- true or false? Is there any good evidence-based medicine on this topic? The following is the only thing I've come across that seems possibly relevant: $URL$ This is a newspaper article describing research that seems to show that running very long distances may be, counterintuitively, less likely to cause injury, possibly because the greater distance forces the runners to go more slowly. On the other hand, people often do get plantar fasciitis even when all they do is stand or walk around. 

Although there are muscles in your hands themselves, most of them are in your forearms. As an awesome example, check out rock climber Adam Ondra at 4:02 in this video, where he's traversing the ceiling of a cave by gripping stalactites: $URL$ . You can pretty clearly see that because of the kind of grip he's attained, his forearms are huge compared to his upper arms. But training isn't just about muscles. You're also building the strength of your connective tissue, and there is a lot of that in your hands.