Consider the biochemistry of this race Above answers are all very good! However, although this doesn't specifically apply to the lungs, you could also consider the molecules that are involved in oxygen transport. This works if you were looking for an option that involves biochemistry, rather than further changing the anatomy of your new race. To do this, you may wish to consider the protein hemoglobin, which binds oxygen and then transports it to cells. As you have mentioned, myoglobin is another important protein, and is a key player in diving mammals, though I believe the molecules that allosterically bind to hemoglobin are a better option. In particular, a real life applicable example is 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate (2,3-BPG). This is the molecule that leads to populations that live in higher altitudes being more efficient at transporting oxygen. In short, this molecule decreases the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin, meaning it is released more easily when it reaches the cells. Since oxygen itself is an allosteric regulator of hemoglobin, as more oxygen is released from the one hemoglobin protein, more will want to be released as well! Populations at sea level have around 5mM concentrations in their blood, whereas populations in higher altitudes can have around 8mM concentrations. You may also wish to do some research on the other molecules that are involved in hemoglobin regulation, such as hydrogen protons and carbon dioxide (the acidity of our blood near our muscles is higher than at the lungs, and this results in oxygen unbinding from hemoglobin so it can be used by our cells). In conclusion: this is probably something that you might wish to 'add-on' to one of the other options provided, as there is a limit to how much you can play around with the levels of these molecules in our blood. If you were to increase the concentration of BPG tenfold, then oxygen would never even bind at the lung-blood barrier! Just a few questions Is this really just a different race of humans? If you are trying to ground your creation in reality, have definitely considered the plausibility of having a different race of humans with two hearts. Can they mate with one-hearted humans? What would the result be? Could this in fact be another species, closely related to humans? EDIT Here is a graph that shows the binding of oxygen to hemoglobin vs the partial pressure of oxygen for blood with and without BPG. Though this may be hard to understand without having being taught it, there are many resources explaining the role of BPG in the blood. 

The immune system itself would not necessarily degrade over the generations in space. By design immune templates in the body are blank, what immunologists called "naive". When a person is born into a new biological environment, their body adapts to the local diseases. Breeding in space will not change this fundamental capability. A person who is born in space and suddenly returned to earth will be at risk from new pathogens, but this is no different than the risk you take any time that you travel. If you take a trip to Madagascar and have contact with the local people, you will be taking the same risk. The only dynamic immunological information conferred between the generations comes to a baby from its mother either via placental transfer of immunoglobulin or at birth by nursing. When a mother first nurses she produces a substance called colostrum which encodes the local disease environment. By drinking the colostrum, a baby inherits many of the immunological templates of its mother. For this reason an astronaut's children or descendants could return to the same place on earth and have a degree of immunity to the local diseases in the area. In general, a spaceship will be a different kind of environment than the earth because, as you point out, the pool of pathogens will be smaller. On the other hand, if a new pathogen were to evolve, it could potentially wipe out the space colony or greatly reduce its population. 

It would be difficult to make a sustainable colony because specialization would be lacking. Our current earth is only possible because we have 6 billion people cooperating to produce things. Where you would have the greatest problem is advanced technology or technology involving large pieces of equipment and capital investment; that would mean computer technology, mining, farming and power generation would be the biggest problems. Making computer chips and power generators without large teams of specialists and resources would be difficult. Also, how would you mine metals and new materials? Mining is very capital and labor intensive. Without prospectors and mines you would have no way to get new metal. Mechanized farming is only possible with large factories making tractors and other complex farm equipment (harvesters, tillers, etc). The immediate problem would be food production. Without tractors you will be in trouble. You can farm by hand, but it would mean virtually everybody would have to be a farmer or farm hand. This would be the situation of a small isolated community. They would essentially be reduced to subsistence farming. Without a large infrastructure to support machine making (steel, oil/coal, chemicals), you are basically stuck living like a primitive caveman just to get enough food. You would need many thousands of people to support minimal mining and blacksmithing operations to get out of that. 

We have a species, let's call them Aves Sapiens for now, which a winged creature that reaches an average height of 143 centimeters and can fly up to 300 km/h. (Assuming that the planet's gravity can support it). They have the intelligence of modern humans, along with similar social behavior, and their most advanced civilizations is similar to the Roman Empire at its height. With all of this in consideration, what would be the most efficient way for them to design cities? 

So, astronomers discover that ~100 years Earth will be destroyed or rendered uninhabitable by a black hole passing through our Solar System. Governments around the world focus on ensuring Humanity's by developing the means to colonize other planets. In the end, to spread resources, rather than sending live humans, they send vessels containing artificial wombs and frozen embryos; or sperm/DNA samples, and they will be birthed on the new planet. AI will be in charge of raising the first few generations to adulthood. Would there be any psychological consequences for the generations raised by AI (emotion/empathy-wise)? Can this be done without raising a generation of sociopaths? 

Star A Mass: 1.2 x Sol Radius: 1.157 x Sol Luminosity: 2.074 x Sol Temperature: 6,444 K Star B Mass: 0.63 x Sol Radius 0.691 x Sol Luminosity: 0.158 x Sol Temperature: 4,378 K Semi-Major Axis: 852.1 au Eccentricity: 0.1259 Apoapsis: 959.38 au Periapsis: 744.82 au Period: 22721.53 years Planet Mass: 0.64 x Earth Radius: 0.87 x Earth Gravity: 0.85 x Earth Rotation: 30 Hours Tilt: 19.25° Semi-Major Axis: 1.5 au (Star A) Eccentricity: 0.0159 Apoapsis: Periapsis: Period: 1 year, 247 days. Local Year: 490.076 days. Water: 81% Atmospheric Pressure: 234.061 kPa Atmospheric Composition: N2: 87.34% O2: 11.52% Ar: 1.02% CO2: 0.06% H2O (water vapor): 0.04% CH4: 0.00020% Average Temp: 11° C (probably underestimated or overestimated the increased greenhouse gas, but I'm going with it unless someone points out just how off this is.) Satellite Mass: 2.84 x Luna Radius: 1.43 x Luna Semi-Major Axis: 213,845 km Eccentricity: 0.0450 Apoapsis: 223,468 km Periapsis: 204,222 km Period: 13 days, 20 hours Based on this information, could humans live on this planet without genetic modifications or being in a space suit all the time? How difficult would it be to grow Earth-based crops? 

Let's just back up a little and ask, what would we need to do have a 1000-person colony that would not be living like cavemen or eskimoes (hunter-gatherers)? First of all you would need to bring materials and equipment: rubber, tool steel, glassware/optics, machine tools, generators and motors, computers. Lose any of this stuff and you are screwed. The biggest bulk would be the machine tools. You would need at a minimum: a lathe, milling machine, grinder, arbor press, hammer forge, anvils, dies of various kinds, files, gearing, abrasive wheels, etc. You would be talking several truckloads of machines at a bare minimum. You would need at least 50-100 people to operate and maintain all these machines. You would need another 50-100 people to focus on mining, primarily iron which you absolutely must have a source of. You will start to run into trouble with tooling. Your cutters will wear out and you need tool steel to replace them. That means you need nickel, chromium, manganese, and moly, if not vanadium. Getting these materials without big mining operations would be problematic. For example, nickel tends to be a deep earth metal so requires a big operation. You would probably need 200 of the 1000 to be doing nothing but farming. You need 50-100 doing irrigation, water supply and sewage. You would need about 50 people doing power management, which I guess would be water based. You would need another 50 or so doing pottery and container making. You would need another 50-100 doing fibers, meaning rope, cable, wire, gathering and making. Another 50 doing garments, gloves and protective gear. You would need at least 50 women giving birth and doing child rearing and another 50 teachers and trainers. Are we running out of people yet? 

No, they could not have done it. The problem is that fulminates were unknown at that time and knowledge of fulminates would be necessary to make the percussion cap for the bullet. Making the cartridge casing would have also been very difficult with no help. Brass was largely unknown at that time and drawing bronze into a casing without it cracking would have difficult. The gun could have been made... almost. The main body of the gun would be achievable, although it would have been fantastically expensive because it would have taken a great deal of meticulous work. The problem would be the springs. In the 15th century they did not yet have the knowledge to make the kind of tempered wire necessary to make a small springs. It is possible that might have been able to find some way around this problem, but it would be difficult.