I am not entirely convinced that nirvana is refuted by this thought experiment because most of the traditions (that I'm acquainted with) that theorize about nirvana have, at their heart, a notion of detachment from or cessation of desire (grasping.) Since Nozick's whole premise includes: 

Yes, I think the neo-Platonists of the Middle Ages/Renaissance struggled to reconcile Christian thought on parents (and their real/symbolic importance) with Plato's guardian class husbandry and communal child-rearing approaches. 

I'm looking for an introductory text into philosophical inquiry of ethics. I need this text to be exceedingly accessible (i.e. high school or undergraduate level) but still sufficiently philosophically rigorous. I would like to use it as a required summer reading for second year philosophy students, so it can assume some basic philosophical background, but I don't want it to be overly technical (i.e. Kantian, lol.) I'd prefer a text that takes a survey-like approach, probably one that touches upon the three major frameworks: virtue ethics, consequentialism, and deontology. Any suggestions? 

No, in fact, it seems to me to be the opposite case, where cessation of grasping and just doing things as they unfold before you, is actually what allows one to do exceptional things. I'm thinking here of Cook Ting's knack. While my perspective is definitely more informed by the ancient Indian Buddhist philosophical tradition, I have read and considered the Upanishads in considerable depth, and I don't think the varying notions of detachment (as 'fuel' or as 'substrate' etc) are sufficiently different to matter much in the context of your question. But maybe minds finer than mine will see something I don't. Now, to specifically answer your question: yes, drive and detachment are mutually exclusive states, as I understand the terms. If you study physics manically because you are grasping for an answer or ultimate truth or whatever, if you do so because you are driven by passion (or anything else, really) then, yes, I think this goes against the notion of detachment as I understand it described in the Mahayana (and perhaps also the Vedic) traditions. One way to save the 'exceptional' deeds or discoveries or what-have-you is to take a Daoist approach, as illustrated beautifully in the link above, and just approach the problems of physics spontaneously. Some might even argue that upon cessation of grasping for truth, for self, for even detachment itself, we actually move past the problems of physics, rather than solving them. 

It isn't that Descartes is wrong about the thinking part of the 'thinking thing' assertion; his assertion is flawed, according to Madhyamaka Buddhist thought, because, within that assertion, Descartes is already presupposing real existence of essence -- a claim about self's thinghood, which is a claim about the ultimate truth of self. But, since self can't be understood as independently arisen, it is therefore empty (of ultimate truth.) It should be noted that this does not imply a theory of self cannot be conventionally/provisionally true. 

Upon reflection of the criticism leveled in the comments, I'm editing this answer to include the words I initially elided. For clarity, I've bold-faced this edit. Yes, there are other representations of philosophical concepts in pictograms. Here is one: I give 

Goods that are good because they are pleasurable Goods that are good because they are both pleasurable and have good consequences Goods that are good because they have good consequences 

Your appear to be unwilling to commit yourself completely to the dogmatic assertion that no meaning/truth/agency is possible, as evidenced by your use of the word 'probably.' This suggests to me you are still yet holding out the tiniest hope that someone can challenge your conclusions with something other than an existentialist argument which, for whatever reason, you find unconvincing. More damning evidence that you haven't yet crossed the event horizon of the nihilistic black hole is the fact that you even asked the question in the first place. A true believer in the meaningless and randomness of existence wouldn't bother with asking this question, or any questions at all, really, because what's the point? Since you have asked the question, expressed hope, and since I have something other than an existentialist argument, I'll explain how I get around it. Nihilism, like all dogmatic philosophies, can be undermined by way of radical skepticism. If you are to reject the dogmatic assertions about non-evident matters, like meaning, truth, agency, etc., on the basis that there seems to be no way to get knowledge of those things, even if they existed, then you must also reject the dogmatic assertions that meaning, truth, agency, etc., don't exist and that knowledge of them is impossible on exactly the same grounds. By rejecting dogmatic assent on both ends of the claim, you opened up just enough room for possibility to slip through. Thus, you allow meaning, truth, agency, etc to remain on the table as live possibilities. This mode of argument is not self-deception or superficial grasping; it is called equipollence and it is the skeptic way. 

I'm not absolutely certain here, but since this quotation is concerned with unjust people, maybe he is referring to the division of goods proposed by Plato to explain the inherent (unconditional?) goodness of justice: 

According to Plato in Republic, 'justice' is the second type of good -- something that is inherently good; good in-and-of itself. It sounds like maybe the confusion here arises from a translation issue? 

Again, according to the tradition I'm reading in, Buddha demonstrates the illusory of self in order to show such notion is ultimately empty, not to argue against the 'thinking' aspect. I think the distinction I'm drawing here is best understood in terms of the two truths. It is important to note that emptiness of essence does not preclude provisional existence or truth. Nagarjuna even argues that emptiness is, itself, empty. 

Consider Plato's idea for how (Guardian) children ought to be raised in the kallipolis and all the objections Socrates' interlocutors find with it. Without a nuclear family, Plato thinks children develop familial attachments to their fellow citizens instead, binding individuals to each other and the state in new ways. The myth of the metals serves not only for class distinction and justification, but to convince citizens they are brothers and sisters due to their common mother, the Attic dirt. As regards your specific questions: 

At least with respect to the technological distractions you mentioned, there are numerous philosophers who have argued that, indeed, it is a damaging influence. Consider Heidegger -- the essence of technology is a way of being that alienates us from the essence Being, prevents us from entering into a free relationship to it, on account of enframing, standing-in-reserve, and all that jazz. Wendell Barry is another thinker concerned with this question. His Rule #9 concerning standards for technological innovation is: "it should not replace or disrupt anything good that already exists, and this includes family and community relationships." If distraction is a form of replacement or disruption, then I think Barry would find all of what you mentioned suspect. There are, however, other (more contemporary, usually) thinkers who argue that, instead of freaking out over the technological distractability (which is often, though not always, bound up with 'games' of varying kinds) that seems to define our modern age, we should exploit it, by putting that tendency to good use. I can assure you that reading, answering, and commenting on questions posted to Phil SE is, for me anyway, a technological form of escapism. I am answering this question instead of doing things I ought to be doing, using your valid question as a pretext for escaping my 'real' responsibilities, as it were. The interesting question is if I would consider this a form of escapism if we were discussing this in an 'analogue' medium, i.e. in-person, face-to-face. Does the medium make spending time in this way any more or less escapist in nature? I suspect that, from a philosophical perspective, questions of escapism boil down to axiological concerns: I'm engaging in philosophical discourse at the moment instead of engaging in wealth-getting activities. Which is the 'rightest' way for me to spend my time? Can it only be considered escapism if you prefer one activity relative to the other?