Future-tech Capital/Carrier ships will have to weigh their options when it comes to speed, versatility, and protection. The fastest option may be severely under-protected, and the most versatile options may be excessively slow, etc. To decide on the best possible options it is necessary to know not only what you need, but exactly why you need it. 

Code is the next step after code. The concept of "code" is fundamental. It is what we call the instructions that a computer uses to understand inputs and generate outputs. Asking "What would the next step be after code?" is basically akin to asking "What would the next step be after math?". More math comes after math; increasingly complex math, sure, but it'll still be math. What would the next step be after 'coding'? This might line up more closely with what you're asking. Nowadays the concept of code is synonymous with Silicon Valley types drinking coffee and typing lines of instructions into their terminals, compiling, and running the programs. Asking if this will always be the way computer instructions are generated is a more interesting question, and in some ways we're seeing hints that this likely isn't going to stay the sole (or possibly even primary) method of code generation. Neural nets are becoming increasingly more common, as well as increasingly more sophisticated, and while these still generate 'code' the results are often strikingly different from a human-designed program. This computer-generated code typically defies the more linear logic of a human coder's instructions, but nonetheless it is still a set of instructions which take input and produce output. 

Eccentricity matters little (at least for Earth). The eccentricity of Earth (e~0.0167086) means that the planet orbits in an ellipsoidal path that is 147.1 million kilometers away from the sun at its closest and 152.1 million kilometers away at its furthest (the maximum is 3.4% larger than the minimum). The energy output of the sun (as a blackbody radiator) is proportional to the Sun's temperature of approximately $5800K-6000K$ at the surface, which results in a power output of approximately $4.0×10^{26}\ W$. If we want to know how much solar power hits earth we typically look at the Watts-per-square-Meter Earth recieves. At a certain distance $r$ from the sun, the power per surface area is proportional to: $$ P_{total}/A_{total}=P_{total}/(4\pi r^2) $$ If you plug in the numbers for $P_{sun}$ and both $r_{min}$ and $r_{max}$ you'll get the following values: $$ 1471.04\ W/m^2 \ (at \ minimum \ distance)\\ 1375.92\ W/m^2 \ (at \ maximum \ distance) $$ and notice that that is a total change of less than 7%, which doesn't seem like nearly enough difference to cause sweltering summers and freezing winters in so many different places on Earth. Furthermore, if summer were caused by being closer to the Sun, then every continent should experience summer at the same time. However, the Northern hemisphere experiences winter in December while the Southern hemisphere has summer in December. So what is going on? Obliquity matters a lot. The Earth is tilted on its axis by $23.5^{\circ}$. The axis points toward Polaris (the North Star) throughout the year, which means that during part of our orbit the Northern hemisphere will be tilted a little more toward the Sun, and during the other half of the year the Southern hemisphere will be tilted more toward the Sun. However, we already know that distance changes don't change the $W/m^{2}$ received by much at all when we look at orbit changes, and orbital tilt is only going to change distances by a much smaller amount that eccentricity, so what is going on? Direct sunlight is the key. Sunlight bounces off Earth's atmosphere very similarly to how it bounces off the surface of a lake or ocean. If you look straight down into the water very little light is reflected off the surface and you can see into the water. But if you look out across the water a lot of sunlight is reflected and you mostly see reflections rather than seeing into the water. This is exactly what happens to sunlight hitting the Earth's atmosphere. In December, the tilt of the Earth places the Southern hemisphere into the most direct sunlight and very little is reflected off the atmosphere (just like very little reflects of the surface of a lake when we look straight down). However, the Northern hemisphere is tilted away and which means the angle of the sunlight relative to the surface of the atmosphere is much less direct. Therefore, just like more sunlight is reflected when we look out across a surface of water, more sunlight will be reflected by Earth's atmosphere when the Sunlight is less and less direct. What does that all mean? It means that fictional spacefarers or worldbuilders will have to be careful in choosing (or designing) their new Earth-like homes. 

The only trouble you'll have is if they've legitimately made it onto the hull, in which case you'll have to send your own space marines (or drones, it doesn't really matter) out to scrape them off. If they're impervious to EMP, just shoot them with projectile weapons. Holes in spacesuits make it very difficult to breathe, and the side left breathing after a battle is typically the side that wins. If the suits can somehow seal off airflow to disabled appendages, you're still slowing them down considerably and making it harder for them to set up the demolitions they were sent to install. 

Infanticide - This is basically how China's gender gap became so pronounced. If society wants all boys then aborting lots of girls will adjust the ratio directly. The problem here is that back in "warrior" times gender determination occurred after birth, and childbirth itself was a rather dangerous and costly (energy intensive) undertaking. Throwing away half of all living offspring only raises the average societal investment per child. Magical/Herbal Remedy - Pretend that you can take a plant/pill to guarantee female offspring.Unlike the infanticide method above, this method wouldn't put would-be-mothers through an exhausting nine-month coin-flip. Instead, society could push the gender-gap as far as they want or need. If a small nation could somehow guarantee itself relative safety for a generation or so, then heavily skewing the gender towards female would be the fastest way to grow the population. Although men may be physically stronger warriors, if your population can double in less than half the time you should be able to field larger armies and/or bounce back faster from bouts of famine/disease. Genetic Birthrate Factors - Humans don't birth at exactly 50:50 male/female because fetal mortality is slightly worse for girls on average. If fetal mortality weren't slightly different, but drastically different, then birthrate ratios could shape society at large.If a dominant X-chromosomal trait makes viable female embryos very likely to twin, then the female birthrate could increase (provided of course that death-during-childbirth doesn't become significantly more likely when carrying twins) and those offspring would out-breed non-twinning mothers until the trait became widespread in the population. Alternatively, if the only Y-chromosomes in the gene pool are very sickly, and for example cause Y-chromosomal sperm to swim very poorly or have cause male embryos to have very low early viability, then those factors could similarly raise the female birthrate (by lowering the relative male birthrate). 

Craftsmen Craftsgiants Any merchant, baker, or book-keeper isn't going to find that being significantly taller than the average human benefits them in any way. Being a 5m tall farmer isn't going to be much better than being a 1.5m tall farmer after the invention of the ox driven plough, either. However, there are a few medieval professions where such stature and strength would be very useful and demand high compensation: trade skills like masonry and carpentry. Building large buildings can be an enormously skill intensive and potentially dangerous undertaking. For example, here is a video of a barn being raised by a group or Amish men. Notice how, especially in the early stages, many men have to push the exterior walls up in sections, and hold it in place with ropes until one or two men are able to climb up and fasten it to other pieces of the structure. Just having one or two giants to help with the initial framing work could save a carpenter's guild many man hours and potential accidents. Masonry work could also benefit from such a strong and tall member of the workforce. Giants (assuming 5m height as described in the OP) essentially function as autonomous cranes. Such work wouldn't make Giants noblemen, but being sought-after craftsmen they would be members of the middle class, rather than serfs. Whether it is economically feasible only depends on whether their usefulness outweighs the cost of employing them. If a giant is about 3x as tall as the average human, then a comparable living space would be about 3x as wide and 3x as long (and 3x as high); then, since only width-by-length matters when buying plots of land, a 9x sized plot of land would be needed for a giant's home. Furthermore, if a working giant has a 25,000 calorie diet compared to a working human's 2,500 then the grocer's bill would be approximately 10x as costly as the average human's. From these numbers, a giant needs to do the work of 10 men to pay the bills. This number doesn't appear to be difficult to achieve in my opinion (particularly not if their ability to increase the efficiency of the work group can be properly understood/quantified). Consumer goods like beds and furniture would probably fall into similar 9x-10x cost multipliers if you apply the same approximations, or at worst 27x if you now measure WxLxH, which again isn't horrible if you're getting paid at 10x the going rate; even if beds and furniture cost 27x that may not be so horrible to a giant with an extended lifespan to pay off a larger mortgage. 

Does a future-tech Capital Ship want or need both (or either)? The specifics of future-tech may be hard to speculate but general engineering principles still apply the same now as they will in the future. Without some big game-changer new technologies or tactics severely altering the landscape, extrapolating currently used ideas and allowing for some best-guess technological improvements may be the easiest way to evaluate possible options. Hangar - Pros and Cons of enclosed Hangars. 

Possible Conclusions Though others may read the same above pros/cons and see different areas to optimize or design around I think the following ideas offer at least one reasonable interpertation: Have a runway (primarily) for assisted-deceleration and landing. Individual docking procedures are generally rather precise operations requiring a low-speed final approach; this makes them an extremely dangerous maneuver in a combat situation because the low-speed and fixed-location creates an easy target over a relatively long timeframe. The use of a deceleration runway can alleviate some of these issues by making the position more easily defensible while decreasing the timeframe where "landing" pilots are prone to attack. Using a runway funnels pilots into a focused approach vector, which makes it easy to concentrate defensive countermeasures along this corridor, while also making it easy to install automated deceleration and recovery systems. Pilots can enter at appreciable speed, and begin a mild deceleration while automated systems line up the approach and latch on with a deceleration arm/anchor which can then decelerate the craft much more quickly without further precise input from the pilot. The anchor can then hand the ship off to an automated taxiing system to tow the ship to the most expedient hangar bay while the anchor resets for the next approach. Divert craft to different hangars as needed. Once a ship has been recovered it should be taxied to an appropriate hangar or bay. Depending on the situation the ship may need extreme repairs, a quick refuel and rearm and redeployment, or just a parking space. Ideally, some amount of hangar space should be optimized for these different sorts of roles. Refuel/rearm/redeploy ideally should be extremely automated and should stay completely outside of airlock. Repair would likely follow a tiered triage system, placing high-explosive-risk ships in bays where they pose least structural risk to the Carrier (and probably with highly-automated repair systems to minimize crew casualties), while pushing more average repairs to various other bays either mechanized or manned depending on the extent and complications of the damage. Tailoring different hangar bays can help improve automation procedures as well as minimize the number of compression/decompression events necessary (each of which require time, energy, and some amount of air resources). Additionally, since the taxiing is an automated towing process, pilot extraction could potentially occur during that time. This would be particularly useful for medical intervention, but would also make hot-swapping pilots during a refuel/rearm pit-stop very easy. Have a number of mini-runway launch-tubes for faster scrambling. Although spaceflight requires no minimum-airspeed with regards to takeoff, there is a slight tactical advantage to having a non-zero launch speed. The use of an automated landing and hangar system rather than multiple individual docks means that the remainder of the system is already strongly inclined toward using runways, however, the traditional long runway isn't a necessity. Assisted-launch systems are far simpler in design and principle than assisted-recovery systems, so these take-off runways do not need to be nearly as large as the landing runway. A large number of these launch-tubes could be used, partially recreating some of the high-throughput bonuses of individual-exterior-dock systems, while retaining the bonuses of concealed deployment and non-zero launch speeds. 

Dragons Dragons, on the other hand, may be harder to place depending on their physical abilities. If they are as manually adept as we tool-using opposable-thumb-weilding humans, then they could also find work in construction. However, the efficiency boost of a dragon or two complimenting an all-human workforce might not scale as well as it does for a few giants, and thus it could be difficult to compensate their 40x caloric needs in all but the largest of big-city construction crews. However, if dragons can breath fire or have other similar magical abilities, then they might find specialized work that is particularly suited to their natural talents. A large scale blacksmith's shop might find that paying one dragon to stoke their fires could be significantly less expensive than buying all of the wood and charcoal they need each day (and so too for potters and glass-makers). If a dragon doesn't want such a monotonous job blowing fire into hearths all day, they could do quite well (independently) making and selling charcoal to humans, which burns cleaner and hotter than wood (both for the blacksmiths and for home stoves). 

Depending on the fictional world you want to create, there are a few ways that a female-skewed gender imbalance might occur: 

Martian Data-Subsystems Intranet When NASA humans are actively driving the Rovers around, having them take specific pictures, and taking soil samples, etc. you can bet they want all the high-res images and everything bouncing off the nearest communications satellite and back to Earth as close to real time as they can. When the little guys are in autopilot or sleep-mode a lot of useful-but-boring information like current battery power, weather conditions, etc. are going to be a much lower priority for bandwidth. It would make a lot of sense for these sorts of mundane subsystems to communicate on a low-power local intranet. Essentially, current Rovers (and likely future Rovers) have high-powered antennas for blasting information directly to Earth, but they also have (relative) low-powered antennas that can communicate with satellites that are in-Mars-orbit. In the future, with more Mars-orbit comms satellites in orbit, it makes more and more sense for rovers to save power by using the little antennas by default. Furthermore, if future Rovers are relatively close together (think walkie-talkie range) it might make sense to have direct rover-to-rover communications rather than beam every single datapoint out to Mars-satellites or Earth in real time. Imagine all the Rovers have this local walkie-talkie short distance communication system. What would they want to talk about? The short answer is: nothing exciting. Data backup (for failure redundancy) is probably the main thing. If every rover backs up a copy of every other rover's data, then no data is irretrievably lost even if a meteor or harddrive failure takes out one of your fleet before it uploads its data to the next orbiting satellite. When everything is functioning properly (i.e. no failures), there's no reason* anyone at NASA is going to open the hood and look at how much bandwidth is being used bot-to-bot (* other than nerdy curiosity or someone doing an audit for routine systems maintenance). Luckily for your snoopy Mikey1 character, sending backups of video data back and forth could be relatively high-bandwidth (depending on how much is being recorded at any given time) so his own data usage is likely a drop in the bucket. Furthermore, if the cameras of Rover2 are constantly recording Mikey2, then Mikey1 only has to issue a command of "Rover2 push real-time video data to Rover1 for backup." which is basically as innocuous as manually telling your computer to backup your photos now (to an external drive, or the cloud) instead of waiting for the scheduled backup time.