I've trained with power for many years, and while my evidence to the following points is purely empirical, maybe it will help you. In my experience, I've always achieved higher W/kg results on hills than riding on flat ground. I believe this is because: 

TL;DR Your output should be consistent regardless of what type of terrain you're riding on, but external factors coupled can skew the results. 

For a 2k budget, you can get either a mediocre new carbon frame, or a high-quality aluminium frame like a Cannondale CAAD 10. Newer aluminium frames ride significantly better than their predecessors of even as recently as 5 years ago. The best aluminium frames can rival their carbon counterparts on weight and ride quality, while providing (in most cases) upgraded components. I'd recommend buying a new aluminium bike over a lower-end carbon bicycle any day. 

Friction shifters were designed for narrow(er) rear cassettes. The largest cluster I've ever seen a friction shifter work on is 8 speed. I don't think it will pull enough cable for you to access all the speeds in your ten speed cluster. EDIT: As an insiteful commenter noted, the cluster is only 1.8 mm wider for a 10 speed than an 8 speed so it should pull enough cable for your needs. Trimming will be more difficult than with index shifting. The industry has added several gears and not much space to the rear triangle. The result is thinner gears and chains, so dialing in the rear trim will be more difficult. 

Since this occurs every 10 seconds, this leads to believe that you have a frozen link in your chain or a defective link in your chain. If it were a cable or dérailleur adjustment, it would occur all the time while pedalling. The pause leads me to think that the chain is fine when continuing around the big sprockets in the front, but when it gets to the cassette and dérailleur, the size of the cogs and the angle at which the chain is being bent causes the stiff link to manifest itself. As something you can fix at home (in the event of a stiff link), lube the chain with any bicycle lube. If that doesn't help it, you probably have a defective link and the bicycle should be brought to the local bike shop. Best of luck! 

For XC you can find a myriad of wheels that are now carbon. For DH, you can find some examples but they are big money. They're typically more expensive than their aluminium counter parts, but a little lighter. Rotational weight is typically reduced, which will make the bike turn more quickly and feel "snappier". Since you're new at mountain biking, I wouldn't recommend getting top spec stuff right away. You're going to have "oops" (e.g., wrong trail, endo, rip a dérailleur off, etc) and it would put a serious dent in your pocket book to replace carbon wheels. You can get two decent bikes for the cost of some carbon hoops. Carbon typically isn't as forgiving in crashes because of the nature of the element. It's more prone to damage from impact than aluminium or steel counterparts, and the failures can be much more difficult to detect. Just my 2 cents. 

The Sheldon Brown web site is often recommended as a reference: it says something about Italian sizes here (which is already concise and which I therefore don't want to summarise). 

I started with 700x32 Continental Contact tires for commuting (I weigh 165 lb). I kept them inflated but I got 3 flats in the first 6 months / 3000 miles: all (perhaps unusually) on the front wheel. The first was a roofing nail through the tire; the second was a shard of glass, and again the next day when they hadn't taken the shard glass out of the tire before putting in a new tube. I've replaced those tires with Schwalbe Marathon Plus, and don't expect more punctures. I inflate them to 85 psi, once or twice a week, and ride two hours / weekday. 

The canonical recommendation is for "a complete and balanced diet". Whatever 'supplements' you might need depend on what your current diet is. The recommendations I've been given (I'm 50 and commute 24 miles/day) from a dietitian are vitamin D (because I live in Canada - I suspect that recommendation is obsolete currently while I'm commuting 2 hours/day in summer) and (based on blood test results) perhaps a bit more iron (I'm vegetarian). Some of the important components to consider, IMO, include water, salt, carbohydrates, and, rest/sleep. In summary, perhaps you should talk with a doctor or dietitian. If you want to discover what your current diet is (which is presumably one important question before deciding how to supplement it - an alternative might be physical exam, blood tests), I quite recommend DietOrganizer. 

It can be safe and/or it can be dangerous: depending on the road, the time of day, and how you ride. I have been hit once (from behind, not my fault). 

Given graphs like the first one on this page, which show how steeply wind resistance increases with speed, I take it that small changes in shape can be relatively important/effective at high speeds (and not at relatively low speeds). E.g. my top speed when commuting is about 30 kph; the tour de France speeds on the flat are more like 50 kph. The power required to overcome wind resistance at 50 kph is more than triple that required at 30 kph. It's also relatively important/effective if and only if you've already improved/maximised everything else (e.g. the rider's position and clothing). 

Nuts: walnuts? I'm thinking pre-shelled walnut halves (walnust halves may/should be fresher than chopped walnuts). There are about 30 calories per whole walnut, or 185 per ounce (contrast with 96 calories per ounce of sugar): because it's from fat. 

It's true that there are many times I've fallen off without hitting my head ... especially at low speed. I often put my hand on the ground -- and that's one reason why I like to wear padded/leather cycling gloves. On the other hand if you do hit your head then a helmet can be helpful. One time I fell off (skidding on a corner with my feet clipped to the pedals) and I hit the ground before I knew it, and hit my head. Not wearing a helmet, that meant a trip to the hospital and several stitches (and a warning that I ought to use a helmet). If you do hit your head without a helmet then a scalp wound with stitches might be the best that can happen (the worst might be concussion, brain injury, skull damage). 

The inside foot is your "get out of jail free" card when it comes to the limit of traction. You'll see a lot of racers do this when they're riding at the limit of their grip. You can use the inside foot if the front of your bike starts sliding out to "prop yourself up". If the rear starts sliding you can use the inside foot to push yourself back to put more weight over the rear tire. This approach can be used if the corner is really tight as well, which it seems like you're doing. So the long and the short: use a foot whenever you need it. It's not the most efficient way to corner, but in mud/rain/gravel/snow you can actually ride faster with a foot dragging. 

So, will it work? Probably. Is it ideal? Probably not, but it's worth continuing research about the topic. Just my 2 cents. 

Granted, this evidence is only anecdotal but these are the assumptions I've always used to justify differing performance numbers. As an aside, I've looked up your W/kg on a cycling chart. 4.9 W/kg puts you at a high Cat 3, low Cat 2 range. Even at 4.37 you're still a solid Cat 3. If you're getting dropped on group rides with these kinds of numbers, I would suspect that your limiting factor isn't your 5 minute power (unless, of course, you're exclusively riding with Cat 1 riders). I would take a guess that your limiting factor isn't your power, but your ability to recover after efforts. Decreasing recovery time allows you to attack more, recover from surges at FTP, and makes your a more resilient rider. That being said, while 5 minute power is a decent gauge of fitness, the real litmus test is the 20 minute from which you can estimate your FTP. I'd be interested to see those numbers. 

Typically lower-level wheels are machine built and oftentimes not pre stressed. When you ride the bike, the nipples and spokes will seat themselves into the rim or the hub, changing their length and tension slightly. After a couple rides they will need to be trued. Once or twice is fairly common. 

Since the 11 speed chain is narrower, the connection pin will be narrower than for a 10 speed. While it might work, I certainly wouldn't recommend it. What you can do is use a SRAM powerlock designed for 10 speed applications. 

Rough up the metal, lots of nooks and crannies ensure the primer will stick. Sanding or sandblasting is the best way to do this. As pointed out in the comments, aluminium should be roughed up "nicely" :) Clean the surface with some type of alcohol after you're done sanding. After you've cleaned it, wear gloves when handling the frame from now on. The oils on your hands can taint the paint job. I always double coat the metal with primer because metal is prone to oxidization. Effect is diminished in aluminium, but can't be too careful. If your bicycle frame is aluminium, you'll need a special type of primer. Ask the guys at the hardware store or a car repair place what they recommend. Single component paint works better on aluminium. 

Apart from wearing a skirt, another reason seems to be so that her feet can touch the ground when she hops off the saddle at a stop, because of sitting too high to begin with, perhaps because of the wheels are bit too large. 

I'd like to mention that there's more than one kind of Gore-Tex (Gore-Tex is a manufacturer and brand of fabric by the way, which various other clothing manufacturers then use to make jackets etc.). For example, MEC mention at least 3 maybe 4 kinds, some heavier, some more breathable: 

It depends how fast you're going. At relatively low speeds, what matters (i.e. the biggest force slowing you down) is rolling resistance. At relatively high speeds, what matters is aerodynamics. At high (i.e. racing) speeds, then, you need a narrow/thin tire to minimize wind resistance. A narrower tire requires a higher pressure than a wider one (e.g. if you'll forgive my non-SI units, a 23 tire at 130 psi compared with a 32 tire at 85 psi). I'm not sure I understand your question, though: I don't think you'd race a road bike on a "trail surface" (you'd do it on a paved road). 

Something you might find easier, better for you, and good training, is to cycle shorter distances more frequently: like an hour or two for four days a week, instead of several hours on one day a week. 

The useful energy you put in is proportional to a product of the force multiplied by the cadence: spinning faster at the same force results in more energy input. To keep my cadence and force constant, I change gears: if it's spinning too easily/quickly and I'm going too slowly, then I change up into a higher/harder gear; on a hill if it's too hard to spin (at 60 to 90 RPM) then I change down into a lower gear. I'm always seated (not standing on the pedals ... except when riding over bumps on the road). With many (21+) gears you can find a gear (or a range of gears) to match the slope. The pros on TV are sometimes sprinting etc. You don't necessarily want to ride like they do, when you're commuting (and a self-described newbie). FWIW now that I'm more practised (5 times/week since March) I sometimes find myself taking a hill in a bigger gear than I used to: but still sitting, and spinning quickly. 

As you're in Ontario the following references are official. Look at the picture at the bottom right of Toronto's Understanding Bicycle Lanes -- here's an excerpt: 

A cobbler (i.e. a shoe repairman) can glue a new layer of sole (e.g a non-slip rubber sole that's suitable for winter) onto a pair of shoes' existing soles: so perhaps ask a cobbler. 

This little article on skid stops implies you're strong enough to skid your rear wheel: especially if you're bouncing; and perhaps even more so if your bike has gears. Are you wearing shoes which clip to pedals? Perhaps (I don't know) you should concentrate on 'spinning' in a circular way (pushing forward and down, pulling back and up), instead of just thumping in one direction on the down-stroke.