Mines and mineral deposits. Many of the mines humans have exploited through history were formed long before 65 million years ago, which means those resources would have been there for some civilization to exploit, but yet those deposits were untouched prior to humans working them, indicating no one else had been around to exploit them first. If one had, that's a huge honking clue. You'd find things like underground deposits where what should be the richest ore was missing, replaced by what looks like filled-in tunnels that show unnatural regularity. You'd have surface deposits where, again, the richest ores were missing, leaving a halo of surrounding lower-grade rock surrounding a plug of sedimentary rock, what you'd expect if someone had been open-pitting and the mine had gradually been filled with sediment. You'd see areas of very fine mudstones with disseminated minerals that looked in no way natural, the remains of tailings. And so on and so forth. Now, mines tend to take up a geographically small area so the odds of just stumbling on the remains of one a few million years old are small, but their locations aren't random; they're determined by geology a lot older than this hypothetical civilization, and where they'd mine is where we'd currently be looking for things to mine. Someone, at some point, would have stumbled on something so freaking anomalous that everyone would know about it. 

That last image with the firefighter is not near-infrared. It's from a thermal imaging camera which looks at longer wavelengths than NIR, ie, what's generally considered "heat". The difference can be approximated by noting that NIR can be treated the same as visible light, just slightly below the range that the eye can detect. Most night-vision gear that's not light-amplification, such as that used by wildlife documentaries to film animals at night, is NIR. It uses a source of light that acts exactly like a normal spotlight, but at wavelengths the animals can't see, and the camera detects the reflected light. A Thermal imaging camera, on the other hand, detects the radiation emitted by the object itself. A wildlife documentary wouldn't need a source of (invisible to the eye) light to illuminate the animals, you'd see the heat emitted by the animals, which would contrast with the temperature of the things around it. To put it another way, if I looked at a normal interior wall with a NIR sensor, all I'd see is the wall looking not much different than what I'd see with normal light. If I looked at it with a decent TIC, I'd be able to see subtle heat variations: where the wall studs were touching the drywall, the slight waste heat generated by the electrical lines, where pipes were carrying cold or hot water, whether vents were heating or cooling the room. A NIR-capable camera cannot do that. But, and here's the trick, it has to be warmer than the sensor: if your camera's sensor is at 50 C, it wouldn't "see" anything 50 C or colder because the camera essentially blinds itself. tl;dr: There's not particular reason why an organism can't be sensitive to NIR wavelengths. It wouldn't be different that how some organisms can sense ultraviolet. Seeing an image like that picture of a firefighter, though? Not happening. 

I worked at a small mine where the only way up or down was via the single ore car, and if it was carrying passengers it wasn't carrying ore so if it wasn't a shift change and I had to go up or down, I tended to use the stairs that ran alongside. From the 700 level (roughly 700 feet from surface), it would take about 10 minutes to walk up, and it wasn't as though I was the epitome of athletic perfection. For comparison, the CN Tower in Toronto frequently has tower climbs, where people walk (or run) up the 1,776 steps to the main deck (1,100 feet) for charity. Average time is 30-40 minutes (record is 7 minutes 52 seconds). 

There is no obvious one. There's lots that can be understood and interpreted, but then you run into the translation issue that what one civilization may find intuitive, another will not. Consider converting "light-year" into something else, as you suggest the half-life of a given isotope. Humans might gravitate toward define a base universal measure--call it the Stellar Distance Unit--as the distance light travels in a vacuum in the period of the half life of the ruthenium-106 isotope. Why that one? Because its half-life is 373.59 days, which is just a tad longer than an Earth year, which makes the Stellar Distance Unit conveniently close to the light-year. A species on TRAPPIST-1g might consider thullium-170 to be the obvious candidate instead: at 128.6 (Earth) days half-life, it's just a tad longer than ten of the planet's orbits around TRAPPIST-1 (123.5 days). That assumes, of course, a base-10 counting system. They might use another entirely which would change what numbers they would find relevant. Whatever the case, it's fairly easy to translate a given half-life into another language of a technological civilization so they know which one you're talking about, so why worry about trying to assume there's some standard everyone will agree with? If you're talking to another civilization, assuming they have access to basic calculators capable of doing conversions is a reasonable assumption to make, and they'll be able to convert a light-year into whatever unit they commonly use. 

Aside from some possible physical discomfort due to eye strain, there's no reason to expect "withdrawal" any more than people spending a day gaming with much of the features you indicate would suddenly suffer symptoms going out and looking at the world where everyone doesn't have convenient tags over their heads. 

All you have to do is look at, well, Earth. To pick a date at random, say 1920, you had, on this planet: 

Versatility. Assuming you aren't dealing with technology far in advance of what we will have in the near future or true AI, robots will tend to be specialized in order to do a task as well as or better than a human could, but only that particular task or closely associated ones, and in an environment it's been designed to function in. Example: consider your modern soldier. In any given day they might be required to maintain their storage space and perform their own maintenance (quarters and biological functions). In one exercise they might be required to swim across a river and then set up a temporary bridge to bring supplies across, climb a cliff, rappel down another cliff, coordinate with a suspicious local militia which involves negotiating (and thus understanding verbal and non-verbal cues), improvise traps from material they find lying around, operate without any source of resupply for an extended period so they have to live off the land, so on and so forth. You can imagine a robot that can do some of those things, but it's hard, given realistic technology, of imagining a single robot doing all of those things. And the more sophisticated the robot that can perform more of those tasks, the greater the required infrastructure needed to support it. You'd also need a larger force (in terms of units) for a given mission because the robots would be specialized while the humans are generalists. Your team medic can just as easily stand sentry or perform any number of other duties if their medical skills aren't needed, while this will not be true of the robot that repairs/maintains the other robots. Robots might fill specialized roles where limitations aren't an issue and they do have a clear advantage: a robot fighter that isn't limited by human reactions and have to deal with g-forces, a sentry that doesn't need relief or suffer fatigue as long as it's battery is periodically topped up, for two examples. 

You need the right kind of volcano. You need an active shallow magma chamber with increasing pressure. You need the right composition of magma in the chamber. You need the blow the throat in such a way to trigger the right type of eruption. You need to ensure the eruption proceeds in such a way to generate a pyroclastic flow of the right size. You need to ensure the local topography will direct a pyroclastic flow the right way. At this point you should be wondering if it just wouldn't be easier to blow up the town directly. 

Mount Asgard rises essentially vertically on three sides (the back side, not visible, is more sloped but still steep). Mount Rogers is a glorified mound. 

It's a terrible defensive structure. Once you're close enough to the walls, you've eliminated flanking fire coming from the towers because the walls themselves block line of sight. This would allow anyone getting close to the wall to be safe from attack (except from directly above), giving them plenty of time to muck around to breach. Were they willing to take some risks they could work on any one tower by itself because it couldn't be supported by the others. The moat is itself a relatively minor issue: moats were routinely crossed by besieging forces.