Not asking for opinion which one is better, so please do not state without some reasons why one is better than another on eBike. Question is: Freewheel or Regenerative braking is more efficient in Electric Bicycle? So far I got: Freewheel: 

The chainwheel does not sit at the correct is the answer. The most common cause is that you have an axle length shorter/longer than the ideal . In this case, you have a shorter axle length. Did you add another chainring into your crankset? If the answer is yes, you will need to tweak around: either adding spacer (not recommended) or find a compatible front derailleurs (better get to the LBS for trial/error fitting). If the answer is no, then it will be the frame that cause you the problems, albeit unlikely. I always solve this problems by finding a correct axle length for my crankset. You can refer to this article for more information, from Lord Sheldon. $URL$ 

If you are going to use your bike mostly for commuting, I would like to suggest you go for cyclocross. The reasons are: Motorist Hazard: There are always ignorant motorist who think they can save a lot of time by ignoring checking blind spots, appropriate speed at junction, quickly overtake without leaving sufficient space for cyclist. The less time you spend on the road, the less chance you get trapped by those motorists. Safety: Going at speed higher than 20 mph (30 kmph) on a road with bicycle is a hazard itself. Imagine having a front tyre blew off while travelling at speed higher than 20 mph, you will have an idea how little control you have over the bike if accident was to happen over 20mph speed. What I mean is you do not need to have a road bike to go at speed between 20-30mph for safety concern, CX will do just fine. People like to go faster than 20mph on bicycle and think it is perfectly safe because they never have an accident, in which I think might just be pure luck. Road hazard in rural area: (e.g. Oil spilled, pot holes, dead animal carcass ...) You need Braking Power, Stability when doing Emergency braking (skidding), Maneuverability (swerving)... Most of those listed, Cyclocross can offer more than a Road bike. Thus, I see very little reason for you to choose a Longer distance, opting for Higher Speed and taking chances with Motorist.In commuting, the first priority is safety, then enjoyment (be it higher speed, better scenery, challenging trail) comes secondary. Unfortunately for me, I learnt it the hard way until I got my best path to work place (avoid most of the road with junctions, motorist are scary with road rage at busy time, especially when you travelling to work/leaving work place) 

make sure limit screw (L) adequately adjusted, i.e. just about to rub the chain when Small CR + Largest Cog. (so you are ok here) shifting in sequential manner. e.g. 2-9 then 2-8, 2-7 ... 2-5 (or 2-4); at this point, shift to 1-5 (or 1-4) while pedalling lightly for smooth transition 

Sounds like you have a road bike. If that's the case, the front derailleur usually has little clearance. This will cause some grinding noise (between chain and derailleur) before extreme cross chain occurs, providing that the front derailleur is set up correctly. Usually: - Front 1 matches with Rear 1-6 - Front 2 matches with Rear 4-9 Chain, chainring and cog wear is not the real problem. Extreme load on cross chain wears the free bearing much faster than any other components. 

If your question is about the maximum hand grip can applied to brake so that the braking system will not be broken apart, then it is as another answer. However it has little value on designing a braking system. How I interpret the question is: how much force is typically applied to the brake lever to stop the bike. There are many designing considerations and I only list a few main one: 

It is shocking that many bike mechanics does not know how to fit the stem properly, leaving me to do the work for myself. I'm now writing this answer in hope that people never have an anguished scream in their head about this mis-alligned stem. 1)Tie a ribbon/cord or anything that hanging on the stem. 2)Make sure the ribbon touches the wheel. 3)Allign the stem 4)Learn that after tightening, the stem generally move a few degrees depends on where the tightening bolts are. 5)Once knowing which direction the tightening bolts causing the stem to rotate, offset the stem (remember to use the ribbon as indicator/marking) Repeat until you satisfy, but generally it wont be more than 3 times 

I met a guy who mixed 23 and 25 mm for his front and rear tyre respectively. Now thinking about it, I believe it's a pretty good idea since the rear wheel bear a higher proportion of the rider's weight. Wider rear tyres would support more weight with the same pressure as the front. It also helps reduce the wear and tear on the tyre itself. So why don't bicycle (especially racing) run a slightly wider tyre in the rear, as the rear wheel mostly bear the weight of rider? It makes the ride more comfortable, and not aerodynamically terrible as the front is still 23 mm. 

Rules of thumb is that if the bike has no sentimental values, it is always more economical to use that money and buy a second-hand bike. Unless you would like to spend extra money to tinker and have fun with the bike in your own time. 

As you have a suspension fork, I guess your bike should be at least hybrid to mountain bike. Most hybrid start off with 32 mm tyre upwards (or 1.25 inch). At around 38 mm upwards (or 1.5 inch), you can take on most of the pot holes, provided that you are not crashing. I have a road bike and the difference in the shock absorbance of 23 mm tyre and 28 mm tyre on 700c wheel is already monumental (although it is not enough to mount curb or drop potholes), just to show you that wider tyre is very good and absorbing some potholes in urban area. I also have a mountain bike, rigid fork with 26x1.5" tyre and never worry about pot holes. 

Partial momentum: momentum that is being shared between the Front and Rear wheel (from rider and bike itself) Rider momentum: when cornering, the bicycle generally yawns at an angle to the 'original' momentum (in order to turn). That is why we need to lean, in order to balance the 'original' momentum that causes torque in rolling direction. 

To prevent galvanic corrosion. When grease is appied, there is a thin film of grease that prevent direct contact between two different metal. To prevent water and contaminants, especially salt in the winter season, that would otherwise accelerates corrosion as discussed in (1) This will not work with plastic or carbon fiber (+epoxy as matrix) materials as grease will reduce the material's strength over time, i.e. epoxy on carbon fibre is weakened. 

Low gear: Rear 1/2/3 - Front 1 Mid gear: Rear 3/4/5/6 - Front 2 High gear: rear 6/7/8/9/(10/11) - Front 3 

Operation of the rider inappropriate for road condition. For example, 20 mph on sharp wet corner bend, panic braking when cornering, etc. Weight distributed to the front: the more weight put onto the front wheel, the higher limit of friction the front wheel can handle. Type of tyre: better rolling resistance usually associated with poorer traction. You can see some tyre having two bands laterally, in addition to a slick in the middle; these are created to improve cornering. 

From the look of your pictures, the derailleur is quiet high up when you tighten the bolt. Put it down a bit, but make sure it give clearance to shift your chain front 2 to 3 in front chainring. 

Green fade - caused by resin boiling off of new pads Fluid fade - brake fluid boiling and system losing pressure Pad fade - pad overheats and loses friction 

It mainly serves as a lever when you need to tighten the brake cable. You can use it to squeeze the brake together, and tighten the cable easily. You could also use it for centering the dual-pivot brake, adjust the brake pad, etc. It is also a good indicator for the direction of the pad, for beginner. However, anyone has a little common sense would match the curvature of the brake pad with the rim. I have read another comment about guiding the tire, it's also interesting. 

Not trying to recommend a product but if you search for rod brake nut, and look for something with this similar shape, you will find them being sold on-line (still). $URL$ 

I have that problem with my road bike as well, Shimano sora STI shifter, claris derailleurs, 2x9 setup. What I did : 

As technology goes, seal and wiper advance to the point that boots on fork stanchions becomes obsolete, for both economical and practical reasons. The seal has advanced to the point that air suspension fork was possible and economical, leaving alone keeping dirt and grimes off the suspension. So the answer is Technical obsolescence 

Tighten the bolt and remember which direction and/or rotation the front derailleur is affected. Readjust so that when tightened, the front derailleur is at optimum desired position, i.e. 2-3 mm above the 3rd chainring when at closest position to 3rd chainring, and parallel to the chainring. 

He is right. 1) in cycling, weight is distributed more on the rear wheel (70 rear-30front approx.). So even assume that both wheel is at the same leaning angle, the front would lose traction first (friction proportional to reaction force). This is because the front wheel has less 'grip' limit than the rear wheel. 2) When rider starts to corner/or correct the cornering, the two wheel are not exactly leaning at the same angle. The front wheel both leans and steers the bike (see Figure). In simplified model, you can think that the front wheel is the only component of your bicycle that 'correct' the centrifugal force for the turn. In order to correct the cornering, the front wheel needs to 1) counter-steer, to balance the leaning, and then 2) change the steering appropriately. The whole process means front wheel lose grip more easily (rear wheel change direction less than the front). You can see the video from Criggie's answer that the front wheel lost grip, just after he tried to correct the 'leaning' and the 'cornering radius'. 3) front wheel also has less contact patch (due to load distribution again). This can be verified when you are on normal cycling position, the rear tyre usually being 'flattened' a little more. Video: 

The principle is very similar to braking Front wheel: when front wheel hit an obstacle, the speed of bicycle suddenly decreases. The centre of mass would shifted even more towards front wheel, making it harder to roll over an object (easier to brake). This contributes to a larger impact, comparing to the rear wheel. Rearwheel: as weight is shifted towards the front, it is easier for the rear to roll over an obstacle. If something resist the rear to roll over, the process repeats itself (even more weight to the front). 

from 2-9 to 1-9 for example, the tension on the chain is not enough, making the chain swing off freely. from 2-1 to 1-1, the chain was crossed inward, together with chain tension, pulling the chain inward and off the small chainring. 

Would it be safe to ride on those crack tyre? As they are fairly new, I don't want buy a new one if it is ok to ride, i.e. no catastrophic failure. 

when there is a problem with noise and visual inspection, it's best if you could make a video and post it to, say, youtube. But if the wheel is wobbling, you need to true it (if the rim is wobbling, too). Also check if the wheel wobble when at rest, simply by using hand to push and pull the wheel side-way. If the wheel also wobbles, the cone might need to be tightened. If you are sure the problem is coming from the brake, check if the disc rotor is straight by simply looks at the gap between the brake rotor and the disc brake. 

Generally, front will wear faster, for both the rim and the pads. Bicycle is a bit hard to judge because it depends on the rider's habit, brake pad's quality and surface contact, and also the rim's quality. I can tell you that front brakes in cars need replacing more often than rear. This example is a bit more objective than bicycle since front and rear are operated by a single brake (although it depends on how the brake is setup and is still subjective). 

Quick answer: No. All modern bike, with modern components (not cheap bike!) is adequately easy to adjust and replace. They are (mostly) standardised now. Working on bikes has its own merits, as long as you can find parts. I guess it will be expensive trying to repair something that is already depreciated, in term of technology and manufacturing. Whether a part/component is easy to replace or not, it depends on the: