There's no perfect way as such ratio. First of all, you have a misunderstanding of overtraining. That is a complex syndrome, not some simple thing that you get from doing too many bicep curls. Just periodize your volume and intensity and you should be good to go. 

With this out of the way give frequency the priority in the microcycle. For exemple if you want to have a total volume of 30 sets, don't burn them all on the same workout but divide them by 3 or by 5. Give this characteristic to your microcycle and you will grow AS FAST as your body can possibly do. Intensity/voume ratio: you can actually utilize the Undulated Periodization ( at microcycle ); it means you're actually changing in a wave fashion the ratio between the two ( Ex. one micro is high volume - low intensity, next is medium and medium and next is low volume high intensity ). This will provide the best of the two types of stimulii I've explained to you. Nutrition advices Here the thing is more simple. But I dont know if you have any ethical standpoint on nutrition or if there's any food you can't eat for mediacal reasons so I will keep myself in general. Do not go crazy on protein! It has been long debunked and litterature is FULL of biased studies on the actual link between grams of protein x Kg body mass. Just eat enough carbs and you will be good to go. Focus more on having a sustainable lifestyle approach to nutrition that benefits you first with great health, and only after muscle mass will come. As long as you are energy replenished your AMPK inside the muscle cell will not be phosphorylated by the low AMP:ATP ratio and will not inhibit the Akt/mTOR pathway and your protein synthesis will work smoothly. I'm not an expert on nutrition so I'm not going to make the step longer than my reach. Hope it helped, I tried to fill as much info in less lines possible. If anyone has any question be free to ask. 

The lower your body fat, the faster you fatigue and also quicker you feel stressed. don't take me wrong on this comment Fat is a very slow release source of energy and when the protein source gets depleted in your body, the system kicks in to burn fat as a fuel to keep it up. This is the main reason for the fatigue. Even in strength training having a reasonable amount of fat (Not over, Not under) will keep your joints from being damaged unless you deliberately draining your body from fat for a competition. During this period, you should watch out for the good form and controlled weight to prevent injury.1 This point comes into action in most of heavy weight lifting sports and joints are padded and lubricated by fair amount of stored fat. (and possibly can be a positive). However those athletes benefit from a very strong cardiovascular system and having that extra weight won't be phrased exactly as being "overweight". Excessive fat can be the cause of lot of problems in the body and a good starting point for most issues. "Conclusion A lower daily fat intake and lower percentage of total energy from fat were associated with increased injury risk among competitive female runners. Lower energy intake and lower energy availability approached, but did not reach, a significant association with overuse injury in this study. By documenting these risk factors, it is hoped that future research will continue to investigate their role in injury development, thus leading to better strategies to predict and reduce running injuries in women."1 Additional resources for self-read: Eating Habits That Reduce Injury Risk LESS FAT IN DIET LINKED TO INJURY RISK IN RUNNERS 1)Gerlach, Kristen E., et al. "Journal of the International Society of Sports Nutrition." Journal of the International Society of Sports Nutrition 5 (2008): 

Protein synthesis and adaptations are sectorial. If you train only your left arm only that arm will grow. Training other muscle parts will not impair the capacity of growing in the muscle itself, but can just fatigue the part if the exercise uses more than one muscle group ( actually is the case for every exercise ). The misconception is that you can isolate a target muscle. This is not correct and actually is not detrimental but beneficial. There's not a rate/quota for muscle building. It depends on a moltitude of variables and cannot be predicted with ease. 

There's always strain on the knee when you use it for something. Actually this mode is probably safer than a full squat olympic style for a reason: Range of Motion is reduced and the starting point at the bottom of the movement is actually inertia free. In cheaper words, its different from a half squat because when you are in the lowest position you sit on the box and so tension on the knee and ankle joint is heavly reduced. So, yes, it's going to put strain on your knee, but nothing to worry about as long as you perform the movement correctly. 

No it's not wrong but is not the same thing as training a single muscle chain/section consequentially. If you have a volume of 70 reps total ( divided in 4 exercises ) for, let's say chest, you want to perform all of those ( if you're going with 70%-80% intensity ) with at max 60 to 90 seconds of pause between sets. If you do like you said your metabolic stimuli will be different while mechanically its the same thing. It's not "bad" but for hypetrophy is better going consequentially. 

First rule, STOP your workout exactly when injury happened and DO NOT continue the session. In the coming weeks, don't leave the injured muscle/joint isolated due to the injury. The trick is not to directly work it directly, but to work around it. 

As you'll find out reading the answers for these questions specially regards to adverse effects of protein supplements on Kidney, the results are evaluated as inconclusive. Assuming the trustworthiness of the paper and hoping it's not bypassed or secretively funded by a supplement company I was relieved that not any significant/major side effect found in this level on a healthy adult. Reference> Health effects of protein intake in healthy adults: a systematic literature review 

How to know Well, since our friends looking at the problem in a very "sports science way" I will rephrase and add more details (which may not be as practical as you think. Please refer to an expirienced trainer to be the judge of the symptoms below (Self judgments can be too soft and over sensitive sometimes)) 

I was going through this article in the benefits of rest-pause exercise and seen this recommendation which I need a bit of help to interpret. 

DOMS If you come back to the same muscle group - say, biceps - ** it can be the sign that you may still haven't recovered from your last biceps session**; in other words if your biceps are still sore or sensitive for pushing and pulling, this could mean you need more rest period and you may need to look for the symptoms above to confirm that you're over training. There are lot of debates about the word over training. I am just using it in terms of "not rested enough for the load of training you've done." What happens if... Training before recovery isn't that constructive. If you are familiar with the muscle building process, in very simple words, you injure the muscle and you feed him properly during recovery then it recovers in a better shape. Hence if you keep injuring the muscle without letting him to recover, you're not doing great PLUS you increase the risk of long-term injury. What do to If that's the case, you should either give your muscle group more time to rest or boost the recovery by taking supplements and foods which help you in this case. The keyword to do some research for this would be recovery and BCAA (Branched Chain Amino Acid) . References 1)Penney, Stacey, and NASM CES. "Overtraining–When There Isn’t Enough Time to Recover." UPDATE I have stumbled upon this article called The Myth of Overtraning by Vince Del Monte the other day in my IroMan Magazine newsfeed and thought this definitely needs to be here since it's extremely informative. 

First of all we have to look at what you need in terms of real conditional capacities. Lactate thresholds have been used to asses one's endurance capacities related to many sports such as cycling, running or swimming. What you are asking is basically if you can improve the delay in onset of lactate accumulation that is correlated ( not cause ) with the aerobic-to-anaerobic energy system transition. Problems of the thresholds We must understand first of all what we are referring to when we talk about LT ( Lactate Threshold ). For exemple, your wikipedia extract is not precise in describing effectively what Lactate Threshold is or are. 85% of %HRmax and 75% of VO2max are still only general measures that are based on general indications aswell; these measures have been shown to coincide with the anaerobic thresold in some, but not all individuals (expecially adv. athletes ) and I'm not going to take these indicators in consideration. To focus only on LT, there are two thresholds. The first one is called Aerobic Threshold (AT), and the second one is called Anaerobic Threshold (ANT) ; even for the AT there is a general observation that put it in correlation with the 50% of VO2max. The AT is considered the upper limit of the exclusive aerobic mechanism usage ( this doesnt mean that glycolysis does not occur ), while ANT is considered the upper limit after which the anaerobic system become more and more consistent and the body relies more on a glycolitic/fast type metabolism. So what we want is to consider ANT to answer your question. Yes you can improve your ANT There are several protocols of training for improving ANT. On top of that a big body of research over the years has accumulated work that shows how the ANT can be found at different lactate concentration in blood ( ranging from 2 up to 10 mmol/L )[1-2]. This however do not correlate with performance. When you improve your ANT you actually have a shift of this limit upward thowards the exerted power ( it means you can exert more power and sustain more intense workload without the accumulation of further lactate. This happens because you have improved your aerobic capabilities, but I won't get in depth in this argument just because it would lead to an enormous Off Topic. How to improve your Lactate Threshold (ANT) It largely depends on your sport but the key thing you have to keep in mind is that you must target what you need. You can perform in two different ways. 

I am quite familiar with the One-Rep-Max terminology but have a problem of understanding what 5RM as a load would mean. Is this the way to represent, per say, 50% of One-Rep-Max or ? 

This is an extremely complicated move you got it mind and it depends how is your current physical fitness and strength level is. Handstand press needs so many factors such as great balance, the ability of standing body weight by different muscle group (proportional muscle strength) and a lot of skill factor. For the first matter, balance, you need to start from practicing this move besides the wall. As the ability of standing your body weight and lifting it up which comes to your actual question, shoulder and upper body strength matters a lot. You can work on them by adding chin-ups, shoulder presses, and push-ups to your workout. Skill!! needs practice, practice, practice. There are great resources online to give you the gist such as How to Work up to a Handstand Push Up which gives you the step by step idea and lots of Youtube videos such as video from KinoYoga Youtube channel. 

Scenario So if you're a person who goes to gym after finishing from work and possibly finishing the gym session by 9 or even later and need to be in bed by 10:30 to be able to have the minimum amount of recomended sleep, this feeding time can be extrememly complicated. Since I think lots of people fall into this catagory I felt the need to verify following facts in more details: Questions 

I wouldnt take in account the last longitudinal study by default, due to study design. On top of that HIIT is just a tag. Every dynamic exercise with a high enough intesity will provoke hypetrophy of the hearth wall. Soccer players have this type of "problem" too. Even in static exercise sports such as weightlifting and bodybuilding there is the same effect on the hearth. Anything brought to the extreme will give you "side effects". 

Why is this all important? Because now it all boils down to understanding why I'm giving you these advices regarding the periodization. I have two approaches on the subject, but I'm going to take the most succesfully proven one in terms of scientific reference. But first, two "MUST DO" before you get started. 

What they told you actually make sense in some contexts. The only way you could consume less calories with added physiological work is if you develop economicity in your motor skill. To be more clear, architecture of type I fibers allow you to produce less power stroke in the architecture of sliding filaments but at longer leghts compared to type II fibers. With this you can actually mantain a certain pace exploiting the viscous properties of the type I fibers along with their architecture and their chemical features ( phosphorylated ATP stays longer on type I myosin heads as ADP, that's one key characteristic that make these fibers less susceptibles to stretch/strain and suitable to work at higher lenghts ). However, the moment you add weight to yourself, you actually will do more physiological work no matter what. The fact that you can develp efficiency doesn't mean you will consume the same amount of calories no matter how much work and weight you add to your routine; this just make no logical sense at all. To answer your question: no. Adding 10kg to yourself will not help you burn more fat, or anything else. Burning fat is for a large part depends on the actual total time or/and intensity of work. You could go at a low intensity for a very long amount of time, and you will burn fats ( this is highly variable upon individuals and training level/muscle cell phenotypization ). Or you could go at a high intensity for intermittent intervals and build a very big EPOC that will help you burn fats while you recover ( remember that RER - Respiratory Exchange Ratio, drops at 0.7 after high intesity exercise ); for this, is better dynamic exercise ( like cycling ) instead of static exercise ( like weightlifting ). 

I am totally aware of the health benefits of having moderate amount of salt (Sodium) in a balanced diet and also down sides of having too much. However, I can see that, in so many healthy cooking recipes they mention to use low salt, no added salt and similar sorts ingredients to use for cooking. 

This might seem too good to be true but I had the same feeling when I read this point in the researched trusted article. As far as I know, the best form and the most correct style of getting up from lied down to stand up position is how a child who just-learned-to-get-up does. Most of the physical reactions and posture figures in the babies aren't biased by the modern life and bad habits yet and our instincts apparently does the best. I would suggest Googling this video and checking some of them to get the exact idea. Meanwhile I will try to find the source of the article I have read this at and attach it to this answer for the added value of the answer. The article below cannot be referred as a reference but worth checking. It highlights some good points. Babies can do it, but most adults can’t 

On the other hand we may wonder what are the side effects of taking supplementary protein , assuming the guaranteed quality of the product. I will draw your attention to this study published at July 2013 and examined the side effects of this supplement on so many different aspects. This paper answers following questions