Most likely you have a wrong configuration of the IP Addresses, you might double check that especially if these are not DHCP assigned. 

The system should not reboot upon correctable memory error. Do you see additional information/pattern via ? The BMC watchdog could reboot the system, check if it is enabled via . As you already have the information on the location of the bad memory module, replace it and if the problem manifests again, the memory slot could be at fault. X10SLM-F the RAM that you use is not on the list of tested RAM modules - if you have the possibility, replace all the memory bars in a 'problem' system with equivalent Supermicro-tested ones. Also, check the list of supported OS for you Ubuntu version. Related to the CMOS settings, you could use , provided you have the SUM keys installed, to dump the BIOS settings from all the systems then them to see if there is any CMOS parameter being different for the systems that regularly reboot compared to the system(s) that do not. 

I've been tasked to find for a solution that will allow me to use 1 storage location for 2 different web servers' applicaiton data. My problem is that these 2 web servers will both be accessing the same files. I need a way to lock the file if 1 server is using the file so it can't be accessed by the other server until the server is done accessing the file. I'm using licensed VMware ESXi 4.1 for my hosts, Windows 2008 r2 web edition with IIS. I have both of these servers hooked into redundant switches going to an iSCSI San. I'm told that I need a 3rd party software that will allow me to do this, because I'll be using ntfs for my SAN Volume that will store the data. This is an active/active configuration. Does anyone have any idea how I can make this work or what other software I might need to control the file accesss. I'm told that this ability is not suppported natively in Windows 2008 web or IIS. Thank you 

I faced a situation like yours some months ago, and I solved my problem (synchronization of www files between many nodes belonging to apache user) with btsync, that is a program that keeps many files aligned between two or more machines using BitTorrent protocol. It's secure, uses cryptography, and IMHO is very efficient and transparent. It's worth a try. Here's some links on how to use it: $URL$ $URL$ 

You can see some information about currently mounted devices by looking at the contents of (the syntax is quite similar to the one of ). You should find some useful information about mount options as well. Otherwise, you can use a simple "fstab generator" like this one: $URL$ 

but how can I add a second network in the "clientspec" parameter (for example: 192.168.100.0/24) so clients from both subnets can mount the shared directory? I haven't been able to find any help in the official documentation (neither from RedHat nor from Linux-HA). Thanks in advance for any precious help. 

I'm looking for a solution to updates - I really need all my flash and Java updates to be installed automatically as soon as they are available. Microsoft Updates pro - updates all versions and office products con - some big updates require administrative permissions, then I have to go around to all the computers and put in credentials myself con - only does Microsoft updates Security Center Configuration Manager / Security Center Essentials Pro - it will do all 3rd party updates that have an msi file Pro - it will do all Microsoft updates con - cost, server license, and time to setup there has to be something in between the 2 I per-fer not to devote a server to just updating, but will if necessary Anyone have any ideas? 

Windows 2003 functional level domain which includes... 2 windows 2008 Domain Controllers with integrated DNS serves, one of the 2 servers is a RODC. DHCP is giving our both IP address of DNS servers. my question - how do I setup the DNS to roll over when one server is unavailable? Right now the first DNS server in the domain is acting like a master/primary. When I reboot the DC with the FMSO roles, (first DC), no one can log in and DNS goes completely down until the server comes back up. My 2nd DC doesn't do anything i would expect. Seems I remember that there is a setting that I can change to set a timeout of how long the first DC can be down before the 2nd DC will take over. Anyone remember anything like this? It may be that I'm not following best practices at all, although I thought I was following them when it came to designing my AD and DNS. Any ideas? 

I have a question about the way MySQL with MyISAM engine handles the free/empty space after deletions and how it behaves when new records are inserted. For example, think about a new and empty DB (let's assume is 10 kb, just for example). After inserting 10000 records (let's say each record occupies 1 kb), its total size on the filesystem becomes 10010 kb. Then, after deleting 5000 records, its size still remains 10010 kb on the filesystem even if the number of records has halved (nothing strange here, it's the normal behaviour). The OPTIMIZE command could then come in hand to "defragment" the database and reclaim the free space by reorganizing its data. BUT, if I totally ignore the OPTIMIZE command and insert 2000 new records (so, 5000 still there + 2000 new records = 7000 records in total), does MySQL reuse the free space left by the previous deletions for the new records (meaning that the DB size of 10010 kb won't change) or does it "append" the new records to the DB (meaning that the DB size on the filesystem will grow to, let's say, 12010 kb)? Thanks! :)