You can extend what is already happening in our cities today. Cities generally do still have fairly extensive green areas, with paved areas and houses between them. Inner cities obviously are harder to survive in but even there you have lots of discarded human food to live of. You should expect to see a lot of scavengers. The animals that already adapt well such as foxes, rats, seagulls and other birds. Large grazers or carnivores clearly would not do well. Small animals like squirrels and other rodents would generally do fine and you might well find isolated populations developing in different areas. For example a specific breed of squirrel might evolve in one park, distinct from another park because there is no easy way to cross between them. Cockroaches and other similar scavenging insects may also succeed, although we may well have developed efficient ways to wipe them out and as a result they are consigned to zoos. 

How they would work The classic design for the tunnels would be a tube with a near-vacuum inside. Objects are dropped into the tube and they fall through to emerge at the other side. The tunnel itself would need to curve so the object can fall matching the spin of the planet as it does so. You would also need something (perhaps magnetic systems built into the tunnel walls) to keep the speed of the object up as even in a near-vacuum it would lose some speed, the same systems could be used to keep the object away from the walls of the tunnel though as otherwise drift could bring it into contact. The tunnel wouldn't need to go directly through the center of the planet and out at the same time, you can make the tunnel go to one side of the core and then bend around it to come out at any other point on the surface, like an orbit around the center of the planet although gravity gets weaker the deeper you go which makes the orbital math more interesting. For nearby destinations that would not be practicable but for anything a long way away it would be pretty fast and efficient once the tunnel is built. The main problems are heat and pressure, particularly as you approach the core. Keeping out the high pressure high temperature magma would be a massive engineering challenge. Vessels passing through would actually not be too badly effected though as vacuum is a good insulator. This would be made much easier in a smaller world without a molten core. Why they would be built The main advantages of going through the planet are speed and security. For example a planet under siege or in a state of cold war might make such tunnels in order to transport resources rapidly to wherever they are needed. The initial construction of the tunnels would be a huge effort but once they are built it would be very fast and efficient so ecologically sensitive civilizations may actually prefer it to air travel. A common concept with warp drives is that they only function in a low enough gravitational gradient. There is no science that I'm aware of backing up that theory but it's a common literary device. Drives working that way normally means the ships need to be a long way out in space to jump. The center of the planet though also has no gravity gradient so the hypothetical warp drives would function there. 

So the planet will gradually cool but it will take thousands of years to do so. If you were to use the world as a setting for something you could choose any point in the freezing process and get the conditions you desire. Isolated pockets of the planet would stay warmer than the rest for longer too. 

Just look in the animal kingdom to see all sorts of examples, mostly in mammal mating displays. Some species use loud voices. Some use ornate dances. Some decorate homes. Some smash into each other head first. There are all sorts of similar displays of skill or strength that are possible without arms. For example imagine some sort of tug of war between two people each holding the rope in their teeth. Or a form of wrestling where they try to barge each other out of a ring. The possibilities are endless... 

There is no reason. The same mechanisms that would allow a three way split would also allow a two way split, whereas a two way split can be done without building up so much energy before hand. The only possible reason is if you say that the act of splitting is in some way risky but it would be very hard to justify needing to acquire twice as much resources before reproducing. Someone needs to come up with a very compelling reason why and how this is happening before we can even start thinking about answering the other questions (and they should be asked separately anyway). 

The trick here isn't about how much energy is applied, it is more about where and how it is applied. Read this article and it gives a good introduction to how tornados work: $URL$ Here is the weather radar image of a Tornado 

There is one massive difference this will make - the duration of the seasons. A longer year would give you extremely long (but potentially dry and drought-prone) summers followed by equally long winters. This means that storage of food would be a priority in seasonal areas of the world (the equator would not be effected either way). So the summer would be an extremely long growing period while people stocked up to survive months or even (earth) years of winter. Animals may well hibernate or just lay eggs/spores/whatever that then emerge when spring comes. A lot of plants may well follow the same strategy of leaving seeds and not even trying to survive the winter. 

There are no science-based mechanisms through which this can happen. Radiation exposure and other similar mechanisms is nearly almost either harmful or neutral. Even if it does somehow give a beneficial mutation that advantage will be tiny. Humans are already extremely well adapted to our environment and only a technological intervention (for example cybernetic implants) is likely to give radical increases. Certainly telepathy and telekinesis are impossible through any mechanism we are aware of although telepathy between altered people would be possible if they had some sort of radio embedded into them. 

Energy weapons that exceed the performance of our guns would not need those advantages to be adopted anyway. If energy weapons were developed able to penetrate body armour for example then they would render both body armour and bullets obsolete. 

Development of electronic warfare has reached the point that enemy computers beyond a certain complexity can be shut down. It's just not possible to shield them enough to work. Organic brains are resistant and while people have experimented with organic computers to control spaceships they have not managed to get them working yet. Either accept this as unavoidable, set things in a crowded environment (for example a planetary ring) where there is no space for maximum speed, or have some sort of new drive system. If you had a drive that didn't need reaction mass but which operated on the fabric of space, essentially giving you velocity relative to the nearest gravity well, then you could get spaceships that fly like planes (or even like cars but in 3 dimensions). This is similar to how ships in Eve and Elite: Dangerous work, having a top speed and turning like an airplane. The crowded environment might explain engagement ranges, if people are hiding in the planets rings, etc. In addition the advanced electronic warfare might make long range engagements very hard. Basically if you are more than a few miles from the target then you just cannot get a reliable weapons lock. 

So the closest example we have is the Great Oxygenation Event. It's slightly implausible but lets say that a similar dramatic shift occurs with some new form of bacteria or maybe something interesting like a slime mold evolving. The bacteria consumes oxygen and plant life but uses a brand new metabolic cycle not seen before. Quite possibly the output of that new metabolic cycle would be highly toxic. The new metabolic cycle of this bacteria consumes large amounts of oxygen but is otherwise hugely more efficient than any previously known and as a result it out-competes everything. It spreads rapidly across the globe simultaneously consuming plants (reducing oxygen production) and oxygen (directly reducing amounts in the atmosphere). at the same time toxic gasses are being produced. Rapid mutations also mean that it adapts to anything we try to throw at it in the same way as bacteria are adapting to antibiotics. It forms a film over the surface of water and turns plants (and animals although their ability to move and immune systems do give them some defense until they start to starve) to mush, dissolving most of the world into a puddle of goo. This combined effect means that in as little as a few centuries the upper levels of the ocean and the surface of most land has turned into a sticky sludge and oxygen levels in the atmosphere are severely depleted. 

Meteors Actually meteors are a possibility here. If you had a swarm of meteors (for example a shattered planet) that traveled together and orbits intersected at regular intervals then there would be a chance each intersect that the meteors would strike. Sometimes you would get lucky and none hit, sometimes not so lucky...so you can explain intervals with no strike. Rather than having a cluster you could have a gas giant with an eccentric orbit, whenever it intersects with the asteroid belt or oort cloud or similar it sends a swarm of rocks heading towards the sun. Again these may or may not impact your planet but would happen on a regular basis. Solar Activity Maybe there is some unknown mechanism happening within the sun that causes cycles of activity. Every X hundred years these mechanisms cause the sun to release a massive solar flare that wipes out everything on the sunwards-facing side of the planet and lasts long enough to get a chunk of the night side as the planet rotates. Tectonics There could be a similar cycle happening within the planet itself. Pressure builds and then at regular intervals erupts in cataclysmic volcanic activity. Life There could be something similar to our blue-green algae that blooms and is poisonous but turned up to 11. When the climate, conditions, food and everything else is just right it blooms and blooms, poisoning the entire ocean and then the air and wiping out most animal life. Snowball Ice Age A full on snowball ice age again could happen on a repeatable sequence depending on the factors that trigger it. This would squeeze life down to a smaller and smaller area at the equator, potentially even covering the entire planet in ice. This would tend to have cycles of at least thousands and possibly millions of years though so may be too slow your uses.