France was a "neutral" country (relative to the Middle East). While some probably suspected that Khomeni was a "troublemaker," no one in France attached to him the importance that he would soon have. Khomeni thought about seeking political asylum in France, but decided to "stay under the radar." The decision NOT to seek asylum ensured that France would not pay much attention to him. Khomeni left France early in 1979 to return to Iran when the Shah left Iran. With regard to France, he basically came and went as he pleased, for his own purposes. No one in France had any real incentive to stop him, and no one did. 

During the Great Depression, arguably the most important problem was unemployment, which at its peak reached nearly 25% of the work force, or 11 million people. The start of World War II, solved that problem. By 1944-45, the U.S. armed forces reached 11-12 million in strength, roughly matching the maximum number of unemployed cited in the previous paragraph. That's not counting the people that were employed in military related industries. By 1945, there was an issue of overemployment, with people working multiple shifts, and women entering the work force. The programs that you referred to that were cancelled mostly addressed the employment problem, because they were "make work." And yes, the money that was formerly directed to these programs went to fund the war effort (and the "reemployment" of these people). Other parts of the New Deal, such as the banking legislation and the Tennessee Valley Authority remained in place. 

The Nazis tracked Jews, and confined them to ghettos or other Jewish quarters, in preparation for rounding up and the "Final Solution." To try to escape this, some Jews "hid." That is, their identities were known, but not their whereabouts. The story told in "The Diary of Anne Frank" is a classic in this regard. Some Jews hid their identities, using false papers e.g. describing someone who was actually deceased. That's the way countries protect their spies, and these Jews lived like "spies," fearing exposure and arrest. To "denounce" such a person was to report or to "out" them in today's terms. This could be for any violation of the law, but being Jewish was basically "illegal" in Nazi Germany. Most people in occupied countries followed a "live and let live policy, but there were some "snitches." Either someone who was strong pro-Nazi or someone who hated one of these hiders from the past life. Anne Frank was "denounced." 

The evidence is sparse, but what little there is suggests that Chiang got along well with Franco, and not with the Republicans. Articles like this one suggest that Franco felt warmly toward Chiang. Franco was not a notably tolerant man, and it is unlikely that he would felt this way if Chiang had supported his enemies in the 1930s. Whether or not China and Spain had diplomatic relations before Franco (probably not), it's quite clear that Chiang had diplomatic relations with Franco (after World War II), and where his sympathies lay. I agree with your theory number 2. Chiang and Franco were both "Generallsimos." They were both narrow-minded army men who believed in a top-down "command and control" approach to governing. They were both nationalistic, traditional minded men who were fundamentally anti-Democratic and especially anti-Communist. Basically, they were very much kindred spirits. Chiang was barely anti-Japanese.He started his career as an officer in the Japanese army. Later, he was famous for saying, "the Japanese are a disease of the skin. The Communists are a disease of the heart." Until the Xi'an incident of 1936, Chiang was more interested in fighting Communists than fighting Japan. Basically, the Japanese bungled big time to alienate a "fellow traveler" like Chiang. Their later support of left-wing Wang Jing Wei is best explained as "the enemy of my enemy is my friend." If Chiang and Franco found themselves with opposite "sympathies" in World War, it would have been accidental, and arisen from the fact that Chiang was forced into an alliance with the U.S. Britain, the Soviet Union, (all of whom Chiang distrusted as a "kidnapper, hooligan, and bully") because of Japanese aggression. 

In the case of Japan, the U.S. had completed (and tested) the A-bomb about the time that they were ready to invade Japan. That made it an "either/or" option that President Truman was fully aware of. In the case of Normandy, the U.S. was ready to invade in June, 1944, but the status of the bomb, while in progress, was uncertain. In fact, its completion was about a year away, few people "knew," and the ones who knew the best weren't telling others in the military, or elsewhere in the chain of command because of "need to know" issues; even President Roosevelt barely knew, and then not "for sure." That said, the Americans went about their business in 1944 as if the bomb were not an eventuality. 

Much later, West Virginia broke off from Virginia as a result of the Civil War. Earlier than that, Maine became "independent" from Massachusetts as part of the Missouri Compromise. But during and after the Revolution, Virginia claimed Kentucky as its "backland." In 1795, it relinquished this claim to let Kentucky split off to become the 15th state. (Vermont had just done that from New York to become the 14th). Why was that? Apparently, there was pressure from the other states. Was it because they wanted all the states to be about the same size in area and population, or because they wanted to prevent an "arms race" of superstates like Virginia-Kentucky, North Carolina-Tennessee, Pennsylvania-Ohio (in today's terms) etc.? 

Because if they did, they would have been playing into German hands. The Germans did not plan to match the British navy. What they did was create a Risk Fleet about 60% of the British fleet, one that could defeat the British fleet under ideal conditions (e.g. operating in home waters where the Germans would enjoy the benefit of mines, shore batteries, etc.). This would supposedly be sufficient to neutralize the British fleet, assuming that no British Lord High Admiral would risk such a battle of destruction. The British Admiral (Jellicoe) was placed in a position where "he was the one man on either side who could lose the war in an afternoon." Destroying the German fleet might not win the war, but losing the British fleet would allow a cross-channel invasion or other results favoring the Germans, such as surface ship help for the submarine warfare. The one time the British tried to fight the German fleet was in the Battle of Jutland, where the British managed to meet the German fleet on open sea (rather than home waters). It was a drawn battle, one that did not encourage either side to try again. The British fleet did not need to destroy the German fleet to obtain its (naval) objectives. It maintained a blockade that helped bring Germany to her knees. They weren't about to risk a "blockade for sure" in favor of a "maybe" of destroying the German navy. 

One reason was that the "Anglos" brought their own women with them. For instance, there were women passengers on the Mayflower. And twelve years after the settlement at Jamestown, there was a boatload of women (in 1619), followed by many more. The Spaniards also had more "multicultural" dealings, as noted in the comments above. The Spanish religious ideology was one of converting the "natives," which in practice meant absorbing them into Spanish society and intermarrying with them once they converted. English society did not have similar mechanisms for absorbing children of mixed parentage. In the rare situations where Anglos produced "half breeds" with Indians, the children almost always became "Indians" rather than Anglos. "American" men DID produce children with African slaves. But they were consigned to the lowest levels of society (until modern times), and didn't "mix" with the rest of American society. "Segregation today, segregation tomorrow, segregation forever" was the North American ethos as late as the 1960s. 

"We can do it" in this context means "we can do a man's job" (riveting, heavy lifting, etc.). A few women even enlisted in the Women's Army Corps (WACs) or the naval WAVES, thereby paving the way for today's women to be part of the modern army. 

The reason appears to be that railroads were the breakthrough transport technology of the 1850s (perhaps alongside "ironclad ships in the 1860s). When a single technology is so much the "leading" sector, there may be limits to how far ahead it can go until similar, "peer" technologies catch up. This "catchup" took place (mostly) in the 1920s for automobiles and airplanes. With aviation, there was a competing, and faster technology that induced railroads to speed up. With airplanes and cars, there were also new designs in engines, metallurgy, etc. that allowed for this speeding up in the 1930s. 

A prisoner captured in battle belongs to the "state" of the soldiers who captured him. In theory, that would be the king of England or France. Now it is possible that with at least some high ranking nobles, the king of England or France would let the capturer keep the prisoner. But this would be a form of "delegation," not a usual practice. But common soldiers wouldn't keep the prisoner. They'd hand him up the "chain of command" to an officer, their lord, and ultimately the king. 

The sale of war bonds "sterilized" the otherwise humongous U.S. debt. That is, while debt was historically large (by any standards except today's), we "owed it to ourselves" and not to foreigners. Which is to say that the money was available to be "recycled" into the U.S. economy after the war. But the main benefit was AFTER the war. The country saved something like 25% of its GDP annually during almost four years of war. When it ended, the average American family had almost one year's wages in savings, most of it in war bonds. That financed the greatest peacetime economic boom in American history, and allowed for returning soldiers to be employed in civilian pursuits, at higher productivity rates than they enjoyed before the war. 

At that time, the "known" world was smaller than it is today (Columbus thought Cuba was part of "India," which is why he (mis-named) the native Americans "Indians.") No one had any real idea of the "Americas" in 1494. They thought that "unknown" world was just a few islands, and the Treaty of Tordeseilles drew a line that gave Portugal the "islands" (Brazil!) east of the line, and Spain the islands west of it. They thought that everything else was "spoken for," which is why people didn't complain until they found out "differently," decades later. 

The Mongols were a relatively backward people in the scholastic sense of the word, and hired conquered scholars to educate them. The Mongols were also very tolerant of most religions in their vast empire, and had priests help "pacify" their various peoples. 

It depends on how you define "Second Front." The Allies opened a "second front" in North Africa in November, 1942. That was huge because the battle of Stalingrad was going on at the same time. Germany had to divert most of its air transport fleet to reinforcing North Africa, and suffered heavy casualties. When the transports returned to the eastern front, there weren't enough of them to resupply Paulus by air (even though German transports had done the job of supplying surrounded "pockets" near Moscow, in the winter of 1941-42.) In June, 1943, the Allies invaded Sicily (followed by Italy in September). This diverted some 20 German divisions from the Russian front (almost as many as were lost at Stalingrad), even though they were sorely needed in Russia after the battle of Kursk. The thrust of your question seems to be, why didn't the Allies open a "second front" in FRANCE earlier than 1944. That is a matter of logistical and other issues. One deterrent was the failure of a "probe" at Dieppe in August, 1942. 

In the 1945 book, the main U.S. contribution to the war was the defeat of Japan (with China becoming a "third world" power aligned neither with the United States nor Nazi Germany). That was basically a minimum condition for American survival. The hypothesis from my unpublished World War II book "Axis Overstretch" is that the Axis win if they ever obtain control of 50% or more of the world's industrial capacity. According to Paul Kennedy's "Imperial Overstretch," North and South America had just under 45% of the world's industrial capacity in the 1940s. Add Australia, Japan and the latter's holdings in the ASEAN nations of Southeast Asia, and you get just over 50% for the U.S.-led bloc. The 1945 book presupposed the failure of American Lend Lease aid and the resulting inability of America to protect Britain and the Soviet Union. In the "real" war, American Lend Lease aid approximated the total Axis output, thereby giving America's allies a meaningful preponderance of material against the Axis, which was enough for them to survive. The introduction of American military forces in western Europe was the "icing on the cake," that sealed the fate of Nazi Germany. Even without this, the more pressing need was to ensure the survival of Britain and the Soviet Union, and the defeat of Japan. Britain and the Soviet Union had a bare preponderance of strength against Nazi Germany alone (the danger of U.S. non-intervention was that Japan would tip the balance in Germany's favor). Throw in U.S. power and the "bare preponderance" of Allied power in Europe becomes overwhelming. 

I'll address mainly the issue of why the stigma of pool halls had disappeared by the 1990s. The reason was that in the interim, a number of alternate sources of "badness" had arisen. This, in turn, was due to the rise of the casino society in much of the western world, which not only allowed, but glorified risk-taking. Going into the 1990s, America was just coming off an unprecedented crime wave in the 1970s and 1980s, which featured not only drinking, but drug use. And up to about 1950, drinking and swearing took place mainly in pool halls, saloons, and other places where "boys will be boys," but starting in the 1960s, became more mainstream as "girls" began to openly adopt male vices. In any event, pool halls maintained a more or less constant level of badness while the rest of society became worse, so by the 1990s, pool halls were not worse than the rest of society. It should be noted that the 1950s were a period of unusual intolerance in American society. It's true that the 1910s were a relatively "halcyon" period in the U.S. Nevertheless, it was a period of tight but loosening moral standards that would soon segue into the Flapper Era of American society. So while the 1910s were probably less tolerant of pool halls than the 1990s, they probably did not match 1950s levels of intolerance.