Science exists to serve mankind, not to rule it. Calendars were one of the first concepts developed by humankind, arguably predating writing. Timekeeping is even more important to modern society than it was to the ancients. You're not going to get rid of calendars. One key purpose of the Gregorian calendar is to keep the calendar in sync with the seasons. Every solar calendar requires some intercalation mechanism. The Gregorian calendar uses leap days. The Gregorian scheme (years divisible by 4 have an extra day, except for years that are multiples of 100 that aren't divisible by 400) will fall out of sync with the seasons at at the very slow rate of one day per 3030 years. Leap seconds are a rather different beast. They are inserted, unpredictably, to keep the clock in sync with the day/night cycle. Without leap seconds, counting 86400 atomic clock seconds = one day would already have the clock out of sync by about half a minute. Leap seconds are problematic for business. There is an ongoing effort to remove leap seconds and just live with a day of 86400 seconds going out of sync with the day, at least until it truly becomes noticeable. 

The Chandrasekhar limit in general does not pertain to the mass of the star as a whole. It addresses the mass of the degenerate core. It's only in white dwarfs where the Chandrasekhar limit applies to the mass of white dwarf as a whole, but that's because white dwarfs are almost entirely degenerate matter. Consider a 1.6 solar mass that is not a member of a multiple star system. Even though this star's total mass exceeds the Chandrasekhar limit, this star will never go supernova. This star will instead live for billions of year on the main sequence, then a bit longer as a post-main sequence star, and finally end it's life as a white dwarf with considerably less mass than that original 1.6 solar masses (and considerably less than Chandrasekhar limit). The star leaves the main sequence when it burns all of the hydrogen in its core. Two things happen at this point. One is that it starts burning hydrogen in a shell around an inert core of helium. The other is that it expands into a red giant. (Note: Some people are taught that a star becomes a red giant when it starts burning helium. This is not the case. This post-main sequence star is a red giant that is not yet burning helium.) That inert core of helium increases in mass as hydrogen shell burning proceeds. A funny thing begins to happen with this increase in mass: The inert core becomes degenerate. An even funnier thing happens next: Adding even more mass makes the degenerate core shrink in size. The star is poised on the next phase of its evolution, which is helium burning. The formerly inert, degenerate core of helium is no longer inert or degenerate at this stage. Think of this phase of a star's life as a main sequence helium burning star. It's definitely not on the main sequence, but much of the physics is the same. One thing that is different: The shell burning of hydrogen is still occurring. This phase doesn't last long. The star will soon consume all of the helium in its core. At this point, the star becomes a red giant for a second time. This is the asymptotic red giant branch. The star has an inert core of carbon and oxygen surrounded by a shell of fusing helium, which in turn is surrounded by a shell of fusing hydrogen. These end of life convulsions are not good for the stuff that surrounds the shell of fusing hydrogen. The star expels a lot of that gas into nearby space. Eventually it will expel most of the burning shells of hydrogen and helium, leaving an inert, degenerate core of mostly carbon and oxygen. This is a white dwarf. A planetary nebula of expelled gases surrounds the white dwarf. The white dwarf itself has but a fraction of the star's initial mass. Most of the mass is in that planetary nebula. Larger stars are even more proficient at expelling mass than was this 1.6 solar mass star. For stars with an initial mass of about eight solar masses or less, the white dwarfs left behind at the end of the stars' lives will be less than the Chandrasekhar limit. The fate of stars over ten solar masses is much more violent. At the end of their lives, they have lurking inside them a series of burning shells that surround an inert, degenerate core of iron. A star has about five days to live once that core of iron starts forming. That's about how long it takes to create (from scratch) a degenerate iron core that approaches the Chandrasekhar limit. At or near the limit, the core starts to collapse, and the star forms a type II supernova. A white dwarf can form a type Ia supernova with a little help from a binary neighbor from which the white dwarf is stealing mass. Conditions have to be just right for this to happen, but when it does, the white dwarf can gradually accumulate mass and go supernova. Since white dwarfs have expelled all of their hydrogen, there won't be any signatures of hydrogen in the supernova explosion. In fact, it's the lack or presence of hydrogen in the supernova signature that distinguishes type I from type II supernova. 

The Earth does spin like an unbalanced top. The Earth's rotation axis is not fixed. It instead moves in a complex manner due to a combination of external torques exerted by the Moon and Sun, a torque-free nutation due to the oblate shape of the Earth, and also due to changes on and in the Earth. The torque-induced motions are called precession and nutation, distinguished by period. The largest and slowest of these motions is the axial precession. This causes the Earth's rotation axis to trace out a cone over the course of 26000 years. 

Over the very long term (a hundred thousand of years or more), the Earth's rotation rate is getting slower. This is a true secular trend that will eventually result in increases in the lengths of both the day and the night on the day of the year with the least daylight of the year, regardless of other effects. This very slow secular increase is counteracted or exacerbated by cyclical effects. One is the Earth's axial tilt. This varies cyclically, but with a period of 41000 years. Over the short term (hundreds of years is short in this context), the effects of changing axial tilt are much stronger than are the effects of the secular increase in the length of day. The Earth is currently in a phase where the axial tilt is decreasing. This makes the length of daylight increase on the "shortest day of the year", and hence makes the length of that longest night decrease. A much shorter term cyclical effect results from the location of the Moon with respect to the Earth and Sun. The Earth and Moon together orbit the Sun. This means that when the Moon is above the plane of this orbit, the Earth will be slightly below, and vice versa. This subtly changes the lighting of the Earth. Where this occurs varies as the lunar node precesses over an 18.6 year period. 

They're the same, assuming the star's equator is the principal plane of the coordinate system. One way to calculate the longitude of ascending node as $\Omega = \arctan(h_x, -h_y)$, where $\arctan(a,b)$ is the two-argument inverse tangent function and $h_x$ and $h_y$ are the x and y components of angular momentum vector. 

"Because it's there" is a scientific reason. Couple that with the fact that we know there's a whole lot of stuff we don't know about the asteroids makes studying the asteroids interesting from a pure scientific perspective. That studying asteroids yields insights into the formation of the solar system makes such studies relevant. That asteroids have caused significant damage to the Earth (e.g., the Chicxulub impact event) and can do so again makes such studies even more relevant. That asteroids might well be a trove of wealth makes such studies more relevant still. 

Collecting light over a long span of time is how telescopes can see very dim objects. The human visual system doesn't work that way. For one thing, even when you think you are staring at something, your eyes still dance around a bit. It's a built-in response called ocular microtremors. These microtremors appear to be an essential part of making the vision system functional. For another, your eye does not and cannot collect light for arbitrarily long periods of time (the way a photographic telescope can). There's an immense amount of signal processing that happens in the eye and along the way to the brain. This signal processing depends on light being collected for short spans of time. Our vision system evolved to see food, friends, and dangers under well-lit conditions. We are very good at seeing motion in broad daylight. We're not so good at seeing stationary objects, and we're not good at all at seeing barely visible sources under very dark skies. Naked eye astronomy is limited by the nature of the human vision system. The most remote object we can see is the Triangulum Galaxy, and that's only under conditions of extremely dark and extremely clear skies. 

It doesn't, at least not in the alpha ladder. The alpha ladder starts with the carbon-12 produced by the triple alpha process. A carbon-12 and an alpha particle (helium-4) combine to form oxygen-16, which in turn combines with an alpha particle to form neon-20, and so on, up to titanium-44, chromium-48, then iron-52, then nickel-56, and then zinc-60. It's the production of zinc-60 that kills stars rather than the production of nickel-56. The reactions up to and including the production of nickel-56 are exothermic (i.e., they release heat). The production of zinc-60 is endothermic (it consumes heat, in the form of a gamma particle). The energy-producing reactions that kept the star from collapsing on itself end. Moreover, the temperatures needed to produce zinc-60 are so very high that photons can photodisintegrate zinc-60, recreating the nickel-56 nuclei and alpha particles that created those zinc-60 nuclei. The alpha ladder pretty much stops with nickel-56. (Other processes create elements beyond nickel.) The nickel-56 ejected from supernovae is rather short-lived, decaying with a half life of 6 days into cobalt-56. This too is radioactive, decaying with a half life of 77 days into iron-56. The unique signatures of these two decays, and the slightly delayed transition from nickel-56 decay to cobalt-56 decay, are one of the key signs that a supernova has occurred. 

1 In the context of the Fermi paradox, "intelligent life" is defined as life that is capable of communicating with life on planets orbiting other stars. 

That 25+ minute difference between the anomalistic and tropical years means that time of perihelion passage advances by about a day every 57 years. 

As of this moment (2016 May 18, 13:15 UTC), the Earth is 1.0116 astronomical units from the Sun. WA is smart enough to know that "Sun Earth distance in AU" is a time-dependent question. Update: The stricken text that follows from my original answer is incorrect. I am leaving it present (but stricken) for the sake of humility. It interpreted your query to mean Sun Earth distance today in AU, and because today is 2016 May 18 and because you didn't specify a time of day, it picked noon (UTC), it in turn interpreted your query to mean Sun Earth distance on 2016 May 18 at noon UTC in AU. The correct answer: I happened to ask WA the very question posed in the OP a couple of minutes apart and got two different answers (1.014 and 1.015 AU), and this did not occur across a day boundary. WA apparently interpreted your query to mean the current distance between the Sun and the Earth. You have to be very careful of what you ask WA. A better query is to ask WA What is the mean distance between the earth and the sun in AU? That query will give you an answer of 1.0000010178 au. An even better question is What is the semimajor axis of Earth's orbit? That will give you an answer of 1.00000011 au. Note the extra zero, but also note that for some reason, the precision is reduced. 

It's mere coincidence. In about 10,000 years, perihelion will coincide with the northern hemisphere summer solstice. There are two precessions of interest here. One is the 26,000 year period axial precession of the Earth's rotation axis, caused mostly by the Moon and the Sun; the other is the 112,000 year period apsidal precession of the Earth's orbit, caused mostly by Jupiter and Venus (but also with a pinch of help from general relativity). This result in three different concepts of a year: