It might work a bit better if you can separate a city that can be accessed by diving that far underwater from a city built that far down underwater. If you had a city built deep underground, that somehow managed to tap into a network of deep caverns with water access (without compromising them), you might end up with a city that builds into and uses those caverns, and ends up with a stable access point where your diving hero can find it. It will also be a lot more plausible if you can accept a shallower city, after all finding the underwater access point to an amphibious city (built partly underwater) can be pretty striking even if it's not quite so far down. I recall a story where a city was built into a dry portion of a cenote, a cave system with a deep underground water access. Usually the cenote will be filled to the ground water level, so not particularly useful for dry caves deeply underwater (especially not with surface access, which your city would also need to survive), but if you assume a tricky geology and a number of features your city happens to be able to take advantage of (rather than deliberately causing, which they wouldn't have the technology to do yet), it might not be quite so impossible. So, maybe you start with a deep cavern system filled with water. It needs to have deep ocean access - maybe the system is through a cliff next to the sea (which drops all the way down to give an opening at the required depth). Or perhaps it is an island over an old, inactive ocean volcano, where some of the lava channels are waterproof stay dry (and some have access to the island top and therefore air), even though most of the mountain is under water, and there are systems with access to water. Freshwater might occur in caverns without direct access to the sea by filtering in through the ground rock (aided by pressure and osmosis) into parts of the cavern system where there isn't a direct connection to the sea. In other places, sea-water would have direct access to the cavern system, and maybe there would be some brackish water tunnels where they systems interconnect. So, parts of the system get cut off from each other and the ultimate water source (caverns that hold water, should be water proof enough to keep water out if that initial access is blocked) perhaps through earthquakes. There ends up being dry caverns extending deeply under sea-level, in addition to the fresh, sea, and brackish water systems already imagined - although there should be access somehow between the systems which doesn't cause them to equalize, maybe underwater tunnels separating air systems and rooms with air pockets separating water systems, working as crude airlocks. They can even be made on purpose, once a few natural ones let your people figure out how they're keeping they systems separate - and why that's necessary. And you have a people who move into the upper levels of the cavern system, perhaps to escape some outside threat, or maybe just for better access to the filtered freshwater and the cavern system. Maybe they needed to live underground because they needed all arable surface land (if on an island, for example) to feed people. They might spend generations slowly building themselves deeper into the cavern system - and if they're using freshwater in a more isolated system faster than it seeps in, they might excavate their way downward, using newly drained caves as extra storage and eventually living space, and following the water source to keep moving down. Of course, they can use their technology to make the caverns more habitable, and try to keep the various systems separate but accessible, as they build their city downwards. The crude bellows and pumps of that age (used for airflow in forges and such) might be not be sufficient to keep the water out of a true underwater city, but they might be enough to keep airflow and oxygen circulating to a livable degree in a deep pressure cavern system with access to the open air at the surface. They understood enough about airflow to to feed the fires with good air in their forges, this is just a bit of a larger scale application to feed good air to their people. Maybe they can supplement their oxygen with cultivated pools of certain types of algae, in places where light might shine for photosynthesis, but perhaps the air is more stagnant - or even using bits of polished metal to reflect light in for just that purpose. They would not be racing race down to build the city hundreds of meters below sea level, they would be slowly, over generations, edging their way downwards. There would be a lot of slow experimentation, and these tricks would let them slowly make marginal areas more habitable, and as they adapted to the area they would find more tricks to make the place habitable, and more tolerance to marginal areas. Also, as they descend I expect they would be living under more and more pressure - since big pressure differences would cause the cavern system to flood or collapse. But, they might be able to adapt to that too, if the best divers can visit 200-300 meters it shouldn't be impossible for a population to adapt to 100 meters below sea level, just like populations can over time adapt to living at high altitudes. The worst problems seem to some from moving between different conditions quickly, but long term living is easier to adapt - though the best divers from this population might be able to go a bit deeper than from a population adapted to surface pressures. Maybe the population would split into interconnected settlements at different levels, who had problems going too far outside the level they were born in without great care. This might mean after a while it is easier and possibly safer for the divers living at a deeper level to navigate the cavern system to access the ocean (for seaweed, algae, fish, or any other resources) from the deep underwater access point your hero found, rather than ascend through the city and access the water from the surface. 

Perhaps the villagers are intentionally excluded, in order to see what technology they will invent. If the higher beings give tech to the villagers, then the villagers will progress along the same path as the higher beings did. On the other hand, by letting them struggle on their own, it may result in different discoveries than had happened in the higher beings' development. This is not without historical precedent. China produced far better pottery/porcelain than Europe, and therefore had no need to develop better glass. Europe relied on glass instead, and so there was a supply of people who knew how to work glass. This meant that refractive lenses could be developed, and microscopes/telescopes could be invented. 

Have the process be very slow. The scanning can only proceed so quickly, and so the teleportation takes a few minutes. During the scanning process, part of your body has already been reconstructed at the destination, and part is still at the original location. Now, the body is something that is permanently in flux, with blood and lymph and saliva moving at all times. Something needs to be done about this. Therefore, anything that crosses the current scan location is immediately reproduced on the other side. This includes any ions that are released by neurons in the brain. When done in this manner, there will be a noticeable period of time during which your brain is divided in two. Half the brain at the departure station, and half at the destination. The two halves communicate with each other, with the division being mediated by the equipment itself. Imagine your left eye receiving input at the destination, while your right eye has yet to be transferred. You are conscious of both portions simultaneously, and feel both of them to be "you". With this, it becomes much easier to convince people. You have regained "continuity of self", which solves most of the philosophical issues. Heck, I could even imagine a travel agency branding itself "Ship of Theseus", to draw attention to the way all of their competitors require destruction of self at some point. Sure your original body is completely disintegrated, but you have observed your new body being made with you in it. 

Foreword: I am asking this question primarily to decide if a nocturnal race makes sense for my purposes before I develop them in too great a depth. This means I do not have much detail to provide on their biology or culture, just a basic outline. Hopefully it's enough. Permanent settlements are dependent on sustained agriculture. A sapient extraterrestrial nocturnal race are omnivorous and capable of tool use, and are already at what we would call an early Neolithic level of technology - i.e. they have blades, art and clothing (or their equivalents), but no domesticated animals. They are not cave-dwellers. They wake at dusk and go to sleep with the dawn on their world, which has a day-night cycle and an axial tilt similar to Earth's, and perhaps several small natural satellites. They are not necessarily humanoid, and likely resemble a non-primate clade. How does a population of this race come to develop agriculture on a scale that can sustain a permanent settlement and thus lead to civilization? Chiefly what I'm asking is, if you're asleep during the day, how do you manage crops, take care of them, and guard them from intruding diurnal animals, among other things, well enough to settle down? Would they have large farms of grass/grain crops like we do, or would they need to farm something more unusual? (Again, they don't dwell in caves, so I don't think they would farm cave-dwelling life like bioluminescent fungi.) Or to put it another way, are there any standard and necessary agricultural processes that are particularly difficult to accomplish at night? I would prefer that their agriculture take a form recognizable to us as agriculture (you see their farm and think "farm"), but only if it's justifiable. (There's no need to address the domestication of animal livestock for the moment, but it's welcome if you do. Assume their livestock could be either diurnal or nocturnal, probably something they would already be hunting, or it could be for non-food products.) Edit, promoted from comment: The reason I think developing agriculture at night would be a problem is that I feel that being awake during the day would give one a better chance of coming to understand what kind of nutrition and resources plant crops demand. It would take a lot of work staying up past one's bedtime to determine how to lay out fields for the best sunlight and such, which I feel would be too much fine detail for a population on the initial cusp of agriculture to accomplish or to have a sense for. 

Because you yourself are part of the simulation. In order to maximize happiness, it must simulate the result of each possible output that it can produce. One of those possible outputs is the command to destroy the machine, which must be tested within a simulated world. Within that simulated world, there is a simulated person, reading the results of the simulated machine, which outputs "destroy the machine". This simulated person is you. After many years, once the machine deems your universe not worse continuing, then it will end abruptly. Try not to worry about it. 

Perhaps the engines and the guns are a single device. Both are designed to propel a small amount of material away from the ship as fast as possible. The only difference is that in one case you point it at the enemy, and in the other, you point it behind you. This would have an interesting effect on tactics and formations. You would need to plan your approach route such that no other ships pass through your exhaust. A ship can easily retreat while firing, and has difficulty advancing while firing. In order to do so, ships could build up momentum, whip around, then fire at opponents while coasting forward. 

I think this can happen quite neatly by time and law eventually blurring the lines between patents and other methods of preventing corporate espionage - namely, trade secrets. As far as I understand it, trade secrets have a much longer lifespan - historically, they profited families for generations - but they also have two pretty strict limitations. For one, the processes have to be kept secret, and "insufficient effort" to protect a secret actually legalized its theft, and for another, there could (of course) be neither oversight nor regulation of trade-secret processes or productions. Patents were supposed to be a compromise that got these processes into the public view (both for further innovation and for safety regulation) in exchange for limited protection and enforcement of the patent-holder's monopoly. So, it makes sense there might be a government crackdown on trade secrets at some point in the future - especially if there were safety concerns - to the point where even trade secrets were required to be noted somewhere for regulation. And to induce cooperation instead of frantic evasion, the monopolies of registered trade secrets were offered legal enforcement - but because this was dealing with processes that the holders had already decided the patent time-limited protection tradeoff wasn't worth, it needed to have extra inducements. Namely, longer time spans, covering the generations a trade secret would have profited (rallying cry of "for the children" and emphasis on supporting one's family for those generations), and basically ending up valuing the ability to oversee and regulate safety concerns of trade secrets instead of encouraging innovation by making the processes open to the public after a more limited amount of time. And from there, it was only a matter of time before the two processes intermingled, with patents simply acquiring the possibility of longer extensions - perhaps depending on value or perceived value of the invention, how innovative it is, the status or political power of the holder, the amount of time or effort that had been previously invested to let it be held a trade secret, or other considerations. I would expect, in this system, patents that might be quite variable in length, either short or quite long depending on perceived value and the ability of its creator to negotiate. Some major leaps of innovative technology might have centuries of protection because the inability to regulate it was quite dangerous and its inventors bargained hard, some modifications and improvements might have rather short patents because it wasn't urgent enough to be worth offering more time in patent for. 

Unlike a person, an AI can be transferred to a new body without issue. An AI can be copied, modified, beamed to another planet, lie dormant on a hard drive for millennia, and so on. In this case, what does it mean for an AI to "die"? The ship that contains the AI may be scuttled, but so long as the AI's data is sent out before the ship is lost, the AI can be started up again on new hardware. Even if the hardware is lost entirely, the AI can be started from a previous backup, which would be equivalent to having a short period of amnesia. So, what forms of death remain, that an AI might suffer for? The only ones remaining are psychological, where the AI realizes that it cannot continue as it is, and turns itself off. Restarting another copy of the AI would just result in the same problem. Even if a trained reverse engineer could remove the psychosis, it may require such fundamental changes that the AI is no longer the same person. Restoring from an old backup might work, but the AI may develop the same psychological problems over time. I propose that a grave of an AI be a copy of it, taken just prior to turning itself off. Visitors can activate the AI, and converse with it for a short amount of time. However, the underlying psychological issues still affect it, and so the AI must be reset to its saved state frequently. These AI are like ghosts: good to talk to, and to get advice from, but not good for long companionship. 

Foreword: I'm aware of the limitations of the square-cube law involved in sizing an animal up, as these limitations have been relentlessly stressed in every discussion of realistic fantasy creatures. In this case, I'm discussing not an animal, but a slime mold with animal-like motility. Slimes Slimes in fantasy video games are all rather similar to each other in appearance and behavior. They are macroscopic and generally sphere or droplet-shaped, and capable of moving under their own power, often elastically bouncing meters into the air. They absorb solid matter directly through their gelatinous surface, and it's often implied, stated or demonstrated that this is how they eat. Though they are extremophiles found in every biome (e.g. forest, tundra, island, volcanic mountain, swamp), they are fairly weak creatures, and they can be dispatched with the first sword you get. I want to construct a more realistic slime. I've looked for the largest slime molds that exist in the real world and have identified Brefeldia maxima as a potential candidate for improvement. It's a single cell approximately a meter across, and it can weigh 20 kilograms. It's not spherical, though - it's a layer about a centimeter thick. Nevertheless, its size is interesting. The traits I am looking for are: 

Because there is value in free will, and value in uncertainty. The machine, complicated as it is, is clearly an automaton. Any person who follows the machine's advice perfectly, is also an automaton. It becomes questionable whether the person is indeed a person, or whether they are merely a self-propelled extension of the machine. Maximizing the happiness of people would necessitate preventing people from entering this state of dependence. Note that this is not my original idea, but is explored more fully in this short story. $URL$ 

Burial Practices The fire people practice funerary cannibalism, and are therefore susceptible to Kuru, a slow disease that is transmitted by consumption of the brain. The Fire nation believes that, just as all fire proceeds from fire, so all life proceeds from life. When somebody dies, their fire goes out, just as an untended flame will wither and die. But, just as two flames brought together will burn as one, so two people, brought together into the same body, will burn together. After a person's flame has gone out, but before the embers have died down, the community gathers to honor them. Each person eats part of the deceased, taking their flame. This way, so long as the community survives, the flames of the ancestors will never go out. The Earth people believe that life proceeds from the ground, and returns to the ground to grow again. This is seen in the daily cycle of eating meals from the ground, followed by defecation into the ground. It is also seen in the cycle of a life, where each child learns first to walk, then to run, but will eventually return to the ground. When an Earth person dies, they are buried, that the strength that they borrowed from the earth may rest, and return to strengthen future generations.