I have the same issue in my job, and I shifted my thinking so that rather than pushing back on everything I ask myself the following questions: 1. Is it something that is quick for me to do, but hard for the other person to do? I think in your case, this is a big "YES". It can win a lot of appreciation from the other person. You might also find yourself in a position where you have something that you need to do, which someone else can do much more easily - in a "do unto others as you would have them do unto you" frame of mind, prioritize helping in these situations. 2. Will it take more time to fight it than to do it? Sometimes just doing it is easier than the back and forth of saying no. 3. What will the long-term effect be of agreeing to do this work? On the one hand. saying yes once can lead to the expectation that you will always say yes, and can lead to a slippery slope down to more work that doesn't match your job duties. On the other hand, you can gain appreciation and respect from the other departments as a helpful team player. 4. To what extent does it affect my ability to do my job (the one in the job description) Would my manager want me to spend my time on this? Your manager is likely the one who wrote your job description. If your marketing tasks fall behind because of spending time on the other departments' needs, will s/he be ok with it? You can also use your manager as a gatekeeper for this type of request 

That's exactly what you're doing, one way or another. Stop talking like this immediately. It's unprofessional and undermines your position. We all get frustrated and have these sorts of thoughts - plenty of mine go a lot farther than geez is this guy autistic or what? - but expressing them isn't productive and eats away at your attitude. However, keeping them bottled up can do the same thing. Vent as needed, but do it over a beer (or however you best like to relax) with some friends (not coworkers), well away from anything even approaching work. 

I've made such a move, though across a much bigger cultural gap than USA / Australia. Some general things: 

A little. Mostly you're coming to the wrong conclusions. Include the short experience. It's relevant to what you're applying for and you want to emphasize it. It lowers the fragmentation of your history, rather than increasing it. Without this, you'll just have a gap before the year of C++ (which isn't going to hurt you as much as you seem to think). On a short resume, every little bit helps. 

That's fantastic. They were making a new and unusual product and picked you to design it, even though you were in a different department. They recognized your talent and asked for you to take on a relatively big responsibility. Whether the product made it or not commercially doesn't matter, because that's almost entirely out of your hands. Definitely include this; it shows you were noticeable in a positive way. 

If you do believe that people are interested in these events, perhaps telling everyone verbally at a meeting and asking for people to commit to coming at that moment is the wrong medium for your message. People might be intimidated by the herd mentality, so that even if they are interested in an event, they are unlikely to stick their neck out and say so. They might want to check their calendars to see if they are free. They might want to check with their friends to see if they are going. No one wants to be the only one to sign up... My suggestion would be that you could mention the topics at the meeting, but then summarize them in an email, and have people sign up with you by replying to that email. This would help let them plan their schedules a bit, and make it less of a social burden to sign up on the spot. You could also add a bit of enticement / pressure to it by saying "only 3 spots left!" 

My office, also in Belgium, also large and corporate, has a similar policy. The advantage for the company is liquidity and cash flow - they put that burden back on the employee and it must somehow justify those disadvantages that you listed. The difference in my case is that my company has two things in place that make it better for the employee, which you could suggest to your company: 1) They offer a company credit card (American Express) at no charge to the employee, with a high credit limit. The credit card still links back to my current account each month, but at least it buys some time for waiting for the reimbursement from the company. And then I never have to use my personal credit card for business purposes, which means I don't get stuck when I reach the low credit limits that are normal here. 2) The risk of lost receipts is decreased because there is a form you can fill out attesting to the loss of a receipt, which is then signed by your manager. The company tracks these, and I'm sure if you were losing receipts all the time, they would come talk to you...but at least you still get paid back. Also, they don't require a receipt for amounts less than 20 eur.