"From phassa as a condition, vedanā arises. With the absense of phassa, vedanā does not come to be" (paraphrasing). The above is not quite a description of a detailed cognitive chronological process for the arising of a specific pleasant/unpleasant feeling. It declares on what basis something (eg. vedanā; any vedanā) comes to be, and on what basis something does not. It's also strange to see it as "two people experiencing the same contact", which may also lead one to think that two people experienced the same experience (which they never do). A summary of a not-quite chronological cognitive process is described in the suttas as originating in phassa (from external sense base, internal sense base and corresponding viññāṇa) going through sañña and vedanā. A detailed analysis is elaborated in abhidhamma (image from Abhidhammatha Sangaha): 

"My question here is, is "the visible world is an illusion or dream" the main topic of Buddhism?" No, it's not the main topic of Buddhism. From the Pali canon point of view, it's also not a claim of Buddhism that the world is an illusion. In contrast, the main topics of Buddhism are the nature of suffering, the nature of pleasure, the ultimate freedom of suffering, and the ultimate pleasure (born from the freedom of suffering). It's visible from the sutras that the Buddha refrained himself from making many ontological statements -- statements about "what is out there" and the nature of "what is out there". And some people seem to believe he refrained from making any ontological statements at all, which may induce the idea that he regarded the world as an illusion. In general, however, his concerns with the world starts when a stimulus is "perceived" -- when sense data is contacted. The nature or reality of what lies behind what has been sensed is not dwelled on. Thus, generally speaking, the formulations of the World from the Buddha are in terms of the senses. 

Is there anything out there in the zen tradition about whether "silence" (do I mean this metaphorically) is to be embraced in meditation? 

This question may sound strange, but in my secular frustrations, I'm thinking about "the past" as some kind of womb which has nourished and given birth to "me" now. Do Buddhists, of any sort, have a name for the past? How does it feature in any doctrines of Buddhist salvation? Does anyone equate the past with the womb of the Tathagata? 

A tentative answer from thinking about what I have read: Suchness is the experience of being burnt, or seeing the colour red. Myriad phenomena are the qualitative aspects of those experiences - what it is like. And only qualia are experienced, just as there is no qualia without an experience of them. 

And then proceeds to argue about them (which I cannot make complete sense of). Is the idea that a conditioned cause must be conditioned by its effect, in the sense of having it as a part? 

In the suttas, we see the Buddha regarding a wise person one who reflects that grasping and insisting firmly on a view would create clashes and disputes with those who hold a different view. "Where there is a dispute, quarreling. Where there is quarreling, annoyance. Where there is annoyance, frustration.' Envisioning for himself clash, dispute, quarreling, annoyance, frustration, he both abandons that view and does not cling to another view. Thus there is the abandoning of these views; thus there is the relinquishing of these views." (MN I 500) He also sets an example when saying: 

This is a dead end. I think the issue is much like vaccine having the appearance of a contradiction: a person is cured by making her ill. The details that are important to make a better sense of it are implicit or words are too overloaded. On a different approach, consider again an instruction to repeat the metta quote above: 

"It just seems obvious to me that sensation isn't always there. I get an itch and then it's gone. I have a pain and then it's gone etc etc. maybe I'm misunderstanding this concept??" Yes, it's as ordinary as you put. "Does it mean that for example an itch that lasts for 10 seconds is not continuous for the 10 second duration?" You can refine the observation as much as you are able to and observe differences in the itch during these 10 seconds. A crucial point in these observations is that it's not stable: "it" mutates (impermanence). A second crucial point is that it doesn't seem proper to regard "it" as a substance, because scrutinizing it fails to uncover that "it", that substance. What is there is an on going process changing over time. Any substance we find there, upon scrutiny, is shown to be, ultimately, another underlying process. "And same with a pain? Perhaps my concentration is not strong enough to ever notice this. I try to examine a sensation sometimes but an itch just seems like an itch to me." Some people, unable to make it go away, may come to think an itch is something that can be there forever. Some other people may think an itch is an act of spirits. Other people may think that an itch is something that knows you did something bad in the past and is punishing you. This variety might illustrate the kind of people that was exposed to this practice. Then, the practice would help these people see what you just said without the added color and imagination (it's but an itching) but also get in touch with it's workings and real nature. It get's interesting when instead of itch, we are talking about anger...or even love. Aspirations, fears and desires, things we dislike and so on. Of course, more so if the subject of investigation is ourselves. "Sitting, noticing breath, thinking, noticing breath, itch, thinking, notice breath etc. It feels more and more pointless everyday. I don't seem to be learning to see the "true nature of reality" or heading toward "enlightenment" Why not? Where am I going wrong?" The development of this practice (in particular, associated with mindfulness of breathing), when correctly exercised, has a few benefits such as: 

This way of thinking about them splits each of the first (metta, karuna, mudita) three into two parts, one for one-self and one for everyone else In Buddhism we don't want to make a harsh distinction between self and others but from a practical point of view this can (for example) help us to remember to have self-compassion. One downside is that there is a larger risk of not seeing our suffering as the suffering of others and the suffering of others as our own The last (upeksha) i have divided into two parts where the first is inner peace for oneself and the other is non-discrimination Question Is this (above) a practical way to think about the four immeasurables? (Practical in the sense of getting closer to living in line with them). Are there other ways to think about them that you can recommend and that can help us achieve living with them on a daily basis? (Please provide references to books or other materials if you can) Grateful for help and with kind regards, Tord 

You probably know this already but the name of the texts that preserve the teachings of the Buddha are called suttas (or sutras). Generally speaking, they are the closest records of what the buddha might have taught. Other than these texts, the teachings of the Buddha survive through transmission from master to disciples across millennia spread through many branches. These are likely the only sources of the teachings and both present problems of trust and authenticity (This does not mean current teachers are not to be trusted, nor that texts are not to be trusted, only that one needs to be at least aware of the problems one may encounter). On the suttas, they are voluminous and were written down at different periods -- some of them arguably composed at different periods as well. One particular collection is often considered to be the earliest part (and, to many, the most authentic): these are the four nikayas/agamas (Dīgha, Majjhima, Samyutta, Anguttara) plus the Vinaya. Translations of these collections to many languages are available online. They are also available in physical books in english (see here, here, here and here). These collections had translations preserved by many schools across many countries through centuries without much exchanges with each other, in particular, Tibet, Sri Lanka and China. The oldest texts are preserved in Sanskrit, Pali, and Classical Chinese, respectively. None of these are believed to be the language the Buddha spoke (some speculate that Pali might be a language close to their tongue). A fifth book, Khuddaka Nikaya, is a miscellaneous collection and seem to have more divergences across recensions, mixing what seems to be older and newer compositions. Some schools also developed a third basket: the Abbidhamma, whose origin is not clear (some believe it was a project initiated by the Buddha to systematize the teachings, some believe it was developed by the schools as they attempted to solve conflicts between them or to clarify ambiguous passages, etc). Two important take aways from the four Nikayas: 

Did anyone ask the Buddha what their rebirth will be? I'm just asking 'cos that's what I would ask, if I knew of any 'Buddha'. 

I like the question. Right view is the first step in Theravada Buddhism, so it makes sense that you're not getting anywhere, supposing you lack it. If you don't have "right view" you have a few obvious alternatives to choose, not necessarily mutually exclusive: 

It is often said that nirvana is bliss. What I'm struggling with, and have been for years now, despite reading a fair amount, is whether nirvana, being blissful, is not just objectively so. i.e. is nirvana good for the buddha or saint that achieves it? Because if it is, then I don't think it can only be an end to the causal series. Just like, when a fire has stopped burning, we don't say the fire is not hot. 

Obviously there are lay Buddhists, even-though monks, mendicants, are traditionally not allowed to handle money at all. Raga is one of the three poisons 

From Wikipedia: "Today Pāli is studied mainly to gain access to Buddhist scriptures, and is frequently chanted in a ritual context. [...] In Europe, the Pali Text Society has been a major force in promoting the study of Pāli by Western scholars since its founding in 1881. Based in the United Kingdom, the society publishes romanized Pāli editions, along with many English translations of these sources. In 1869, the first Pali Dictionary was published using the research of Robert Caesar Childers, one of the founding members of the Pali Text Society. It was the first Pāli translated text in English and was published in 1872. Childers's dictionary later received the Volney Prize in 1876. The Pali Text Society was founded in part to compensate for the very low level of funds allocated to Indology in late 19th-century England and the rest of the UK; incongruously, the citizens of the UK were not nearly so robust in Sanskrit and Prakrit language studies as Germany, Russia, and even Denmark. Even without the inspiration of colonial holdings such as the former British occupation of Sri Lanka and Burma, institutions such as the Danish Royal Library have built up major collections of Pāli manuscripts, and major traditions of Pāli studies." 

From Red Pine's translation page 283. Are ordinary fools right to call "Maha Nirvana" death: is that an aspect of it? 

These three complete the Triptaka and can't be added to. However, there are important books which don't belong to Tripitaka but are assumed to be authentic. E.g. Buddhaghosa's Visuddhimagga, which is similar to the Abhidhamma. Other early Buddhist schools had their own Tripitaka, similar to Theravada but with different abhidhamma authors, a different vinaya, and with a slightly altered set of suttas. 

Enlightenment is not being without thinking, and is not a feeling. AFAIK and as far as my research into this. Some schools of zen meditation taught that but they died out. 

if I am mad and my action would not have been performed if not for loss of reality (i.e. psychosis) will I still bear its -ve fruit? As a Buddhist or otherwise. Please answer sensitively :) 

Fear is to be overcome in Buddhism, though IIRC there's a point made in the abdhidharma that lacking good fear is a bad thing, an obstacle to practice. So, internally speaking, Buddhist philosophy and religion is motivated by fear. If we cross the road to avoid traffic, then that it motivated by the traffic. I have even, I think, seen it suggested that it's only fear of suffering which the Buddha conquered. However, the idea of practicing Buddhism out of fear of bad karma is I think a fairly coarse understanding of the philosophy and religion. 

Just like one believes, in first day of class, that the calculus teacher knows calculus and is not drawing random graphics in the blackboard and at the end, come to the conclusion he/she learned some mathematics, so a buddhist practitioner trains and, upon observing the changes undertaken, concludes the dharma is visible and subject to investigation and scrutiny when put into experience. 

A little bit about science, proofs and buddhism bellow. "Check out my reasoning and tell me where it's flawed." 

In these ways, he alerts about the delicate trap of drawing wrong conclusions based on what one believes to be careful examinations (either by some experience or by some abstract reasoning) but that weren't careful enough. Moreover, he illustrates flaws using as example contemporary theories (eternalism, annihilationism, and the spectrum in between) pushed by other sects. With these things in mind, he did not claim rebirth or views/knowledge of past existence to be false. Quite the opposite, he declares himself to have the ability to recall his past existences (and often describes episodes from them). Finally, exploring this ability is also part of an often-repeated formula for arahantship (and arahants are also described developing this ability). In MN 39, after exposing the Fourth Jhana: 

Are there any other texts that bring up this subject? What have later Buddhist teachers said about this? References (from Sutras or otherwise) are welcome! Grateful for help and with kind regards, Tord 

What Internet-based Sangha groups are out there? For the Plum Village tradition there is a list on plumline.org Are there any other lists of online Sanghas you can share? Grateful for help and with kind regards, Tord 

i've been trying to practice following the whole length of the in-breath and the whole length of the out-breath, and i can see that my attention often slips between the breaths. Any thoughts on what to focus on between two breaths? Grateful for help and with kind regards, Tord 

Now things are much better for me but I still have negative thoughts about people from time to time, and I "get stuck" in these thoughts. When this happens what I try to do is to: 

I could say more but I wanted to share what has worked in my own experience. I hope this will help you in some way Kind Regards, Tord 

Apparently, the foremost Dada poet in Japan was possessed by mara, and ended up in an ayslum. Very intriuging, I think. 

I was reading about the Cathars, and was really struck by the scale of persecution by Christians of Christian heretics. Obviously there are reasons for that besides not meditating well enough. But in the 2,500 year history of Buddhism all I can think of in those terms is some political manoeuvring in Tibet, and arguments. 

Kamma-bhava is what recreates the next rebirth. Sankhara is kamma-bhava considered without the "associated mental states". I think I see no way round this, besides questioning Buddhaghosa or the accuracy of the commentary. Unless sankhara is empty in a different way to kamma-bhava :/ 

I don't understand the formless jhanas. Does this meditator completely lose consciousness of form, or are they meditating on something formless and, apart from that, as before? I've read the abhidharmakosa bhashyam, of Vasubhadhu, and he says that a mediator of this sort will be later reborn into a realm without form, so that suggests that there are sentient beings without any of the sense consciousnesses. But I just find the idea impossible, to be honest. Interesting, one of those books says that some Buddhists claim that there is a residue of visual consciousnesses there.