If a planet had diffrent crustal composition, more felsic rock less mafic rock, or for laymen more granite less basalt . it would not have the huge ocean we have now but lots of more isolated "seas" 

have a period where the magnetic poles are switching, you end up with constant emp effects, only hardened electronics will work, which means most electronics are useless and electronics become ridiculously expensive. won't get rid of it entirely but it's not going to be common. downside much higher solar radiation so more skins cancer, greater crop sensitivity, a few bird species go nuts, and few smaller problems. 

No, not given your criteria anyway, but it is possible with two foods even ar most nutrient rich foods like sweet potatoes, Brassicae, eggs or fish, are still deficient is some vitamins or minerals. Many like shellfish also have fairly hard limits on production. Now it might be possible to genetically alter them to produce those nutrients as well, breeds of rice and wheat have both been successfully altered to be more nutritious, there is just little incentive to design an all in one food. Eating an animal (as long as you eat everything) can fulfill your nutritional requirements but has its own problems. Now there are human populations that survive off eating a single livestock animal and nothing else but the majority of the world's population would not survive off such a diet, things like gout would be widespread. If you limited yourself to say two or three sources (say one animal and one plant) this becomes plausible, A high nutrient yield plant like brassica, sweet potato or wheat, plus meat or fish is quite sustainable. The animal produce provides the broad spectrum and the plant source provides an alternative calorie source to the meat and provides starch, fiber, and extra vitamins. Works even better if the animal is a two for one and supplies milk or eggs. This does bring up the question of would beef plus cheese made from cow milk count as a single source or two, how about turkey and their eggs? 

is really easy, many ships carried doctors. is tricky bathing requires more fresh water, a lot more, so desalinations (or purification) would be the only workable solution. But desalination is not going to happen without magic because you just can't carry enough fuel to desalinate on a voyage of any length. Bathing in salt water for prolonged periods is not good. you may want to consider magical technology instead of direct casting, modern ships use desalination or purification for grey water. 

The kicker and why it will not work. However mammals produce well developed offspring which need more calories. Humans are particularly egregious and consume a tremendous amount of calories in the womb, around 84,000 calories (~300 calories per day average times 280 days). And becasue much of it is going to the brain much of it has to be protein and carbohydrates. Eggs have a calorie density of about 1.44 calories per gram so that is about a 266 lb egg, that's a big egg, larger than the person laying it. Bigger proportionally than a kiwi egg, the largest proportional vertebrate egg (see image). So it is just impossible, mammals evolved to feed far more calories to their offspring than an egg can contain. Even if you use a far more conservative estimate and half the size of the egg that is still far to large an object for anything like human anatomy to have room for. Your best bet is something like an egg laying marsupial with a pouch to feed, support, and protect an underdeveloped egg produced offspring which will be far less developed than human offspring, which are already rather helpless as placental newborns go. 

A bigger consideration is their tech level, how do you get them out of the stone age. the better question is how they develop metalworking without fire. It sounds out of place but without metal or glass you are severely limited on options for communication. there are lots of technological basics that become prohibitively difficult under water, no electricity becasue no metal and no way to generate it. no glass and no ceramics although they could make optics with membrane lenses. You might need to make your species amphibious if you want them to develop advanced technology. 

Nets or hooks, They don't need to be strong enough to capture just strong enough to change its trajectory in flight. All they need to do is wait for it to dive then snag it and make it hit the ground, its own speed and mass will tear it into chunky salsa. Dynamite or gunpowder, alternatively they can just dynamite its cave and crush it or explode it. Both were common in the west for mining. If they don't want to get that close they can shell it from a distance for the same effect. Artillery were common enough thanks to the war. Punt guns Aka "I need to kill an entire flock of ducks with one shot" They were quite common at the time. tear its wings to shreds and let gravity do the rest. 

Your skeleton is already essentially made of dentin. The only difference between dentin and bone is the relative proportions of the components and what shape it is laid down in. All vertebrate skeletons are essentially made of the same stuff as dentin; Hydroxyapatite and protein binders. Ther proportions vary wildly across all the bones in the body so it is not really important that the proportions are different. Bone is more porous than dentin most of the time but that is just about how it is laid down. Bone is deposited with larger channels than dentin because bone needs to be restructured and repaired so it needs spaces for the cells that do this. Dentin has channels as well they are just smaller. Consider a steel I beam vs a steel file, they are both made of steel they are just different shapes with slightly different amounts of iron, carbon, and additives. 

Alternatively crucifictions (which normally involves tying the person to the cross) where the person dies of asphyxiation. Both were rather common forms of execution. 

the main advantage of meteorite iron is it is far purer than the vast majority of earthly sources, and removing impurities is the single biggest limitation is the strength of early steel. It is really hard to make quality steel when you don't know what is in the iron to begin with, especially things like silica, oxides, and carbon, the things iron rich meteorites have very little of. The forging is still the same (maybe a bit easier since you don't have to do excessive folding) but it is the turning of ore into usable metal that is much easier. Better raw material often translates into a better finished product, the steel has the same properties throughout, not mixed mess full of weak points. Compared to modern steel meteorite iron is crap, but you need industrialization and advanced chemistry to make modern steel. Compared to the bog iron and bloom steel of the time it is wonderful and until advanced smelting techniques (crucible steel, ~8th century) and high quality ores are discovered it is the best raw material available. So up until around the 6-8th century meteorite iron would have been better than anything and would stay better than most for quite a while afterwards. 

for small vehicles and rockets, biofuels including methane are very feasible, there is a fungi that manufacture diesel a engineered form of it could do it easily. A bacterial vat used to turn waste into fuel is possible. better yet you can tailor your production instead of using fractionation. on Mars the Sabatier reaction is what you want. for trains, transport infrastructure nuclear and solar are solid options. as for orbital transport space elevators or launching railgun will drastically reduce the need for fuel since they can use the electrical grid. few vehicles will work well on more than one planet, just due to the atmospheric and temperature differences. 

No, nothing you could carry will allow you to survive a pyroclastic flow, and nothing that cannot survive a large bomb explosion will survive one either. THis is what the forces involved can do, this was a steel reinforced concrete column, that has had several inches of its surface scoured away by a single event, the forces involved also ripped the top off bending the steel rebar in the direction of the flow. And that is before you get to the heat and toxic gasses. 

several reasons Denial, many people just won't face their own mortality. This is the same reason young people don't buy health insurance or create retirement funds. Hope, your lottery helps a lot, people are willing to bet on longshots all the time especially with no alternative. Familiarity, some people cope with tragedy by retreating to familiarity, this ties in tightly with denial. 

this also gives you a frequency you can map. So some types will be more common than others. If those genes are not the end result but instead code for the activation protein for different pathways, then cofactors don't even have to be related to each other. AA = type 1 AB = BA = type 2 BB = type 3 AO = OA = type 4 BO = OB = type 5 OO = type 6 Of course you could have the super rare chimera individual who expresses all three and thus is something else, because they are not actually one person biologically. Biological chimera are extremely rare and are a product of zygote fusion. These may occur no matter how you decide to establish the genetics. You can also just ignore these individuals and say they self destruct in the womb.