The saṃyuttanikāya cakkhusutta that was quoted by the topic owner, already answered by buddha. Rāhula asked for an object (dhamma) for contemplating (insight meditation), so buddha answered 6 āyatana (dhamma) that have 3 characterizes (dhamma's property) for contemplating, to him. 

This life's profit and next life's profit are done together by sati (appamāda). So, person who do just this life's profit or next life profit is pamāda person. see: $URL$ Nibbāna profit can be accessed by practitioner after he perfect finished to meditate magga. And that magga can start to meditate after sīla is done. 

Have you ever see the pros of your enemy such as "they still not kill you"? That is the pros but you never thinking of it, because you hate your enemy's pros, too. 

Own-mind is perfect done to be pure (by perfect practiced arahanta-ariya; arahatta-phala [best magga-kamma's vipāka]), This every sequence, 3 sequences, is teaching of every buddha. 

Visuddhimagga silaniddesa wrote that bhikkhu's rules in vinaya pitaka appear 91,805,036,000 rules. If you have ever been monk you will understand that it is not just the similitude counting. The number in your question are just uddesa that bhikkhu must recite in fortnightly meeting day (uposatha). Those are just little example rules, in 91,805,036,000 rules that appear in vinaya pitaka. 

Living satta. Be aware satta's living. Killing consciousness arising "I will kill it". Try to kill by that consciousness. Satta die by that effort. 

if it is unintentional = no physical effort; if he does not know = such as sleeping; if he is not aiming at death = very hard painful suffering, he can't realize anything else; if he is insane = schizophrenia; if he is the first offender = just sudinna-bhikkhu, the first bhikkhu who have a sex, then buddha use his case as the cause to create the pathamaparajika-sikkhapada. 

However, the fact is nothing can act like that. Every aggregate arising and vanishing depending (paṭiccasamuppānna, saṅkhata) on many variant causes (paṭiccasamuppada), so they are impermanant, and unpleasant. And by that no ability to control anything even itself, therefore aggregate is anatta. Even nibbāna can not control anything, too. So nibbāna is anattā, also. But it is not anicca and not dukkha, because nibbāna not depending on any causes (asaṅkhata). So, nibbāna is not anicca and not dukkha, too. 

If it's possible, the practitioner should move to the better place, to avoid to waste the time on non meditation's object, because mind can have just one object per arising. Or if it's not possible, ignore them, don't focus on them. Because the practitioner must has just meditation's object, focus. So the practitioner must take his mind back to meditation's object, such as breath of ānāpānassati meditation. For an advance insight meditation practitioner, balava-vipassanā, he has a powerful ability to meditate in every situation. But the beginners practitioners can't act like him, because their mind's focus can easily stolen by non meditation's object more than his powerful skillful meditation's object. 

So, the practitioner must (1) avoids the unwholesome-thought's physical actions by the virtual, then (2) avoids the unwholesome-thought's objects by samatha-meditation, jhāna, and then (3) destroys attachments with whole possible-arising-chance of unwholesome-thought by vipassanā-meditation. 

You can see through above cases that the arguments of buddhist hypothesis by the students/scholars in reading study system, began from misunderstanding. 

Base Direct Seeing (Kamma Sammādiṭṭhi) Realizing/thinking of kamma system, wholesome actions and wholesome resultants of wholesome actions & unwholesome actions and unwholesome resultants of unwholesome actions, after know anything by any senses. Concentration Direct Seeing (Jhāna Sammādiṭṭhi) Realizing/thinking of jhāna system, wholesome minds and wholesome resultants of wholesome minds & unwholesome minds and unwholesome resultants of unwholesome minds, after know anything by any senses. Access To Insight Direct Seeing (Vipassanā Sammādiṭṭhi) Realizing/thinking of paticcasamuppāda system, causes of whole suffering (5 aggregates), after know anything by any senses. This viewing will lead to see 3 characterizes. Note: I understand whole tipitaka-pali without cutting anything off, because I use this 6, the other 3 is for ariya, sammādiṭṭhi that summary from tipitaka by commentary. 

Note1: Sakkāya is not only internal, because there are internal clinging-aggregates, internal sakkāya, and external clinging-aggregates, external sakkāya, which are contemplating by the practitioner in Cūlavedallasutta and Sutta. Ma. Mū. Sacca-pabba of Satipaṭṭhānasuttaṃ (<< this link is a good translation of this sutta). 

Therefore, paphassara-citta is included in one synonym of citta In abhidhamma, dhammasaṅgiṇī, kusalacittuppādakaṇṭa: 

Mettā VS Mettā Jhāna VS Mettā Meditation & Karuṇā Metta is wishing to give happiness to the other living life(s). Mettā jhāna is perfect and successful concentration that focusing in a living life by that wishing-to-give-happiness-method. Mettā Meditation is that mettā jhāna in advance. The mettā practitioner who attained mettā jhāna in a person, will meditate in the other persons more to attain mettā jhāna in each person, or groups. They will meditate like that until they can attain mettā jhāna in every people as the same quality/volume/feeling/etc. This is called sīmasambheda (mettā limitation cessation). Karuṅā is wishing to help one cease from suffering, pain, hurt, etc. So, in venāgasutta: 

Your master telling you that your meditation not progress. And when I consider your detail I think I know what is the cause makes your meditation not progress. It is because of wrong meditation's procedure. In tipitaka and commentary, vipassanā-meditation never has special activity like that. Vipassanā-meditation analyses everything as 5 aggregates, etc, then it focuses on these 5 aggregates' 3 characteristics. So, what you trying to do is not vipassanā-meditation in tipitaka and commentary. It looks like ānāpānassati-samatha-meditation, but you looks confusing it's procedure. Therefore, I advise you to read ānāpānassati-samatha-meditation, here. The other advising, you should not focus on belly, you should focus only on your breath at the tip of nose. 

In advance, the whole tipitaka is about jhāna, include sīla&vinaya. For more focusing, see paṭisambhidāmagga. For the summary, see Path of Purification (Visuddhimagga). For more focusing, except 1st and 2nd chapter of Visuddhimagga, then all chapters, after that, is about jhāna, ārammaṇūpanijjhāna&lakkhaṇūpanijjhāna. 

The oral study system, mukkhapatha, still going on at pa-auk monastery. By this study system, you can practice every meditation step by step. The teacher will teach you just a bit per meeting for easily to memorize and to practice. This monastery may not give you an insight meditation first, because jhana is very important for an advance insight meditation. So, pa auk teacher will teach you jhana, first. After that you will ready for an advance insight meditation. $URL$ 

No any meditation allows unwholesome arise. Because buddha taught samatha to the practitioner to clear unwholesome of the practitioner, before he wil meditate vipassanā: 

No, buddhism purpose to enlighten nibbāna, both lay man and ordained man can meditate to enlighten nibbāna. But the ordained man is expedient to do, because of their discipline life-style. Similitude, you can learn in the university, and you can learn by yourself. 

No need any applying, because it is called kammassakatā-right-view, that is a base of concentration-right-view and insight-right-view. So, you can see it in many sutta for lay people in tipitaka. Because in my opinion, kammassakatā-right-view is sīla-right-view and dāna-right-view. 

*Saṅkhāra, which means cause-saṅkhāra, use in more fixed meaning word, such as saṅkhāra-khandha, saṅkhāra-paṭiccasamuppāda. You can notice it in each context, because it is already appear clearly. 

It is suttamayañāṇa. So, when you labeling emotions and feelings for samatha, it is samatha, such as in visuddhimagga kammaṭṭhānaggahananiddesa. But when you labeling emotions and feelings for vipassanā, it is vipassanā, such as in visuddhimagga khandhaniddesa. 

In the path of purification concentration preparation chapter, the concentration practitioner must has well enough self managements, such as exercise, nutrition, friend, etc, before to make the meditation growing up. 

The buddhist scriptures trying to fix the problem formed from Hindu concepts. But you biasing. So you concluded and decided like "Buddhist scriptures are mixed with Hindu concepts as milk and water". 

Yes, he did. The example, it is one big problem of bhikkhu, who live in forests, so buddha taught to manage ghost in vinaya, many time. But the most of western people hate ghost theory, so the tipitaka translators often avoid to translate sutta about ghost into english. Everything such as ghost, human, deva, etc., are just causes and effects (paticcasamuppada), so ghost also is causes and effects. Ghost is not a special stuff in theravada buddhism. 

Buddha taught everything, included better feeling consciousness, is suffering (dukkha). Those teaching disclaim "consciousness which feels better". But the the path (magga), to abandon that whole suffering, has arise with better feeling, in every step. So someone think wrong that "Buddhism lead to eternal happiness". Because if buddha taught about "consciousness which feels better", so he shouldn't taught that "better feeling consciousness, is suffering". P.S. In commentary said that magga happy feeling and phala happy feeling are suffering, too. But tanha can't desire them, so the practitioners have not to vipassana in magga and phala. 

Each reality has many aspects in self because it is arised by many causes, except nibbāna. Also, those, many aspects of each reality, are the answers that why it, each reality, makes many effects, too. Buddha taught just some aspect or some paccaya of an effect, because of the ability of listener. It doesn't mean an effect has just that paccaya in that sutta. Buddha can not teach everything to low ability people. Buddha choose some part of reality and sammuti, that proper for specific listener, then author each sutta to make that listener access to insight 4 noble truths to enlighten. If too much the listener may bored, but if too less the listener may doubt. But in the full ability such as sāriputta, buddha teach him full causes and effects. So commentary said that abhidhamma, that is very advance in detail of realities (causes and effect), was learned by sāriputta. This topic is the reason that why buddha taught abhidhamma to sāriputta, and why commentaries often said that abhidhamma is vipassanā's object. Also, the answer that why Mun Bhuridatta often carries abhidhammatthasaṅgaha pocket book with himself. The Answer 

Because supernatural or transcendental is natural in buddhism. We can found supernatural in many sutta, vinaya, even though abhidhamma of tipitaka (pali), because there are many possible cases of supernatural by logic, causes and effects. However, all supernatural is natural in buddhism by 3 characterizes: "when arising exit, then vanishing exit, too", paṭiccasamuppāda. So, supernatural is not important in buddhism. Therefore, in buddhism, we don't try to debate about next life, heaven, or supernatural. We do not deny any possible theories, in causes and effects logic. Then we develop consciousness to cope every possible situations, not cope just some situations that we have seen. We try to avoid every possible suffering, by logic or theory, to make sure suffering will never return anymore, although we never meet that possible suffering and possible situation. $URL$ 

So: cittassa nimittaṃ (base[=object] of consciousness) = satiya paṭṭhānaṃ (base [=object] of sati). The other name is kammaṭṭhāna (base[=object] of cetanā). P.S. Sati must arise with consciousness. I'm sorry for my first mistake answer. 

But in the appearing commentary doesn't said "because the listeners in front of buddha are bhikkhu", like above, because it is simple in mukkhapātha tradition to call just the specify target, most cases are the nearest. And the most buddha's nearest people were bhikkhu. Today, you can see in the classroom, when the teacher ask someone to teach , such as "Peter! don't break the school's rule", it doesn't means "just that one can't break", but it means "everyone in school can't break". It is simple, so it doesn't need to explain as "the others can't break, too." There are some excepted cases that should use the difference meaning of "bhikkhave", such as in 1st vinaya rule. For those, there had the explanation in commentary, case by case. It does't means "commentary commented by there own opinion", but it means "that sutta's context or the other related sutta make the commentary commented like that". Because the commentary teacher must be tipitaka memorizer in ancient theravāda tradition, such as ancient mahāvihāra monastery. I don't want to blame the others, but I must specify an actual main problem cause of new age buddhist students, that make them feel so hard to study buddha's teaching. 

In vinaya rules, kīṭāgirisutta, too many sutta[1][2] and ancient tradition, buddhist people must recited, memorized, and understood pāli scriptures. So, you are misunderstood kalamasutta. In ancient theravāda tradition these whole scripture evidences must not conflict each other because while reciting the answer will appear in each evidence context. Who misunderstood them as conflict each other, he showed himself that he never recited, memorized, and understood tipitaka. For kalamasutta, it's context already showed "don't just blind faith in scriptures, but comprehension the fact benefits that you can get from the scriptures". 

Above sīla give this life's profit and next life. See (1st-4th are this life's profit, 5th is next life's profit): 

Gehasita feeling (householder feeling; gehasita=with lobha) means the feeling going together with attaching the 12 āyatana, and 6 contacts (18 manopavicāra). The feeling and attaching are called taṇhā (samudayasacca;caving) and 18 manopavicāra are called 18/60 piyarūpa/sātarūpa in MN Mūlapaṇṇāsaka, mahāsatipaṭṭthānasutta. Nekkhammasita feeling (renunciation equanimity; nekkhamma=without lobha) means the feeling going without attaching the 12 āyatana, and 6 contacts (18 manopavicāra). The feeling and non-attaching are called nekkhamma-sammāsaṅkappa (right thought in maggasacca) which appear in nirodha-sacca of MN Mūlapaṇṇāsaka, mahāsatipaṭṭthānasutta. as attachment cessation from 18/60 piyarūpa/sātarūpa. 

After understand this answer, you will realize there are a lot of sutta, which explaining 3 taṇhā with 4 upādāna. You can use this explanation in everywhere of tipitaka, i.e. brahmajālasutta, because the sutta I linked below are just the example. 

Micchādiṭṭhi and taṇhā, that always arise with kusala, viewing&attaching wrong causes&effects. Sammādiṭṭhi viewing right causes&effects. While checking&proving about causes&effects of the whole contents of topic's page, the good practicer can see his/her/the others' wrongs&rights, but the bad practicer can not (avijjā). Because they have not checking&proving enough to notice (vijjā) his/her/the others' wrongs&rights. They have not enough respect in the others' right causes&effects that having many pali-references. So enough checking&proving can let you notice wrongs&rights of causes&effects. Māna can not change their status, that attached by taṇhā. Māna, that arising after micchādiṭṭhi, can not change their wrong viewing and attaching. So enough checking&proving can let you notice māna. Ahiri and anotappa can not respect in the others' right causes&effects that having many pali-references. So enough checking&proving can let you notice asaddhā (distrust), that always arise with kusala (wholesome), in the others' right causes&effects. Uddhacca can not catch any causes&effects. While good practicer read topic, they will try to understand the others' references. But bad practicer will not try, because bad practicer can not catch any causes&effects. So enough checking&proving can let you notice your uddhacca.