Yes, those requirements are too restrictive. Or at least, they aren't helpful requirements. So, Cort Ammon mentioned the generation gap. Your 18-year olds will be 40 before other 18-year olds will be old enough to fill the gap in the workforce, which is tricky but doable. Your fifty year olds will be one hundred before the next generation reaches fifty, which is much less doable. Your young 18-year olds will be at most thirty when the last of the first generation is over fifty (assuming that's a cutoff for a reason), and either there will not be enough to do all the work (because the younger kids are still aging into workforce-age), or you have too many people because there are enough workers but kids (their own replacements) are extra. You need to have replacements ready when someone retires, or dies, or can't do whatever work is needed because of injury or illness - and replacements that take twenty years to arrive are not ideal. Your first generation must keep working at the same efficiency with no retirement or replacement (while reproducing and raising enough kids to completely replace themselves) for at least twenty years, and even then replacement will be slow, since a generation ship has to control reproduction to not overgrow their resources. Your next generation may be packed into ten years (so as to not have a situation where there aren't enough workers), which can lead to too big a population overlap since they have to reproduce to replace themselves, too. Slow careful reproduction is much more sustainable than this kind of rigid generation gap. More reasonably, you should plan that kids (and post-retirement elders) will be "extras" - kids not included into the workforce until survival training at eighteen, elders easing off on duties as they can't keep up the level of work. It will let your population adapt to a slow aging in and out of various categories, instead of large overlaps and gaps that will take generations to balance out. Also, your aliens have some odd prejudices. Restricting overweight and underweight, well, there are some points (especially dealing with medical problems) but it's oddly done - especially without a discussion of what qualifies and how. Varied body types should probably be included in your diversity, especially since the destination environment isn't known. I can understand wanting healthy versions of said body types, just, that is a different requirement than not "underweight" or not "overweight/obese" - especially since mildly overweight is actually a touch healthier than normal weight (because it is aesthetically rather than medically determined), and usual measurements (like the BMI) are notoriously inaccurate. Also, you mentioned survival training - and the body types that hold on to weight have some actual survival benefit, as a backup energy source and a buffer against lean times or stresses like illness. The tradeoffs of this benefit cause problems in places where overabundance, rather than scarcity, is a problem - but given survival training and an uncertain destination, losing this benefit without discussion may not serve. It may be better to restrict by healthy bodies or active lifestyles (trickier to control for, but better results), rather than policing weight or shape. Restricting by active lifestyle or healthy bodies will also likely leave far fewer people than just restricting to "normal-weight" people, but they will probably be better candidates anyway. The restriction on orphans is just odd, really - especially since it would necessarily make all your candidates more reluctant to go, knowing they're leaving their families behind! It may disproportionately affect the older demographics on your list, since their parents will be lost to age as well as tragedy. In truth, it might make sense to prefer orphans and/or those without strong familial ties, so that they will have less to regret leaving behind. I could also understand not wanting any children on board to be orphans (in case you relax that restriction), if you're assuming that their parents are on board with them. As for severe illness and other chronic health conditions, it does make sense to restrict them - especially since it may eliminate some of these conditions in your population. Even restricting those who are actually ill with minor illness might help, since you may prevent those diseases from getting on the ship at all - no guarantees, but it's possible. And, you should probably consider a few more restrictions - simple things like passing a background check - so not having a criminal record, you probably don't want mass-murderers or serial killers on your ship. You should prefer people having a good work ethic, and prioritize those having useful knowledge and experience, possibly making an education restriction. You can focus on technical fields (scientists and such), or else craftspeople and artisans, or even survival skills (hey, you're testing for it - might as well screen for it first!)... it depends on the conditions expected on board the ship, what kinds of work will need to be done while the ship is voyaging, and what kinds of conditions are anticipated on the other end of the trip. Knowledge and skills can only be passed down if they made it on the ship to begin with! You should probably add a requirement for metal health, to go with your requirements for physical health. You should also keep an eye on personality and interpersonal skills, since with such a small population and a long voyage, there will be plenty of room for friction and no where to go to escape people when conflicts happen and drama is everywhere. Much better to minimize that when you can. This may also alleviate some of your concerns about teens not being mature yet - in the beginning, you can select for those that are, at least, better. You will likely also want to select for those with compatible philosophies, social or political leanings, or whatever equivalents your aliens are going with - so that the population will (hopefully) grow the society they wanted to see in the first place. This would likely be done in the last stage, handpicking from your remaining possibilities, but it probably should be mentioned anyway. 

Pair your generators, and nest them, lock them up securely, and bury them. With decoys. I'm bouncing a bit off of Amadaeus' answer, in truth, but there are a lot of ways to add complexity and make the whole much harder to negotiate. Start with a huge hole about the size of your intended complex (should be a sphere twice the size of the building, half sunk into the ground). Then, take several generators, creating nested force-fields. From room sized up to just over twice the building size, perhaps. Leave a bit of space between layers, at least enough to hold a couple generators. Lock each generator securely, with layers - cases or cages with complex locks, solid layers (like poured concrete), open layers (rubble, braced scaffolding, spikes, etc), puzzle locks, and a couple fail-safes (anesthetic gas, or things to tangle or trap, setups to injure, etc). Pair each generator with another generator (also locked in layers), set at the very smallest size, or else just enough larger to hold both generators and their assorted locks (depending on actual size of generators). Turn on the second fore-field and fill it with rubble, dirt, etc. If it is possible to have variations in the generators, do so as much as possible - even if the mechanisms are the same, perhaps a varied physical layout is possible, different access panel locations, different wire organization or color coding, differently shaped casing for internal parts, different interfaces, anything that can make disabling a second generator different (or apparently different) than the first. Bury each generator pairing so that the fields will be nested, but each generator is within their respective bubble - not all in the innermost bubble, have a few in the spaces between the nested bubbles. And bury thoroughly - fill the second generator's force-fields with dirt or rubble, and make sure the floor is level throughout and is deep enough the curve of each force field above ground is a dome. Perhaps vary the dome levels a bit, how much is above or under ground, though they must fit entirely inside each other. Once the floor is level, dig the foundation, pour a thick reinforced concrete foot, and build the building. Have lots of locks and traps, mechanisms for food, water, and waste, knockout gas, and a host of other mundane barriers to keep the teleporter from just walking out. Make sure there are locked doors just outside each layer of fore-field, and include rooms or areas in the layout he is simply locked out of (more decoys). Maybe a few electronic or generator decoys. Get the teleporter in the prison, in the room covered by the innermost bubble. Try to make sure they don't have tools on hand, if putting them there - harder to do if luring them there, I'll admit. Turn on the layer generators, and lock the doors when leaving. For the last, outermost level, don't pair it and don't bury it - make sure the dome just barely overlaps the roof, and tuck the generator in a locked structure between the roof and the top of the dome. Let him waste his time looking in the (very large) space underground for that last generator. As a bonus, keep a few decoy boxes (with various running electronics), a few trap boxes, and even a few generators with minimum-sized fields (defunct or whole), and bury them all in the spaces between the actual generators. This will take forever to get out of. He has "no special powers" - so even if he can somehow phase through solids... he can't see in the dark, he can't breathe without air, he has to figure out the locks and layers, one by one, to reach the generator, he has to figure out which bits would disable a force-field and which are decoys. He may get trapped in the second generator's force-field, which is completely full, if he teleported around to find the generator instead of digging it up - and then he can't see, can't breathe, might be physically trapped (if, say, he phased partway through and can't get back out). He won't know how to access the generators, through layers of locks and traps, and if he eventually works through them he will have to figure out how to disable each one (even shallow variations can be a big problem if he can't see). And he may have difficulty negotiating the need to phase through things to reach, and the need to be solid to figure out and disable the thing, and the vulnerability of being solid when there are traps and things to injure or ward off. And even if he eventually finds the first generators, he has to negotiate each layer, and their generators, and all the traps and such - including disabling generators and not seeing any result because it was for the next layer out or a decoy, or getting out but not finding the next layer's generator easily because he's only looking between but it was a few layers in. Coupled with decoy electronics, traps, and generators, he would take a long, long time to figure out which bits he needed and which were distractions. And the last layer, well, having spent several layers with generators and a couple decoys underground, he would probably search the entire under-floor volume from one end to the next without realizing the force-field overlapped the roof, or that the generator might be above, rather than below, in this layer. I would expect just three or four layers to take quite a bit of time to solve (months or years), and the potential for injuries or incapacitation (via traps, knockout gas, suffocation, or despair) to add more time still. More than enough time to add layers, or you can set up layers that would overlap the previous generator (auto-switching them on when the previous layer fails, so they don't actually overlap when active), or any number of things.