I am familiar with the story of Ñāṇavīra Thera, and while I deeply appreciate his work, esp. on 12 Nidanas, which for me is a good evidence that he indeed could have been a stream-enterer, I feel that his suicide was a very unfortunate outcome of the bad karma he created in the past. This karma, in its turn, came from a chain of negative mind states that evidently spanned multiple lives. While, generally speaking, anyone can decide to commit suicide, a decision to do so is more likely to be made by someone who 1) is not afraid to die, 2) sees the pain associated with continuing to live, 3) has aversion to pain, and 4) does not see much value in continuing to live. Because stream-enterer is beyond the illusion of self, s\he is not afraid of death. Because s\he clearly sees conditions that lead to arising of pain, s\he sees the pain associated with life. Because s\he is not yet beyond sukha-and-dukkha, s\he can still have aversion to pain. What remains is #4. The value in continuing to live falls into two categories: the value for oneself and the value for others. Because stream-enterer is beyond the illusion of self, the only reason to carry on this particular life would be the value he or she thinks s\he could bring for others. In Mahayana tradition, the first idea you learn, right after the basic concepts of Samsara, Nirvana, Enlightenment, and Karma -- is the high ideal of compassion. By this ideal, if I don't have a reason to live for myself, if I can alleviate suffering of even one dog, it is worth to continue living, let alone if I can help one human, let alone if I can help multiple people, let alone if I can teach Sat-Dharma. So, while stream-entry refers to the same basic milestone that is known as First Bhumi in Mahayana, a Bodhisattva of First Bhumi would only choose to die if doing so would greatly benefit more people than he could benefit by e.g. teaching Dharma. For example, participating in the repair of Fukushima nuclear station could be a great way to die for someone who has no reason to live but does not have an aptitude to teach Dharma. There are many other ways to help humanity and die a hero whose name will be on a monument, instead of becoming a topic of regret that no one wants to mention. 

Even the Noble Truth itself is a form of the same principle. The core idea is that (unhappiness, frustration) comes from an inner conflict. Conflict between how things "should be" and how they "are" - both sides modeled by our mind. The Buddhist path leads a person to the ultimate state of peace called "suchness" (tathata) - the state when "is" and "should" is no longer in conflict. This is achieved through a combination of objective (behavioral) changes in one's lifestyle and subjective (attitude) changes in one's psyche. Buddhist Nirvana is the culmination of this path from conflict to suchness. 

Something along these lines should help both the relatives and the drug abusers themselves. The idea is to show them the rational way to go in the right direction, imbue faith in this rational way, give some specific details, and show the glimpse of the end result. It may seem simplistic and kinda too obvious to be useful, but this idea of only doing what helps at all levels (speaking, acting, lifestyle, thinking, mood) is for some reason very difficult to internalize. Once they have internalized it, they can figure out the details as they go, and it's just a matter of time until it gets better. 

Stream-entry is very simple, there is nothing supernatural about it. Stream-entry is when the practitioner has fully understood the vision behind Buddha's teaching, has fully assembled the puzzle, and now has no doubts about what Buddha meant when he said certain things or why he said them. Having a clear vision of what Buddha was referring to includes clearly seeing the reality behind Three Marks of Existence and the actual mechanism behind the Four Noble Truths. Because most of us are so dominated by our preconceptions about the world, and about Buddha-Dharma, stream-entry is difficult or virtually impossible to attain from mere theoretical study of sutras, or from one super-successful meditation session, when one gets a "glimpse of Nirvana". Instead, stream-entry requires an effort consistently applied over a long period of time, targeted at putting Sat-Dharma to practice in day-to-day life. The reason it's called "stream"-entry, is not because one enters some magical stream, but because one finally sets foot on the unquestionably right road towards Nirvana, having really understood the whole thing. As I understand, what he subsequently called stream-entry (attaining a clear understanding of Three Marks of Existence and Four Noble Truths -- and therefore cutting all doubts) was attained by Buddha at time of his Bodhi, but because he had already liberated his mind from most of the other asavas by then, he effectively achieved full Nirvana at once. But in case of Buddha's students (and ourselves), because we do have the advantage of teaching available to us, we can assemble the puzzle while still having residual mental/emotional obscurations. Hence the need to have a separate name for this stage, distinct from "bodhi". As for how exactly stream-entry occurs. It occurs through exhausting samsara. In order to exhaust samsara you must exhaust ego. In order to exhaust ego you must explore all corners where Enlightenment might hide, until you know you couldn't have possibly missed it. Then it finds you :) 

Responsibility depends on Integrity. Integrity depends on Honesty. If there is no Honesty, there is no Integrity. The person without Integrity can do anything if it is in their interest, they can't be trusted. A person who tells lies deliberately has a corrupted value system. If they went as far as to warp reality to cover up their fault or to advance their case, there is no guarantee whatsoever as to what they may do under pressure. Hence "there is no evil deed that is not to be done". 

There's no such thing as "something bad happens". The painful emotion you experience is solely because of your attachment. The unwise attention is to project this emotion outwards as "something bad happened even though I practice so hard". The wise attention is to see "here is a painful emotion. Let me see which attachment it's caused by and let that go ASAP" 

In Buddhist context, happiness (sukkha) and loving-kindness (maitri) are not emotions (klesha). When Buddhism talks about kleshas (obscuring affects) what is meant is a tendency of strong Vedana to feedback and color Vijnana/Sankhara. That's why Buddhism prefers to use the more specific term "klesha" or "asava" instead of the more generic "emotion" which may refer to a whole gamut of psychosomatic reactions not all of which are necessarily pathological. 

An analogy I always give is that of a bush that looks like a dog. You see the dog from afar, but once you come closer the illusion falls apart and you see the individual branches and leaves. There is no dog. Everything is like that: not only difficult things like "self" or "USA" or "love" but literally every single thing, as simple as a "chair". They seem solid and well-defined until you examine them carefully, and then they turn out to be simplifications that depend on observer defining context, scale of observation, and criteria for their delineation. Coming back to the bush, the dog was observer's projection. There was no dog. Or was there? The experience of the dog existed in observer's subjective space. The dog was observer's interpretation. When we look at things conventionally, from far away, without examining them carefully, it seems like they exist apart from our interpretation. That existence is called svabhava. Sva means own and bhava means individual being or individual existence. It seems that individual things have their own individual existence, apart from observers. But that is an extremely naive simplification that only holds because we look at things from inside a very limited subset of all possible observation modes. The question ancient thinkers asked, is there any dharma that has svabhava. In other words, is there any phenomenon that under careful scrutiny will not fall apart like the dog and turn out to be a bunch of unrelated phenomena assembled and delineated by the observing mind. It's not just the parts and the name as Tenzin explained. That's a simplification. It's not that things are made from parts (like the dog was made from branches) and rely on observer for a name (the dog). It is that we picked a certain area of observation (part of the mountain covered in bushes) we chose certain scale, we picked criteria for delineation (in this case color), and most importantly we ignored lots of details that were there, that did not fit with our idea of dog! A very good non-Buddhist explanation of this process can be found in book called 'Hierarchy Theory' by Valerie Ahl. And of course the best Buddhist explanation is Nagarjuna's Mulamadhyamikakarika, translated as 'The Fundamental Wisdom Of The Middle Way' by Jay Garfield. You are also right about equating sankhara with (absence of) svabhava. Sankhara means "assembly", not just an assembly of parts though, but rather a bundle of causal chains. Causal chains on both the object side and the observer side. When you see every thing in its temporal aspect, as opposed to statically, when you see causal chains bundling together for a while and then breaking apart, you will see that our notion of "identity" only made sense in a static view of the world. There is no "identity" carried through from one moment of time to another. Instead, things constantly morph, rather like clouds. We see individual things in the clouds, but those things don't have fixed identities, they don't have svabhava. Instead, there's humidity and temperature and areas of low and high pressure, and the observer at a certain point on the ground with something on their mind, projecting things on the clouds. This observer itself and the observer's mind does not have separate individual existence either, does not have svabhava. Observer and observer's mind is also a bundle of causal chains, not something solid, static, and separate from the rest of the world.