Sure you can, but why would you want to? There is no benefit to slapping the kettlebell in mid-air. If you're new to kettlebells, stick with the tried and true routines. 

Creatine isn't going to hurt you. And I can see it providing some good benefits for you, because what you're describing seems a lot like HIIT (High Intensity Interval Training). The way creatine could help you here, is by providing better endurance through increased muscle recovery during sets/intervals. Also, creatine strengthens muscular contraction, meaning you will have more force behind your punches. This, in and of itself, is a temporary effect, but the workouts you do while under this effect, provide more permanent progress. Additionally - and I'm simply assuming that this is desirable - creatine enhances muscle size by making them more susceptible to carrying water weight. It's not what we call "ripped" because the inflation is kind of soft, but this water retention enhances protein synthesis, so your muscles will also have a greater effect from your protein-rich meals. For a more lab-coat explanation of this, you could have a look at some of these links; 

If you go into caloric deficit, you'll lose far more fat than you'll lose muscle. Any type of maintenance workouts will help you retain muscle mass. The only issue you'll have is that the caloric deficit might make you more exhausted, and not lift as heavy as you would during a bulk, for instance. I've read MacUserT's answer (now deleted), and I somewhat disagree with the notion that you should be focusing too much on your protein intake. If you eat too much protein, the body will simply convert the surplus to fat during a process called gluconeogenesis. Since we don't know your build, we can't give any detailed advice, but in general, you should be able to make all the changes you want, just by keeping track of what you eat, and how it affects your weight. You'll soon find that you can make small adjustments and see the changes on the scale after a few weeks. Every one is different, so you're gonna have to find what works for you through trial and error. 

Congrats on joining the big plate club! When it comes to progressing at several different exercises, there's really no magic to it. You just make sure you do both of them. I don't know what kind of program you're using, but for someone with a small frame such as yourself, I'd probably do a full-body program, or at most a 2-split (leg day, upper body day). Whenever you do pressing movements, do both bench press AND overhead press. Whichever you do second will feel heavier since you've already used a lot of the same muscles on the previous exercise, so what you can do is just alternate which one you do first. Remember, don't think that you're wasting your time with the second movement. Doing an exercise when you're already exhausted is great! Don't skip the important stuff! Training legs is the most important thing you do. It builds core strength, and makes sure your soon-to-be big torso isn't causing imbalances and damage to your back. Also, leg day directly affects your overhead press, since all your power has to go through your entire core and legs. 

Short answer: Yes. But don't. Long answer: It is a huge waste of your time, because you're not going to be doing more than 1-2 muscles at a time. And the set of muscles that can be worked like this is very slim. For instace, how are you going to train your lower back? Seems like the only reason you'd do this, is because you don't want to go to the gym. Obviously, you should go to the gym if you want to build muscle. 

Earlier this week, I realized that I was only going to get this one workout this week. I usually do 3-4 per week. I decided to do a full body program with some extra focus on legs, and got a squat rack. I had a squat rack, in which I could do a lot of different stuff, like squats, overhead press, pullups, barbell rows. But I also wanted to do a lot of leg exercises afterwards. So I had a dilemma: 

Background In the grand scheme of things, my pullups have been one exercise where I don't see much progression. I've "always" been able to do 3-5 pullups by nature, and even now, after several years, I still wouldn't call it progress. Granted, the 5-7 reps I do now are more quality reps, but I'd definitely expect more progress. I am beginning to resign myself to the possibility that it's simply my routine that isn't allowing me the best progress in that area. My usual routine... ...consists of a 3-day split. Push, pull, legs. You know what I mean. On pull-days, pullups are my first exercise, and I've been doing every set/rep scheme known to man. Everything from 8x3 to 3x8, varying grips, and adding weights on belt on the first few sets. My attempted change-up lately... ...has been to throw in some pullups at the end of the workout on push day and leg day too, just to increase the frequency at which I do pullups. And I do feel like that's been helpful. Whenever I get back to pull day, I can often do 1-2 more reps total, but that might also be because it's a good day in general. Question: What would you recommend I do in order to progress here? As mentioned, my goal is to progress into muscle-ups. My reps now are pretty good, and I can pull myself up pretty explosively, to the point where I get my chest to the bar. And I mainly do pronated grip pullups, although after I've done that, I tend to change it up for variation. Everything from supinated (chins) to neutral grip. 

Your problem A passive way of working out sounds like a paradox. If you want to become stronger, you need to exert your muscles. And exertion of the muscles is an "activity", which is an antonym to "passivity". If you want to get in shape by lying in your bed, you'll be disappointed. In the end, the problem isn't that you're lazy. Most of us are. But we work out anyway. It's discipline. If you don't have that, getting in shape isn't going to happen. Misconceptions You mention massage, but that is not a workout. It relieves stress on the muscles, but it does not stimulate any measurable muscle growth. It won't get you in shape. Laying on your bed and stretching is not a workout. It relieves stress on the muscles, but it does not stimulate any measurable muscle growth. It won't get you in shape. Horse riding is somewhat valid. You need to exert some muscular force to remain upright, but still, unless you plan on galloping for hours on end, it's not going to get you in shape. And you won't find any horses willing to do this for you, unless you have a whole stable full of them. Buy or rent, it's going to cost you way more than a gym membership. And the last one, tying your hands and stretching them out, is NOT going to build muscle. I don't understand where you're getting this from. At this point, you're grasping at straws. And literally grasping at straws seems like a better option than what you've suggested so far. 

The somatotypes is a very old theory, and one that has been under a lot of scrutiny in the actual scientific environments. It is deemed suggestive, but not conclusive. But that said, I understand what you mean when you say you are ectomorph, so if nothing else, at least it serves as a starting point for this conversation. 

If one/both of these are not met, your muscles will not be rebuilt properly, and you'll get progressively weaker. It's odd that you experienced this after only 5 days, but it does strongly implies that at least one of the two points have not been met. 

Additionally, in the link provided, you will find a nice list of daily stretches, with video demonstrations of each one. For credibility, I don't see them sourcing any particular studies, but HMS and their publications are very trusted sources in and of themselves. 

Introduction First of all, yes. Squatting is an invaluable part of growing in the scope of lifting. And the issues you are experiencing, have long-standing workarounds ready and available for you. You mention balance. This is something that will come with practice. Right now, the problem is most likely related to the fact that you're not used to carrying weight in this manner. Unless there is some underlying reason, it should come naturally and organically. As for ankle mobility, this is usually a case of your tendons being too short, or too stiff. Neither case should hinder you from doing squats. We have quite a few different ways of doing squats, and some people tend to one or the other simply based on what their body can most easily cope with. Here are some examples: The back squat Bar on your shoulder/neck. This is where people often will realize that their ankle mobility is a limiting factor. You will notice, because as your knees bend, your heels come off the ground. This is not ideal, because the force should propagate through your heels and into the ground. Your heels are, after all, where your legs meet your foot. Workaround #1 Try placing your heels on a slight elevation. Most people use weight plates for this. It should allow you to keep more weight on your heels, rather than at the balls of your feet, near the toes. Even so, it's more of a temporary fix. Workaround #2 Spread your feet a bit further, and point your toes slightly outward. I see a lot of people miss this key point. They have their feet shoulder width apart, and toes pointing straight forward. I have excellent ankle mobility, and if I try to do this, I will also lift my heels off the floor. It's a terrible way to do it. An excellent way to find a decent foot placement, is to pretend you're about to take a dump in the woods. Squat down, and make sure you're not about to get anything on your legs, but maintain balance at all times. This will often result in a wider-than-shoulder-width stance. Kind of like riding a horse. Again, toes slightly outward. This will allow you to lean back more, so that the weight isn't tipping you forward off your heels. The front squat This is where I found my personal workaround. With the front squat, you have the bar on your shoulders, but on the front-side of your neck. Yes, it is trickier, but mastering this squat will help you. I find this extremely useful for those who have ankle mobility issues, because with the weight already on the front-side of your center of gravity, you will have to lean backwards onto your heels in order to not tip forward. One hopefully minor setback here, is that it takes some getting used to. A lot of people simply hold the weight wrong. The right way: With the bar resting on your shoulders, close to your neck, your elbows should be pointing straight out in front of you. The wrong way: You'll notice a lot of people having their elbows pointing down, and the bar resting 50/50 on their shoulders and hands. Their wrists will be bent backwards with tremendous force, and they'll spend most of the exercise, and rest periods, in pain, squeezing their wrists. You, on the other hand, will know better. Hell, with your elbows out in front of you, you don't even need to use your hands. You can cross your arms over the bar for stabilization if you need to. As long as your elbows are up high, the bar isn't going anywhere. But again, it takes some getting used to, and you will probably have to drop some weight. Also thoracic extension (the good arch in the lower back area) will come very naturally when you front squat. The overhead squat My personal mount everest. Holding the bar over your head with your arms fully extended, you squat. This is one hell of an exercise in balance and mobility. Again, thoracic extension will be forced upon you, which makes it pretty amazing, but it's definitely a more advanced squat if you intend to work with it beyond simply testing the waters. Another thing I like about it, is that you will absolutely be using far less weight with this one. Not only because you have to press/jerk it up, but also because keeping balance during descent and ascent is pretty challenging. I would definitely test it out if the bar alone feels comfortable enough. If not, wait a while. There's no rush with this one. There's always the workarounds and the front squat for starters. General note I've purposefully left out illustrations in this post, because it became quite long as is, and huge posts can be slightly off-putting. But there is a plethora of guides, tips, and tricks with everything I've mentioned, by simply googling the headlines. And there's always the comment section if there are any other questions.