This phenomenon is called zero copula. It especially common for third person present tense. I recommend that you read on how this is handled in syntax parsers for Russian or Hindi. It was also an issue for Irish, Hungarian, Japanese, Turkish, Arabic and many other languages. 

This question has been discussed in various fora more than it probably even deserved, may the gods of linguistics forgive me for contributing to that. Quite simply the Anglophone world had no direct contact with what is now Ukraine, nor was English a lingua franca in Eastern Europe in that era, at the time that some cognate of Ukraine entered the English language. So toponyms, ethnonyms and so on in English tended to be inspired by French, German or even Latin in that era. From the few historic mentions of Ukraine in English, we can try to infer whether it was more French-inspired or Latin-inspired or even perhaps Polish-inspired: 1651 Ukrain, 1671 Ukraine, 1688 Ucrania, Ukrania, 1762 Ocraine. Slavic languages typically have no definite or indefinite articles, whereas French and German uses articles with many more countries and regions than English do. Both French and German still use the definite article with Ukraine -- l'Ukraine and die Ukraine -- as French also does for France and many other countries, and German does for Switzerland and some other countries. This is also true for regions or countries in or near Ukraine: die Moldau usually, die Bukovina or das Buchenland, das Banat, das Kosovo or der Kosovo, die Batschka, die Krim, die Dobrudscha, die Slowakei and, again somewhat controversially, die Tschechei, but Moldawien, Galizien, Ruthenien, Bessarabien, Siebenbürgen, Tschechien. There is a logic to this in the sense that based on lexical features a native speaker would impute an article and gender for a name he or she had not heard before, but there is no geopolitical logic to it in the sense that article or lack of article does not imply a greater degree of autonomy or official status. That said, French uses en Ukraine, that is, there is no definite article when saying in Ukraine. This is not specific to Ukraine but to the preposition en, it is the same for la France itself, and for most if not all other countries or regions which take a definite article. In English, there are fewer geographical regions or countries with the definite article, and we can say that there is likewise no geopolitical meaning to it. The common name of a certain global superpower has an article, as do the United Kingdom, the Russian Federation, the People's Republic of China and so on. So there is no fundamental linguistic basis for this drama, in the sense that there is no definite article in Slavic, and no geopolitical meaning to the definite article in the relevant European languages that do use definite articles. As a political and personal matter, most of us try to respect the wishes of countries, cities, organisations, persons and so on with regard to their own official name for themselves in various languages. See the cases of Ivory Coast, Burma, Macedonia, South Korea, Czechia, Constantinople, Calcutta, Bangalore, Golda Meir, Cat Stevens and so on, to say nothing of the maiden name concept. And likewise most of us are a bit forgiving if other persons do not instantly or consistently update their names for all such entities and persons in all contexts in all languages. That is outside the scope of this SE. 

identical surface forms You can also specify if they are morphological variants of the same lemma, as opposed to forms of distinct lemmata or distinct roots. 

A so-called round-trip translation is not a reliable signal that the translation worked well, for a few reasons. Noisy Parallel Corpora Are Bi-Directional Machine translation systems train on parallel corpora, which are often noisy. For example, suppose the following noise occurs in the training data: 

In my experience learning 8+ languages, the best approach is to use the best translation (etymologically, or in terms of meaning) and/or explanation in language that I understand. That closeness helps with remembering the new vocabulary. These are really my notes to myself, they needn't be somehow consistent. I thus end up with a mixed list; in your case I do believe the list will be more German than English, for example: 

You're effectively also asking "Why do people have names?" It's simply a tradeoff - too many names would be hard to remember, and too few names leads to too many clashes ("Which John?"). In situations where there are fewer names, people end up adding modifiers (eg "Little John", "Big John"), modifying the names (eg "Johnny") or giving nicknames. As for why it's slightly more varied for towns and cities, it follows much the same principles. However we mention far fewer unique towns and cities in our daily lives, and the lifespans of their names are much longer, so the exact distributions are different. 

Concretely I would suggest film subtitles or telephone data, depending on your exact application. A Survey of Available Corpora For Building Data-Driven Dialogue Systems (PDF), published by researchers at the Université de Montréal and McGill, has a good overview. 

The major dichotomy in NLP is that of rules-based approaches vs statistical approaches. (Machine learning is used in some statistical approaches. Given the timeframe of the development of the field, the earliest statistical approaches, for example those of SMT pioneers, surely can or will be seen as classical.) Rules-based approaches are basically the obvious or naive approach - hand-tweaked heuristics. They require linguist experts for every language launched, they are hard to bring to full coverage, and as coverage increases so does complexity. They are inherently static (which is a drawback in a world where the probability of the parse of the photo caption Nice truck attack changes in real time). Statistical approaches are better suited to open-ended problems, but they require initial investment and plenty of data, and people who understand the principles of linguistics and statistics (and software). They can update as the data update or with humans in the loop. But as they always produce results they can produce surprising results, for one they trained on imperfect data, and not all machine learning systems make explainable or even deterministic decisions. The attractiveness of statistical approaches has followed the steady growth in problems, data, CPU and connectivity. In practice today's production systems use a (often messy) hybrid of rules-based and statistical approaches. For example a search feature may be use rules-based filtering, but statistical ranking, with ad hoc boosts and blacklists. So the decision of which approach to use is only partly a function of the problem type. Just as important are the goals, scope, data and so on. At another extreme there is even the human-backed approach - a human pretending to be a machine pretending to be a human - which has high accuracy, high latency and high cash burn.