Try the book Liars and Outliers: Enabling the Trust Society Needs to Thrive by Bruce Schneier it has a very extensive list of references and notes (many not included in the book) at the end of the book that I think would be relevant. 

What is the ‘Vision’ that Plotinus says we and all living beings, even the unreasoning animals, etc. are striving for as the means to contemplation? And why “I and all that enter this play are in Contemplation; our play aims at Vision; and there is every reason to believe that child or man, in sport or in earnest, is playing or working only towards Vision” First notice that Plotinus refers to this world as play, the Advaita often refers to this universe as the playground of God, it is merely His sport. There is no ‘why’ to the universe, it is all His sport. According to the Advaita, all beings will sooner or later become one with the Godhead, will attain oneness with Brahman; thus the theory of transmigration of souls (rebirth). All are rushing towards that goal whether they realize it or not. How is this achieved? It is achieved by the literal realization of our oneness with the Godhead, by literally seeing, realizing [Plotinus’ ‘Vision’] God. When one attains to the Godhead, one’s individual consciousness merges into the Godhead, one becomes One with God (Brahman, the impersonal principle). An Individual soul does this through thousands of lifetimes, and it is an unfolding of consciousness as a soul goes from plant to Godhead. How can Nature, “harbor Contemplation etc.” Everything is Brahman. Brahman is Pure Consciousness. Everything is made up and from Brahman, therefore everything ‘harbors’ Contemplation. Brahman is both the material and efficient cause of the universe. Krishna says in the Gita (VII. 12.): 

The amount involved is not the point, what is the point is the principle. If Amazon has done what they said they would do in the contract they have with you, why can't you fulfill your part of the contract? A mistake on their part should be pointed out to them. Shakespeare said "A rose by any other name is still a rose" - A thief by any other name is still a thief... Just as you can't be a 'little bit pregnant' (you're either pregnant or you're not), you're either a thief or not a thief, there's no 'little bit' about it. 

Nagarjuna's MMK should not be taken as an argument against the existence of a first 'Cause'. As a Non-dualist he does assert that there is an Absolute Reality; he is not a nihilist. Prof. Chandradhar Sharma has an extensive discussion and analysis on this in his book A Critical Survey of Indian Philosophy. He says (pp 89-90): 

It is not taboo, it is just generally outside of the sphere of understanding of most Westerners, including those that study philosophy. The problem arises for the same reasons that clashes occur between Western culture and other cultures. Western culture 'universalism' gives Westerners the underlying belief by their very upbringing and thinking--whether you are talking philosophy, politics, laws, teaching methods, learning, or any other cultural manifestation--that their system of beliefs and methodologies are the only true and correct one; that their way of 'doing things' is the one that can be applied universally to all peoples. This underlying belief has arisen through a number of different causes. Western culture has been the predominant world culture for the last 200 years (regrets, contrary to everything that you have been taught in history, Western culture hasn't been predominant culture since the age of the Greeks, or the Romans, or the Christian, or even the age of modernity. China was the dominant culture and country until 200 years ago for about 2,000 years, yet Chinese culture and history is mostly ignored). As with any culture, Western culture will teach, talk about, and write about what it knows best, its own culture. Western culture is the most powerful, rich, and predominant culture in the present world, and this reaches throughout the culture in a unconscious but systemic means. So Westerners are taught Western philosophy by Westerners, see a lot of books published on the subject, etc. People see little about Eastern traditions, so it is perceived as of no value in studying other cultural traditions. When it is seen is perceived as inferior traditions, with no rich tradition like the West. If they had anything of value, we would have them in our world beliefs already! Another cause arises from how knowledge of the East first arose in the modern age and how it is studied today. The first scholars that studied the Eastern philosophies were blatant Christian apologists. In the 19th century they were called Orientalists. Their funding came from the European governments, primarily English. Their studies were grounded in the concept of 'White Man's burden' and the superiority of Westerners, both biologically and culturally, and used as a justification for English rule over the English empire. Today's world is just an extension of that. We now have American carrier groups purveying the waters around China. What would be the cry of the Western governments if China had carrier groups cutting through the Mediterranean or the English channel? Is this not just a modern version of White man's burden? How many people that study philosophy have studied anything of Eastern philosophy? When it is studied, it is usually through a Western interpretation with the belief that Western interpretations are unbiased. How many people even in the answers and comments to this question, still hold the belief that Eastern religions are polytheistic? Despite my many decades of study and reading, I have never read a polytheistic text. Two good book that expose these modern day faults are Invading The Sacred: An Analysis of Hinduism Studies in America (a free download here - $URL$ and Breaking India: Western Interventions in Dravidian and Dalit Faultlines (not a download. Available here - $URL$ and through Amazon). I am editing/adding to my answer from over a year ago as I came across an interesting comment in a book just started. The book is Philosophy East/Philosophy West: A Critical Comparison of Indian, Chinese, Islamic, and European Philosophy by Ben-Ami Scharfstein, Ilai Alon, Shlomo Biderman, Dan Daor, and Yoel Hoffman (1978). In the Introduction they write: 

Plotinus traveled to ancient Persia in order to understand more of Persian and Indian Philosophy. His philosophy very much resembles the Indian Advaita Vedanta philosophy. Let me interpret, using Advaitic texts, his use of the word ‘contemplation’ as used in the Enneads; specifically the Third Ennead: Eighth and Ninth Tractates (3.8 and 3.9). I will first make reference to some of the instances of Plotinus’s use of the word contemplation and then give a little background on the Advaita philosophy in order to explain Plotinus’ meaning of the word. In 3.8.1, Plotinus says 

From a monistic viewpoint there is no creation. The Ultimate Reality, give it what name you want, is not aware of any creation. Is the desert aware of a mirage? The mirage is only observed by the observer of the mirage, the desert is not aware of any mirage. you can only ask why within the framework of time, space, and causation. The Ultimate Reality is beyond these so asking why cannot be asked there. To infer that the Ultimate Reality has some purpose or goal is to infer that It is not perfect. The nearest you can say in terms of language is that it is all done in sport - for fun. The Brahma Sutras say verses 2.1.32-33 ($URL$ 

The laws of nature refer to what we might now generally refer to as the laws of the physical world, in modern times we would call these the various laws of the physical sciences. Although science assumes that these laws are uniform, we have actually no direct proof of this. There is an incongruity between man and nature. The astrophysicist Arthur Eddington wrote on this contiguousness of man with nature the following: 'I am convinced that you have minds which think. Here then is a world fact to be investigated. The physicist brings his tools and commences systematic exploration. All that he discovers is a collection of atoms and electrons and fields of force arranged in space and time, apparently similar to those found in inorganic objects. He may trace other physical characteristics, energy, temperature, entropy. None of these is identical with thought. He might set down thought as an illusion-some perverse interpretation of the interplay of the physical entities that he has found. Or, if he sees the folly of calling the most undoubted element of our experience an illusion, he will have to face the tremendous question: How can this collection of ordinary atoms be a thinking machine? But what knowledge have we of the nature of atoms which renders it at all incongruous that they should constitute a thinking object? ....But now we realise that science has nothing to say as to the intrinsic nature of the atom. The physical atom is, like everything else in physics, a schedule of pointer readings. ....matter is something that Mr. X knows. Let us see how it goes: This is the potential that was derived from the interval that was measured by the scale that was made from the matter that Mr. X knows. What is Mr. X?...physics is not at all anxious to pursue the question: What is Mr. X? It is not disposed to admit that its elaborate structure of a physical universe is "The House that Mr. X Built." ....From its own point of view, physics is entirely justified. That matter, in some indirect way, comes within the purview of Mr. X's mind is not a fact of any utility for a theoretical scheme of physics. We cannot embody it in a differential equation. It is ignored, and the physical properties of matter and other entities are expressed by their linkages in the cycle. And you can see how by the ingenious device of the cycle physics secures for itself a self-contained domain for study with no loose ends projecting into the unknown. All other physical definitions have the same kind of interlocking. Electric force is defined as something which causes motion of an electric charge; an electric charge is something that exerts something that produces motion of something that exerts something that produces...ad infinitum.' So yes, man is an exception. 

Unfortunately your question is far too common among Western philosophers of the last 25 years. There are no apologists for polytheism in Eastern religions as there is no polytheism in Hinduism or Buddhism. It is Westerners who have not studied Eastern philosophies that have this distorted view of the East. Eastern religions are either nihilistic, monistic, or monotheistic. There is no polytheism. There are different monotheistic systems within Hinduism, but each one of these sects follow their view of God as being God; the other 'gods' they dismiss as out of hand just as a Westerner would dismiss their concept. Within the monotheistic camps the two predominant ones are the ones that see Shiva (Shavites) as the Supreme Godhead and the ones that see Vishnu (Vashnavites) as the Supreme Godhead. Shavites dismiss Vishnu as either being a manifestation of Shiva or just dismiss him, the same way a fundamentalist Christian would dismiss him. And the Vashnavites are vice-versa. Monists assert that everything is One, and not in a pantheistic way, that the different names of God are due to different viewpoints of different people, that all the different names of God are just manifestations of the One. So Shiva, Vishnu, the Christian God, are all the same God viewed through different colored lenses. The 'gods' of Hinduism are the Sanskrit devas. gods is a very loose translation of devas; a more exact translation is 'shining ones'. The gods are actually offices, like governor, for different aspects of the current cycle. A individual soul in a human body that aspires to be a god for a cycle can do certain karmic actions to gain the karma to become a god in a new cycle. At the end of that new cycle, however, when the karma is exhausted, the soul that became that god must come back to the earth and once more enter into the system for accumulating new karma. Suggested reading: The Spiritual Heritage of India by Swami Prabhavananda. It is a clear summary and introduction for Westerners For a comparison of the different monistic Eastern systems, Nonduality: A Study in Comparative Philosophy by David Loy. 

Interesting new article on phys.org - $URL$ If one accepts ipso facto that there has been or was only one universe ever, then yes it does seem ordered without the absurd. And the natural answer for many is a creator God who is looking out for us as some beneficial king or father. If without even considering a multi-verse, simply that the universe is actually more like a pulsating wave that alternatively has an active phase and a quiescence phase, then it is not so. If there were an infinite number of universes before the present one, and an infinite number of ones to come, then perhaps the ordered rules presently observed in the current universe only occurs once in a zillion universes. 

The universe can be written in the language of mathematics, it explains how events in the universe seem to occur from our perspective. It does not explain what the universe is. You seem also to be confusing what mathematics actually does or explains. Wolfgang Pauli has written on this extensively. He said 

Swami Vivekananda said in the 1890s that Kant showed traces of the teachings of the Upanishads. Perhaps this quote from Vivekananda (Complete Works, V3, p 403-404 and available here under heading Lectures from Colombo to Almora, lecture titled "The Vedanta" $URL$ 

To answer your question first, matter does not exist; or rather it exists - but matter is not what we think it is. In Eastern philosophies there is no such thing as creation. It is impossible to create something out of nothing, even for God. The term used is projection. It is said that this universe was projected out of the One that is neither existence nor non-existence [Brahman or God, depending on your belief system]. God is both the material and efficient cause of this universe. There is but one Infinite Being in the universe and that Being appears as you and I; but this appearance of divisions is after all a delusion. What we think of as the universe is a delusion, it is the One looking at Himself through the lens of time, space, and causation. When looked at through the lens of time, space, and causation it appears as matter. In eastern philosophy there is no one time creation of the universe. There are cycles. What we see as the present universe is simple a cycle. Think of it as a wave. There have been an infinite number of cycles before and there will be an infinite number to come. The Nasadiya hymn (the hymn of creation) from the Rig Veda says - .....But lo, thereafter, from its darkling state-- Yet undistinguished from its cause--it rose, By the pure will of THAT made manifest. Whence came this will? From out a seed it came Asleep within the heart of THAT--the seed Of vanished worlds that have in order wheeled Their silent courses from eternity:.......Rig Veda, x. 129. 1-7. 

In the East the problem is come at from an entirely different angle. The subject is dealt in detail in the Mandukya Upanishad and Gaudapada's Karika (a commentary on the Mandukya Upanishad). What you call 'ordinary experiences' are analyzed as experiences of the waking state. The Mandukya analyzes the experience of the universe from the different states of consciousness; waking, dream, dreamless sleep, and Turiya (Super-Consciousness, Nirvana, Samadhi - 'religious experience'). 

This highlights one of the central differences between the Derrida and the East. Derrida is focused on the process, especially as it relates to the use of language, or the text, or more broadly signifiers and signifieds. He sees nothing beyond the text. The Eastern philosophers see language as something that can only hint at describing something and because of its endless circularity of signs never define it. They see that which Derrida sees as a process as something that is an impediment. Derrida believes that there is “...no ‘language’ available at all but logocentric language.” David Loy states: 

There is no paradox. You are conflating the use of the word detachment. In the case of the Gita the term detachment means dispassion to worldly desires; it is used in a spiritual context. The Gita is a guide to the attainment of Liberation, Moksha, or Nirvana. It is not a psychological guide on how to attain worldly goals. It warns against too much passion for the things of this world (including physics). The Gita says in verses 2.62-3 (Bhagavad Gita with the Commentary of Sankaracharya, Swami Gambhirananda translator): 

Now people have their work (including physics) in the world. Krishna does not say to not do your work. What he says is to pursue it with evenness of mind, without a hankering for results always remembering that it is not the final means of satisfaction (Liberation being the only means). Arjuna in the first chapter thinks that he must not go into battle, but in the 2nd chapter of the Gita Krishna shows that he cannot stop his actions, but to rather do them in an unattached way. He says in Gita 2.48: