I'll answer from the completely math-style logic POV. We know this person has a brother. What is the probability that s/he's male? Let us assume that half of the population is male and the other half female, that this is very uniformly distributed, that the gender of previous children doesn't affect gender of any future child of a couple, etc. Let us also assume for a moment that the figure has exactly 1 sibling. Then a priori, there were four equally likely possibilities in his family were BB, BG, GB, and GG. Now we know one is a boy. So we are left with 3 equally likely possibilities: BB, BG, and GB. In two of the three, the shrouded figure is a female. Correspondingly, 1/3 that he's a guy. Now suppose the shrouded figure has 2 siblings. Each of the previous possibilities can be modified 'in pairs,' so that we get BBB/BBG, BGB/BGG, GBB/GBG, GGG/GGB. Knowing one is a boy leaves BBB/BBG, BGB/BGG, GBB/GBG, GGB. Thus we have 1 situation in which he's a guy, 3 in which s/he's 50/50, and 3 in which she's a girl. So now the chances are smaller - 5/14 that he's a guy (approximately 1/3). And so on. In general, it's more likely given these assumptions and that we don't know the relative ages that the figure is a girl. It is Monty Hall style. 

What fallacy would "pot calling the kettle black" be, or basically discharging criticism at someone who doesn't substantially differ from you, only in a nuance of the same deviation? I can see a form of special pleading for a completely arbitrary line of acceptance drawn in between the critic and the critiqued, which would be a form of hypocrisy. Is there a better fallacy to in which to classify this phrase? CLARIFICATION: I don't mean saying "pot calling the kettle" itself is a fallacy -- I mean what it is being called against 

I am almost sure there is a name for the fallacy whereby its exponent tries to apply a very small sample of observation, usually anecdotal evidence, as representative of the population, of which that sample is part, at large. For example: 

I'm aware of the compatibilist attitude by some philosophers, such as Hegel and Daniel Dennet. I am interested in some philosophers who are firm determinists (deny free will). 

Not that I have read any of his books but I've watched the documentary and several of his magazine articles and he totally seems like a centrist. On some subjects (like Islam/immigration) maybe even slightly right of center. Why is he considered a Marxist? 

There are many things that are unclear or uncertain in this question. What does it mean to be "scientific?" Since you use the phrase falsifiable, I will assume you refer to the idea of science as put forward by Karl Popper. In particular, the scientific method is about testing ideas through empirical falsifiability. A theory cannot be proven right, but it can be falsified. In this context, the act of declaring any one thing or another is not the pertinent question. You ask if "saying something has existed" is falsifiable. This is broad and depends on many things. Let's say I claim that I have existed for 200 years. To better ignore metaphysical questions about what it means to exist, let's rephrase this as I have been alive for 200 years. Sure, this is a lousy theory. My parents and governmental records could easily say that I wasn't. In that sense, it is falsifiable - but it's mostly an uninteresting theory. Whether or not one calls it scientific, it is utterly irrelevant. But it may be that you are asking about whether the actual techniques that scientists use to date events in the past are scientific. And here, the answer is yes. There are very many interrelated theories about dating. Some can be found on the Wikipedia page Absolute Dating. The important aspect is that we have theories involving dating from carbon-14, or potassium-argon, or argon-argon, or thermoluminescence, or relatively simpler tasks like counting tree rings or cross-examining found fossils or the like. The Earth's magnetic field changes from time to time, and we believe we understand how this affects rocks. So some rocks can be roughly dated through paleomagnetism. Or we can use volcanic ash. We build up larger cohesive theories about dating from these smaller, individual theories. Counting tree rings is a particularly easy to imagine theory with clear testing mechanisms. Grow some trees, take core samples, and count the rings. We can get a little more involved by noting that particularly large rings occur during seasons of particularly favorable weather. Matching these up across many trees (and fossilized or otherwise preserved trees from the past) might allow one to get even deeper. Now someone might come along and start to compare carbon-14 dating to tree ring dating. If there was disagreement, then something is wrong. Ideas must be adjusted or thrown away. And so it goes, each part tested and honed against each other. I haven't even mentioned that each technique is interrelated with areas of science. Nuclear physicists and geologists have a lot to say about the science going into their respective techniques. The fact that we now have a rather large and interconnected set of resources for dating suggests that dating is highly scientific. As a final reference, you might consider reading about the Problem of induction, which is a related concern. 

I happen to believe that strong writing and speaking skills are a non-negotiable requirement for any intellectual and philosophers in particular. While I obviously disclaim that as a personal opinion, I don't see it as particularly controversial because how valuable are your ideas if you can't communicate them properly and to as wide an audience as applicable? The applicability scope does matter -- a publication on tardigrade reproductive behavior understandably has a much narrower audience than a philosophical treatise on ethics, which their language should reflect (hint: it's more okay for the former to be arcanely worded as its target audience is more controlled). So when a philosopher who is speculating on matters that affect pretty much every human walking the planet has downright awful writing skills, let's mention Hegel as one of the not so few examples, why do you cut this person slack? Why, if they are so brilliant, do they need an interpretor (e.g. Kojeve) to translate their ideas to the general audience? If they are so brilliant to dispense ethical imperatives that apply to wide audiences, shouldn't they be held in high expectations to themselves make their ideas easily digestible to those audiences? What prompted me ask this rather broad question is that I notice (even on this forum) a level of disdain for any thinker who does offer philosophical insight but is not a formal philosopher and writes in clear, understandable manner. Famously Foucault said that 

That theorem (overview) is often taken out of context. His suggestive naming of the behavior or elementary particles as "free will" irked a lot of people, especially as the connection to what we consider free will is phenomenally vague. It's almost akin to noting that Heisenberg Uncertainty suggests a lack of determinism (for the more quantum-mechanically literate, look into Bell's Theorem). So the theorem is taken very seriously, but not necessarily having anything to do with what we consider free will. 

I think that one of the biggest changes in war came with the apparent end of conventional warfare after the Gulf War. It is simply unreasonable for almost any state (a few exceptions, perhaps, but not so many) to expect to confront NATO in so-called 'conventional' ways and be successful. The Art of War speaks at great length of how generals should command, Sun Tzu even mentions that "All war is based on deception." But he took this only insofar as to attack when your enemy thinks you are weak, and to appear strong even when you are weak so as to discourage attack (Baden Powell truly embodied this in the Battle of Mafeking, which also led to the development of the Boy Scout Movement). Yet modern forms of deception are far more complicated, and warfare conducted in ways that appear far less ordered, than ever before. I think that some of the seminal works now would include On Guerilla Warfare, by Mao Tse-Tung, and Urban Warfare. These include some philosophy, some straight-up strategy and tactics, and some ideology. With the current trends in combat ranging from conventional to highly asymmetric, I think that these texts should also be included. 

This is a great question that spans many fields of inquiry and would be incomplete to confine it within the boundaries of traditional philosophy. In order to discuss it competently, input from various disciplines, such as biology and evolutionary psychology is desirable. Limiting the terms of its discussion to philosophy only would be tantamount to religious dogma. The reason I mention that is because the two authors on the subject I am about to recommend are not indeed traditional philosophers. Richard Dawkins explores the thesis of evolving morality as reciprocal altruism in his book The Selfish Gene. According to it, morality is optimized through the evolutionary process (as is everything else) as we learn that being nice is likely to pay better returns than brute pursuit of immediate self interest. It's a relationship that can be viewed as a game theory proposition. As we acknowledge that kindness pays better, it becomes a behavioral guideline that advances itself on the evolutionary continuum. Steven Pinker's book "The Better Angels of Our Nature" also examines a decline of violence and can be interpreted in an evolutionary context. 

Because we live in an age in which science, which can be defined as a reason-based epistemic framework that relies on testing and evidence, is, at an unprecedented speed, closing the gap of knowledge of universal phenomena. Not all answers are here yet but we're getting there. Skepticism and doubt in the existing knowledge are some of the fundamental bedrocks of science. Faith, on the other hand is an unsubstantiated moral and belief system that relies on superstition, supernatural, and, by definition, discourages doubt. Most religions practiced today were conceived thousands of years ago in a world very unlike what it is today. Religions have made numerous attempts to explain the universe, most or all of which have been superseded, therefore not deserving any further benefit of the doubt. It could be said that, as both an epistemic and moral framework, religion has run its course and serves no purpose to humanity. 

There is a mathematical idea of handedness. Phenomena that are not identical to their mirror images are called chiral, and chirality has interesting roles in physics, chemistry, and biology. It's not quite what you were looking for, but it's still pretty interesting. 

Too long for a comment: I think at the heart of this question is the common belief that religion and science are diametrically opposed. But I would also say this is a misnomer - the real key is that they do not cover the same material. It is possible for the concept usually described by the vastly unspecific and overgeneralized word "science" to address religious issues - though it's unlikely. In particular, if a god or gods were to appear, demonstrate their powers, and the like, then it is not the case that the scientific community would still refute this. In some freshman physics class I took in college, I remember there being a student who had a really hard time separating the concept of theory and fact. Really, he had a hard time acknowledging that 'science' was not based on facts, but on approximated theories founded upon approximate observations - they can compete, multiple theories can both be brought forward, etc. What I'm getting at is that the idea of a 'scientific perspective' seems poorly defined. If you mean from the perspective of coming up with ideas and subjecting them to the test of being compared with observation and logic, then that's one thing. If you mean describe the sort of deity-like perhaps-sentient Designer(s) with a set of rules governing behavior, or to mathematically demonstrate sort of property, or to see what would happen if we shot two of such creators at each other (as I continue to poke at my physics buddies) - that's another thing. Further, it's not so clear what you mean by intelligent design, or even intelligence? Could you clarify, especially on what sort of characterization of this 'intelligence' that you mean? 

Is that just a euphemism to shield claims that cannot be established using methods of , which is a scientific standard? 

What would be (the closest) logical fallacy when one demands that their proposition be accepted axiomatically and exempts oneself from providing reasonable argument or empirical evidence? E.g. "The simple issue is actually more complicated (so that I can attach my unrelated strings to it) but that's subject of another conversation" 

Are axioms nothing but assumptions and, if yes and in accordance to Occam's Razor, should they be minimized? When postulating scientific theorems which, unlike axioms, are subject to the scrutiny of proof but do factor in axioms, are there formal systems which at least attempt to quantify the amount of axioms, or assumptions, that are antecedents to the theorem? Put simply, can we sort theorems based on how much of their input are axiomatically accepted assumptions? 

It's nice to be reserved against hasty generalization based on (however carefully collected) statistics -- but it is laughable to argue one's pathetically minute sample of observation trumps that of, say Pew research and similar (which I think can also be considered hasty generalization but in a non discriminatory way). What is the name of that fallacy? 

Too long to be a comment - this is really just a set of references. In Aristotle considers happiness in book X of Nichomachean Ethics. I recommend it because it would provide you with a good background in which to phrase your questions. But it certainly has its critics. A more 'modern' viewpoint comes from John Stuart Mill, and in his work Utilitarianism in particular. Although Mill is a utilitarian (not a surprise, given his book title), many consider him to be a certain type of hedonist. A running theme in his writing is that the general actions of people should best increase general happiness. 

Nothing at all. This is the same base idea at the heart of non-inertial reference frames. This is like Einstein's claim (at the heart of his idea that grew into relativity) that it is impossible to distinguish between an accelerating frame or reference and an inertial frame of reference in a gravitational field. That is to say that if we are in an elevator that is accelerating upwards at 2 m/s^2, or on a planet that happens to feel 12 m/s^2 of gravity (that is to say that the force or the acceleration are indistinguishable). 

I am looking for reference recommendation on the subject of analyzing responsibility in victim situations. I am curious which philosophers have written on that subject, ranging in scope from individual crimes all the way up to war crimes and genocide. E.g., the modern prevailing narrative, at least here in the West, frequently discourages culpability analysis any deeper than blaming the carrier of the crime itself. To clarify, I am not looking for some vindication of victim blaming but that mainstream encouraged scope is shallow for my intellectual standards. For example, to which degree can the victim be, not held legally responsible, but to some degree morally accountable for not doing enough to prevent what happened to them? In a fair and balanced analysis of different concrete scenarios. So I'm not satisfied with the general sentiment that any further dissection of an incident beyond obviously blaming the final executor of the act is "victim blaming" and should be discouraged. Therefore, I would like to research philosophical treatises on how each and every one of us, and we as a collective, can do our best to prevent catastrophes by avoiding prior exposure to it. If an angry dog bites a person who foolishly tried to play with it, with him, the usual moral imperatives are to blame the dog owner, which is fair. But shouldn't we assign at least some responsibility to the bitten person for not being prudent enough not to play with a strange dog? Which philosophers have delved in this topic, especially in a dialectical format? I'm not looking to have a discussion whether my motivating premises are crazy or not -- simply for reference to philosophers and their works who worked on that subject. 

In his lectures entitled "The Meaning of it All," Richard Feynman talked about UFOs and psychics a lot. It seems that this is something that has pestered him a lot, as almost every collection of his stories includes something on UFOs and psychics. He talked about what it would take for him to believe in psychics (bear with me, I think it's relevant). Supposing there were a 'psychic' who claimed to be able to predict the outcome of things at a casino. So he went to a roulette table, and began to predict them, one by one. Suppose he got it 30 times in a row. Even then, Feynman said he would be completely skeptical. He would suspect collusion or some other trick first. But if he brought that 'psychic' to a variety of casinos, and he predicted it another 30 times at many different places, then he would believe. And he would be excited, because he hadn't expected it. The idea is that everyone starts with an initial bias. And there are always lots of alternatives. Is it possible to show that something is a 'miracle' (whatever that means - in this context, I'm taking it to mean something whose explanation does not lie within our current body of knowledge) to a scientist (inasfar as he represents a rational thinker), but one would need to exhaust all other possibilities that seem more likely to him.