Thus, it's apparently not true that there are more homicides per year by hammers than by guns. The particular claim that there are more hammer homicides than rifle homicides may be true for 2016, but given that the FBI subsumes this weapon under a broader category, we cannot say for sure. 

The claim that organic cotton farming uses less water than conventional modes of farming appears to be the scientific consensus. For instance, Grose (2009) states that 

A null effect of sex was reported in an early study using a standardized hue discrimination test: While color discrimination was found to deteriorate with increasing age, no significant difference between male and female participants was observed, with the exception of a single age range (15-24 years) where males reached a higher discrimination score than females (for what it's worth, the participants of the previous study on denture shades also fell within this age range). I don't have access to the full text of another potentially relevant study that investigated color discrimination, color naming, and color preferences in a population of 80-year old males and females. The abstract mentions a gender difference for color naming, but not for color discrimination. To summarize: Based on the sparse empirical record on the effect of gender on the ability to distinguish colors, there is weak evidence that males and females without color blindness perceive colors somewhat differently, and that there is a range in the visual spectrum where females show a slightly better discriminatory performance than males when using monochromatic light sources. However, I couldn't find compelling evidence that this marginally significant performance difference results in a substantially better color discrimination by women as far as real-world objects (case study: shades of teeth) are concerned. 

So, why do they give up after about 30 seconds? No one is sure as of yet (according to my single source still): 

So, I wanted to put this out there, but will come back to this in a bit if I find more sources to corroborate. 

Simply put, no. Dowsing (or Souciering) is no more effective than just guessing. Those who have shown better success are using other methods (like cheating) to pad their results. The Committee for Skeptical Inquiry (as well as many other organizations) have done numerous tests. Their conclusion is reproduced below. I would encourage you to read the entire page though as it goes over their experimental set up and does a very careful analysis of the results. 

During the specific incident that revealed this to the public and led to news stories like the one mentioned in the earlier question, both France and Italy were able to scramble fighters. In France, this mission is called “permanence opérationelle” and the air force is indeed supposed to have fighters but also radar systems and surface-to-air defense systems available at all times for this purpose. In total the air force's website claims that 900 personnel are involved in this at any one time. Since the UK (mentioned in your comments) and Germany (see Fabian's answer) do it too, it would seem that most middle-size European countries have something similar. Debates in Switzerland tend to look at smaller countries like Austria (which shares a few things with Switzerland: similar size, location, neutrality, etc.). This interview with a researcher working on the topic suggests that every European country except Luxembourg, Ireland and Austria have more air force resources than Switzerland and that even Austria has some 24/7 interception capabilities so Switzerland would really seem somewhat unusual in this regard. 

Another result concerns the discriminatory ability of males and females, where the authors claim to find "systematic differences between the sexes": 

You might find the wording here somewhat misleading. The advantage of organic cotton farming is not that the plants themselves require less water, but that water retention is greatly improved, and that the need for artificial watering can therefore be reduced quite notably. As Gomiero et al. (2011) summarize: 

However, this advantage of organic cotton farming may disappear in areas where water scarcity is not an issue, e.g. because there is enough rainfall. Under those conditions where plants have to be irrigated in order to yield a profitable amount of cotton, organic cotton farming appears to be advantageous. The Guardian's article talks about the question whether cotton farming is responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. The Aral Sea is located in a climate zone with arid and semi-arid conditions, so the region might indeed profit from the better water retention capabilities of organic cotton farming. Conventional cotton farming has long been known to have a disastrous effect on the water levels in that region: 

A television pilot for "Skeptologists" also covered wheatgrass. It was never aired, however the scientists and skeptics that were part of the cast maintain a blog, and several of them wrote about it. One of the members of the cast was Michael Shermer, author of Skeptic magazine (and neurologist specializing in how the brain believes things). He has written an article about wheatgrass as well: 

This article also lays out some interesting information with some great links to follow up on. Again, the data indicates that abstinence only is a bad idea all around, and actually contributes to the problems of unwanted pregnancies and STDs which both programs state they are trying to prevent. As I mentioned earlier, most of the abstinence only education programs are not motivated by evidence, but rather by ideology. As The Journal of Religion and Society reports: 

As pointed out in the comments, we have to distinguish two different concepts when talking about the relation between sex/gender and colors: the ability to assign different names to different shades (color naming) and the ability to perceptually distinguish shades with different physical attributes (color discrimination). There are several studies that support the claim that females perform better than males with regard to color naming (this difference can probably best be described as the effect of a more refined technical vocabulary). However, the present question asks about color discrimination: Can women distinguish more colors than men? It's a rather well-established fact that males have a higher risk of color deficiencies: About 8 percent of males and about 0.6 percent of females are affected by red-green color blindness. Most of these color deficiencies, in particular red-green blindness, are due to an inherited variations that are associated with the X chromosome. Thus, even though the phenomenon is more complicated than this simple account, at least the first part of what is stated in the video is true: information about light-sensitive visual pigments is stored in the X chromosome, and due to basic genetics, women are less likely to be affected by mutations of the pertaining sequences. So, it's not wrong to claim that "[this] is why females can distinguish more colors and shades", but this claim is only true in a statistical sense – on an individual level, it doesn't follow that an average woman will be able to distinguish more colors than an average man if both are unaffected by any genetically-caused color blindness. There seem to be only few studies that have investigated gender differences in color sensitivity with unimpaired subjects. One somewhat recent study reports some differences between males and females with regard to the perception of monochromatic light across the visual spectrum. Their first result concerns the translation of wavelengths to perceptual sensations: 

The claim comes directly from the organizers and seems to be nothing more than self-promotion from some press releases being carelessly repeated over and over. Exactly what it means depends on how you chose to interpret “watched the Tour de France” but it's certainly not the case that 3.5 billion different people watched the live broadcast at some point during the race. Since ASO apparently does not provide any details regarding their methodology, I am not sure it makes much sense to speculate on how they come up with such a high number but there are at least a couple of plausible solutions: 

References Cai, X., D. McKinney & M. Rosegrant. 2003. Sustainability analysis for irrigation water management in the Aral Sea region. Agricultural Systems 76(3), 1043–1006. Gomiero, T., D. Pimentel & M. Paoletti. 2011. Environmental Impact of Different Agricultural Management Practices: Conventional vs. Organic Agriculture. Critical Reviews in Plant Sciences 30(1-2), 95–124. Grose, L. 2009. Sustainable cotton production. In Blackburn, R. S. (ed.). Sustainable textiles. Life cycle and environmental impact. Boca Raton: CRC Press, 33–62. Rieple, A. and Singh, R. 2010. A value chain analysis of the organic cotton industry: The case of UK retailers and Indian suppliers. Ecological Economics 69(11), 2292–2302. 

EDIT DUE TO QUESTION EDIT: Well, how "common" are solo sailors on marathon journeys? I did a quick search, and wikipedia gave me a list of 49 names. Assuming that this list is most likely incomplete, we still have a very small sample size. Again, I think there are more Navy SEALS than there are solo sailors. The SEALS display this as a common technique because they are forced to do it. For the solo sailor, this would equally likely be the case since there are many things they need to do while navigating a boat. There is a community of single handed sailors that discuss sleeping, and the "not being in control" part seems to be a frightening thing for them. Another consideration is that there are no navigation light signals that indicate a sailor is getting sleep. While the big ocean theory may hold for most, it would be a bad thing to get hit by another boat if you are sleeping. Another factor to consider is that as technology changes, the sailors may be able to get more sleep and only get woken up if a condition warrants their attention. Many folks (myself included) don't consider things like auto-pilots for boats, and a proximity warning system. So while the sleep deprivation may have been a normal technique to deal with the requirement for attention, that requirement may be getting solved by technology, thus reducing the need to take this drastic sleep measure. This 2002 trans-Pacific race features the plans some of the sailors were going to use, and they say things like: 

It's also easy to show conclusively that there aren't 3.5 billion different people watching the race. The world's population is a little over 7 billion people. As you noted, it would mean that every other person on earth watched the Tour de France, which is not plausible. Even assuming higher ratings in Western Europe and maybe the US, you would still need a significant proportion of the population in Africa, South America, China or India to reach that number. Actual measures in the core audiences categorically rule that out. Daam Van Reeth studied data from Flanders, probably the region in the world where interest in this sport is highest. The highest peak audience ever was 1.4 M people, which is slightly above 20% of the population and the average audience is 8%. Impressive but a far cry from the 50% implied by the 3.5 billions figure. In France, the end of the 2013 Alpe d'Huez stage was watched by 6.2 M people, with an average of 4 M people for other stages. It's a lot but still less than 10% of the French population watching any given stage. Another article based on the broadcaster's own figures has slightly different numbers (in the same order of magnitude) and also reveals that 24 M people watched at least one hour over the three weeks that the race lasts (perhaps the most straightforward definition of “watching the Tour de France”). This amounts to 36% of the French population. That's getting closer but still not 50% and that's for France itself.