when your first sentence is not a typo, just add a connector for http on port 8080 and add the redirect as you described. you can't have http and https listen on the same port. so let http listen on port 8080 and https on port 8443. 

i haven't tested it by myself, but this sounds promising: $URL$ i will try this for myself. EDIT: finally i had time to test for myself. i tested it on suse, but should be the same for ubuntu, except perhaps package and path names. first install xvfb package, on suse it is called start xvfb in background with display, screen and resolution parameters: 

because the number of connections is ip bound in most browsers, you can spread your content across multiple ips/domains to enhance performance. you can find a more detailed explanation at yahoo. there are also some more performance tips for your frontend performance. a good tool for messauring frontend performance in firefox is yslow. it does not only messaure performance, but also gives hints about how to improve your performance. 

to get more info, take a look at this directive and the following. after enabling logging try it all again and look at the logs. have you checked whether case of your regex and the case of your files match? 

i've a problem with our jmx monitoring. we monitor the perm gen of some jvms with jmx. but from time to time the name of the mbean changes from "PS Perm Gen" to "Perm Gen" or vice versa. it happens with a restart of the tomcat server, but not with every restart. the jvm version is 1.5.0_16. has anyone experienced this problem and perhaps has a solution? 

have you checked your new user has the same shell as your root user? Its seems that your root user has bash your something like it and your new user has a ksh or something similar. Take a look at the /etc/passwd file or the SHELL environment variable. 

let insserv create the symlinks for you. when using insserv, you can also add dependencies to your script header so insserv knows when to start and stop your script in a special runlevel. this is necessary for sequential and parallel execution. try to be compatible to lsb. here is a short example: 

because your site offers sensitive data as you mentioned, it should be encrypted. Of what type are the design flaws? Is it possible to implement redirect rules for https to overcome the design flaws temporarily? 

I graph part of these numbers with pnp4nagios in our monitoring system. It is not designed for reporting, but you could also use the graphs for reporting 

you can't use an ssl accelerator for ssh. these protocols are different. but you don't have to use acceleration for ssh, because ssh uses symmetric encryption after establishing a connection with asymmetric encryption. 

When you use *nix, you could also use to get smaller files and then parse it with whatever you like, be it grep, awk, ... 

you have two virtual host configured for 188.40.153.185:443. This confuses apache and he only accepts the first one. You should merge these vhosts or change the ip for the seconds vhost, depending on what you want to achieve. Or if your are using name based virtual hosting (possible with ssl, but not the best way) you need to add a directive as one of the error messages says. 

have you successfully completed step one of the tutorial? it is talking about port 8888 and jetty and not port 8080 and glassfish. 

So, I think based on the above, when I ping 172.20.1.1, my server should send the packets to 192.168.137.64 (internal server). That server should, because of ip forwarding, take the packet from eth0:1 and route it to tun0 (172.20.1.1). But, as you might have guessed, pinging 172.20.1.1 from nix03 (db server) does not work. I did some packet capturing to see which MAC address my ICMP packets were getting sent to: 

So we have a few servers that are running Lucid and will be running apache/php. We would like to be able to run PHP scripts as different systems users as well as have customized php.ini files for said users. I did some reading on using fast-cgi with suexec, which looked like it might work, but then came accross php-fpm. Did some research on that and php 5.3.3 has just been released with php-fpm built in. So, my immediate need is to get 5.3.3 on Lucid. My long-term need is to have a mechanism whereby we can get regular PHP updates on Lucid. I have seen on launchpad that there is a 5.3.3 release for Maveric. However, my concern about using sources from a newer release is that there are going to be dependency issues. So, it seems to me that taking the source files from Maveric and compiling them on Lucid and then putting those debs in a PPA is a valid idea. But the whole launchpad/ppa/packaging thing is currently over my head and I would rather not spend the time looking into all of that if its not the best way to proceed. So, two primary questions: 1) What is the best way to get regular PHP updates in Lucid? 2) If the answer to the first question is anything like I outlined above (pull source package from later releases, compile, push to PPA), how would I get started on something like that for PHP? Thanks in advance. 

WOW!, just did another google search and came across a guy who mentioned AVG. A light went off and I completely disabled my AVG and the problem disappeared. Further testing showed the problm is with the LinkScanner functionality. I had considered AVG early on, but since I don't have the internet security version, I assumed it would not have an impact. I very much regret that assumption! 

Current problem I want to be able to hit the database server through the VPN. From my vpn client (laptop at my office), I'd like to be able to ping 192.168.137.63. However, that currently fails. In my attempts to troubleshoot, I decided to approach it from the db server side and see if I could ping the VPN tunnel on the internal server (172.20.1.1). I realized that I would need to setup a route on the database server to tell it where to send packets destined for the 172.20.1.0/24 network, so I did that: 

And that tells me the packets should be getting to the internal server. At least, they are being sent to the right NIC. However, when I run tcpdump on eth0 and eth0:1 of the internal server, I don't see any icmp packets coming in from the db server. What else can I try? Thanks in advance. Update #1 Routing table for "internal" server: 

I have a couple servers at Linode. I'm trying to set them up so I have a VPN into one of the machines and can then access all the other machines using the private linode network. Public access to private services (SSH, etc.) would then be restricted to only those who have VPN access. Note: I have no firewalls running on these servers yet. 

My answer is for the "Is there a smarter/simpler way to do this?" part of your question. This script was successful in removing a go daddy cert for me 

Honestly, the short answer is that you need to switch to Intel nics. Broadcom has been trying to fix this problem for over a year and they still haven't licked it. Avoid Networking Issues Hyper V Virtual machines lose network connectivity when you use Broadcom That second link brings you to a Microsoft site which will link you out again to driver pages that supposedly fix this problem. Speaking from personal experience, for what that's worth, it didn't work. We ended up buying Intel Nics and switching them on maintenance. 

When using a or with "Windows Cluster Aware Updating" and "Updating Run Profiles" would calling the cmdlet Stop-CauRun do any of the following: 

I kept digging and found a script online where someone wanted to find user email addresses for incidents. I figured they'd have to find the user first (which would give me the AffectedUser), and I was right. Here's the solution: 

So what happened? Powershell interpreted our input as a single array containing two strings which were passed to the first (positionally) variable. To get the desired result using parenthesis you'd have to do this: 

Powershell is a parsed and interpreted language. The interpreter see's parenthesis as a control structure and is not expected or required at the Call Site. Consider the following example function: 

has issues with non-standard formatted objects. This is especially prescient in the cmdlets from the module. It's a case of left hand / right hand. The AD cmdlets don't return objects using standard formatting and you'll run into odd issues like this using them. The reason why the tried and true method works in this case is because Powershell will format data the same way everytime for output to the console. The key is the redirection operator which tells Powershell to dump console output to the file instead of the screen. 

I'm using the built in SCSM cmdlets and the SMlets powershell module. I'm able to query Service Requests, but I can't seem to figure out how to get the Affected User of a given Service Request. I'm getting service requests in the following manner: 

Source 1 and Source 2 All available cluster tests are grouped into 5 test categories. They are , , , , and . Only the category contains tests which will trigger a failover or impact performance (according to Microsoft that is). Additionally, most of these test categories are not intended to be executed after the cluster is certified and operational. Except for one that is... For Existing Clusters Microsoft designed tests for use on an existing cluster. In fact, these tests only run on existing clusters. To execute this test category run the following command: 

As I need to be able to add and remove items from an array I need to cast it as an as opposed to the more common options (, , ). I also need to preset it with data, but the caller of the function needs the ability to change the preset as they desire. The preset in the block is required as another entity is looking for preset data. I've tried several variations, but here's the one that makes the most sense: 

So you've already done the hard part of generating your list in . You're probably over thinking how to do the email and that's what's tripping you up. Remember, Powershell is there to make your life easier. If it seems too complicated, there's likely an easier way to do it. Anyway you need to figure out the following variables and add them to your code: