Image source: Library of Congress Each smaller cross indicates an additional Red Cross member in the house beyond the first. You can read more on the American Red Cross Society during WW1 here. 

It is. In Soviet history there are multiple instances of badly implemented policies causing resistance from population, which sometimes resulted in government issuing statements in the spirit of "we didn't really mean to do this, it's all foreign spies'/overzealous bureaucrats'/ trotskyists' fault." In this case, global economy crisis forced Soviet government to step up their collectivization attempts. The peak of this was in the beginning of 1930 - statement issued on January 5, 1930 proclaimed that collectivization efforts are to be completed by 1932, and even sooner in the main grain-producing regions - Ukraine and lands along the Volga river. The forced collectivization caused by that led to massed peasant uprisings: by March 1930, GPU registered over 3000 incidents involving over 2000000 people in Ukraine alone, according to some researchers [1]. As a result, collectivization efforts were scaled down, and several party leaders were accused of causing the whole debacle. They later were shot as trotskyist spies. This seesaw of first ramping up collectivization and then backing down continued until 1933, when the whole system of government control over agriculture was overhauled which led to better harvests and overall improvement in relations between government and peasants. 

Before this codification, the Islamic law was applied by Islamic judges - and religious minorities were allowed various autonomy to have their own laws. In addition, with the capitulations to European nations, citizens of those European nations were not subject to the Ottoman courts, but rather a "mixed court" composed of Ottoman and European judges. As you see there were multiple jurisdictions here which might get confusing. I am not sure how "codified" the religious-based laws were. The Sharia was and is based on the Quran and the prophetic tradition, but there can be multiple ways to interpret and implement them in specific situations. The mixed court was based on a local version/translation of the French commercial code, but its resources were limited and it was unable to take on the rising number of cases. With the codification, the Empire adopted a "standard" implementation which was published in 16 books comprising 1800+ articles, written in legal language similar to European legal codes. And as your quote noted, it was now governed by the state as opposed to Islamic judges/legal scholars. Another effect of this standardization was that non-Muslims were now subject to the Majallah - which covers civil and commercial law; family and inheritance laws were exempted. Another interesting impact of this is that Majallah lived on long after the fall of the Ottomans, in former territories of the empire. For example, Israel's law was based partially on the Majallah, but it was replaced step by step until abolished in 1984. Sources: 

In the beginning of the next day, Alexei Rykov was called to testify, and from then on the interrogation is basically both accused trying to dodge questions about spywork, and prosecutor trying to catch them on technicalities. At one point, under pressure from interrogator, Rykov says that both he and Bukharin were involved in Polish espionage: 

Yes, by 1936 Stalin was firmly in control. In fact, any non-underground opposition was officially finished by the XVII Congress of the CPSU in 1934 - there, all the leaders of the former opposition (like Bukharin, Zinoviev, Kamenev) basically submitted to Stalin, all their speeches can be briefly summed up as "We were wrong, Great Leader, please don't kill us". Since then, any official opposition was impossible. That very year Zinoviev and Kamenev were arrested (on a most likely fabricated charge linked to the murder of Kirov), and by 1936 most of their former supporters were purged from the Party. All in all, over 70% of the members of the Central Committee elected in 1934 were dead by 1938. Note that arrest of one of the Committee members required approval of the arrest by the majority of the Committee members, so to pull this off, Stalin had to get that approval every time, and get it he did - pretty clear demonstration of who controlled the government at the moment. 

Note that bishoprics and cities are named but not where the borders are. In fact, the treaty doesn't seem to imagine that there are borders at all. Where are the limits of the "Bishoprick of Metz"? I assume that this is determined by local practices. Other provisions about who owns what are also in this manner. The Treaty of Tordesillas (1494) did famously define exact borders, but this method of definition were initially only used for territories and colonies outside Europe and not for Europe only. Not to mention the impossibility of marking the borders defined in that treaty. Compare with the modern day Treaty of Versailles: 

According to White House tumblr, Google co-founder Sergey Brin's family were refugees from the Soviet Union, coming to the US when Brin was 6. Researching further, 

I'm curious about this convention. How did it develop and what was its intended purpose? Naturally, in a battle, any enemy should be "fair game", but if this convention was observed, it must have had a clear benefit to everyone. 

This is most likely pure fiction. Faberge made his famous eggs for Russian royal family since 1885. Out of all of pre-1901 (i.e made before Queen Victoria's death) Faberge-made imperial eggs only one is not accounted for in lists of tzar's property seized by the Soviets during the Russian Revolution - the Mauve egg, made in 1897. All other eggs are traceable at least until 1922. Could Victoria have that egg shattered? Definitely not by her own hand - first, none of the eggs are known to leave Russia before the Revolution, and she never visited Russia in person; second - there is no record of how the egg was lost, and its destruction by the English Queen would definitely had been notable enough to leave a trace in history. On the other hand, Queen might've referred metaphorically to one of the several occasions she disrupted Russian Emperors' plans - in time of her rule, Britain's and Russia's interests often clashed. In this case, from this short phrase it's impossible to tell which of four Russian Emperors whose time in power intersected with her own she meant. 

Also note that the border runs through a mountaineous area called the Tenasserim Hills, which acts as a barrier between the two states. 

but did not explain what the "unfriendly acts" were. Wikipedia's Dutch–Venezuelan crisis of 1908 has slighly more details 

The Christian Kingdoms of Spain were at intermittent wars with the Muslims and also with each other (e.g. see Timeline of the Muslim presence in the Iberian Peninsula which contains dates of major battles and wars). In addition, unlike France and England who could come up with some sort of truce while they went on Crusade, I don't think the Muslims of Spain would have granted any truce to respect their Christian rivals going on Crusade. Therefore, sending their leaders and warriors across the sea to fight someone else's war would have been a suicidal move for these kingdoms. 

Has a such hypothetical scenario happened in any hereditary monarchy? Was there anyone who took the throne "temporarily", only to be later displaced by a better heir who were born after his/her predecessor's death? 

So, his cavalry was to deter defenders' attempts at counterattack with their own cavalry, while siege engines and infantry archers suppressed fighters on the wall. And during the first day of the siege: 

The whole event was a bit more complex than a simple annexation. In XVI century Astrakhan Khanate was a point where clashed interests of Turkey and Crimean Khanate on one side, and Russia and Nogai Horde on the other, due to the importance of the city as a trading hub. The rulers changed often (basically, if a ruler leaned to one side - the other side raided the khanate and installed their marionette). Russia only came into the picture after conquering Kazan - it came in contact with, and consequently became an ally to the Nogais. In fact, the expedition of 1554 was planned by a request from Nogay Horde ruler (well, one of the rulers - by then it was already falling to internal power struggle), and Dervish-Ali was a Nogai proponent - who actually was Astrakhanian Khan before Crimeans raided the city in 1547 and installed their own ruler. So, the goal of the expedition wasn't the conquest of the city - it was reinstallment of an allied ruler. Nogai forces failed to join the Russians for some reason, and thus Dervish-Ali became a vassal to Moscow after the victory. He almost immediately switched allegiance, though, and tried to achieve independence with Osman backing - but that, as we know, did not end well for him, and, as it was normal for Russia back then, rebel's lands were confiscated by the Tzar. After that, most of the Nogai Horde became vassals of Russian tzar, and the rest broke away and allied with Crimea and Turkey. Source (russian language) 

The use of Arabic was not restricted to Muslims either. Jewish author in the Islamic world, e.g. Saadia Gaon (d. 942) and Maimonides (12th century) wrote extensively in Arabic. Further reading 

French used to have a status as working language for international institutions, somewhat like English today (or Latin in the past for Catholic Europe). This was the case around the time of the founding of Chalmers University of Technology (1829). It is not surprising if some universities during that time used a French motto. Today there are also universities and other institutions in non English-speaking countries that uses English motto, for example Erasmus University. From Wikipedia 

But did not give references or citations on this statement, and did not explain who was harbouring the refugees, what they had to do with Venezuela and the Netherlands, and how this led to an attack and overthrow of a foreign government. 

The Muslims of al-Andalus (Islamic Iberia) consisted of Arabs, Berbers and native Iberians who converted to Islam (+descendants). Were there significant social distinctions between the three ethnic groups? The official and literary language was Arabic and presumably everybody speaks it. But did they, for example, live in separate communities, speak in different vernaculars at home, or have distinguishable names, clothings or customs from each other? Did they intermarry? Or were they generally assimilated since they had the same religion? I'm interested in the period around the 10th century, e.g. during the Caliphate of Córdoba: long enough after the initial conquest, but still before the disintegration of the Muslim power. 

According to Rezanov's journal, they spent those days sightseeing and visiting Russian diplomats in London. They visited Westminster abbey, London Tower, Greenwich observatory and Newgate prison, amongst other places. He doesn't write much about his entourage, save for Horner - expedition's astronomer, who needed to buy his instruments in London. It seems that this was the main reason for visiting London - as soon as astronomical equipment was delivered, Rezanov returned back to Falmouth. Source: Резанов Н.П. Первое путешествие россиян вокруг света, описанное Н. Резановым / Н.П. Резанов // Отечественные Записки. - № XII; 1824, pp. 25-37 and 328-351, retrieved here (warning, old Russian) 

First of all, armistice was supposed to be a temporary measure on the way to an actual peace treaty, it was not expected to last as long as it did. But at the moment of its proposal it was not accepted by South Korea - or by North Korea, for that matter. In fact, USA officials first started talking about peaceful resolution in December 1950, after China's intervention made it clear war isn't ending anytime soon, but until hostilities reached an obvious stalemate in June 1951 both Koreas wanted to fight until all of the country was united. US and USSR pressed for armistice, and in 1953 the demarcation line was drawn where the forces happened to stand at the moment - both sides just withdrew their forces 2km back from the frontline. At that time, North Korea actually didn't have any artillery capable of hitting Seoul from that distance - so this possibility didn't enter armistice designers' minds, after all, if a peace treaty is to be accepted, it would include an agreement on borderlines which would probably go along the 38th parallel, taking the city out of the danger zone. But no such agreement was reached, and the temporary demarcation line became a de-facto permanent border. 

In the introduction of his translation to the historical novel Footsteps, the translator Max Lane (who is also described as a researcher on Indonesia) said that in the beginning of the novel, the book's hero: 

Abraham Duquesne was the commander of the French fleet and Michiel de Ruyter the Dutch fleet. How did the French learn about the condition of the Dutch admiral, given that they are in different ships? For example, did they visually observe how badly he was wounded, or did the opposing ships communicate in some way? 

The Constitutional Revolution of Iran in 1906 resulted in a constitution that established a parliament and a constitutional monarchy. Interestingly, it was based on the Belgian constitution. Was there any reason that Belgium was particularly chosen as a model? There was a lot of constitutional monarchies in the West at that time. Belgium wasn't among the most prestigious or famous of them, and I couldn't think of any special similarities between Iran and Belgium. 

The 1096 People's Crusade were joined mostly by peasants, led by the priest Peter the Hermit independently of their lords. What was the status of these peasants' trip? Were they free to take trips and not serve their lords, or did this fall under some exception, or did they violate their feudal obligation by going on this trip?