The position is always that way because it is the only rational one. Certainly nobody will contradict if the situation is the following: A terrorist is about to ignite a nuclear bomb in a big city but you could kill him before he is doing harm. Now, how large must the city be in order to kill him? 

Those mathematical axioms which are taken from experience work so well because reality works so well. Those mathematical axioms which are free and often counterfactual inventions don't work well. A prominent example is transfinite set theory which has not the least practical application. For debunked examples see: "Applications" of set theory in $URL$ p. 124ff. "How is it possible that mathematics, which is a product of human thinking independent of all experience, fits reality in such an excellent way?" [A. Einstein: "Geometrie und Erfahrung", Festvortrag, Berlin (1921), reprinted in A. Einstein: "Mein Weltbild", C. Seelig (ed.), Ullstein, Frankfurt (1966) p. 119] Without mental images from sensory impressions and experience thinking is impossible. Without reality (which includes the apparatus required for thinking as well as the objects of thinking – we never think of an abstractum "number 3" but always of three things or the written 3 or the spoken word or any materialization which could have supplied the abstraction) mathematics could not have evolved like a universe could not have evolved without energy and mass. Therefore real mathematics agrees with reality in the excellent way it does. Einstein answers his question in a relativizing way: "In so far the theorems of mathematics concern reality they are not certain, and in so far as they are certain they do not concern reality." [A. Einstein: "Geometrie und Erfahrung", Festvortrag, Berlin (1921), reprinted in A. Einstein: "Mein Weltbild", C. Seelig (ed.), Ullstein, Frankfurt (1966) p. 119f] He states a contraposition (R ==> ¬C) <==> (C ==> ¬R). Both statements are equivalent. Both statements are false. To contradict them a counterexample is sufficient. A theorem of mathematics is the law of commutation of addition of natural numbers a + b = b + a. It can be proven in every case in the reality of a wallet with two pockets. 

More or less the question title. My final-year logic course a few years back covered a number of non-classical logics (deontic, Kleene/Lukasiewicz multi-valued, etc.), however dialetheism was left as little more than a footnote in spite of a somewhat important name in the area being from the same university. I would like to read a little more on the topic to actually understand what is going on, and I'm looking for the first work that introduced it as a serious, defend-able position under the assumption that it is likely to have a reasonable explanation of the fundamental argument in the face of the obvious initial objections. 

Yes you will definitely be able to understand those texts, but that statement needs some qualification. Firstly, you need to understand that more of the work in reading texts is to do with how much mental work you put in to considering and challenging their ideas. Simply reading the text like a novel probably won't leave you too much more enlightened. This is much easier if the language of the work/translation you are reading is your first language, but of course that isn't 100% necessary. Secondly, you probably won't finish the text with quite the same depth of understanding of someone who has experience with other ideas that are related to the texts, (what the text is responding to and why, what common counter-arguments are, etc.). This is fine, and everyone starts out this way, but don't always expect to fully "get" a text the first time you read it (especially in the case of Nietzsche). Because of this, if you have a series of related texts I would normally suggest reading them in the order they were written unless you have a good reason to do otherwise. (EDIT: Something a lot of people do is to read the original text alongside an companion text that is meant to explain the ideas in a more plain-language manner, and I've heard a lot of people recommend it if you can find a decent companion text.) To answer your question at the end, Pythagoras was very influential but isn't necessary for any of the texts you listed, and Aristotle was Plato's student so Plato's ideas naturally wouldn't rely on that. 

Meanwhile Cantor's followers believe in "real" numbers that cannot be defined or used in any way (Cantor himself did not as we must say in his favour). Even uncountable alphabets (i.e., unlistable lists) are accepted. The whole matter has completely pushed out the former precision and definiteness of the "Queen of Sciences". 

A set is not a container but only its contentents. So one can take the position: Without contents no set. For modern set theorists there is no problem because they are trained to be attracted by obviously counterintuitive or counterfactual properties (like the axiom of choice in cases where a choice, i.e., a real distinction of one element from all others is impossible). But even the founders of set theory considered the empty set as problematic or not existent. In the following I quote some rarely known statements. Bernard Bolzano, the inventor of the notion set (Menge) in mathematics would not have named a nothing an empty set. In German the word set has the meaning of many or great quantity. Often we find in German texts the expression große (great or large) Menge, rarely the expression kleine (small) Menge. Therefore Bolzano apologizes for using this word in case of sets having only two elements: "Allow me to call also a collection containing only two parts a set." [J. Berg (ed.): B. Bolzano, Einleitung zur Grössenlehre, Friedrich Frommann Verlag, Stuttgart (1975) p. 152] Also Richard Dedekind discarded the empty set. But he accepted the singleton, i.e., the non-empty set of less than two elements: "For the uniformity of the wording it is useful to permit also the special case that a system S consists of a single (of one and only one) element a, i.e., that the thing a is element of S but every thing different from a is not an element of S. The empty system, however, which does not contain any element shall be excluded completely for certain reasons, although it might be convenient for other investigations to fabricate such." [R. Dedekind: "Was sind und was sollen die Zahlen?" Vieweg, Braunschweig 1887, 2nd ed. (1893) p. 2] Bertrand Russell considered an empty class as not existing: "An existent class is a class having at least one member." [Bertrand Russell: "On some difficulties in the theory of transfinite numbers and order types", Proc. London Math. Soc. (2) 4 (1906) p. 47] Georg Cantor mentioned the empty set with some reservations and only once in all his work: "Further it is useful to have a symbol expressing the absence of points. We choose for that sake the letter O. P = O means that the set P does not contain any single point. So it is, strictly speaking, not existing as such." [Cantor, p. 146] And even Ernst Zermelo who made the "Axiom II There is an (improper) set, the 'null-set' 0 which does not contain any element" [E. Zermelo: "Untersuchungen über die Grundlagen der Mengenlehre I", Mathematische Annalen 65 (1908) p. 263], this same Zermelo himself said in private correspondence: "It is not a genuine set and was introduced by me only for formal reasons." [E. Zermelo, letter to A. Fraenkel (1 March 1921)] "I increasingly doubt the justifiability of the 'null set'. Perhaps one can dispense with it by restricting the axiom of separation in a suitable way. Indeed, it serves only the purpose of formal simplification." [E. Zermelo, letter to A. Fraenkel (9 May 1921)] So it is all the more courageous that Zermelo based his number system completely on the empty set: { } = 0, {{ }} = 1, {{{ }}} = 2, and so on. He knew at least that there is only one empty set. But many ways to create the empty set could be devised, like the empty set of numbers, the empty set of bananas, the empty set of unicorns, the uncountably many empty sets of all real singletons, and the empty set of all these empty sets. Is it the emptiest set? Anyhow, "zero things" means "no things". So we can safely say (pun intended): Nothing is named the empty set. 

By definition, an argument is valid if the premises and our accepted working of logical rules create a situation such that if all of the premises are true, then the conclusion cannot be false. From the detail in your question I assume you are aware of this much. Having redundant premises is not a problem. For example, I could make a simple argument: 

The question isn't particularly clear about what you mean by "what kind" of argument, however Modal Logic primarily deals with the possibility and necessity of statements like the one in the question. Probability is a different option that is used in various systems (such as multi-valued logics that assign each proposition a probability value such as 0.7, with computations from those). In modal logic, your argument would be written as follows: 

From the premise of the initial quote that the argument is valid there can be no case where you are posing the antecedent's statement (W ∧ X ∧ Y) as true and the consequent (C) false. Thus, it is a tautology as there is no case in which the statement itself is false. (Note that this necessitates that W,X,Y includes ALL premises of the argument we know to be valid, not just some subset of them.) 

If a moment is more than a point in time, say a year, then only a finite number can have elapsed, at least as far as we can research it. Assume that our present time is zero. Go back in time by a number of years. Will you ever have gone back by an infinite number of years? No. The reason is that this number does not exist. Time is potentially infinite, i.e., for every number of years you can imagine a larger number. There is no bound. But you cannot imagine an infinite number, because actual infinity has no predecessor but time has no gaps. Note that even Georg Cantor, one of the strongest advocates of actual infinity or transfinity, denied that an infinite time can have elapsed: 

Priest does not demolish Kant. Priest is wrong. First, even Cantor has stated that time never can be actually infinite: "[...] for instance, the time elapsed since the beginning of the world, which, measured in some time-unit, for instance a year, is finite in every moment, but always growing beyond all finite limits, without ever becoming really infinitely large." [G. Cantor, letter to I. Jeiler (13 Oct 1895)] And he offered to prove that the elapsed time is never infinite: "I do not only maintain with all Christian philosophers the temporal beginning of the creation, I also claim like you that this truth can be proven by rational reasons. [...] The foundation of actually infinitely great or, as I call them, transfinite numbers does not entail that we have to refrain from rational proofs of the beginning of the world." [G. Cantor, letter to J. Hontheim (21 Dec 1893)] Second, if something infinite could be completed, then the sequence 1, 2, 3, ... would be the first candidate. But then we would have to accept that Scrooge McDuck who earns 10 enumerated dollars per day and spends one dollar, can become bankrupt in the set-theoretic limit, i.e., in the case of completed infinity. This is such a ridiculous result that we have good reason to consider set theory with its actual infinite as demolished. All people whom I know have agreed when I told them this story. By the way the formalism of limits in set theory can be found here: $URL$ p. 55f. 

Essentially, the main insight I would take from this passage is to realise that all arguments can be phrased as a conditional statement of the general form (if , then ). The fact that any logically valid argument forms a tautology when this is done is a result of this. 

In classical propositional logic, an argument is invalid iff. there is a situation in which the premises can be true and the conclusion false. So by that measure (assuming that you have premises that can possibly be all true at one time) your argument that concludes in a contradiction would be invalid. However, what is worth noting is that you didn't state was what kind of logic is being used to analyze this argument - Paraconsistent logics such as dialetheism accept that there can be true contradictions, which can throw a spanner in the works here. 

Firstly, I suggest that you make sure that we're talking about formal philosophy and not 'formal logic', 'formalism' or other areas of philosophy that might use the term in their title, as these likely have much more specific meanings. As far as I know, there is no real definition for what formal philosophy is. In my experience, most people and writers seem to use it as a distinction between philosophy that adheres to certain standards of rigour and explanatory completeness rather than simply asking questions and proposing ideas that seem relevant to a given philosophical concept. Analytic philosophy tries to adhere to this for the most part. Depending on the context, it might also refer to the way that philosophy is taught or learned - e.g. studying at a university under a philosophy professor might be called "studying philosophy in a formal way", etc., as opposed to, say, reading a few books and asking/answering questions on the internet - this might be called "informally studying philosophy" (though I am not saying that one is necessarily better than the other).