I believe that bicycle seat comfort is more about adjusting your expectations for your style of riding than an objective measure of comfort. I do the same thing on my bicycle seats and always have since I started riding seriously 35 years ago. For your reference, I am a man, 5'11" and about 150lbs, so I have a relatively small frame. I have ridden numerous centuries and double centuries (100 miles and 200 mile rides), commuted 15 miles each way for 30 years. My two most used bikes are a road bike and a town bike, both fitted with leather Brooks saddles that I ride for different purposes. I use a men's B-17 on the road bike which is a narrow, stiffer, harder saddle. The town bike is a converted '80s TREK touring frame that is now a one-speed with upright style bars with a women's B-67s. The difference between mens' and womens' saddles, interestingly enough seems to be the length, not the width. I find myself moving back on both saddles to get my "butt bones" over the rail because it takes pressure of the softer tissues. I don't necessarily stay in that position, but I do it now and then because it just feels better to change positions. I shift around more on the B-17 than the B-67. I have not tried the B-67s on a road bike with the drop bars. I'm just enjoying it too much on the upright town bike to want to experiment. It is comfortable enough that I have ridden it on some 25 mile rides with less butt fatigue than the B-17. The funny thing about seats is that even though the B-17 is stiffer and harder, it is my preferred seat when I'm trying to ride fast as in a 10-15 mile commute run where I want to put my head down and get there as fast as possible. The only saddle I don't move around on is the cheap, original mattress style saddle on my 50lb. Schwinn Cyclone one-speed. But I wouldn't want that saddle on a road bike or even my favorite town bike. Why? Because a very soft saddle seems to absorb more energy and feels less efficient. 

My recommendation is to use a rag and de-greaser like Simple Green. Apply the solution to your rag, wet pads let the liquid do its thing and wipe clean/dry. If that does not work, repeat. If after doing that twice you are not getting the appropriate braking power, I would gently sand the face of the brake pad with a fine grit sandpaper. 

Studded tires are a must on ice. They are expensive, but well worth it! A couple of points to consider that have not been mentioned: Footwear: Winter specific riding shoes or boots. For mountain biking and cross, I ride with Lake boots. On the road, I use an older pair of road shoes that have been stretched to accommodate thick wool socks and neoprene shoe covers. Head-wear: I typically ride with a helmet cover all winter. I also bring along a couple different varieties of skull caps on ride ranging in thickness, ear/face coverage etc... yes to balaclavas!!! Depth of snow: whether you are running studs or not, my experience is that if the snow is deeper than 4-5 inches, it is not ride-able. In this case, it is best to wait until either the cross country skiers, hikers or plows(in the case of roads) have cleared or packed down the snow. Body Temperature: Many cyclists new to riding in colder weather tend to over dress. The trick that works for me is twofold, first absolutely dress in layers and second I want to be cold, not freezing, but cold as I go outside and get my bike ready or at the very start of the ride. If I am warm at that point, I will be sweat soaked in the matter of minutes and wetness is something you want avoid! Fender: Clearly, if the snow is dry, it is not necessary, but my experience is it is better to have one as a precaution than go without! Heat Packs: At extreme temperatures, I have successfully used heat packs in the tips of my shoes and palms of my gloves. I am not a huge fan of use in the palms, I very rarely and if i do it is usually just a temporary fix. Use of Car Heater: If I am driving to the ride, I preheat my shoes and as much clothing as possible using my car heater on the way to the ride. If you get yourself set up with studs, I would highly recommend finding a frozen lake or pond to ride on! The experience is phenomenal! If you can time the lake ride with 1-2 inches of fresh snow it will be that much better! I ride road, mountain and cross year round outside. Hope this helps! 

If your car doesn't have a trailer hitch on it, you can have one installed and purchase a "trike and bike" rack that mounts in the trailer hitch receiver: 

My inlaws ride recumbent bikes and had a hitch installed on their Toyota Camry and purchased a double-trike rack. 

Summers in my area get up to 90-100 during the day, and I would not ride around in a long sleeve shirt. My personal favorite shirt to wear is something like the Pearl Izumi Attack Short Sleeve Jersey from Performance Bike: 

I noticed my crank making a noise when I would crank hard, and it ended up being the pedal. It was the cheap plastic pedals that came with the bike (before I switched to clipless), and the pedal itself was starting to break. It would bend when I was cranking hard, and it finally broke on me (thankfully, just down the street from my house). So, I would check the pedal, and check the bolts for the whole area to make sure everything's tightened down properly. 

I got the blue pinstripe set and I love it - a bright source of light, like a car headlight, hits your bike, and you light up like a christmas tree. It's especially pronounced at night, and as cool as this picture is, it doesn't do it justice. Check out the video on their website for a nighttime demonstration. Edit: I thought I would share my picture of my bike with the blue BrightBike pinstripes on it. This is taken in my dark garage with my flash covered (just enough light to make it glow without the picture being blurry). In daylight, the color is almost the same as my paint color, so they're hard to see. 

YES! I have had frame damage occur, but it was not from chain slap alone! As Daniel mentioned, it was on a steel steed, that led to corrosion. In fact it was on the very first bike in which I was totally smitten, a Ritchey P-23 :( Sadly, the chainstay did crack. Ritchey did repair, so all was not lost. The term ridden hard and put away wet...yep on steel frames with chain slap or any paint chips for that matter is not a good idea! Most of us keep our bikes in a garage or in basement rampant with moisture. The MIT (most important thing) is to dry your steel steed! Over the years I have seen this numerous times and just saw an old Serrota at the LBS with major rust to point where the shop was not going to do any repairs because failure was imminent. Most of my riding is in RI, along the ocean, so that may accelerate the corrosion. 

Watch the Tour de France...you'd be hard pressed to find a bike that is not carbon. Yes pros do get multiple steeds, but remember riding is their full time job. When was the last time one of us put 30-50 hours on a bike in a given week, never mind for 6-8 months! Now think about the wattage these guys put out and hopefully you are getting the idea...that carbon is a proven material. Do failures happen? Yes, but the frequency is so minimal and when it does occur it is not the instantaneous snap in half you fear. Furthermore, no multi-million dollar corporation would be able to mass produce a product that posed as serious of risk as you suggest. As far as carbon forks go, I use them on the road, as well as, cross and have never had a failure. Their ability to absorb vibration is unparalleled and I honestly cannot imagine riding a bike without one. I have a stable of bikes and all have carbon except one and that one has a suspension fork. My 29er MTB has a rigid carbon fork that replaced a ti rigid a couple years ago! Now having said that, I have been riding carbon frames on the road for 5 years and the benefits are unbelievable. I used to have a carbon mountain bike and it was phenomenal. Carbon is not the end all and be all. There are other materials that ride extremely well. Hope that helps! 

If you are like most people, commuting implies getting to work on time and in the back of your mind is a comparison of total commute time and expense with the alternative of auto or mass transit. Consequently, bike commuters tend to be "head down, balls out" riders who aren't interested in messing around and just want to get where they are headed in the morning. In the evening, they look forward to the ride home and it often becomes a time trial with a shower and a beer waiting at the other end. I commuted about 14 miles each way for 30 years between Davis and Sacramento and I would never attempt to do it on a bicycle with an upright riding position. Most of the riding is on open two-lane country road. Also, headed west in the afternoon during warmer months it is common to get 20mph headwinds! Those headwinds will make a grown man cry for his mommy. Under those conditions a traditional road bike with drop bars (to lower your wind profile) and close fitting clothing to reduce wind drag and a triple chain wheel in front is all highly desirable. Spend as much as you can afford. After all, you're not driving or paying for the bus or train. At the same time, I frequently ride across town, about five miles each way for a doctor or dentist appointment on my 1980's converted TREK touring frame with one-speed, upright bars, a fairly wide Brooks B-67s saddle with built in frame lock, front basket, rear rack and folding baskets, 700x25 tires...my lightweight Dutch style bike, wind or no wind. Why? Because it's fun. One tends to be less goal-oriented and more engaged with the scenery riding in an upright position. Riding time is increased about 10% but the tradeoff of having to start a little earlier is worth it to me. I have ridden this bike with the aforementioned headwinds and it took longer. So what? If your objectives are to minimize your biking commute time, get the road bike with drop bars with lots of gears for hills or headwinds and the best lightweight components. If you're willing or able to sacrifice 10% more time to live in the moment a little more, go with the lightweight Dutch bike concept. Or, better yet, employ the fleet system of bikes like I do so you can switch depending on how you feel that day. 

MapMyRide.com uses Google Maps in their web application, but I'm not sure if you can import an already-planned route from Google Maps: 

Glueless patches are to get you home, and glued patches are for the permanent repair once you make it home. Personally, I carry a spare tube and glueless patches, and at home I have a nice glue kit. The glue kits actually bind the patch to the intertube, where the glueless stick on top over the puncture. That being said, I've had glueless patches stay on until I tossed the tube. 

I think it depends on the type of bikes you'll be loading onto the rack. I have a 4-bike hitch-mounted rack (similar to this rack). My wife's cruiser is just large enough that it takes some attention to position when I load the next bike to get them all to fit. What I've run into is that the handlebars of smaller bikes tend to get in the way of the seatpost of the next bike (I load each bike facing the opposite way). In my case, her brake lever likes to get caught on my rack, so it takes some practice to get around these problems. If you can, I would try purchasing a 2-bike mount from a place that will let you return it, take it home and try it out. If it can hold both bikes, you're good to go, and if not, you can take it back and purchase a larger rack. 

Slide back on saddle and drive heels through the bottom of the pedal stroke If you need to stand, do so while minimizing body sway and unnecessary counterproductive upper body motion Get into a rhythm - climb at your own pace Stay upright to keep lungs operating at full capacity Pull handlebars into your thighs as you drive pedals forward 

I ride both SS/FG and approach climbing hills much of the same way I would if I were on a geared bike with one very big exception...MOMENTUM. When on a heavily geared SS/FG I gain as much speed as possible going into the hill and push hard to maintain it throughout the climb. Basic climbing tips: 

Based on this picture, it looks like it was most likely purchased at a department store. I am not sure how knowing the brand will help you decide whether or not you will get a new bike. IMO the main criteria for determining this would be function and comfort. 

This question is akin to, "I have a Chevy and a buddy of mine went into a BMW dealership..." If you are happy in the Chevy, do not test drive the BMW! Once you do, you will likely notice all sorts of inefficiencies that you did not previously :-( As Jahaziel and Gary.Ray point out aerodynamics, bike handling and overall comfort are all factors and ultimately personal choice. Mix into the equation average miles per ride, type of terrain, road surface, rider weight, typical wind and climate conditions and the variables are unfortunately endless...this is both the beauty and the curse of finding the perfect set up! Based on the fact that you mentioned racing, I encourage you to hit the BMW dealership or in this case the LBS! Most shops have test wheels...so give a few a whirl and make your own experienced/educated decision. A good set of wheels is the single most significant upgrade to any steed! I have ridden all types and many brands...so do not hesitate to ask more specific questions about manufacturers or models!