There are a good number of ways this has been done, but the one that I can see actually being most akin to what you're looking for is from an anime called "Is It Wrong to Try to Pick Up Girls in a Dungeon?", or "DanMachi" for short. Strip it of the obvious fan-service and you get an intriguing basis for an RPG-based society. Take away the "Familia" gimmick and you have something that could even be plausible with some tweaking. I will, however, elaborate here since watching an anime is a bit of a time sink. Italics will indicate the anime's gimmicky bits while bold will indicate what I came up with to replace that. This will appear in a [anime / replacement] format because I think that would be easier to read. 

Fragmentation Grenades Since Bullets are small, and their kinetic energy obviously absorbed by the material of the Aliens Armour, an approach might be conducted into testing the viability of explosive distribution of shrapnel in order to open up vulnerabilities in their armouring, which might then become attackable by small arms fire. Since Fragmentation Grenades are, in some Units like the Marines as a Standard Operating Procedure, used first upon approaching targets, their ready availability would be assured. $URL$ Grenade Launchers Alternatively, one might try to detonate a grenade shot from a M79 at the Invaders. The idea is again that explosively released shrapnel, with the millionfold expansion from the original volume of its explosive material, would have a better piercing effect than the kinetic drive produced by the gases released upon firing a firearm. Since every regular infantry squad is to be equipped with a grenade launcher to aid the breakup of enemy positions in hiding, or where the machine gun cant fire, its ready availability would be assumed. Grenade Launchers Chem Weapons As Aliens are not humans, the Conventions against using Nuclear, Biologic or Chemical Weapons would not apply to them. However, the after effects of Nuclear Weaponry (devastating to the planet, but surely for them as well), and biologic warfare (devastating to our lifeform, but perhaps not to theirs) would rule out such measures. However, Chlorine for example is readily available and if brought out in sufficient concentration might be able to corrode or cauterize their armour, making it more vulnerable to attack with the explosive methods mentioned before. If artillery can bring out barrages of Chlorine gas over the portals it could hinder the Alien Troop Movement by mentioned corrosion or at least by reducing visibility of the terrain. For this purpose any corrosive chemical compound, widely used in Industrial applications, could be weaponized by filling it in artillery shells, or by even simply having soldiers equipped with spraying equipment unload the chemical on the Alien occupied by (effectless) firearm teams with a simple hose. Flamethrowers While not widely used since WWII, flaming agents might be considered as the thermal stability of the Alien Armour is not yet known, but can be safely assumed to not be arbitrarily high. Even highly efficient nano-carbon structures that might produce before mentioned protection against fireweapons would probably crumble to dust when exposed to high enough temperatures due to burning flaming agent stuck to it. As Napalm can be relatively easy manufactured from Gasoline and Acid, it would be an option that can be considered together with the Chemical Components when selecting a mobile delivery system, as it would at best have to handle most of those agents in one set of equipment. The detriment is that flamethrowers are not featured anymore in the current arsenals. However, a delivery system that would be able to deliver the (non) burning agent onto the Antagonist Alien could be as simple as a firehose pumping the agent onto the target. Further suggestions The list could be continued with fuel-air bombs or even tactical nuclear artillery shells, but since the nature of the scenario appears to be pitched infantry battles, the options end here. 

The basic premise is as follows: There exists a dungeon underground that has a will of its own and continually births out monsters that have magic stones at their heart. Adventurers kill monsters and claim these stones to sell aboveground to buy better equipment and adventure deeper, and so on. In order to be allowed entry to the dungeon, a person must [receive the blessing of a god(dess) and join their Familia / have a license obtained through having someone vouch for you, followed by an additional screening process to make sure a person isn't just going to get killed]. Adventurers have basic stats based on their overall performance, such as Strength, Agility, Endurance, etc. that increase through training and exercise. You could increase your Strength by lifting weights or hacking away at monsters, for example. Your stats are updated [by the god(dess) of your Familia using magic to update a chart on your back / by performing a number of tests for each stat that gauge the stat's numerical value (see footnote for examples of these tests)] and provided to you on a neat little sheet. Since the monsters in the dungeon apparently get stronger the further down you go (perhaps due to getting closer to the source of the dungeon's will), adventurers aren't allowed to access certain tiers of floors until their stats get to a set point. Stats have an alphabetical tier system [that is based on potential growth, I think, though it isn't explicitly stated in the show / that is used to give other people a general idea of how far that stat has progressed], while also providing an easy way to judge how soon someone can progress to lower floors (such as "You must have one C-Ranked stat to access floors 11-15"). Not sure what else to say. Hope this helped! 

Being able to lift his arm over his shoulder, enabling to hurl things wider and with more smack, thus outperforming those apes who could only hold stones or antilope leg bones to smash craniums in. Being able to eat anything Homo Sapiens ate and does eat anything that isnt poisonous or runs away fast enough from him. Early forms of Homo Sapiens also practised Cannibalism, although that fact is hardly popular when encountered in a story. Nevertheless, that unlocked sources of protein for him that might otherwise have been untapped, allowing for his immense growth of brain matter, which requires lots of energy to run immense parallel computing processes, a growth that was only hemmed in by the size of the birth canal in the females, as bigger head circumference due to bigger brains increased the difficulty and mortality when giving birth exponentially. Being able to walk long distances this enabled Homo Sapiens to not having to rely on his motoric skills to get protein, he would simply walk to the next carcass that another predator had slain and eaten from, leaving a lot for the all-eating Homo Sapiens to feast on. Due to his other skill he was fairly able to hold off other scavengers until he had eaten his fill. Ability to withstand hunger Homo Sapiens is incredibly adapted to withstand long periods of hunger without detrimental effects. There is even a backup system built into Homo Sapiens, which switches from sugars when not available to burn as fuel for the brain to ketones from fat. As a last resort when those are used up the body of Homo Sapiens will start using up the protein of the muscle tissue to maintain brain function. During all that time he might be getting progressively weaker, but the whole process several weeks to be coming to its terminal end, during which time finding even minute amounts of food can switch the body back onto a more normal functioning. 

Footnotes Stat Test Examples: If Strength is a measure of raw lifting power, having the subject dead lift increasingly heavy weights; if it is a measure of striking power, hand them a hammer and have them hit a suspended weight that has a number of markings along a wall that are used to track how high it went. If Agility is a measure of how well the subject can dodge attacks or projectiles, throw an increasing number of dye-soaked projectiles at them, time how long they dodge, stop the timer when they are hit; if it is a measure of flexibility or acrobatic prowess an obstacle course will do. If Endurance is a measure of how long the subject can maintain rigorous activity, have them run around a track until they tire; if it is a measure of how many hits the subject can take before they lose consciousness you save this test for last, surround them with people with saps or bats and have them get beaten up until they cry mercy (Ruthless, but I'm not sure how else to measure this...). 

Insects several meters in Size Dragonflies were able to have a much bigger wingspan 300 million years ago (thanks to a much higher oxygen content in the atmosphere, plus warm as today in the equator), animals can actually be scaled quite a bit up. In this case the limiting factors were feeding the organism enough oxygen to sustain itself, and provide it with enough heat to keep up its functions. But the scaling up reached its limits here in the oxygenation of the tissue (though the free oxygen was multiple times higher than now), just as the growth of mobile organisms is limited by gravity and the ability of a pump (heart) to distribute enough oxygen in the biomatter for it to stay alive. If a giant was to exist, it would die from the fact that its heart, rushing to pump blood to its head, would burst trying to stem against the pull of the planet. Only on a planet with weaker gravity could such gigantisms be observed. $URL$ 

LEDs produce very little heat to begin with. Considering wattage is just power expenditure, you'd be better off focusing all those 20 watts on heat, not light. 

Useful melee weapon? Certainly. But you aren't going to get anything with the qualities of a sword or spear. When cast thin (as would be required for a blade), this stuff is bendy AF and would thus have a huge problem penetrating skin. However, the tensile strength quality has at least one benefit that might be of use as a weapon. If you had to kill someone with nanocellulose in a melee setting, I'd suggest either: 

Definition of Year The rotation of the Planet around its star, when fully completed, defines a year in the perspective of the Planet. Circular Orbit Considerations If the orbit is highly circular, and not elliptic as in nature (which is caused by the interactions of many masses in a solar systems, combined with the eigenrotation of the celestial body, aka planet and its possible satellites aka moons, in question) there would still have to be set a point in its orbit from which the measuring is started. Once the planet has reached back to this point, a year has passed. Tool of Triangulation If the planet possesses a moon, and the distance gradient of the orbit (the difference of distance between star and planet while planet is moving around star) is sufficient to show up in calculations when triangulated against the distance of the planet to the moon, a year can be determined by mathematicians. Limitation to determining Year If the primitive civilization is in a state of pre-Ancient Greece Mathematics, they would indeed be no way for them to tell the time other than resorting to counting Sun Rise and Sunsets.