From your question above, i would only suggest the following (doesn't mean I don't know about the other bikes): Folding bike - for work and city/cycle lane/fairly normal surfaces only. You can also get away with usual city road hazards such as potholes and cracks (but not too extreme), also good weight support (e.g. laptop, clothes, etc.). You might find it a bit weird to suddenly switch to a folding from a normal road/hybrid/MTB. But overall, it is really great as my gf bought a Tern C8 last month(she is 5'4") and even I find it nice to ride (I am 6'3"). You can also carry it on the train and even on the aeroplane if you want. Some folding bike tyres are quite sturdy compared to hybrids so the bumps and holes can be ignored a lot more. I would still give a trial ride if I was you in order to be sure about the comfort. THIS IS QUITE PRACTICAL if you are just living a professional life and city-side commute with occasional shopping bags (about 6 kgs) behind you. MTB (Mountain Bikes) - If you want it to use on a rougher surface as well as in the cities. They are a bit heavy, but can take poundings like no other. You could even go over some road kerbs that are raised by appx. 3-4 inches. I apologise to be mean, but if you are not young enough to handle the bike weight, you might feel it difficult to go around the hills with these heavy bikes. But if you think you can, Go for this one. My suspicion based on UK prices is that you can probably get a very good MTB compared even when you double the price (if you are lucky, you might get one with suspension springs too, COOOL). It is also possible to attach some rack or similar thing behind your MTB so that you can carry weight such as your laptop and clothes to work. I never saw anybody doing it for MTB, but that really does not mean you cannot. Short answer is, if you are happy to sacrifice outdoor activity, folding bike is the answer. Otherwise, get an MTB, get rack, and voi la. Bear in mind that no matter what bike you buy, there is a maximum weight for that. I would recommend staying about 6-7 Kgs under the prescribed weight by the manufacturer/seller. It was never an issue for me anyway as I carried shopping on my folding and hybrid, about 6-7 kgs of shopping. I am really sorry but cannot guide you about the US price. If any other user finds this answer suitable, but want to edit it to put the price information, be my guest. Normally, I would put the UK prices but this would be confusing as you said yourself that the prices and the types of bike vary in the US shops. Hope this helps. If you were interested in the brands at all: Folding - Dahon, Tern, Raleigh, Brompton (around $800 sometimes due to the high demand) MTB - Jamis, Trek, Pinnacle, Raleigh (Off-road series), Fuji, Bianchi The choice is now yours, If you think I can give you more information please post follow-up comments :) 

I'm a 44 year-old male, fast-recreational cyclist -- about 6,000 miles/yr. -- who has used a heart rate monitor on and off for nearly 15 years. Quite honestly, I find it kind of aggravating, as it often seems like my heart knows what I want to do and refuses to do it! If trying to do a "recovery ride" my HR can rise so easily that its next to impossible to stay in the recovery zone, yet, when trying to do intervals, I often struggle to get to 150 BPM. I recently got an indoor trainer which had a built in power meter. (My first time using one.) Out of curiosity, this past week I decided that everyday, I would ride at a steady 200 watts -- which seems to be upper endurance or lower tempo zone for me -- for a while to see how it correlates to my heart rate. While I'm fully aware of how HR varies for numerous reasons, even I was surprised that my HR ranged from 123 BPM to 152 BPM for that same effort! (And both those reading were on consecutive days.) I don't do anything really structured, but have recently been following the basic concepts of the CTS training routines. (Doing their "field test" -- which ranged from 148 - 164 BPM for my tests -- then setting my zones accordingly.) Now, how in the heck am I supposed to do something like CTS's "climbing repeat intervals" -- which has a range of just 4 BPM -- if my HR varies by as much as THIRTY BPM for a given effort?!?! (Yes, I realize a power meter on a trainer may not be 100% accurate, but still.) In fact, if my HR varies that much, wouldn't that mean that, most of the time, while doing a "climbing repeat," I wouldn't be at the correct intensity, even if I strictly adhered to the "correct" HR zone? (I tried getting an LT test at the CTS Lab, but that failed . . . they couldn't draw enough blood to get accurate readings.) Looking back at my training logs, it seems I may have ridden better when just riding by feel. At the least, it was more enjoyable riding that way, rather than always struggling to stay in a prescribed zone. ("Oh, slow down, my HR is too high . . . wait, now it's too low, pick up the pace ... too high . . . too low . . . too high . . . ") Would I be better off going back to that? (I still had some structure, in terms of "recovery," "endurance," and "interval" days. I just didn't check or worry about being at a specific HR.) A power meter would be nice, but unless the prices came WAY down, forget it! If I do stay with the HR zone training, should I adjust the zones on a daily basis, based on whether my HR is high or low? (It becomes quickly apparent to me if its high or low. But the only way I would know by how much is to check on the indoor trainer before the ride.) But, hey, Eddy Merckx never used a heart rate monitor. Seems like he didn't do too bad . . . 

I recently picked up a children's bike from a council waste site. I'm going to refit it and I had a question about the compatibility of the gear shifter and chainset. The shifter is a grip-shifter made by Saiguan (it looks very similar to the SRAM shifter). The left hand shifter has three settings and there are three rings on the chainset. The chainset needs replacing but the gear shifters look like they are ok. However I can't locate a 3-ring chainset which has a crank-arm short enough for my child. Therefore I was going to replace with a 2-ring chainset. So my question is are there any 2-ring chainsets compatible with a 3-gear shifter? Hope this isn't a daft question, and thanks in advance for your input. Chris 

I've acquired a Raleigh Suntour (circa 1990s) frame which I am re-fitting. I need to refit the headset and so I need to know the dimensions of the steerer column. The frame had an threaded stem. I've measured the external diameter as about 22-23mm (so about 85-86% of an inch). I measured it by applying measuring calipers to the outside of the steerer column i.e not the cups for the ball bearings. I've looked at various websites (such as Parktool) about standard threaded headset sizes and they say they range from one inch to one and a quarter. So even the smallest standard is quite a bit larger than my measurement. I've checked my measurement several times and I'm sure it is about right. Do I have a steerer with an obsolete measurement or have I made some silly mistake. Thanks in advance Chris 

A little while ago my son's bike had a wobbly rear wheel. I tightened up some spokes which improved the problem but didn't remove it. Eventually I took it into my LBS who immediately diagnosed a problem with the bearings. My question is whether a wobble caused by loose spokes looks different from a wobble due to a problem with bearings. Thanks Chris 

I'm working on restoring a bike which I found at a council dump and I've a couple of questions about the rear axle. I took the rear axle into a hardware shop today to buy a new locking nut (I mislaid the original when I took it out of the wheel - my bad). They said they didn't have one as the axle was imperial and they only stocked metric locking nuts. They recommended another shop which might stock imperial nuts, but I'm thinking it might make more sense to buy a metric rear axle given that they are easier to get hold of. So my specific question is would it be ok to replace my imperial axle with a metric axle of similar size i.e is there a risk that it might compromise the safety of the wheel. The axle is about 6.5 inches long and the locking but has a diameter of about 5/8 of an inch : so I think this would mean a new axle of length 165mm? I guess this leads to a more general question. If you replace an axle does it have to be exactly the same length as the original. Thanks in advance for your help. Chris 

I'm a male, 44, "fast" (?) recreational cyclist, who has been doing week long -- mostly 50 to 80 miles/day -- tours for about 15 years. While I love touring, I have come to dread the aftermath . . . namely, that for at least 6 weeks following the tour, I ride and feel like a, uh, piece of crap, for lack of a cleaner phrase. Can't fully explain it. Sort of like I'm running on fumes, or with one less cylinder. Power output could be up to 15-20% less for a given hard effort, or so it seems. I ride pretty well during the tour. I take a week of recovery rides following it. Seem to still feel OK then, its the second week that it really hits me. I keep hearing how a tour -- or stage race -- will bring one's fitness "to a whole new level," etc. All these years, and I have yet to experience anything close to that! So, any ideas, suggestions, etc.? Only things I can think of: perhaps since I'm not doing hard intervals during the tour, I'm stating to lose fitness then? (My tours are usually in mountainous areas, so its not that I'm just riding easy, but I try to keep my pace on the climbs under control.) The recovery week following then exacerbates that loss? Also, I'm a mailman who has to walk 7 - 8 miles/day up God-only knows how many hills and steps, which I guess makes getting a "full recovery" pretty much impossible. 

Well, about a year ago, I got A shimano Alfine 11 Speed . . . thing didn't even last 700 miles!!!!! (Several of the gears don't even engage . . . at first, thought the chain broke.) And Shimano doesn't even service it. Also have a Rohloff, with nearly 19,000 miles, no problems so far. 'Nough said! 

I know the labels say to use "delicate" detergent. Well, how exactly do I know if its "delicate?" I used to use Woolite, but then read somewhere that I shouldn't. (Article didn't say why.) So, what's best for cleaning them?