When I was little we lived in the Greek mountains and most women had sewing skills, but I think for something like the kirtle above they generally went to the seamstress. Edit: It turns out the kirtle image is from 1626, so even that is not medieval, but Renaissance clothing (many thanks to the commentator Mr Denis de Bernardy). I will try to find a more accurate one. Until then, I think, it may serve as an estimate for the level of sophistication. 

Over the course of my life I have seen several large, dangerous fires. Unfortunate animals often perish in these. Especially slower ones, such as turtles. Surely, it can not have been difficult for humans to invent cooking in the broad sense - that is heating food by fire - over the course of a few millennia. Now, boiling food should be an entirely different question, a mental leap that I don't see as obvious at all, nor do I think it likely to occur by accident. So, what are some early archeological clues for humans doing it? I realise, it might be difficult to find archeological evidence, but implements, such as pots, spoons or tripods for placing such on the fire are probably very old. One text that made me think archaeologists might know much more than I imagined, was Native American Cookery. Said article contains the passage: 

Béla III was King of Hungary and Croatia between 1172 and 1196, however he had some difficulties getting recognition of his title.1. Saint Ivan of Rila was born app. 876 a.c. He was a contemporary of the reign of emperor Boris I, his sons Vladimir (Rassate) and tsar Simeon I The Great and the son of the latter - tsar Peter I. Now, 

The relics were returned back after three years. Why would the relics of a local saint be of any use to Béla III, could they be used as a form of legitimation of his title, having in mind that the Bulgarian and Hungarian dynasty blood lines at that time were connected? Could Saint Ivan of Rila be heir of emperor Boris I? 

1. Although the Hungarian prelates and lords unanimously proclaimed Béla king, Lucas, Archbishop of Esztergom opposed his coronation. 2. Curta 2006, pp. 334–335. 3. Life of John of Rila from the Stishen (Sofia) Prologue, p. 266. 

P.S. There is an interesing documentary by Stephen Fry which investigates homophobia and its origins throughout the World. One of its conculsions is the importance of laws and their latency, "inertia", long term effects and consequences on society. 

Now perhaps this is to be taken with more than a mere grain of salt. Or it might be peculiar to Athens, hence worth stressing to the author of the text. If there is truth to this, why didn‘t most Greek slaves (even if they were a minority among slaves) run off to their cities? Some cities, such as Megara were less than 50km away and long standing enemies of Athens. I assume, if the slave could find his way into the city and to his family without being spotted, they would have helped him to re-settle in Megara! Despite the Old Oligarch’s information, was there anything such as a metal ring around the neck, a branding, etc., whereby to recognise them? Edit Thanks for bringing to my attention this informative answer. As a Greek I am of course aware of the problems associated with enslaving Greeks. There is still no doubt that it was done. As the aforementioned answer states: 

On the German Wikipedia page about warhammers it says their weight reached from 3 to 14 Kg! Having done some really heavy sports in my past, I was truly surprised by this last number! I searched extensively. First of all I found one more reference to the same number on Mittelalter Wikia. There they claim the so called Luzerner Hämmer (hammers of Lucern) had a long haft and weighed 14 Kg. I also tried some more general searches. The Bec de Corbin reproduction here weighs 3.75 lbs. This article about pole axes lists examples up to 7 pounds 11 ounces (which is just below 3.5Kg). This reproduction weighs just 2 pounds 4 ounces. 

Almost every1 power station that produces electricity uses steam to power its turbines. Only the heat source (of energy): burning fossil fuels like coal, oil, natural gas or using nuclear fission, is different. That is why all power stations are located near a water source, so that they can have unlimited supply of water to heat. There are some steam engines remaining operational in locomotives and boats around the world either for tourist attraction or for the lack of reach of new technology. 

1. Dependent on their size (Hull speed) and the winds. . 2. About the same time Ben Franklin measured the (6 degrees) warmer temperature of Gulf Stream and created a map which would turn out to be very useful to sailors ("riding it the trip would shorten with a week"). [1] Mittelberger, Gottleb, Gottleb Mittelberger's Journey to Pennsylvania in the Year 1750 and Return to Germany in the year 1754 (published by the German Society of Pennsylvania 1898) Update: As mentioned in the comment section there are alternative routes, in fact 18th Century British shipping routes visualised using modern mapping technologies look like: which includes the one proposed above, however, if the general idea is understood the above calculation could be applied to any of the shown routes. Dutch shiping routes 1750-1800 visualised using modern mapping technologies are closer to the proposed in the comment: 

Unfortunately, I have only found medieval examples for the kirtles, but they seem fairly complex. I am aware, that the examples from paintings might represent the most elaborate garments: 

By pure chance, I found out there was a Plan red for the event of war between the states and Britain. The plan was conceived in the late 20s and early 30s of the previous century. It seems the article makes no mention of the expected reasons for such a war. Initially I assumed it was customary to plan for the event of war with any serious rival - particularly since there were a series of Colour Plans for various war theatres. But the plan was classified until 1974, which seems to indicate it was not expected there would be such a plan. So, did the United States expect war against Britain and why? Wikipedia further states the following, which I don't know how to assess, but which seems important: 

If this applies generally, or many people used their kettles for pot roasting, we might have great difficulty finding these implements or establishing their use. Yet, shapes, materials or grease traces, might tell archaeologists much more than they would tell me. Even if our estimates have to be very conservative, I am still interested.