If unicorn is interpreted as "the creature described in wikipedia-Unicorn", then "Unicorns exist" means "there is at least one creature that fits the description given in wikipedia-Unicorn." "Unicorns do not exist" means "Of all the things in the universe, none fits the description given in wikipedia-Unicorn." Based on above definition, none-existence involves "all", and therefore is not so easy to prove as it first appears. In order to prove unicorns do not exist, one would have to examine every thing in the universe from the beginning til the end of time. Thus, as far as current human knowledge can warrant, whether unicorns exist or not remains unknown. *Source: Russell, Bertrand. My Philosophical Development. Principia Mathematica: Philosophical Aspects. New York: Simon and Schuster, 1959 

I am no expert in ancient Chinese. This is a wild guess at best: 无为而治: 无 /woo/: without. 为 /wei/: strife, forceful means, exertion. 无为/woo wei/: without imposing; without the use of forceful means; without bending others to your will; without strife; without struggle; without exertion. 而: grammatical connector, similar to "to". 治: to rule, to manage. 无为而治: to rule without imposing; to rule without the use of forceful means; to rule without bending others to your will; to rule without strife; to rule without forceful exertion. If this aphorism advocates ruling in the manner of a lighthouse instead of a border collie, then "without acting" or "doing nothing" is definitely not what it means. Yet, lighthouses have no effect on sheep, and it was sheep themselves who make the border collie efficient. Where this piece of aphorism applies, the people must be very reasonable; it is no surprise that a sheep culture also produces ruthless tyrants. "Action without acting" is probably a mystified translation. Misinterpretations of ancient Chinese by modern yet pre-scientific Chinese scholars have been a major source of Chinese muddleheadedness. It is possible that the Chinese population experienced a degenerating process around 210BC similar to that of the ancient Greeks. Evidence that supports my interpretation: 1. In the Art of War, there is a sentence 胜可知，而不可为 (victory can be foreseen but cannot be achieved by strife) where 为(wei) means "by strife","by forceful means" or "by strenuous, deliberate exertions" or "by struggle." 2. Bertrand Russell in his Problem of China quoted a Taoist fable that captured a similar naturalistic spirit: 

Zeng was closely imitated by his disciples, among whom the most distinguished was Mao Zedong. Even today, Zeng's little wise words are eagerly sought after and are learned by heart by his countrymen. His wisdoms are used liberally both in politics and in daily business. Knowledge like this gives you foresight. In the 1930s, when the Chinese Communist Force was on the rise, those who were able to foresee their own fate managed to escape; those who followed CPC through thick and thin ended up in misery. In terms of energy and intelligence, both Gong Chu and Zhang Guotao were on par with Chairman Mao; both managed to escape CPC in the 1930s; both lived happy healthy lives to great ages. 

Some people think for the same reason children play. Philosophy is pleasure in itself. A lot of people do computer programming for the same reason people play chess: it is laborious but fun—until some caste-conscious manager ruins it. 

B → S is more intuitive; most people more or less have the feeling that if you say this then you also mean that without any intervention of "not" and "or"; this is the origin of implication. B → S only mandates that it cannot be the case that B is true and S is false, i.e. ¬(B.¬S) (See PM ✳1 Primitive Ideas, Definition of Implication). Thus ¬B ∨ S is just a logical convenience that expresses the same connection between B and S; there is probably no "intuition" behind the equivalence of the two. The reason we continue to use → is that it is intuitive and directly express the connection between B and S without the intervening ~B. Same kind of thing can be said about Sheffer stroke: "or" expresses hesitation; "not" expresses rejection; both can be expressed in terms of Sheffer stroke. We concede that Sheffer stroke is more fundamental, but I doubt anyone can "intuit" the relation symbolized by this vertical bar. "or" and "not" exist in many natural languages' minimum vocabulary, "nand", as far as I know, does not - please enlighten me if you know a language that has "nand" in it. 

Like Russell said, "Wittgenstein announces aphorisms and leaves the reader to estimate their profundity as best he may. Some of his aphorisms, taken literally, are scarcely compatible with the existence of symbolic logic."* Russell seems to understand Wittgenstein's point. I've read both W's Tractatus and Ramsey's "The Foundations of Mathematics," but I still couldn’t understand Wittgenstein's argument against identity. *Russell, Bertrand. "The Impact of Wittgenstein." My Philosophical Development. New York: Simon and Schuster, 1959. 126 Print 

or What is there provides the means; what is not there provides purpose. Or: Where there is something, this something is for employment; where there is nothing, this nothingness serves the purpose. There is no much in it as far as I can tell. What is interesting is that his reasoning is inductive: from statements about wheels, pots, houses to a general statement about "there is" and "there isn't." Another interesting point is his conception of two universals: the quality of 有 (there is) and the quality of 无 (there isn't.) 

Mathematics is the study of saying the same thing in different ways. People, after they finished defining number and <, are delighted to find out that 100 < 118, but the fact is, 100 < 118 is already contained in the definition of number and <. When a proposition necessarily follows its premises, it does so in virtue of logic, not in virtue of its relation with the objective world. 100 < 118 is necessary due the definition of number and <, not to its relation with the physical world. I myself is currently trying to figure it out. 

Let ϕ and ψ be properties, let x stand for a thing. ϕ includes ψ means, for any x, ϕ(x) implies ψ(x). Edit: This appears to be defined backward!!! Let A = {x:ϕx}, B = {x:ψx} (∀x) ϕ(x) ⇒ ψ(x) implies (∀x) x ∈ A ⇒ x ∈ B implies A ⊂ B, Which means A is contained by B! 

Good question. In a civil society, it is wise to remain calm and cooperative before the police, because confrontation will only cause the police to escalate force. In extreme situations, where police snipers are deployed, one is much safer if he does not carry a weapon. The best place to challenge the police is the court. 

From (1) to (2), no higher principle is called upon, we simply rely on our senses. How can we go on if people deny that substituting ~P for P in (1) results in (2)? Obviously we can't replace P with Socrates because Socrates has no truth value. There are definitely rules governing this substitution. 

No, we cannot conclude he believes Q. There are two possible reasons: one logical, one psychological. 

Bertrand Russell was the kind of philosopher who sifted through systems of beliefs and pointed out what were implicitly assumed a priori, then went on to reduce the number of postulates to bare minimum. This pattern of thinking recurred in his Critical Exposition of Philosophy of Leibniz, his mathematical philosophy and his theory of knowledge. 

What is mathematics? What do we mean by necessary? What is the nature of magnitude, quantity, measurement and counting? 

Empirical facts seem to support this connection: the Greeks were anything but modest, and among the Greeks, the Athenians were the most extravagant. I wonder what exactly are the reasons behind this connection. 

Yes, arithmetic rules are memorized just like the rules of board games are memorized. The most important evidence is that everyone calculates in his native language ( or language of instruction) no matter how fluent they are in a foreign language. Our understanding of the rules of chess is demonstrated by our ability to play chess; our understanding of arithmetic rules is demonstrated by our ability to solve math problems we've never seen before. There are other sets of arithmetic rules that require a lot more memorization but offer the benefit of greater speed of calculation. Arithmetic is sometimes applicable to practical problems, sometimes not. For most of us who learned arithmetic from school, where arithmetic applies is also memorized. Our savage ancestors learned arithmetic by exactly the opposite means. First, they conceived the number of things. E.g. two pebble, three pebbles, four pebbles, etc. Notice that there were always things or measure words following a numeral. Then, through experiences, they noticed that two pebbles and two pebbles together are four pebbles. Then some wise persons used such rules of thumbs as "two pebbles and two pebbles are four pebbles" to predict the outcome instead of putting two pebbles next to two other pebbles and count the total. At this point, measure words or things following the numeral became too cumbersome and people sometimes dropped them for brevity's sake. Then they got such rules of thumbs as "two and two equals to four." The ancient Chinese mathematics book Nine Chapters was a rule-of-thumb era math book; it demonstrated this transition from number of things to number: every problem is a practical problem about land, length or weight, but the solutions simply dropped measure words where a reader would have no problem in understanding that two in this problem meant two dou (bushels), two in that problem meant two mu (acres). As the number of rules of thumbs grew, someone figured out that some rules of thumbs can be deduced from other rules of thumbs and the number of rules of thumbs needed to memorize began to shrink. Finally, we got the arithmetic rule we have today. I think, in order for children to have a deeper understanding of arithmetic, this part of our ancestor’s savage life might be worth reliving.