Lack of appreciation for free market culture. Government intervention in economy. Genocide against the best and brightest. Religion Lower average IQ (this is not that serious) Trade restriction Centralized economy 

Same problem everywhere actually. Now they are improving greatly due to global trade. If we look at wealth of all countries and compute disparity of wealth not in money but in years, they're not too far behind actually. Just 50 years or so. Source: $URL$ 

I could add a few Farming technology. Ancient chinese farming technology is about as advance as post industrial revolution in Europe. Chinese farm all years. Europeans do not have good irrigation system. Ancient chinese cultures measure prosperity by population growth. The idea is if you govern well, people will come to you (like people flocking US and capital flocking Asia). This measurement of prosperity is actually quite natural. Ask any biologist what success means for an organism and it'll say something along reproductive success. Kong Fu Chu beliefs that having children and grand children is good. In fact, it's something along obligation. Your parents create you so you create grand children for that. Not much sexual restriction. Concubinage is okay. Prostitution is okay. Polygamy is okay. In western civilization, no matter how rich you are you only have 2.5 children. In China the rich have as many children as they can afford. Unlike Arab with strong anti sex outside marriage laws, getting mates and producing offspring may be relatively more peaceful and apolitical in China. It's more economical rather than political. Just get rich, and grab concubines/wives. That's the chinese way to reproductive success it seems. No monogamy terms. No religion telling you it's wrong. In Arab, you got to fight first and control the religion before you can enjoy such package. If you're a member of minority religion like Christianity, then tough. Sex is too politicized in both Arab and in Europe. In China, reproductive success is pretty much market based. So in China people can produce more offspring by getting rich. That tend to match number of offspring with food that leads to higher number of children reaching reproductive age that leads to more population. In europe, the poorest actually make more children and that is something I am still puzzled till now. 

From: Dilley, N. E. "Development of Proximity Fuzes (VT) for Projectiles - VT Fuzes MKS 32 to 60, Inclusive (General Description)." chapter 1 of The World War II Proximity Fuze: A Compilation of Naval Ordnance Reports by the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory. (Silver Spring MD: The Laboratory, 1950): 1-12. [Declassified 16 Jun. 1976]. (I can't find an original copy of this, it is quoted here) 

Alleged is attached to this report as officially cutlasses were withdrawn from the ships of the Royal Navy in 1936. However in addition to the above incident we have the alleged use of cutlasses when HMS Cossack captured the Altmark in 1940, which is often described as the last use of the cutlass in anger by the RN. 

From this drawing we can take measurements, which gives the height of the rangefinder above the fire control top on the foremast is about 28m above the top edge of the boot topping (the black band around the hull approximately where the waterline would be). So the height above the water line in combat should have been within a meter or so of 28m. This would put the geometric horizon at about 19+ km (~21 kyd). So the maximum range at which an opponent could be seen by the range finder would be maybe something like 35 km (~ 38 kyd). But this is academic for Jutland as visibility was constrained by the weather conditions and the smoke not by the geometric horizon. (also note the refraction will result in the horizon generally being further away than the geometrical horizon) Added for information, the longest range hit by one underway warship on another is a toss up between Warspite's hit on Guilio Cesare during the Action off Calabria (the battle of Punta Stilo) July 1940 at ~26 kyds, and Scharnhorst on Glorious in June 1940 at about 26.2-26.5 kyds. The uncertainties in the figures make it difficult to say that the latter was definitely at a longer range than the former. 

Looks like we just got to repeat this same karma wheel again and again till we are enlightened enough to know the truth. 

Look at internet. No barrier of entry. So google grab all the niche. It's things like that. Now look at your local store. Why they don't expand all the way to Arab? The answer is something called barrier of entry. It's just as costly for google to expand to your neighbor than to Arab. So they expand everywhere. Your local coffee shop doesn't have that luxury. The same goes in China. No mountains means there is no barrier of entry for the most disciplined, smart, meritocratic king to expand everywhere else (it's really a bad thing but does sound positive). In Europe, they got mountains forcing kings to maintain niches. China contains plenty of land. In business term, there is no barrier of entry for those with lower marginal cost to expand to new territory. Europe is mountainous. Say I am winning. I may have the best army. People may fear me more. It costs less for me to screw others than for you to fight against me. But alas, all these mountains is hard to travel. The peasants don't talk my language. In other word, in Europe, defender got more "home territory" advantage. In china attackers have about equal advantage with defenders. Note: Well, the case of three kingdom period in China where China is NOT united, actually supports my point. Cao Cao cannot conquer Sun Quan precisely because there is a river that gets in the way (or so simplistically said). So natural state boundary often coincide with hard to pass terain. Europe has more of it than China. 

After some more research I stand by my earlier comment in general the gun ports had minimal protection, relying on small size and being in the shadow of the gun. There is a large amount of negative evidence for this, for example in his books Warrior to Dreadnought, The Grand Fleet and Nelson to Vanguard D. K. Brown does not mention protection to turret gun ports. The positive evidence I cite the cross section of a 14" three gun turret on Eugene Solver's US Navy pages which shows no protection to the gun port. From the same site we have access to OP 769 Configuration of the Three Gun Turrets of the USS New Jersey which explains that there are upper and lower shield plates on the gun slide. These do not seal the gun port and at best provide protection from 6" projectiles and splinters. The arragements are shown in the accompanying illustration, from which their thickness can be measured which when compared to the face plate thickness is equivalent to about 3" thick. The relevant section of this document is shown below: 

So, how much faster? Is this mainly due to alphabeths or different techniques? By how much both printing press improve economy? 

The jews do not prolyselytes at all. In fact, originally, Yahweh, is Jewish national god. Jewish scripture almost never claim unambiguously that Yahweh is god of all beings. He never complains about non jews worshiping other gods. The Chinese, the mongol, have their own supreme God. So why jewish God suddenly got 3 billions followers while other gods don't sell. 

It depends on what you mean by communists, leaders, and crime against humanity. All those are vague politically loaded terms. Communists are just label. I can think of a few communists leader that are "fine". I called them fine because they help their countries out of communism. So in a sense they're communist leader. In a sense they're not. These people does not commit any crime against large number of humans. In fact, the kind of communist leaders that do not commit such crime are usually the exact same guy that want to promote free market. You can define crime against humanity in pretty broad terms, mass murders, mass rape, frequent wars, censorship, trade restrictions. The more a leader support free market, the less likely they commit crimes against humanity. Once economy moves to free market, mass murders simply stop. Deng Xiao Ping is the guy that bring China to prosperity. No mass murder. Gorbachov is the guy that raise white flag to the west. No mass murder. Lee Kuan Yew often said that Singapore is a socialist country. That makes him a communist leader. However, murder rate in Singapore is lower than in US and their percapita income is 1.5 time. Perhaps Singapore didn't practice the more heinous aspect of communism, like minimum wage. I wouldn't call Pinochet communists, however, he is a leader in a country fallen to communism. Hence he is technically a leader of a communist country that somehow manage to reform his country's backward socialist society to a liveable one for the productive. He promote free market and hence is innocent of the worst crime against humanity, namely trade restrictions. Obama is also a communist leader. However, he hasn't done mass murder yet because his population is well armed. He tries to create gun free zones so that some psycho can kill even more people and he can then use it as excuses to disarm the population. His plan will work because the majority of his people are commies that are just eager to slaughter the productive after looting good people through welfare and other social programs. Also there are many leaders with "communist" like goal, like helping the poor and the oppressed, that actually fight against crimes against humanity. Milton Friedman, for example, defend the right of the poor several time when he demands elimination of racist laws like minimum wage, anti prostitution laws, and war on drugs. I don't think Milton counts as communists, but he fight for the right of the poor so much and he's a leader so we may want to include him. He doesn't commit mass murder either. 

You might like one of my local fortifications (The Portsmouth area is a fortification rich area with forts/castles dating from the 3rd to the 19th and probably 20th Century, all worth a look), Porchester castle is built on the remains of a Roman Fort of the Saxon Shore, with large parts of the Roman fortifications (including D shaped bastions) incorporated into the curtain wall. 

The production rate could have been about three a month according to the transcript of the telephone conversation between Gen Hull and Col Seeman on the Nuclear Secrecy Blog 

Plato:Republic ~220,000 words (in translation), Symposium ~25,000 words (in translation) Aristotle: Poetics ~20,000 words (in translation), Physics ~85,000 words (in translation) It is fairly easy to find the word counts for English translations of surviving works 

One of the better known examples is the late 15th century equestrian armour A21 in the Wallace Collection in London. There is a paper on this armour (ref.1). 

The Mayflower was a small-ish merchant ship (Dutch Fluyt) of the early 17th Century ~100 tons burden. With a crew of ~25-30 men and boys. Also all the models/diagrams seem to show stairs from the half deck to the upper deck and to the deck below that above the hold (and maybe down to the orlop deck or hold ) 

Free market leads to prosperity Prosperity leads to cowardice (late Sung, contemporary US). I am too rich to die. Cowardice leads to dictatorship or socialism or other form of heavy oppression (heavy taxation in US, socialism in europe, mass murders in Kamboja). This lead to poverty (Yuan dinasty, communist countries, sub mortgage crisis). People got fed up they fight for freedom. Starving means they don't fear death anymore (Early Ming, American revolution, french revolution, capital flight to Asia, tea party movement). That leads to free market capitalism. Free market leads to prosperity. 

We know Gutenberg name. This is a civilization that remember their inventor. The name of "some chinese" that invent printing press is much less known. Gutenberg printing press is faster. 

I know jewish culture tend to like number 7. What about other cultures? Do we have 7 days in a week from bible? Why do we derive 7 days a week from jews? Why not from more prominent culture, like roman, greek, etc. 

Here is a scale diagram of Warspite in 1918 from this post on World of Warships (only minor modifications were incorporated since Jutland so in tems of rangefinder heights this is representative). 

The initial British/French mining in the channel was as an anti-submarine barrage. Later anti-invasion fields were laid. Later in the war offensive fields were laid on the other side of the channel. Details of RN mine laying in WW2 may be found here 

Probably French line infantry of the period, in which case 113 is the regiment number. Attached a couple of illustrations of Franco-Prussian War period line uniforms. 

As observed elsewhere cutlasses remained in use as boarding weapons on warships until the mid 20th century at least. One documented (aleged) instance of their use was the capture of cruiser RN Pola by the destroyer HMS Jervis at the Battle of Matapan (March 1941): From Clash of Titans by Walter J Boyne: 

Edge and Williams A STUDY OF THE GERMAN ‘GOTHIC’ 15TH-CENTURY EQUESTRIAN ARMOUR (A21) IN THE WALLACE COLLECTION, LONDON, Gladius XXI, 2001, pp. 233-256 downloadable at: $URL$