Here’s a paper by Heather Kavan from Massey University: “We don’t know what we’re saying, but it’s profound”: The language and contexts of glossolalia. I found this paper to be enlightening, and if I have time some of her references seem worth it to follow. Some of her points: 

Whether it works or not, the use of Chinese characters is a very cultural/political issue. The use of Latin may be seen as kowtowing to Western civilization. There might be a happy medium like the use of Zhuyin which is indigenous but not too difficult to master for anyone. Zhuyin is already used to write some non-Chinese languages. 

Promulgate spelling rules for transliterating foreign words into the native spelling rules that do not accommodate foreign phonology. 

There was another document I read a while back that was intriguing, but I do not know which of my browsers’ history to look to retrieve the URL. 

In the last example, the ér literally replaces the nucleus of the prior syllable leaving only the initial and the medial intact. 

Pinyin tosses out a lot of semantic information. Once Chinese characters are removed from the language, it becomes harder for Mandarin to coexist with different Chinese languages under the same umbrella. If I learned history right, the French used the Latin script to do that very thing: cut off the Vietnamese from the Chinese sphere of influence. Nowadays, borrowed words there are even imported verbatim into the language instead of naturalized as English and French becomes trendy. I reckon most Latin-based scripts eventually run into the problem that English faces: words that retain the spelling of their originating language. One way to address the problems is a language regulatory institution that has the backing of a government to do two things: 

Differentiate homophones with etymological spelling like French. The spelling should pose no problem to reading since it contains more information than what is spoken aloud. A reader will know to collapse the different graphemes (like the and nasal codas) into one phoneme or to delete silent letters (like , , and in the coda position). However, speech cannot be written with etymologically correct spelling without knowing beforehand how the morphemes should be spelled. 

Would you count erhua as a form of resyllabification? The er invades syllables like a facehugger to people. → nǎr /naɚ̯˨˩˦/) 一点儿 “a little” (yì diǎn ér → yì diǎnr /i˥˩.djaɚ̯˨˩˦/) 好玩儿 “fun” (hǎo wán ér → hǎo wánr /xau̯˨˩˦.waɚ̯˧˥/) 一瓶儿 “one bottle” (yì píng ér → yì píngr /i˥˩.pʰjɚ̃˧˥/) 

→ yuányīm) 香蕉 “banana” (xiāngjiāo → hiāngziāo) and 相交 “cross over” (xiāngjiāo → siānggiāo) 目的 “goal” (mùdì → mùkdìk) and 墓地 “burial ground” (mùdì) 

What are some authoritative Vietnamese dictionaries? …and how do they disambiguate the two pronunciations of ? (Something with an English or Chinese gloss is preferred.) Wikipedia on the Vietnamese Alphabet has this to say about : 

Unlike Ghoti657, I do speak Cantonese and some Mandarin, but I speak neither French nor German. I can offer my opinion that German, being a Germanic language, and French, being a Romance language are quite different because of spelling differences and differences in phonology. The difference between Cantonese and Mandarin, however, is different depending on what you are analyzing. The writing system and vocabulary is largely identical even after accounting for the fact that mainland China uses simplified characters. Common (like pronouns) and colloquial words will be more divergent, but Cantonese does not have too many dialectical characters of its own and the vocabulary is fairly close due to a shared literary tradition, and being nearly directly descended from the same historical language. However, written Cantonese may still be unintelligible depending on the subject. Where the subject matter is more technical, the vocabulary will tend to be very similar like English use of Latin-derived words for this purpose. Spoken, there is a large difference between the two with the main difference being that Cantonese stop codas are absent in Mandarin, and the rich Mandarin vowel sequences are not present in Cantonese. There is enough correspondence between Cantonese and Mandarin phonology that sometimes the pronunciation of the other language can be guessed with some training and a good command of one's own native language. Multi-syllable words can sometimes be understood between the two and the grammar is comparable, although I have trouble with standard Mandarin Chinese grammar. So spoken, I would liken the difference between Cantonese and Mandarin, then, as between Italian and French. Written, I would liken it to the difference between Spanish and Italian. German and French, though, are like Mandarin and Fujianese (which hypothetically split off before Middle Chinese even came into existence). 

First off, let me say I'm not sure why your question has so many close-votes: it is directly about the etymology of a word, and so is definitely within scope. Okay, comes more-or-less directly from Latin. Latin has the word which apparently can mean "avoided". This word is made up of (out of) and (a trick). This is evidence against any direct descendance from Greek, because these elements in turn come directly from Proto-Indoeuropean. I couldn't find any etymology for Eleusis though. But the most likely explanation is a coincidence. 

The grammar is there, even if it's confused by something else. As you probably know, in Swedish every noun is either "ett" or "en". It's unpredictable sometimes, but this feature is inherent in the noun. Why is "lag" sometimes "en" and sometimes "ett"? It's because actually there are two/three separate words here. 

Usually when we sign* we use our mouths to mouthe a word. This can be used to disambiguate certain lexemes (for example, divorce and ex-spouse have the same sign in ASL, so one way to clarify which you mean is to mouthe whichever of those two English words.). So it's quite natural to also whisper it because you can't help but let some air pass through your mouth. It's almost instinctive. But if you were watching a video, you could mute it, or if you're completely deaf or it's too loud you might miss it, which means that that sound is not necessary to the understanding, but rather an anatomically conditioned side effect. A parallel with spoken languages: when you speak, your head will move around. You (almost) can't help it. But if that movement were unobservable, for example on the phone, it doesn't affect your communication at all. You say you thought deaf people cannot hear anything. It's not usually true. Most deaf people, even profoundly deaf people, have at least some hearing. And sometimes, sounds accompany signed conversation. (It's rather a separate matter from what you're asking about, but it's related. And in case anyone comes here from a google search...) These sounds which are lexically part of a sign language are usually a single syllable like (which means something like "at last!") or (which means "large" or "overwhelming", or which I can't remember what it means. (these can also be distinguished non-audially, by lip-reading). These three examples come from ASL. I can't quite put my finger on the syntactic role of these, but it's kind of adverbial or possibly modal. *: It's fine to say converse too. even "speaking" sign language is okay terminology! It doesn't bother us. And of course, "translate" is the right word for when we take for example a sentence in ASL and render it for example in English. 

Phonemic features which are strongly areal like the ones you mention, and a few others, such as labial-velar consonants as you see on this map, and ejective consonants. They are uncommon for some reason unknown to me. But they also spread easily from one language to another since they are easy enough to learn. Personally, I wouldn't say that tone is that uncommon (but as you noted it is much more common in some parts of the world than others), but the reason they've turned up in Punjabi is because of transphonologisation from so-called murky consonants (aspirated voiced plosives). These are no longer aspirated, so the adjacent vowel gets a low tone. I don't personally know much about what went on in the Punjab and adjacent regions, but it is rather common for this kind of process to happen to many neighbouring languages at once. This is why we've got tone in Norwegian and in Swedish. Clicks: although they are common in Bantu languages, apparently Proto-Bantu never had anything like a click. They were borrowed from Khoisan languages. So click languages don't seem to exist outside southern Africa precisely because it is very rare for a language to evolve clicks. They just did once and spread like wildfire. 

Although I usually study within the Humanities faculty, I am in Computational Linguistics class right now, and can recommend Speech and Language Processing, 2nd Edition, 2009, by Jurafsky & Martin. There is another book I've tried, Language Processing with Perl and Prolog by Nugues & Pierre, but I found that it was much more difficult to get into for me, though perhaps handy if you are able to keep up with it. Getting familiar with a few research papers on human language processing (dealing with ambiguities, etc.) was helpful in understanding the textbooks and relating it to NLP as well. 

Sometimes, in some cases. If I may hearken back to an introductory lecture on Language Theory and Processing: According to the principle of compositionally (as first coined by Gottlob Frege) the meaning of a sentence is a function of the meaning of its parts. So, structural relations (syntax) give rise to semantics. Here specifically meaning compositional semantics. Of course, it is very important to note that this once popular theory seems to get tied-up with predicate logic and rather dated theories on computational linguistics and AI language processing, and Generative Grammar as well. 

I'd also recommend qTree - if you've ever sat in a syntax class or had to work with natural language parsers, it will be very easy to use: $URL$ 

If you mean 'time flies' as you would mean 'fruit flies', then wouldn't 'time flies' have to be one NN, or 'time' to be a modifier? With your current phrase structure rules or lexicon you do not allow this interpretation. You'll have to add rules that either license a construction allowing 'time' to act as a modifier of 'flies', or change the lexicon. 

I wonder if Beth Levin's English Verb Classes and Alternations (1993)would have something in its bibliography that you can use? I found the book hard to find but a copy is floating around online somewhere. 

No, but I'll just concentrate on the first one. I would also recommend that you use a ruler or graph paper or whatever, until you can draw well aligned, neat trees. Your first problem is that you are not expanding the nodes properly. While 'the kids' is one NP, it is made up of two elements: a determiner and a noun. You need to show this in your tree. Similarly, even if a constituent has just one element, you still need to expand it. So 'VP-->coming' should really be 'VP-->V-->coming'. However, if you mean to skip a few steps, please use a triangle to show that you did intend to condense the tree. 

Peter Roach's fourth edition of English Phonetics and Phonology: A Practical course (2009) has a more detailed list of rules and explanations than your link, if you're interested (Chapter 11: Complex Word Stress). 

Speaking just about my own personal experience: I can only understand a little Russian because of the similarities I can find from two other Slavic languages I speak: Ukrainian and Polish. As someone who has never been exposed to Russian before, I feel that I would not be able to understand Russian with just one of the other Slavic languages. Therefore, I don't feel that I can agree with the notion of Russian/Polish understanding. In fact, I feel that this might even be a cultural misconception, as I've had quite a few experiences where Russian speakers insist on speaking Russian at me, convinced that I will 'magically' understand them. I've also noticed that non-Slavic speakers believe this as well. however, in the Czech Republic, speaking Polish will get me nowhere, but speaking Ukrainian will get me by quite well indeed. Again, I'd like to stress that is just personal experience.