I wouldn't say so, at least not in this case. Sartre's existentialist philosophy's main concern is our subjective experience rather than objective factors that influence us. I consider it a way to make things clear to the reader; to understand and imagine things from his own, subjective conciousness. 

It's hard to say what you mean by "need". If you mean by it "need to survive", then the answer is obviously no; Homo Sapiens has survived for thousands of years without science. The rest is a matter of opinion; some would say it has improved our lives, some would say it hasn't or has even made our lives worse. I would argue, and again, this is just my opinion - which is all I can give to this kind of question, that science has dramatically improved our lives. Science (see also this article): 

Transcendent was a concept first used in religion. A transcendent god is a god that is completely outside and beyond the world (e.g. Christianity and Islam) and is contrasted with an immanent god (e.g. pantheism). Transcendental is a concept first used in Medieval philosophy for reality that was beyond the Aristotelian categories. Kant used transcendent for knowledge that goes beyond the categories of human reason, but used transcendental for all knowledge occupied, not with objects, but with the way that we can possibly know objects even before we experience them (i.e. a priori knowledge). 

Is number of eyes arbitrary? I would say no. It's not just as likely that we could have ended up with 1 or 3 eyes each. The specific evolutionary pressures and distinct advantages that binocular vision provides led to humans having two eyes. The case with moral intuitions seems to be similar. I know where you're coming from with this question, but arbitrariness is not exactly the concept you're looking for. Instead, there are a few specific points to be made: 

Arithmetic of the reals is not complete and consistent. In fact, this is one area where incompleteness really matters. Consider the Continuum Hypothesis, which centers on the question of whether there is a set with cardinality between that of the natural numbers and that of the reals. This statement is undecidable in ZF, and moreover both CH and its negation are both consistent with the rest of ZF. Another issue is that lots of systems admit a model in the natural numbers, dooming them to incompleteness. You can have some formalization of geometry (or perhaps even something more abstract), which has no apparent relationship with arithmetic on the natural numbers, which nevertheless models arithmetic on the natural numbers. Only weak formal systems like propositional logic can typically escape incompleteness. This is a frustrating problem for people with an affinity for a certain type of philosophy of mathematics, but I don't think it's very distressing for mathematicians generally. For one, most working mathematicians don't care much about the philosophy of mathematics (and don't know much about it). What's philosophically true about mathematics doesn't have anything directly to do with actually doing math. 

This seems accurate, although I would say that idealism, without any further specification, does not mean anything more than the view that our thoughts make up fundamental reality. "The idea that we can't possibly observe things-in-themselves directly" is something Kant introduced; not all idealists make this distinction between things-in-themselves and things as they appear to us. 

Again, I feel that this is simply not true. If you interpret their standards strictly, then much of philosophy is not genuinely philosophical. I am aware that he gives a couple of examples before about how Locke, Berkeley and of course Hume are not predominantly metaphysicians, but that does not at all demonstrate that much of the philosophical tradition meets their criteria. My question is: why did Ayer mention this? Was he simply trying not to come across as being too radical (which would surprise me) by not rejecting too much? Or did he genuinely see value in much of traditional philosophy and/or did he interpret a lot of it in a 'non-metaphysical' sense? 

An example of an author who would disagree with me is Jean-Jaques Rousseau. In his Discourse on Science and the Arts (also called the First Discourse), he argues that the arts and sciences are not beneficial to society, but rather add more dependencies and cover up our enslaved state. He was a critic of luxury (which science and the arts make possible), which lead to more inequality, and even argued that it contributed to the corruption of man and moral deterioration. An example of this moral deterioration is that people, who see a scientist, a philosopher, or any other educated man, will try to be like him. In other words, they'll try to be like someone who they are not. They are being dishonest, Rousseau says. The further we push science and the arts, the further we get from who we naturally would be. 

I think that what you're having trouble with is the hypothetical nature of the argument. There is something in the argument like, "Suppose we were to take a step ..." This is not tantamount to being able to take a step being a premise or underlying assumption of the argument. There is a common form of argument known in philosophy as reductio ad absurdum and in mathematics as proof by contradiction. This argument is not the same, but I think that reductio illustrates what (it seems to me) you are having trouble with. In a reductio, you begin by asserting the claim you are trying to disprove as a logical hypothesis (not the same as a scientific hypothesis). Then, you derive from this premise an absurdity (contradiction) showing that your initial hypothesis is impossible. The Paradox says, "If I were to take a step, I would first have to travel half that distance." Ultimately, it concludes by saying we cannot take a step. That conclusion is not based on an actual assumption that we can take a step, but rather some reasoning we did when thinking hypothetically about taking a step. 

Modern social contract theory is said to begin with Thomas Hobbes' Leviathan (not Rousseau). I will give an overview of the main points in all social contract theories, including the one in Plato's Crito (although technically, it is not a social contract theory!). Note that this is a broad and very brief overview. For a more nuanced view, I recommend the SEP or IEP. Form of modern social contract theories State of nature and its problems (=reasons to have the social contract) They always begin with an hypothetical state of nature. What would happen if there were no laws, no form of government intervening? Ways to resolve these issues (=the social contract) After describing the state of nature, it is clear that there should be an intervening body (=government). For this government to work, the citizens should hand over some of their freedoms to this government. Social contract theories include which freedoms and justification for handing these over (i.e. the role of the government). Plato's Crito and Republic Socrates says in Crito he cannot evade the laws of the city, because they made his life possible. You can't avoid laws when you want to; you were born in a city with laws that gave you protection and possibilities. You also have to accept them when they 'turn against you'. Citizens here, however, can leave the city when they grow up. If you stay however, you must accept the conditions (laws) of that city. So Socrates accepts his death sentence. In the Republic, he outlines his 'state of nature' (though he doesn't call it as such). People would do all sorts of unjust things if they can get away with it (Ring of Gyges). They also want to avoid being treated unjustly and not be able to treat them unjustly back. A just society is one in which these extremes are avoided. Justice is worth having for its own sake (i.e. needs no external justification). The dialogue goes on to justify this view. It is not a social contract theory, because it does not say you give up something to a governing body for certain reasons; you just live a good life because it's worth it by itself. Hobbes' Leviathan (As a side note, Hobbes (and other after him) believe all men are made by nature to be equal. This is very different from the notion in Greek Philosophy, where for instance Aristotle said some people are just meant to be slaves and some people are meant to lead.) During Hobbes' time, religious civil wars were commonplace. It is no surprise then that Hobbes' main goal of the social contract is public safety. Hobbes' state of nature was a place of war of "all against all" (he clearly was influenced by these religious wars). It was the most pessimistic world view of any contract thinker. To resolve this, he proposes a social contract. The citizens sign the social contract, however, the sovereign is not a party of the contract (the citizens can't abandon the contract because the sovereign breaks the rules (compare with Locke!)). You can never resist him; he is the only thing that stands between this state of affairs and the awful State of Nature! For Hobbes', the sovereign is the most powerful man on Earth (even a God on Earth). The title page of the book says "There is no power on earth which can be compared to him". My thoughts: this absolutist point of view may seem extreme nowadays, but consider the religious, civil wars he lived in. He wanted peace and was willing to give up a lot to get it, even if that means giving up your freedom to be ruled by a potentially tyrannical sovereign. A lot of people in the same situation nowadays would agree. Think of the people in the Middle East who prefer Saddam Hussein's (horrible) regime to the unrest of having no real leader, for instance. Locke's Second Treatise on Government Locke's State of Nature is very different from Hobbes'. The State of Nature is not that bad. Contrary to Hobbes' version, it is not a lawless state (there are indeed morals). There is the Law of Nature (which has been given to us by God). We all belong equally to God, we can't take away what is God's, so we shouldn't harm each other. As long as you don't harm others, you are free to do as you please. It is, in other words, a peaceful place. But, conflicts may arise. A property dispute, for instance, and there is no government to intervene. There is no civil authority, so disputes are likely to escalate (instead of being resolved by a third party). This is the main reason for the social contract. For Locke, to goal of the government is to serve the citizens (i.e. those who signed the contract). The sovereign has fiduciary power (we entrusted him with this power); if the sovereign doesn't do this, the citizens can rebel (i.e. abandon the contract). The role of the government is to protect"life, liberty and estate, which I call by the general name of property" (property in Locke is much broader than what it means to us today); to protect our rights which are given to us by the Law of Nature. Rousseau's Social Contract Rousseau has two social contract theories. The first is a descriptive theory, outlined in his Discourse on the Origins of Inequality. The second is a normative theory, outlined in his Social Contract. Rousseau's develops his idea of the State of Nature historically. In the beginning, with few people, everyone was happy on their own. They had few needs which were easily satisfied by nature (an abundance of resources for few people). Since people lived solitary lives, there was no competition, no fear, etc. Since pity is an essential trait of these people, they would not harm each other. But, times change. More people were trying to get by with the same amount of resources, so they had to start living differently. They started living in small communities and divisions of labour were introduced. Living in communities, however, had some nasty side effects: people started comparing themselves with others, which lead to shame, contempt,... It was in this phase that private property came into existence, which led to competition, greed, and inequality. Those who came out best in the competition think it's a good time to start a government to protect their rights. It is supposedly to guarantee that everyone is equal, but in reality it just makes sure the inequalities that benefit those with private property are kept in place. His normative social contract theory is attempt to deal with this state of affairs. His book begins with "Man was born free, and he is everywhere in chains"; he clearly wants to offer a solution to resolve this issue. Since the State of Nature is so peaceful, it would be reasonable to expect that he would propose to go back to this state. He does not do this; it would not only be not feasible, but also not desirable, he says. So the question becomes: how can we live together (in a community), but at the same time be free (i.e. avoid the nasty side effects I talked about). This is where he introduces his very controversial concept of the General Will. We submit our own, individual wills to the General Will. This General Will is not just the sum of particular wills; individual persons become a people and this becomes the foundation of society; this is the sovereignty, which, according to Rousseau, is undividable. The General Will is directed towards the common good. This concept has been very controversial, especially when Rousseau said that people who do not comply must be "forced to be free". This all sounds very totalitarian and even gives justification for it. Robespierre was influenced very much by this book and said to lead his Terror regime "in the name of the people"; it was the "will of the people". Rousseau also said the "General Will cannot dwell"; for some, this is even more evidence of his totalitarian viewpoints, for others, it just follows from the definition of the General Will, namely that it is the norm, what reasonable people ought to want. 

This argument is perfectly valid and does not depend on social construction not being a social construction. 

While people no doubt make this type of argument, I don't think this is a good argument. A better argument about social constructions says that people make certain category errors when they treat social constructions as objectively true or concrete entities. For example, it has been established that race is a social construction and not a natural kind of biology (i.e., races are not actually genetic groups). Social constructions are perfectly legitimate when recognized as such, and indeed they have proved extremely useful. There's a reason why social constructions exist and are so prevalent. Some social constructions are useless or even harmful of course; as an overall category they are neutral with respect to utility and morality (not unlike the category of "ideas"). I think the key point from philosophers who are critical of constructions like race and gender is that we are free to do away with them because they are constructions; so if they are harmful, we should do away with them. "Employed person" is also a construction, but it's more useful than it is harmful so no one is terribly concerned with it (except perhaps for some Marxists). Is social construction a social construction? I think the answer is yes. That means we should be careful to recognize it as such, but it doesn't render the concept illegitimate or useless per se. There may be bad arguments that rely on social construction not being a social construction. A claim that all constructions are bad or useless (similar to your example argument) would be undermining itself. However, consider this not-so-bad argument: 

Temperature may be a good example. If you give someone a metal bar and a book, which both have the same temperature, say 15°C, people will say the metal bar feels colder than the book. It's different from an optical illusion in the sense that there is a real, physical explanation, namely that (a) the temperature we feel is the temperature of our hand, not of the object we're holding and (b) the metal bar is a thermal conductor (it will drop the temperature of our hand faster), while the book is a thermal insulator (it will drop the temperature of our hand only very slowly). Videos that illustrate the point I made in a very clear manner: 

This is known as Hume's Fork. By his own criterion, shouldn't we reject his own work? It's not any abstract reasoning concerning quantity or number, nor is it any experimental reasoning concerning matter of fact and existence. It seems as if Hume's Fork is self-refuting. It would surprise me that he didn't notice this himself. Did Hume address this issue? 

It partly depends on the subject area that the statement falls into, and how it has been supported by facts (e.g. merely not yet contradicted vs. rigorously tested and corroborated). Building off the comments: You might call this a conjecture if it relates to math or logic, or if it has not been well-corroborated yet. In science it would be called a hypothesis. A more general term would be an [epistemic] possibility. Note that it's epistemic because we're talking about evidence and ways we might know something is true; modality isn't really relevant. Edited after the question: Your example is interesting because it doesn't seem to fit perfectly into the terms that have been suggested. I would argue that this is a more general case of an inductive claim ("It's always worked in the past, therefore it will continue to work"). You could call the conclusion that it will continue to work an induction. This follows the pattern of referring to a deduced conclusion as a deduction. 

This adds up to say that, at the very least, morality is not the kind of thing that people have historically thought of it as. Indeed, if you believe that morality evolved rather than being handed down from God this is already the case. 

What this says is that all propositions are of equal value (6.4), ethics is transcendental (6.421) and that we cannot speak of it and thus should remain silent about ethics(7). Ethics, he says, is something that can only be shown: 

I think many atheists, ranging from the New Atheists to weak or non-explicit atheism and apatheism, would agree with Bertrand Russell's quote to a large extent. However, I think it would be too narrow and many people who identify as atheists would not fit this definition. What I think is the least we can say, is that everyone who identifies as an atheists must lack a belief in one or more gods; it is thus a necessary condition. Whether it is also a sufficient condition, is a topic for debate, as we've seen. 

After reading a little bit more on this issue, I think I can write a full answer. Stephen Law's Evil God Hypothesis is about that if you can have an omnibenevolent god and the problem of evil, then you can also have an evil god with a problem of good. Furthermore, you can use all the classic explanations for the problem of evil that occurs when assuming a benevolent god, to explain the problem of good when assuming an evil god. It is not about proving or disproving the existence of God; it's about once you assume the existence of god, then why assume he is omnibenevolent? Stephen Law says that many people say the universe shows signs of design, for a number of reasons which I will not expand upon here, since that's a whole other topic. However, if you assume that god exists based on this argument, then how can you assume that he is omnibenevolent? Evidence of design is no evidence of moral goodness, Law argues. If you do assume an omnibenevolent god, then you have to deal with the problem of evil. It is clear there is a lot of suffering in the world, which many find a compelling argument against the existence of god. Bertrand Russell famously said: "No one can sit at the bedside of a dying child and still believe in God." There are a number of ways to address this problem. One is the free will solution. In a nutshell, God gave us free will, and therefore, we can do good things and bad things. He had to do so to create creatures who are free. This is known as Alvin Plantinga's free will defence. The main point of criticism is that it only deals with moral evil (people choosing to do bad things), not natural evil (for instance, earthquakes or children dying from horrible diseases). Another is character building. People need to go through some negative experiences to grow as a person and for that, some evil is required. Yet another one is that you simply can't have good without evil. You cannot be charitable if there are no people in need, for instance. And some people say that "God acts in mysterious ways". It would simply be arrogant to suppose that we can comprehend God's mind. What seems to be evil to us, is actually good for us, but we're simply not intelligent enough to see this. Stephen Law uses these arguments (in a slightly different way) to explain the problem of good if we assume an all-evil god. Some examples below: 

Events with probability 0 can occur. If you randomly pick an integer, any particular integer (including the one you choose) has probability 0 of being picked. 

The role of probability here is as a reasoning tool. I'll modify OP's theory a bit for illustration. Imagine that after you die you are reborn, and that your afterlife is completely indistinguishable from your first life. You will continue being reborn forever, and every afterlife is indistinguishable from every other. You wouldn't be able to tell whether your current existence is your first life or one of an infinite number of afterlives. In other words, your knowledge about what your life is like does not inform you as to the likelihood of being in an afterlife. For all you know, your existence constitutes a random sample, which means that living your original life has a mathematical probability of 0 even though it is certain to occur at some point. The same can be said for any particular afterlife. It is mathematically the same as randomly picking an integer, even if this hypothetical universe is completely deterministic. This is the Bayesian model of probability: Given what we know, what is likely to be true? 

¬(P∧¬S) becomes ¬PvS, by Godwin's law and the law of double negation. This says "I will not buy the pants or I will buy the shirt". Note that the or operator, if no specific indication is given, is inclusive, meaning it's actually an and/or operator. (a) I won't buy the pants without the shirt can be translated as "if I buy the pants, then I buy the shirt (P=>S). If you buy the pants (P), then ¬S (I will not buy the shirt) must be the case (¬PvS, P ⊢ S), thus (¬PvS, P ⊢ P=>S). So (a) is correct. (b) "I won't buy both the pants and not the shirt", while a strange sentence, can be translated as ¬(P∧¬S), which was our first premise. Obviously, ¬(P∧¬S) ⇔ ¬(P∧¬S), so (b) must be correct. 

While it is of course true that the argument given by the proponent is fallacious, his conclusion was correct. The opponent could point at his flawed reasoning, but he could not reject the conclusion based solely on this flawed reasoning. This is an example of the fallacy fallacy or argumentum ad logicam.