The "...Pass to no one," would not be considered a pass at all in this context, but would instead be considered a dribble. The NBA defines a pass as 

Another example of both profit and increase in value can be seen in the New York Yankees whom have also been able to achieve record value and steady profits annually through massive television deals. But both profit and value are rare, as typically more valuable teams have far greater expenses. 

Generally, it is not the motivation of a sports team owner to make a profit, but to have their franchise increase in value. That's not to say that all teams don't make money, but many do not. It does seem that profitability of sports franchises for their owners is more dependent on the change in value of the team from its purchase to when it is sold than how much money it actually makes through ticket sales and television deals. However some teams are able to both make a profit and increase in net worth. A notable example of this can be found in the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, whom have produced solid profits and steadily increasing value in past years, this is explained in part through the first source, where a user points out: 

I'm thinking specifically of two classic races, San Silvestre de Vallecana and the Corrida Internacional de São Silvestre, but those are far from the only such races. What is it about this saint that gets road races where others don't? Is it as as simple as New Year's Eve being the saint's feast day and also a convenient day for road racing (in the same way that Thanksgiving is a big day for road racing in the USA)? Or is there something particular to associate the saint with running? 

The IAAF doesn't have a formal editorial style guide for the relative use of these terms, so in practice they're interchangeable as Ben Miller answered. I'd be interested to see if there are similar synonyms in French and Italian, as French is also an official language of the IAAF and their primary statisticians are English and Italian. As terms of art, the two words are often used to distinguish when an athlete appears on e.g. an annual list multiple times: Bolt might have six performances in the ten best for a given year, but for other athletes down the list, only their best mark is listed. In other contexts, e.g. a field event which is ongoing, an athlete might have three existing marks "on the board", but their performance will be the best of those marks when the competition is completed. But I wouldn't want to suggest either of these as rules which are followed rigorously. 

Yes Rule 85 "Puck out of Bounds" seems up to interpretation by the officials on the ice at the time of play. "Directly off of the face off" leads me to believe it could deflect off of a tertiary player to the face off or an official themselves and the face off would be repeated in the same position but it is one of the grey areas of the game that change depending on who is making the call and their point of view. 

The first instance of "viii. If, during a delayed offside, a player from the defending team shoots the puck directly out of play, rules pertaining to delay of game will be applied and the appropriate penalty assessed." is clear that with a delay of game the penalty is assessed to the defending team and the face-off should remain in the defensive zone. The change for X is that there is no penalty but a deflection out of bounds from the defensive team. When the puck crosses the blue line the Delayed offside is no longer in effect therefore it was a deflected shot out of bounds and the defensive team has to stay in their zone for the puck going out of play. IX- the delayed offside call negates the position of the face-off which brings it into the neutral zone due to both teams being at "fault of error" so a neutral zone face off is taken. 

as referenced here and here. The action applied to the ball in this play is clearly not a deliberate pass attempt. The action of a double dribble and its associated penalty can be referenced here as well as here. However in this play, there is in fact no double dribble at all, as after the player dribbles he takes more than two steps before he comes into contact with the ball again. 

As far as I can tell it has always been a rule. This article references all major rule changes in the NHL since 1910, and cross-checking is not listed whatsoever. So I think it was probably a rule at the NHL's conception. 

There are two (in)famous cases of pacesetters continuing the race and going on to win: Paul Pilkington at the 1994 Los Angeles marathon, and Tom Byers at the 1981 Bislett Games. Byers built a ten-second lead when "the rest of the field refused to follow his pace" and Pilkington similarly was well away from the rest of the pack at the point he was supposed to step off. Other answers have correctly noted that some events make their rabbits sign contracts to drop out, and IAAF rules require that any pacemakers start the race with everyone else (otherwise the pacemakers constitute unfair assistance for some runners). For events where dropping out is not a part of the contract, though, consider this: what motivation do the other runners have to follow the pace set by a rabbit when they know the rabbit will drop out? Put another way, what's the point of having a pacemaker run 3/4 of a race out in front and then drop out while still in the lead? Perfect pacemaking requires the rabbit to hit exactly the requested splits at the designated milestones, but also requires the actual competitors to be close in with the pacemakers. Allowing the pacemakers to finish the race motivates the rest of the runners to at least keep them in sight, to avoid piracy. I've had a few things to say on this subject elsewhere. If a pacemaker reaches their designated drop-out point but is still leading and (important point) still feels capable of holding the lead, they can actually continue to be useful by staying in the race. Some races pay pacemakers more the longer they can continue leading at the agreed-upon pace. In these cases the rabbit would drop once they found themselves falling off the pace (or, on the track, if the rest of the field begins passing them). 

Rule 10 of the NHL rule book defines sticks and can be found Here I do not see an outline or ruling on what the proper course of play is when a player's broken stick is on the ice. Sometimes referees or linesmen pick up the stick, sometimes players try to move it out of their zone/towards the boards. If you move it intentionally towards an opposing player with the puck it would seem to be an interference penalty but I can't find anything to back up my thoughts on this. My question is when are players allowed to move an object on the ice other than the puck when would the referee decide to remove it from play and when would a player incur a penalty for moving the object? 

Of course, there's a lot of variation between trail shoes, just as there is in regular shoes, so there are exceptions to all of these. But if you were to take a regular running shoe and make it into a trail running shoe, these are probably the changes you would be making. 

For the track events, you've nailed it: the 200m standard indoor track means races of the same distance (e.g. 800m) can be notably different from races on a standard 400m outdoor track. In the sprints, the tight banked turns can significantly change the athlete's approach to the race, and some events (e.g. 60m) are only held indoors. For the field events, the reasoning for different records is more tricky. In the throws, e.g. shot put, the implements are different (size and weight). For the jumps, though, the differences are entirely environmental: lack of wind (either supporting or impeding) and different runway surfaces, mostly. In these events, competing indoors can actually be easier (although long jump and triple jump may be limited in the length of their run-up - I'm not sure if that would help or hurt an athlete). 

Personally, I'm curious what the mean, median, and mode average heights are in the NBA. From what I can find it looks like the mean average is about 6'7”, but I can't find any trace of median or mode averages in inches. 

There are similar questions that has been brought up on other sites. Ultimately though, generally speaking after all annual revenue is collected and all expenses are paid, sports franchises do not make a profit. However majority increase in value annually, hence even if a owner is not making a profit through advertising and sales, their net worth still increases. This fact can be seen in the graphic below. 

The first difference is generally considered to be an advantage to the runner on the inside, i.e. lane 1 has the most advantage and lane 8 the least. This is generally why people consider Van Niekerk's lane draw remarkable. The second difference, on the other hand, is mixed. The inner-most lanes (1, 2, and sometimes 3) are considered technically more difficult than the outer lanes, which have gentler turns; the wider sweep of the outer lanes means an athlete can put more energy into moving forward instead of turning their momentum. Individual runners' physiology and form can mitigate this problem; for example, Usain Bolt's long stride would theoretically be hampered by the inside lanes, but Bolt has also compensated for this by apparently developing very good form for the curve. So in theory the inside lane is disadvantaged and the outside advantaged by this, but in practice it varies. (This is why tracks with a full 9 lanes will run sprint races in 2-9 rather than 1-8.) (This, incidentally, is also why 4x100m relay teams sometimes put their fastest runners on the 1st or 3rd legs rather than the last, "anchor" leg - because starting from the blocks and running the bends are very specialized skills, and teams can pick up some advantage by putting runners who excel at those skills on those legs rather than on the anchor.) So with Van Niekerk as one "exceptional" lane 8 runner, it's worth also remembering two similarly exceptional lane 1 runners: both Angelo Taylor and John Akii-Bua won gold medals in the 400m hurdles from lane 1, with Akii-Bua, like Van Niekerk, setting a world record. Regardless of lane, however, it's clear that Van Niekerk is an extraordinary talent with excellent coaching and support to enable such a run. If the 2016 gold-medal run is not the peak of his career, I can't imagine what he will do to top it. 

The answer to this deals with the flow of the game, and specifically rule 63 "delay of game penalty" The explanation starts on page 88 and describes that a goaltender may use his equipment in the defensive zone other than to intentionally delay the game in so far as he is being "checked" or influenced to do so by an opponent. A goal tender may not play the puck behind the goal line except for the area within the trapezoid directly behind the net as doing so would result in a minor penalty. 

The NHL specifically forbids this with their CBA and Salary cap system. Teams can not trade "cash" they can only trade players and draft picks. Nhl teams can retain a players salary but only to a maximum of 50% of salary can be retained. I am unfamiliar with other sports or hockey prior to this agreement. NHL CBA 

At the recent IAAF World Championships in Athletics, Hong Kong and the P.R. of China had separate teams in the 4x100m relay. I understand why the PRC and Chinese Taipei compete separately, as they are de facto separate countries, but why does Hong Kong have its own team? 

Generally the drop of trail running shoes will vary by model in much the same way it varies in regular running shoes. The principal differences that make a running shoe a trail running shoe are traction and durability; both of these will have an impact on the cushioning. Trail running shoes generally: