I was trying to solder my bike cables because those crimp on's they fall off then the cable just unwind itself. After the painfull process I managed to use the cutting end instead of the crimping end to install the crimp. A 20 quid park tool cable cutter isn't any good if u don't use it correctly lol So is there an optimum length you leave sticking out of the pinch bolt? 

The GPS on my phone KILLS the battery life. If you going on a decent ride which I will be once i have the fitness required, then you'll need a portable battery of some sort. Is it not possible for a speed and candence sensor to track distance without gps signal? Mine doesn't seem to be working. IT's one of these $URL$ I.e. have I bought something that doesn't do what i need it to do. the fallowfield loop isn't 0.06km long 

It maybe necessary for me to remove the chain for a deep clean. I dont think it's ever been cleared by it's previous owner. So just to be sure I can use one of these to rejoin the chain: $URL$ wanted to make sure just in case I screw up a perfectly working chain. It is a kmc chain I believe. 

I have an old kids bike. It has been in our family for at least 30+ years. However it was left in the rain by the our resisdent bike killer. Its a bloody mess so unless am told otherwise i think its best to buy a new rear wheel But am unsure the difference between the two sizes. $URL$ 

I was going to use my parktool cable cutter on the hydraulic cable for my reverb. I would potentially service my hydraulic shimano disc brakes cables if I ever need to. But another thread has said you shouldn't. if it can cut metal why not hydraulic cable 

I want to upgrade my norco 7.1 charger 2015 to use RockShox Reba RL Solo Air. 1) is this better fork than mine 2) Does it accept tokens 3) Is there limit as to how long a fork I can put on the bike I assume it would alter the head angle but what effect would that have on my bike 

Let me get this straight. If I turn the knob to the left it reacts faster. If I turn the kob to the right it's slower 

The way I know how to measure frame size is by measuring from the center of the cranks to to top of the seat tube. I ordered a 16" bike from Halfords but the seat tube is only 9". On the box it says 16" x 9" what???? sso where does the 16" come from? So my neice is 115cm tall. According to halfords size guide a 16" will be fine for her since her daddy has got her a 14" but thats in london. Is it me thats order the wrong size or has the oem packed in the wrong bike? 

I can feel so laterial play when grab hold of the crank arms then wiggle it side to side. I discovered the lock ring was very loose. So much so i could turn it with my fingers without any effort. When I tightened the lock ring just by hand, the play went away. I loosened it then it came back. Does this mean my bb is unscrewing itself from the frame and i need to tighten it up? Is this a job for a newbie home mechanic to attempt? 

I finally managed to get the SOB crank arms off the bike. It took a spare seat post and 100mm enginners vice, and perseverance. Anyway I'm on the home striaght now in terms of getting the bloody thingy painted finally. I want to know what tools I need to remove the BB and the cups off the head tube? Here are some photos of what am talking about 

Silly question, but have you tried indexing your gears? I had hell with my 105 groupset (Cannondale too) when I first got it a couple of years ago. The problem I find with gears is that if you start messing with all of the different settings, it can throw the whole system of entirely. It took me forever, partly because I was a novice at the time, to get them shifting properly again. Double check all of your alignments and positioning of your dérailleurs and then perform and indexing on your gears. Put the chain on the inner chain-ring and on the largest cassette, ensuring that your gear lever cannot go down in gears any further. Now click your rear gear lever once, and once only. If it doesn't change gear to the next one on the cassette, use the barrel adjuster located on the rear-derailleur until the gear correctly shifts to the next gear and doesn't make any rough, catching noises. This should automatically progress through the whole range of gears without any further adjustment. If you're convinced that the rest of it is set up correctly, I would be inclined to make sure that your rear axle isn't bent. I have an old wheel where the rear axle was made from a soft metal and subsequently bent whilst riding. This had a knock-on effect of causing my rear cassette to wobble with every wheel revolution and sometimes throw the chain's position off when shifting. 

The rubber ring would most likely be a protective seal of some kind, although for which part I am not so sure. I changed my headset earlier last year and don't remember such a part, although my memory isn't great. Can you not determine the possible location based on the rubber ring's size? Most forks are tapered and are larger at the bottom, so the size might make it self-explanatory. My educated guess is that it will be an additional seal which sits between the cartridge bearing/compression ring (the brass coloured ring on the far right) and the dust cover. I terms of installation, the second to right part (the crown race) should be fitted first onto your fork first. Ensure that the surface is clean and no corrosion or other dirt is on your fork from the old race as it won't sit properly. It's unlikely that this rubber ring would go underneath the crown race or above as it would prevent the bearings fitting correctly (the space is usually extremely tight to start with). Although the following image doesn't show the rubber ring, it gives a good indication to the installation order of the rest of the parts. I suggest that the rubber ring goes between the 'dust cover' and 'compression ring' on that photo. An exploded photograph of a bicycle headset, showing the parts in installation order 

If I think of anything else I will add it to the list, but these are some of the main things to consider that I can think of. 

I took part in a charity ride from Scotland to Italy in June last year, and that was made a lot easier with the use of a support team to help carry everything. Since you are going it alone, you need to consider quite a lot of things: 

I had this predicament several years ago when I decided to get back into cycling, but also use it as my main method of transport for commuting. To cut a long story short, I opted for a Cyclocross bike (think of a road bike-come mountain bike). These offer wider tyres, often the knobbly variety, which makes them perfect for off-road riding. You can also get semi-slick tyres which are a best of both worlds. Cross bikes give you a road-like setup in terms of the drop handlebars, but often provide the ability to take panniers and mudguards (fenders). So, if you want similar speeds of a road bike but the versatility of a mountain bike (within reason), cyclocross bikes are hard to beat. I originally toyed with the idea of a road bike, purely for the speed and with the hope of racing, but the ability to have panniers and mudguards sold it to me. EDIT: As you are stating that you want it to be going over rough pavement rather than off-road as I originally stated, slick tyres would be more than capable of this. Hybrid bikes are an option as mentioned in the other answer, but they may not be as quick a road-type setup. Saying that, the speed difference is probably negligible over short distances and it then becomes a matter of preference in terms of riding position. Hybrids offer the 'sitting up' position as found on mountain bikes, whereas a cross bike would be more bent over and using the drop handlebars as on a road bike. 

I have a continuum of clothes that I add on as the weather gets colder. During the summer, I ride like you do with shorts and a t-shirt. As things cool of a little bit, down below 60F/15C, I'll put on a windbreaker over my t-shirt and some full-finger gloves on my hands. The next step for me is to add an Under Armour Cold Gear shirt (many companies make equivalent tops) but to stick with naked legs, they're doing all the wok after all. Once temperatures get down to the 45F/7C range, I'll add som snazzy leggings in a fabric similar to the Under Armour top mentioned above. When things start to freeze, my final move is a fleece vest over the long sleeve top, but under my windbreaker. If things get even colder where you are, Icebike's clothing page is a good place to look for further advice. Keep two things in mind: you need a lot less clothing once you're moving and generating heat than you do standing around, but you also need to be prepared for a problem that might leave you standing around for some time. Dress light and carry extra clothes in a backpack. 

While in the saddle, your feet should not touch the ground and your leg should be almost completely extended at the bottom of the pedal stroke. You ought to be able to straddle the top tube fairly easily with your feet flat on the ground. Sheldon Brown's article on starting on a bicycle may help with getting accustomed to having the seat higher than you are used to. Do visit his site to see the video, but here are the basics: 

For similar things on cars I use white lithium grease (e.g. this stuff on Amazon)—it is a good lubricant and sticks around the joint that you apply it to. Any similar thick grease should work for this joint, but the crucial thing is getting it into the right place. Taking the joint apart and applying grease to the mating surfaces is the best bet. 

If the bike has an aluminum frame, then the things to worry about are the steel parts: gears, chain, cables, and fasteners (bolts and such). All of these things will readily rust if exposed to constant moisture from being outside. Leaving the bike under an awning will help, but not protect it completely—a shed or other enclosure in the best bet. 

Minimally, you want to be able to tighten all of the bolts on your bike (likely a few hex keys will do this) and an appropriate screwdriver for adjusting derailer & brake pulls. Separate from a multi-tool, a pair of tire levers are the other tool you should carry with you. I would add a chain tool to the above list after being left in a state where I would have been much happier were I so equipped. For that reason, I bought a Crank Brothers Multi Tool 17 which features the requisite hex keys, screwdrivers, and a chain tool, in package that is smaller & lighter than most Leatherman tools. Some of the hex key sizes don't fit anything on my bike, but it's nice to have a set that can help most other riders. 

In the gun world, companies will coat the reciprocating parts (mainly the bolt) with nickel-boron to reduce friction, going so far as to claim that you don't need lubricant. 

A lot of manufacturers sell something like a road bike without drop handlebars—variously categorized as urban, city, or touring. I have a Marin Alp Series that has flat handlebars, with some short bar ends that allow you to get a bit of a different position for comfort on longer rides. You might consider something with drops which will make longer rides (I would consider 25 miles a good length) more comfortable: Raleigh Clubman, Trek Portland, Surly's Long Haul Trucker are good options, but there are certainly more.