So the military sends emissaries to the colony to get them to stop.  Using a classic iron-fist-in-a-velvet-glove approach, the emissaries start with diplomatic persuasion, but they have a Plan B: a weapon that will destroy the colony if they don’t cooperate (which, of course, they don’t). In real life, there is a similar situation: the politics of greenhouse gas emissions.  As far as I know, that’s still being addressed by peaceful negotiations.  But, when snow becomes a thing of the past, temperatures of 100 °F become commonplace, and coastal cities start being submerged by rising sea levels, somebody might start thinking that the third-world countries that are still burning dirty coal really need to have nuclear power delivered to them.  By missile. So, yeah, the nations that agree to phase out the use of magic are probably going to come into severe conflict with the nation(s) that don’t. 

Criminals (i.e., Criminal Organizations, and their Recruiters) I’m thinking of people like Fagin, from Charles Dickens’s novel Oliver Twist.  The belief in Santa Claus provides material motivation for being good/moral (“nice”).  Disbelief in Santa diminishes and dilutes the notion that bad behavior has punitive consequences, and allows immorality to flourish.  This makes it easier for gangs to find people who are predisposed to crime. 

Mankind creates some colonies in other star systems, and then loses contact with them. Earth scientists discover a field of technology called “Anomalous Physics,” which features such staples of sci-fi as wormholes, matter transmission and matter conversion. Earth scientists discover that the use of Anomalous Physics (beyond certain constraints) damages the fabric of the universe. Earth military scientists discover that one of the colonies is using Anomalous Physics recklessly, apparently not yet having discovered the risks. 

It seems to work for African lions.  The bulk of their breeding occurs in extended family groups (called “prides”) where the female/male ratio is somewhere around 3:1 to 6:1.  When cubs are mature enough to breed, the males are expelled to live on their own, but the females stay in the group.  The only way a male lion gets to breed is if he kills the dominant male of a pride.  The other males might as well be dead as far as reproduction is concerned. ISTM that this could work with a 10:1 ratio.  ISTR that there are other species (smaller animals, like birds and insects, maybe? but also deer/moose, sea lions (!) and walruses?) that do a similar thing with a much higher ratio — e.g., out of a generation of 10 or 100 or more individual animals, only one male wins the right to breed with all the females — but I’m not sure about that, offhand. A couple of issues: 

How real do you want this?  Real enough that it could actually happen (why? — are you hoping to do it?) or just real enough to be plausible in a work of fiction? As you probably know, diamonds and graphite (pencil “lead”) are both pure carbon.  They are distinguished by different crystal structures.  They are called allotropes, and there are others. 

Also, Toy Merchants (Manufacturers/Sellers) (I realize that this idea was suggested in another answer, but I believe that my rationale is slightly different.) If adults believe in Santa Claus, they won’t feel the need to buy toys for children.  Nice children will get free toys from Santa, and naughty kids will get … what they deserve.  (Exceptions: parents who are “enablers” will buy gifts for their brats so they don’t have to suffer the consequences of their actions.  Some will give presents to buy their children’s love.  Those who are themselves immoral (or just excessively non-judgmental) will buy toys for naughty youngsters because of (or despite) their moral orientation.) Toy merchants need to discredit and delegitimize Santa Claus in order to create a market for new, human-made toys. 

Imagine multiple more-or-less parallel tunnels in a cave system, or through a mountain.  The tunnels aren’t perfectly straight; they meander enough that sometimes two of them come very close together. 

The gimmick from Carl Sagan’s Contact — cameras (and other recording devices) mysteriously stop working whenever anything paranormal happens.  Witnesses will appear all the less credible when they fail to produce tangible evidence. 

Many answers have discussed ways to keep people out by combinations of persuasion, force, and hiding.  I had less well developed versions of a couple of these ideas (e.g., pictographs — see also my comment here), but here’s one that that I didn’t notice in any previous answer (sorry if it’s there and I skimmed past it): Obviously, beyond a certain point, you want to make the area hard to enter, to protect against people getting too close by accident.  (Other answers have suggested having a large surrounding buffer zone that is hard to damage but easy to enter, and using it as a repository for information and warnings about the danger.)  But, starting at or beyond the inner perimeter, where you don’t want people to enter, make it obviously hard to leave.  Make it look less and less like a fortress or a bank vault, that might be guarding something valuable against intruders, and more and more like a prison that’s keeping something in (and protecting the outside world from the prisoner).  Some specific ideas:   It’s OK if these doors are, in fact, also hard to open from the outside; e.g., with locks holding the locking bars in place. Have weapons aimed toward the inside.  Based on the constraints of the question, these would probably have to be passive defensive weapons (unless you believe that the Indiana Jones movies are realistic); something like spears or spikes: 

I’m not sure whether this is acceptable, given your use of reality-check, but: He (secretly) has (and uses) paranormal / supernatural powers. In one battle, many of the enemy are injured or killed by an avalanche.  In another, many of the enemy are sickened by a mysterious disease, or attacked in their camp at night by wild animals.  Similarly with unexpected / unforeseeable floods, sinkholes, extreme weather (e.g., tornadoes), and other “natural” phenomena.  Everybody (friend and foe alike) says, “Gosh, he’s been lucky.”  They don’t realize that he has been inexplicably causing these events. Rather than paranormal powers, he could have access to highly advanced technology, possibly from aliens or time-travelers — compare to 

The son is plotting to kill the regent.  On the one hand, that would be murder, and he would be punished if he were caught before he accomplished anything.  On the other hand, this is the law of nature.  Survival of the fittest, elimination of the weak.  The King is dead; long live the King!  That sort of thing.  Once the regent was dead, his son would ascend to the regency and be above the law. The woman learns of the young man’s plot by reading his mind, and/or clairvoyance, through witchcraft.  If she admits to being a witch, she will be dealt with severely.