No one has yet mentioned exhibition material, science fairs and the Womens' Institute. (I have also been involved with Masterclasses (see the reply by J. Collins) but that sort of thing has already been discussed.) Some of you may know Bangor's Maths and Knots website. That started off as a physical exhibition that toured the UK with the Pop Math Road Show. I seems to have been a great success (1990). We tried to show that Mathematics was a natural extension of logical curiosity by going into the problem of classifying knots and the use of Analogy in mathematics (Look at Ronnie Brown's website for links to a paper we wrote on how the exhibition was made.) I adapted that material for a talk to the UK Womens' Institute at their residential college. The theme was Mathematics a human activity. (Again I can give more details if someone wants to follow it up.) Thirdly I prepared material for use at the Wrexham Scientriffic Science event. Here I used some puzzles but not just the usual ones. I adapted material on optimisation from a course on OR and it was a great success. There were some people (adults) who spent over an hour discussing problems on scheduling, knapsack problems etc. I did not provide the algorithms (which would spoil the fun). The problems typically had a 'target' value, so if trying to maximise something anything over the target would be good. I tried to get them to explain why they thought their method was possibly going to give a good answer and was very pleased at some of the systematic and logical approaches that were used. The puzzles were printed out from a powerpoint presentation and then put on laminated cards. (EDIT: Combinatorial puzzles seem to be easy to attempt and go down well.) I used the puzzle presentation as well in various Masterclass/Mathclub situations in Wales, Canada and ireland and always got a good response. 

Although the reference to Ribes and Zalesski (given in another answer) is excellent, another very good starting point for this area is: A. Brumer, Pseudocompact algebras, profinite groups and class formations , J. Alg, 4, (1966), 442–470. The key point is the pseudocompactness of the result. Brumer goes into the homological algebra of these algebras. Of course, in the 45 years since that was published there have been a lot of advances, but the basic theory is very well explained there. 

Have a look around on my n-Lab 'home page': $URL$ and go down to the `resources'. There are various quite old sets of notes that look at simplicially enriched categories, homotopy coherence etc. and that may help you with homotopy limits, homotopy coherent / $\infty$-category ends and coends, etc. With Cordier, I wrote a paper: Homotopy Coherent Category Theory, Trans. Amer. Math. Soc. 349 (1997) 1-54, which aimed to give the necessary tools to allow homotopy coherent ends and coends (and their applications) to be pushed through to the $\mathcal{S}$-enriched setting and so to be used `without fear' by specialists in alg. geometry, non-abelian cohomology, etc. You can also find stuff in my Menagerie notes, mentioned on that Home Page. 

The majority of the results that I have seen relate to various generalisations of linearly compact modules and some indication of the theory can be gleaned from the paper by U. Oberst Duality theory for Grothendieck categories, Bull. Amer. Math. Soc. Volume 75, Number 6 (1969), 1401-1407. Note that if one has a category of modules, as direct limits are exact there, inverse limits will be exact in the dual category and that sort of phenomenon is typical of categories of 'compact' modules over some compact ring. The meaning of compact will usually be 'algebraic' in character but vary according to what extra properties the input abelian category has. In the Oberst case these include being a Grothendieck category, being Noetherian and so on. A lot of this is well treated in N. Popescu, Abelian Categories with Applications to Rings and Modules, Academic Press, 1973. MR 0340375 (49:5130) That is thorough and quite long so I won't attempt to describe it more fully here. 

The simplest natural example is to use the van Kampen theorem (in Ronnie Brown's version) to work out the fundamental group(oid) of the circle. The details are in his book Topology and Groupoids ($URL$ That source also discusses colimits of groupoids in this context. If you look around on Ronnie's home pages ($URL$ you can find discussion of many of the points that you raise. (Edit: Ronnie's website is now at $URL$ N. B. The old address at Bangor no longer works.) 

Approaching the problem from a slightly different position, you could point your student towards a Masters' thesis: M. A. D. Robalo, 2009, Galois Theory towards Dessins d’Enfants , Master’s thesis, Instituto Superior Technico, Lisboa. There are some more or small errors, and the aim is slightly different, so the task might then be to rewrite that (slightly too SGA1 based perhaps), to check for errors, adapting it towards the aims that you have in mind and bringing in more Riemann surface stuff. 

In addition to Buschi Sergio's comment, Bozapalides' paper was one of the inputs into the paper by Jean-Marc Cordier and myself: Homotopy Coherent Category Theory, Trans. Amer. Math. Soc. 349 (1997) 1-54. In there, we generalised his construction to a homotopy coherent end / coend. The construction as an indexed end / coend has been used by various people (several of whom are likely to add references to this and I will not attempt to do that for them, :-) ) who have worked on homotopy ends and coends. These formulations will not be optimised for your use but should give you the answers that you need. They are more like the infinity categorification of ends / coends, but the theory we developed may prove useful. (I would be fascinated to find out how you hope to link them to TQFTs, as I have had thoughts in that direction, ..., so do keep in touch! I will look at the text that you linked to.) (Edit: I checked and there is some discussion of simplicially enriched homotopy coherent ends and coends in the longer versions of the Crossed Menagerie, but not on the version linked from my nLab pages. I can send you a copy if you wish.just contact me.) 

There are two comments worth worth making to Tyler's answer above. One is that simplicial homotopies have two definitions, one of which is as a morphism $h$ from $\Delta^1\times K$ to, in your case, $K$. The other is a combinatorial version with a specification of $h$ as a family of mappings fitting together according to how the non-degenerqte $n+1$-simplices of $\Delta^1\times \Delta^n$ fit together. (Here the useful combinatorial gadgetry is the study of shuffles.) This second description is more or less that which underlies your idea, so if you look back at the initial papers on simplicial sets you may find what you are seeking (and of course, you may note something that was not explored back then as well. That does happen.) The other thing following up on Tyler's answer is that some of this is well described in the book by Gabriel and Zisman. That predates Quillen and is nearer the 'geometry'. It is well worth a look. (It is also more 'constructive'.) 

Abstract We study the existence problem and the enumeration problem for sections of Serre fibrations over compact orientable surfaces. When the fundamental group of the fiber is finite, a complete solution is given in terms of 2-dimensional cohomology classes associated with certain irreducible representations of this group. The proofs are based on Topological Quantum Field Theory.. Comment: 38 pages Publication details Download $URL$ This discusses the existence of sections for fibre bundles over surfaces. As Paul mentions above, the answer is 'obstruction theory' in general. 

The obvious concrete example is any Kan complex considered as a weak infinity groupoid. If that is not concrete enough, take a space and its singular complex is a weak infinity category. If you want category as against groupoid, the homotopy coherent nerve of a simplicially enriched category $\mathcal{B}$, is another example (provided $\mathcal{B}$ is `locally Kan' i.e. fibrant.) Thus setting size issues aside, the category of topological spaces yields an infinity category. (Look up homotopy coherent nerve in the nLab if you need. It is a very neat idea.) (Edit: I should have started by asking what `concrete' means for you.) (Edit number 2:) I see my original answer did not address the last part of the question. For that you are requiring morphisms in all dimensions to be potentially non-(invertible up to higher cells) so there is a non-reversiblility about things. Chris's examples give some idea of this but there is a nice set of ideas that have not been fully explored as yet that may give another. The context in which this arises is that of directed homotopy. This arises is computer science when modelling concurrent and distributed computing. An action takes time and resources, so is non reversible. If you model things by a directed space (and there are various interpretations of that idea see Marco Grandis' book for instance), and then use directed $n$-simplices for all $n$ and the test spaces, you get a singular complex with quite `singular' properties! (Look at directed space in the nLab for some ideas of what is going on here.) I tried to capture some of this in a paper (Enriched categories and models for spaces of evolving states, Theoretical Computer Science, 405, (2008), pp. 88 - 100.) The structure would seem to be related to the Segal category types constructions, but an adequate description is still lacking. The challenge is then to solidify this link and then to find out if it does give an adequate model of the sorts of situation modelled by the directed spaces in the first instance. 

A short answer might be that your point 1 relates rather to the fundamental group(oid) being enough to determine the 1-type of the space and this is more or less the Galois theoretic viewpoint. Even for the 2-type of a space there is not a simple equivalent formulation to the covering space, but there is a model, a crossed module, which encodes the 2-type (so that includes both $\pi_1$ and $\pi_2$ and the relevant Postnikov invariant). Defining the standard fundamental crossed module of a CW-complex, $X$, is easy. It just uses the (relative) homotopy groups of the skeleta of $X$. So using a slight variant (the relative form of the usual one) of the second homotopy group, you get a good analogue of the fundamental group in the next dimension ... and you do get a version of the covering space classification, but it is more complicated. The discussion of the 3-type etc. is again more complicated and for an idea of where that leads, look at the first part of Grothendieck's Pursuing Stacks manuscript (The letter to Quillen) and if you can, also have a look at the earlier (1975) letters to Larry Breen. Grothendieck saw that the covering space analogue gave an excellent way of extending from 2 or 3 dimensions to higher dimensions and, quite naturally, the fibration long exact sequence and the other features mentioned in the excellent replies from others, comes into the picture. This links up fibrations with fibres an (n-1)-type and representations of algebraic \categorical models of the n-type of $X$. Now this does not directly use maps from a n-sphere into $X$, but look at Grothendieck's sketch of his construction of the fundamental $n$-groupoid of $X$, it uses a neat idea of using n-globes to define something like a relative homotopy group in each dimension, in other words, the basic building blocks are given by maps of n-spheres / n-globes into $X$ which again makes the link with the other replies. (For a filled out version of Grothenck's sketch see work by George Maltsiniotis.) (I should point out that the notion of homotopy n-type is key to all this, and that in its easiest formulation involves the homotopy groups. Grothendieck's intuition is that the analogue of covering spaces / 0-stacks corresponds to the homotopy $n$-type, not just the single $\pi_n$ of the space. A negative feature of the usual definition of $\pi_n$ is that for `spaces' that occur in algebraic and arithmetic geometry there are VERY FEW maps from an $n$-sphere to the space, so points about loop spaces, although very important, cannot be directly applied to those spaces. In fact the link with Galois theory and SGA1-style fundamental groups has the advantage of not requiring the space to be a space at all, nor to have a CW-complex structure if it is a space, it could be a topos, or more generally an $n$-topos, in the sense of Lurie, but that probably leads too far from the initial question, and I did say this would be a 'short answer'!) The full picture is not yet in place for how $n$-stacks are best to be used, even in low dimensions, so higher Galois theory for instance exists but its interpretation and application is much less advanced (quite naturally) and there is a lot more work to be done there. I hope this helps.