You should read David Stove Popper and After: Four Modern Irrationalists for a detailed analysis. An annoying meta-problem with Popper's claim is that it doesn't apply to all scientific theories, it only applies to theories with unbounded domains. (His reasoning depends on the impossibility of inspecting an infinite set). A concrete problem pertains to the idea of a "falsifying" observation. If a theory predicts that a certain object is supposed to exist at a particular time and place and that object is not observed then and there, we typically presume that the theory has been falsified, though we may want to make sufficient numbers of observations to rule out the possibility that we blinked at the crucial moment. Assuming that the failed observations are repeatable, we would also require evidence that the observation itself is valid, meaning that there is a true and verified theory underlying the theory of the instrument. But according to Popper, one cannot versify that the instrument shows what it is believed to show, since that rests on a theory that we have either shown to be invalid (false) false, or else that we have not shown to be false. Failing to show that something is false does not constitute proof that it is true. And so the falsifying observations have the power of being falsifiers only if the underlying theory is true, which cannot be determined. 

The term "native language" doesn't have a standard legal definition. In the US, it has a statutory definition for federal educational purposes (funding-related), as "the language normally used by such individual; or in the case of a child or youth, the language normally used by the parents of the child or youth". Comfort is irrelevant. Since you do not speak Assembler (any dialect), it isn't your native language, and no humans speak any programming language, the remainder of your questions are moot. Assuming that someone invents sentient computers which are deemed to be legally equivalent to humans, then it is possible that binary opcodes (not higher-level programming languages, which are human-interface devices) could be legally deemed "the native language" of such objects. Or, it could be deemed that all computers must be programmed to understand English. Since computers do not use language anyhow, you can't predict what the legal outcome would be. 

The concept "right" implies choice, so the right to free speech is not an obligation to speak, the right to own property is not an obligation to own property. The right to live, thus, is the right to live if you so chose, from which it follows that you also have the right to chose not to live. You don't have a generic right to die only in the manner and time that you chose (which would imply that you have a right to whatever is necessary in order to keep you alive until the time that you've selected for your demise), but, if you chose to end your life at some time in some manner, and you can stay alive until that time and can implement your death, they you have the right to act on that choice. (Modulo respect for other people's rights, i.e. you don't have a right to die in a nuclear holocaust that wipes out NYC). However, in a State Boon theory of rights, where rights are all and only the actions deemed by the sovereign to be "rightful", then the only way to answer the question is see whether a right to die has been granted. 

This question has been studied extensively by Solan and other legal scholars (e.g. 78 Tex. L. Rev. 105). The essential explanation is that jurors tend to misunderstand the intent of the instructions, so they believe that the defense has an obligation to establish a reason to doubt the prosecution's contention. By replacing the standard with a "firmly established; clear and convincing evidence" standard, false convictions are reduced. 

I call into question the premise that you "know virtually nothing". We can assume that you don't know everything, or half of everything. Indeed, if you sum up everything that every human knows or knew for all times, that wouldn't sum up to half of everything, or a tenth of everything, at least everything that can be known. In fact, omniscience is impossible. Rather than being concerned comparatively with how much you know compared to others, it would be more productive to consider what you know, and whether it is appropriate to your purpose in life. Suppose for example you had only taken one term of calculus -- would you then know "enough" mathematics for your life goals? Presumably not. Rather than refraining from speaking in an area where you are not the wisest person, you can refrain from making indefensible assertions. If there is some debate over "climate change" and you don't feel that your grasp of the underlying physical science is impeccable, it is perfectly correct to not make a bold assertion. That should not stop you from asking a bold question. 

One reason is general philosophical assumptions (best dealt with on Philosophy SE). Broadly speaking, classical Aristotelian principles have largely been replaced with Kantian thinking, and legal positivism is one version of that way of seeing man in relation to society. Ultimately it comes down to the difference between the Aristotelian "what objectively exists" view versus the Kantian "how it appears" view, the latter view now being (apparently) more widely accepted. A related matter is that it has been difficult (not impossible) to avoid invocation of a divine source for law. Appeals to "the common good" run into analogous problems with objectively defining and measuring that standard for identifying law. There are vastly fewer problems with determining whether a city has enacted an ordinance. A second reason is what is known as the separability thesis (a feature of legal positivism), that legal validity is distinct from moral validity, whereas natural law holds that legal and moral validity are largely to entirely the same (the "overlap" thesis). If you believe that a man's right to his property is absolute, then it follows that a law allowing taxation is "bad law" from the moral perspective: there is no natural law to the effect that you must surrender 38% of your income to the sovereign. But it is absurd to think that there is no law requiring you to pay income tax. On the other hand, there really is no law requiring you to slaughter a goat during the Vernal Equinox. Legal positivism says, simply, that there does happen to be a law requiring payment of taxes (currently, in the US), and there is no Equinox Goat Slaughtering law (currently, in the US). Either fact could change if The Lawmakers say so, and that is obviously correct. This is a reasonable article on legal positivism, as is this, and for natural law, this article and this are useful. 

You have a scope of negation problem, if "I don't believe that P". You could be denying having any belief, meaning that you are relatively agnostic as to P, which is appropriate if you haven't seen enough evidence. You could also be persuaded that it is actually false to assert P (you believe ~P). Taken as a whole, if P is false, then ~P is true -- assuming you recognize the law of the excluded middle. Then you would have to scrutinize the structure of P to see what else you can learn from knowing that ~P is true i.e. P is false.