Current state of the art climate models disagree with measurements and each other on what might cause the transition to a new state AND what temperature that new state might be the new average. Hothouse Earth Although human activity could cause an undesired warming of the Earth is certainly possible (even likely), there's no way for human activity to cause the Earth to become Venus like in the current era. However, within 1.6-2.5 billion years, the gradually brightening Sun will warm the Earth enough to evaporate ocean water leading to a run-away greenhouse. The Earth will reach this tipping point regardless of what humanity does. Something even scarier In the Earth's ancient past (2+ billion years ago), the Earth's surface chemistry transitioned from a reducing atmosphere (e.g. Methane dominant) to an oxidizing atmosphere (e.g. Oxygen dominant). This killed most life on the planet. 

Atmospheric pressure about 1/2 Earth's Atmospheric pressure will be about 0.54 that of Earth's at sea level. This is about what the atmospheric pressure would be like at an altitude of 5500 meters (or 17,900 feet). The average person could not live there unless the partial pressure of oxygen were raised significantly. However, the general opinion is that the Death Zone starts at 8000 meters (26,247 feet), so some people would be able to live here unaided. Alternatively, simply wearing an oxygen mask (or even nose tubes) should provide enough oxygen for the average person to live there. $$M_{Air} / A_{Planet} * g_{planet} = 0.4 / 0.55 * .74 \approx 54 \text{%}$$ Hydrosphere coverage about 3/4 Earth's I get a value of about 73% of the amount of water per unit area for this body. $$M_{Water} / A_{Planet} = 0.4 / 0.55 \approx 73 \text{%}$$ Cold and dry nights With very long day-night cycles, the temperature on the dark side will drop and continue dropping almost until dawn 28 days later (imagine the 28 days of darkness at the poles!). During night, first water will freeze out and then the carbon dioxide. Since these are the two primary greenhouse gases, after they've frozen out the temperature drop will accelerate. I sincerely doubt it'll get cold enough to freeze out oxygen (54 K). Regardless this (along with the colder temperature) will also lower the pressure on the night side. Hot & humid days During day time, all the atmospheric components will evaporate in reverse order. Adding this extra volume (and increasing its temperature) to the atmosphere will increase its pressure. I doubt the 28 days of Sun will be sufficient to boil the oceans but expect the day time to reach 100% humidity as the evaporation cycle of the oceans is driven by the constant heat input from the Sun. Nearly constant powerful winds With the large temperature (and therefore pressure) differential between the day & night sides, this will set up a powerful (hurricane forced or higher) and nearly constant wind blasting from the hot side and blowing to the cool side. Although the twilight areas will be most comfortable to humans, they'll also possess extremely powerful winds (I expect these winds to be much stronger on the sun setting side than the dawn side). Winds will be almost always blowing except near the center of the day and night sides. Because the winds would be blowing in the direction of rotation instead of 90 degrees to it, the Coriolis Effect wouldn't affect the wind motion. However, winds blowing in the direction of rotation would rise, while those blowing against the direction of rotation would sink due to centripetal acceleration effects. This effect and the dryness of the air at dawn would inhibit the formation of storms. This effect combined with the moisture of the air at dusk would power hugely powerful storms. 

The more of the planet you need to keep intact, the more effort and time it's going to require to conquer. If you're just trying to eliminate a threat, then bombard the surface with enough asteroids and/or nuclear weapons to destroy all civilization, it doesn't matter very much whether you kill the population or not since the survivors will be too busy just trying to survive to think about getting even. Presumably your attackers want to do more than that and they want something on the surface of the planet captured relatively intact. Since the attackers don't have the troop strength to capture it directly, they're resorting to breaking the will of the population to make them give up that item. The Attackers Let's assume the attackers are coming from another solar system. Advantages Then the advantages that the attacker has are: 

Almost certainly "No" Without a spectroscopic analysis or other measurement to tell us the distance of the objects present in the picture, it's generally not possible to determine the object's absolute magnitude. If you can't tell how bright it is or what its color is, then you can't tell which star you're seeing in the picture. So the answer to the general case of "if you're plopped down on a random planet somewhere in the galaxy and want to know where you are from a photograph," the answer is "no." Under exceptional circumstances, "Possibly yes" Let's say that your circumstances are not the general case. Let's say you do have some background knowledge of locations (e.g. you know you're on Earth at some point in the timeline and you want to know when - or you know you're near the Orion nebula), then your specific knowledge of the stars likely to be present and their probable brightness might make it so that you can figure out your location. The answer to the special case of "you're stranded in a known general region of the galaxy and you want to know the specific star you're circling," is "possibly." Change the scenario, "Probably yes" Let's alter the scenario a bit. Let's say your spaceship crashed with some basic astronomy tools present (such as a telescope, spectrometer, & database). Then you may be able to determine the spectrum of different stars, compare them with your database, and could reconstruct your location. Assuming you have a telescope, spectrometer, and astronomical database that includes the stars in your current night sky; the answer to the question of "if you and your spaceship are stranded on an unknown planet and you want to know its location," is probably "yes." Let me re-emphasize that if you crashed in a location that can't see the stars in your astronomical database, then you're back to "No." Terminology Hertzprung-Russell diagram 

Breech strength The first requires a great deal of knowledge, skill, & quality control of the metals (probably steel) used to construct the weapon. Too little carbon and the steel will be too soft - allowing the breach to erode and limiting the life & utility of the weapon. Too much carbon (or other impurities) and the steel becomes too brittle and shatters upon impacts (or big explosions) - killing the weapon wielder. The difference in carbon percent between these two states isn't all that large. Breech sealing Sealing the breech requires pretty tight manufacturing tolerances but is aided by the use of brass cartridges. These are made of much softer metals and are designed to fit into the breech, expand, and seal the breech upon firing. The breech tolerances must still be tight enough to provide support to the cartridge casing or the casing will rupture and allow hot gases to escape anyway. To solve this problem, the gun smith will need to develop high precision machine tools out of very hard & durable metals (probably machine tool steels). Meaning he needs to develop new machining metals as well as the metals for the gun. Summary I would think any gun smith from our era would know how to do the necessary manufacturing using the tools from our era. But perhaps only a gunsmith with an affinity for how weapons where made in prior eras might have the background necessary to begin developing new (to that era) metals and machining practices. Even so, I would expect the gun smith to have to begin a series of tests over time to develop a final end product that would work for him. It might take him a year or much more. Alternatively, he might be able to entice others from the period with the necessary background to begin developing those things to support the gun smith's endeavor (with promises that it would help them in their trade). He could provide the smiths with necessary / desirable properties and a set of processes to follow to try develop them. He'd probably also give the smiths a set of tests to conduct at various stages of the process to see if the samples were turning out the products that he needed. This might speed things up significantly. 

And for the rocket equation, everything that is not burned fuel/spent propellant; counts as payload. That includes such things as engines, structures, radiation shielding, food, people, life support, unburned fuel, unused propellant, etc. Even in the most advanced and optimistic designs, you're going to have 3 kg of fuel/propellant for 1 kg of everything else combined. Unless you're using very high specific impulse engines, you won't go on a cruise around the Solar System. People will only travel from point to point if they have a specific mission to perform. Each specific mission will have its own specific requirements ($\Delta V$ requirements, mission payload, etc.) and, therefore, each spacecraft will be designed for its mission. A possible answer anyway Many smart people have wondered the same question for a long time. These smart people have developed many different plausible spaceship designs for different missions. You may want to browse through the list and see which of these fit your needs. 

However, I've created my own chart based upon Jean's escape. I apply a "fudge factor" to cover the other escape mechanisms and it gives the half-life of different gases around a given body. Be aware that my chart assumes that the body has a thick atmosphere to begin with so certain loss mechanisms such as sublimation and sputtering aren't an issue. According to my chart, you could expect water added to a thick atmosphere around the Moon to have a half-life of around 200,000 years. A very long time compared to human civilization. A very short time compared to geologic time. Half-life of gases around major Solar System bodies: 

Society is told that if they cooperate, Utopia (as you've described) can be achieved. Society cooperates. Nothing works as advertised. 

Your melange like drug (let's call it "multum vita" for "long life") is actually a hormone. Hormone, from Wikipedia: 

Drier, Windier, Thinner atmosphere, Cold nights, Hot days, Stormy dusk, Calm dawn Introduction Giving the body a thinner atmosphere doesn't make the atmosphere more stable. The main requirement is giving the body more mass. My handy-dandy spreadsheet says a moon with a mass of $0.4 M_{\oplus}$ will have a gaseous water half-life in the billions of years. So that means the amount of atmosphere and water will depend upon the volatiles deposited during the Late Heavy Bombardment. If you assume this body will receive a share of the volatiles proportional to its mass (remember that's $0.4 M_{\oplus}$, then it will receive about 40% of what the Earth got. Assumptions 

Yes But I foresee two issues: 1) Crustal rocks will be deficient in a several elements more common on the surface of the Earth than occur in the rocks. The two most important of these are hydrogen and nitrogen. 2) Refining rocks into their constituent minerals or elements will require a great deal of energy. So you'll need powerful power generators. You'll also need some where to dump your waste heat from those generators. 

Why Bother? Most of the details of how a space bombardment would proceed will depend upon the alien's objectives. As has been answered elsewhere, there are precious few reasons for aliens to bother coming here the first place. There are fewer to cause them to want to attack us and there are almost none that will cause them to attack us using anything but overwhelming bombardment from space. About the only ones I can think of are: 

Jim2B Planet I have a complicated and custom spreadsheet that is composed of both the physics and some empirical handwaving to calculate gas retention. When I run the figures through the spreadsheet, I find that a planet with the following properties meets my minimum specs for habitability: 

Asteroids that surprise us usually come at us after traveling through the inner Solar System - they are harder to detect when coming at us from this direction. Most of human detection equipment is based on or near Earth. Chances are if you can obscure you ship from the direct line of sight to Earth, you'll be hidden. We do have probes all over the Solar System looking at all sorts of different things. Usually a given probe is looking at its specific object of interest (e.g. New Horizons is looking at Pluto). There's always a chance that a probe (e.g. Cassini) might be looking towards Earth or some other object at any given time - your crew will just have to take a gamble (a chance for some dramatic tension?). We also have some probes doing "Sky Surveys" - looking at an entire hemisphere of the sky at a time and looking for things out of the ordinary. You definitely need to hide your ship from these. AFAIK, these are all based around the Earth. For additional dramatic tension, we also have ground based neutrino detectors. If your ship uses extremely powerful nuclear (fission or fusion) power, those will see a blip in neutrino detections. There is simply no way to hide such emissions unless you happen to be on the opposite side of the Sun. The Sun won't block the neutrino signal (a neutrino has greater than a 50% chance of passing through 6,000,000,000,000 miles of lead), however, that signal might get lost in the neutrino "noise" coming from the Sun.