Even if you are fooled, it implies there is some "you" that is being fooled. You might be mistaken as to all details of your existence. You might only exist as a momentary amusement of the malign being --some walled-off corner of its own consciousness perhaps --but even so, you have some form of existence. This is a directly verifiable fact --the only such fact available to us, in Descartes' view. If you can think you exist, there is a you that exists capable of sustaining that thought. For the second part of your question: Does this pose a challenge to the description of the malign being as "all powerful"? The answer depends on your concept of "all powerful". Descartes means that the being is capable of doing the physically impossible, not that it is capable of doing the logically impossible. If the malign being wants to create something capable of thought, logic compels it to grant that creature at least the bare minimum level of existence necessary to sustain thought. 

EDIT: I was asked to expand a little on how exactly symbolic logic helps with argument structure. My answer is that deduction (particularly natural deduction) helps internalize basic strategies and guidelines, like: 

What we gain when we see five individual cats and think instead about a single ideal CAT is a sense of what it means to be a cat independent of any of the specific accidental details of any individual cat's existence. In practical terms, we're talking here about conceptualization, a crucially useful process under which specific individual experiences are united into larger concepts of the world. In metaphysical terms, the theory of the Forms is best understood as Plato's way of explaining his claim that the world we think we live in is just a transitory and illusionary copy of a more foundational and eternal Reality underneath the surface. 

I'm a person of faith, but this is not a good argument. The fact that you personally find the entire concept of an evolutionary advantage to musical appreciation to be laughable is not compelling --at least not to anyone who isn't willing to accept your premise exactly as given. For instance, I myself believe that we'll soon discover that appreciation of the arts actually conveys strong practical and thus evolutionary advantages. I'm sympathetic to the idea that the fact we both live in a beautiful universe and that we have the capacity to appreciate it speaks to the existence and nature of God, but that's my perspective as a believer --I'm not sure that line of argument would speak to a sceptic. 

There seem to be several questions here, I'll address the first and second: I'm not a Deleuze scholar but his claim seems fairly clear from the quote. In the Greek system, according to D, when people commit crimes, the blame is shifted to the gods. In Christian belief, on the other hand, people are responsible for their own sins, but Jesus takes the punishment for those upon Himself, although blameless. D is indeed drawing parallels between the systems, but he nevertheless does consider this itself to be a psychologically significant shift. To provide a simplified gloss of his claims: In the Greek system, you bear the punishment, which is the consequence of your crime, but you don't bear the guilt. In the Christian system, you bear the guilt, which is the consequence of your sin, but not the punishment. The crime is something that you do, an event that happens. Sin is something that comes from within you, an intrinsic flaw in your nature. I won't venture to evaluate whether he is correctly evaluating the Greeks, the Christians or Nietzsche, but I do think this at least represents a reasonable distillation of the provided quotes. 

Philosophy is much more idiosyncratic, it is less consistently systematic between one thinker and another. In fact, since most philosophers are systemic innovators, it is arguably the least consistently systematic discipline, considered as a whole (while science, arguably by definition, is the most). For that reason, and because even the closest students and disciples of a given philosopher may diverge significantly in their thinking from the source, the study of philosophy is largely the study of ideas as attached to the individuals who formulated them. 

Solely based on the passage quoted in the Wikipedia link you provided, Kierkegaard is worried that in a non-active age, ressentiment can actually be used to keep people from excelling, by attacking anyone who does better than anyone else --in fact, it even keeps people from trying to excel. I think the overall concept is similar to that explored by satirist Kurt Vonnegut in his well-known short story Harrison Bergeron. 

Remember that in the Platonic worldview, all good things are reflections of a more perfect Reality of which our own reality is just a pale copy. In the short dialogs, Plato explores this idea as manifested in several different professions. In relationship to poets (in the Ion), he adapts the popular concept of the poet as inspired by divine madness to the Platonic concept that any true, beautiful or wise words have a source beyond our ordinary world. However, the character of Socrates in the dialog is also clearly having more than one laugh at Ion's expense, as is Plato, the author. The real Ion would probably have been a well-known celebrity back in those days, perhaps celebrated for his talent, but also mocked for his shallowness, youth and vanity. If you substitute Justin Bieber for Ion, you might have a good approximation of how the good people of Athens would have received the dialog. 

Relatively few great philosophers have been married, or had children, whether because their minds were on higher things, or because they were impossible to live with is hard to say. It is also hard to know which ones were actually celibate, as opposed to just unmarried. Plato famously promoted nonsexual love as superior to sexual love, which is where we get the term "Platonic relationship" for a nonsexual relationship. Wittgenstein and Turing are known to have been homosexual. Kierkegaard broke off his engagement, and then luxuriated in the guilt and regret. Simone De Beauvoir had a long relationship with Jean-Paul Sartre that never led to marriage, although he did propose. Kant lived a life of famously monastic regularity, although he did have plenty of friends. On the other hand, Socrates was married to a much younger woman, with whom he had three children (and according to one account actually had two wives simultaneously). He was perversely proud of her reputation as the most unpleasant woman in Athens, and called her an ideal spouse for a philosopher, because she made him long for the quieter embrace of eternity. 

It's worth noting that no less an authority than Plato's most famous pupil Aristotle classified his dialogs as "fiction." There's no conclusive way to prove the dialogs are all fictitious, but we should keep in mind the following two facts which are generally true: 

The typical name for this is Emergentism which can be described as the idea that the whole is greater (or at least different) than the sum of the parts, or as described by Wikipedia: 

Informal fallacies have fuzzy boundaries. This seems to me to be a variation on "cherry picking," which is basing a general conclusion on a few carefully selected data points (which may not reflect the larger trends). 

Let's address the first argument. I'm not overly familiar with Nagel, but (at least as you've characterized his argument) his contention seems to rest on the idea that being a small part of a large universe precludes meaningfulness in of itself. There are at least three counterarguments: 1) Consider a lengthy book, such as "War and Peace." The fact of there being a very large number of sentences in the book does not mean that any given sentence does not have meaning. It is also not clear that any individual sentence in "War and Peace" has less meaning than any individual sentence in a much shorter book. 2) Consider Borges' concept of the "Library of Babel" which contains all possible letter combinations. The vast majority of the library is indecipherable nonsense, but it is said that there is a book in the library which random chance has formed into an explanation of all the hidden secrets of the universe. If we accept this exactly as given, we see that the fact that there are very many superficially similar meaningless books in the library does not prove that a given book might not be supremely meaningful. 3) Consider a vast quantity --billions-- of carbon atoms. Arranged in one pattern they are soot, in another they are a diamond. The fact of them being identical and vastly numerous does not mean that they do not collectively form a meaningful pattern which might not be capable of being grasped by any given atom. Taken as a whole, these metaphors demonstrate that neither the introduction of scale nor the fact of being one among many removes meaning from something that is meaningful. Nagel's argument is misleading --it first assumes meaninglessness, and then increases the impact of the perception of meaninglessness through the multiplying effect of scaling upwards. 

(F and F) is FALSE. An AND statement is true only in the case that both sides are true. You are confusing it with an equivalence statement, which is true when both sides have the same value. 

While it may seem superficially simpler to assume one mind rather than many, it requires a fairly complex story to explain why the one existing entity perceives the apparent existence of many entities. It also requires an explanation of the distinction between the real and the apparent existence of external entities --in other words, if I interact with you, and you exhibit all perceivable signs of being a real, external entity, then by what criterion am I justified in denying your real existence? Therefore Occam's Razor actually weighs in against solipsism. 

Announcements, complaints, compliments, and apologies (in the modern sense) can include arguments, but functionally, they don't have the role or structure of an argument. An announcement is a statement intended to be taken at face value, it isn't considered controversial by the speaker (even if it is, when judged objectively) or intended to be persuasive. A complaint is a statement about your own personal feeling and attitudes, again, it isn't intended to be persuasive. A compliment is a positive announcement about another person. An apology (as an expression of sorriness, not in the older sense) is again a statement about your own personal feelings and attitudes. If something is intended to persuade through reasons, then it is an argument, not one of those other things. Persuasion alone, and reasons alone, are not enough to compose an argument. If I say "I don't like Candidate X because Reason Y," that's a complaint. If I say "You shouldn't like Candidate X because Reason Y," that's an argument. If I say "No one should like Candidate X," that's an announcement. It's important to note, however, that not all arguments are explicit. If I say "I don't like Candidate X because Reason Y", but what I mean is "You shouldn't like Candidate X because Reason Y," then the second statement is the implicit argument implied by the first. 

There are two claims here: 1 - Intelligence is what makes human life valuable. 2 - The potential for intelligence is as decisive as the actuality of intelligence. Neither claim is universally endorsed or uncontroversial. What can be shown is that IF both claims are accepted, it could (together with several other claims, similar to those in the referenced question) make up part of a solid anti-abortion argument, but that neither claim alone could serve that purpose. It's also worth noting that you would need to tighten the definition of "potential" if you didn't want to open yourself to counterarguments along the lines that anything could "potentially" be intelligent. You seem to be developing a concept of "on the pathway" to intelligence, but that would need to be brought to maturity before you could use it effectively. 

According to my understanding of gestalt, meaning the whole is not reducible to the sum of the parts, the philosophical analogs would be holism, emergentism and anti-reductionism. 

There's a famous passage from the Sermon on the Mount where Jesus seems to establish mental purity as a moral standard: Matthew 5:21-28 

I'm not an expert on Pandeism, but it seems that the concept is not that God is "annihilated," but that God transforms into the Universe (and that the Universe may someday transform back into God). The obvious motivation would be to bring into existence the dynamic experience of a living universe, as opposed to the inert stasis of absolute perfection. For a mundane metaphor, you might ask why someone who is comfortable at home might undertake a difficult and potentially dangerous journey --for the experience. 

The OP did not ask for opinions about abortion, but for an analysis of the abortion debate. With that in mind: There might exist a minority that would argue that access to abortion is primarily a matter of the "right to choose," even in the case that the fetus can unambiguously be determined to be a full human life. However, it's fairly clear that for the majority of those who support access to abortion, it is the ambiguity over what constitutes a full human life (and whether a fetus qualifies) that opens the door for making "choice" the deciding factor. This can be shown by the fact that support for abortion is inversely related to the age of the fetus. Many more people are in favor of allowing abortions immediately after conception (when the argument that the fetus is an actual living human being is weakest) than would be in favor of allowing them immediately before birth (when it is strongest). 

These above views of God, although distinctively different, are not necessarily contradictory --if we take it as a given that we cannot understand God in God's fullness, then it might be that different people in different times and places would perceive God in these disparate ways without actual contradiction. That is essentially the view of the "perennial philosophy". 

One main thinker with this point of view is Kant, who argues in his Critique of Aesthetic Judgment that one of the main defining characteristics of art is that it has does not have an external purpose --a point of view agreed with by (among others) William Kennick in an influential essay otherwise critical of traditional aesthetics called "Does Traditional Aesthetics Rest on a Mistake." However, this position is actually a more recent innovation, with older thinkers such as Plato and Aristotle taking it for granted that art played a specific function in human life. EDIT: I should clarify, based on the comment below, the argument being advanced by Kant and Kennick, among others, is not that art cannot be devoted to external purposes, but that serving such a purpose has nothing to do with what makes it art. 

Laying aside the thin veil of casting these as rhetorical questions, neither statement is an empirical truth, nor has been uncovered through the scientific method (if you disagree, describe to me the experiment that confirms them). They are therefore self-undermining statements of belief. You could have instead said "The only truths I accept are the ones that have been empirically confirmed," or "The scientific method has been the most valuable method of intellectual inquiry for the human race," but those statements rescue themselves from self-negation only at the price of making their value judgments more explicit. There isn't necessarily anything demonstrably wrong with affirming science as your own personal belief system, as long as you understand that is what you're doing. But the belief that science itself confirms scientism, or is even capable, structurally, of confirming scientism is incorrect. That's not the kind of thing it was designed to do --those are exactly the kinds of pronouncements it withholds. 

You've outlined two separate logical fallacies: False cause, where two things that occur together are illegitimately assumed to have a direct causal connection, and false equivalence where one thing (acceleration) is substituted for something else that is only superficially similar (speed). Some caveats: A false cause argument does not mean that a real causal relationship doesn't exist, it means that the debater has not done the work to establish that one exists, and is instead illegitimately leaning on the fact that the two things exist in the same place. Similarly, it's worth noting in your example that acceleration and speed do have a real and important relationship, it's just not one of equivalence. It's also worth noting that bad arguments never mean that the conclusion of those arguments is necessarily false, just that no actual support for the conclusion has been provided. 

Zhuangzi (Chuang Tzu) was a philosopher of paradox; with a generally skeptical viewpoint, like Socrates, Diogenes or Hume in the West. Much of his work questions or playfully parodies the dogmatism of Kongzi (Confucius) and his disciples. His work is distinguished from his contemporaries by his sharp and mischievous sense of humor. Just as the Tao Te Ching has passages praising emptiness and nothingness, Zhuangzi repeatedly praises things that are devalued or that seem useless or worthless. In this case, he praises a person with severe birth defects as being fortunate in avoiding the disaster of compulsory military service. The punchline is that he suggests that being morally deformed would be even more desirable than being physically deformed. This is a direct dig at the Confucian ideal of perfecting virtue as the pathway to all good things. (Also compare and contrast his parable of the thieves which centers around a converse paradox of Confucian virtue --that it arguably makes a bad person worse.)