The earliest known references to a Buddha-field may be found in the avadānas that associate religious practices associated with events held at stūpas. “The avadānas (Pali: apadānas) added three important ideas associated with the Buddha-field: (1) the Buddha-field surrounding a relic of the buddha is equally fertile to that surrounding a living Buddha; (2) there are innumerable Buddha-fields in every direction beyond the limits of our cosmos; and (3) a Buddha-field is absolutely necessary to the path of Awakening, for only by planting a merit-seed in such a field can one embark on the path of Awakening at all. Thus the Buddha-field becomes the ground from which further awakened beings will grow.”1 In India during the early development of Buddhism, the practitioner would make vows and leave gifts at a stūpa to plant the seeds of merit for a future rebirth to reach nirvāna, which for the practitioner was an encounter with a Buddha-field both physically and meta-physically.2 These early acts of devotion inspired by avadānas teachings laid the framework for further elaboration of Buddhakṣētra found in one form or another in Theravādin devotionalism, Mahāyāna teachings, Pure Land Buddhism, and Vajrayana devotionalism and teachings. 

In the Parayanavagga,Gatha #93, the Buddha says to Dhotaka: "Yam kinci sampajanasi" What is the exact meaning of the word sampajanasi ? 

Is there a difference between abhava and vibhava? Or are those words synonyms? When they are not synonyms, what is their exact meaning. 

How we can strengthen dis-identification in normal life? How can we free our attention from self-reference? 

Which are the vipassana jhanas? What are the differences with the jhanas? Where can I find more information about them? 

Buddhism learns that everything is in constant change and in constant interaction; that nothing is steady and separated from the other things. Does that mean that buddhism is nondualistic? 

The question is not how to become a buddhist; the aim is to get freed from our misery (dukkha). This is possible through realizing wisdom (panna). Everyone can become enlightened. The Buddha has given us the tools; showed us the path, but everyone has to cultivate it himself or herself. Ajahn Jayasaro (* Mindfulness, Precepts and Crashing in the Same Car p. 33-35 emphasized text*): 

Fudo (Acala) - The Immovable Radiant King, 7th day  Shaka (Sakyamuni) - Sage of the Shakya Tribe, 14th day Monju (Manjushri) - Bodhisattva of Beautiful Splendor, 21st day Fugen (Samantabhadra) - Bodhisattva of Universal Beauty, 28th day Jizo (Ksitigarbha), - Bodhisattva Storehouse of the Earth 35th day Miroku (Maitreya), - The Benevolent Bodhisattva 42nd day Yakushi (Bhaisajyaguru), - Buddha of the Master of Medicine 49th day Kannon (Avalokitesvara), - Bodhisattva of Compassion 100th day Seishi (Mahasthamaprapta), - Bodhisattva Who Proceeds With Vigor 1st anniversary Amida (Amitabha), - Buddha of Infinite Life and Life 2nd anniversary Ashuku (Akshobhya), - The Immovable Buddha 6th anniversary Dainichi (Vairocana), - The Great Buddha of Universal Illumination 12th anniversary Kokuzo (Akasagarbha), The Storehouse of Space Bodhisattva 32nd anniversary Garbhadhatu Mandala (Womb World Mandala) 

There are many forms of meditation found in Buddhism. Zazen is possibly the most well know form of meditation in the West. However, in there are many different types of mediation. In Vajrayana there appears to be many different types and stages of mediation as well. One form is called "generation stage meditation" or also known as utpattikrama. What exactly is "generation stage meditation" and how is it practiced? 

Is it correct to say that dhammakaya (the sum of all Buddha's teachings) is a synonym of 'the real nature of reality'? 

What are sariras (Tibetan: ringsels)? I have seen those small crystal 'pearls' (exposed in bottles) at several (even small) monasteries in SE Asia. These relics remain (are found in the ashes) after the cremation of the body of (high appreciated) Buddhist monks. Is there a scientific explanation for those sariras? 

What is anuloma-nana and how does this adaptation-knowledge makes the switch from the mundane to the supramundane world? 

Why isn't prostration considered as a rite or a ritual in the sense of silabbata paramasa (one of the fetters that had to be abandoned to become a stream-enterer)? I wonder how this practice can contribute to insight especially when prostration is done mechanically (as practiced around Buddhist pagodas in Birma; Sri Lanka and Thailand)? 

Zen teachings can be likened to "the finger pointing at the moon." Based on my experience at Dharma Field in Minneapolis, MN. They always mention zazen and the other Zen Buddhist practices are just fingers point at the moon. It is important not to get caught by the form of zazen but to utilize the practice for your own practice. The practice methods are tools to be used to help the practitioner with their daily meditation practice. As the following image and koan help explain: 

In my area, there are many Buddhists centers referring to themselves as centers, meditation centers, or monasteries. These all seem to be various expressions of a Buddhist Sangha. However, being in the Mid-West one tends to expect the Sangha to be modeled on or similar to a church or synagogue. What are the proper expectations to have about being part of a Sangha? Should Westerns expect a sangha to conform to the Western notion of religious institutions? 

Which buddhist doctrines form the supreme insights that all Buddhist schools (i.c. Theravada, Mahayana, Vajrayana, Navayana) can endorse? In other words: which doctrines are common to all? 

I suppose that there is (are) differences between the tilakkhana (anicca; dukkha and anatta) and the so-called three dhamma-seals (anicca; anatta and nibbana). Can anyone help me? 

Each of those defilements has 3 stages (bhumi) which are identical to the 3 stages of consciousness (latent - manifested - action). 

A recent, marvelous book (especially written for Westerners) is from Larry Rosenberg (2012): Breath by Breath. The Liberating Practice of Insight Meditation. In this book you'll find—in plain English—the essence of Anapanasati practice. It's the essence: from the first step to enlightenment. What do you want more? 

Is there a correlation between sukha (the 4th component of the jhanangas) and passadha (the 5th component of the sambojjhanga)? 

Recently, I read an insight by the Dali Lama in the book "Buddhism:One Teacher, Many Traditions" that caught my attention: "When I reflect on the three higher knowledges mentioned in the Pāli suttas, I recognize a correspondence with what the Tibetan sage Tsongkhapa later called the three principal aspects of the path— renunciation, bodhicitta, and correct view. While these are generated before one becomes a buddha, they reach their fulfillment at buddhahood. With the first higher knowledge, the Buddha saw his previous lives— their duḥkha and transience. Knowing all that misery was caused by afflictions and karma, he responded with full renunciation of saṃsāra, making the determination to attain liberation. With the second higher knowledge, he saw the passing away and rebirth of sentient beings under the influence of afflictions and karma. His reaction to this horror was impartial love, compassion, and bodhicitta . To fulfill this altruistic commitment, he freed his mind of all pollutants and obscurations by realizing the correct view of the subtle selflessness of persons and phenomena. Through repeatedly using this wisdom to cleanse his mind, he gained the third knowledge and knew that his mind was totally purified and that he had attained nirvāṇa." - Dali Lama What are the Pali's suttas commentaries on the three higher knowledges? How may I integrate them into my meditation practice? Thank you for your time and consideration. All the best!!! 

What you experience during your practice is absolutely not harmful. It is a stage in the meditation process. More: it is a sign that you proceed in the right direction. The vibrating 'light' that arises and passes away is the so-called nimitta. Catherine, Shaila, (2008) Focused and Fearless. A Meditator’s Guide to States of Deep Joy, Calm, and Clarity p. 116: 

Bhanga: the dissolution of the ego. Can it be described as a synonym of wisdom (panna)? As the realization (experiential seeing and knowing) of the tilakkhana (anicca; dukkha; and anatta)? 

What is the exact meaning of 'acala sukha'? Is it mentioned in the Pali-canon? If so, where ? In what context ? 

(Translation by Thanissaro Bhikkhu) The Buddha asks his followers that they examine the outcome of practice to see if the teachings are true. Buddhism isn't about beliefs. Buddhism is about firsthand knowledge. 

Recently, I found out there is a new branch of Buddhism called the Navayana. I read the article on Wikipedia but it did not say too much. What is Navayana Buddhism and what type of practices does it follow like meditations, sutras, or tantras? How does a Navayana Buddhist relate to Buddhist of different schools? 

In Buddhist iconography the figures are illustrated or depicted with various hand gestures. The symbolic hand gestures are called mudras. What is the significance of a Buddhist mudra? What are the various meanings for different popular mudras? 

Many years ago, a Zen Roshi said in a class that "nobody else is your boss except for you. Only you can make the decision and apply yourself to practice, nobody else can." So, I've heard this many times from various Buddhist traditions. However, Buddhism also has this idea of "taking refuge" in various things. If you are responsible for yourself what is the point of "taking refuge?" What is the proper understanding of "taking refuge" in Buddhism? 

A teacher who follows and explains rigorously and profoundly the Anapana Sutta and the Mahasatipatthana Sutta is worth to be appreciated, enlightened or not. Anyway, nobody can explain Buddha's teachings in a such a way without 'seeing and knowing'. S.N. Goenka: 

Is it correct that only the 4 lower jhanas (rupa jhanas) are useful for cultivating insight (panna) because the meditator's mind is too absorbed when he enters successively the immaterial jhanas (arupa jhanas)? 

I'd like to add one phrase from Larry Rosenberg in his book Breath by Breath. The Liberating Practice of Insight Meditation (2012), p.45: 

Stabilizing the counterpart sign (nimitta) isn't easy. Is there a 'technique' that leads to stabilize it? I.c. is there a 'technique' to develop/cultivate intensively the absorption factors (jhanangas)? With 'stabilizing' I mean: making the nimitta sharp, focused, completely free from tension (of the panca nivarana), so that absorption (1st jhana) can be attained. 

Courtesy of Angela Wheeler on Ink me The righthand is in the dana mudra gesture. Dharmacakrapravartana Mudra: 

What is the nature of a refuge tree(s)? How does one incorporate a refuge tree(s) into their practice? 

The seemingly inconsistent points of view on zazen are generally utilized to help the practitioner's meditation from leaning too heavily in one direction or another. It is basically a corrective process to mentally stay on the middle path, not going off one tangent or another. 1 

Courtesy of Brian Gentz The list of 13 Buddhas used in Shingon funeral rites is based on the chief Buddhist deities found on two important mandalas used by Shingon practitioners in ritual practices: the Taizokai (Womb World) mandala and the KongoKai (Diamond World) mandala. It is understood the deities assist the living and the deceased by guiding them into the realm of enlightenment. Depending on the anniversary date of the deceased, a memorial service associated with the deity is held for the deceased. Each deity on the list plays an important part at different levels of the two mandalas in assisting the initiate reach enlightenment. These mandalas are aggregates of additional mandalas from the early Vajrayana tradition. The mandala principals for the illustrations and placement of the deities roles are found in early Vajrayana texts: the Womb World Mandala is found in the Mahavairocana Tantra, and the Diamond World Mandala is found in the Vajrasekhara Tantra. List of 13 Buddhas and the dates for the corresponding memorial services: