Missile range. The two superpowers are some distance apart, and can't attack each other directly with missiles. This can be because they simply don't have missiles reaching that far or that the anti-missile defenses are good enough to handle the long-range missiles. This island lies smack in the middle, at half the distance from either side. It does not have missile defenses. Both sides would like to have a base there, which means they don't want the opponent to have a base there. Both sides know that if either side were to establish a base there, the other side would bomb them to pieces with missiles before they could establish proper defenses. While this leaves the island nicely unoccupied, it also poses a problem for your hero. If either side discovers their base, they will bomb it. Stay hidden! 

The problem with magic and technology coexisting is that technology is so painfully fragile. Any gas tank is a fire ball waiting to happen. Any fast spinning engine can be easily destroyed by a very small and undetectable spell. And so on. In one county, incidents like this has lead to a witch hunt and any mages has either been killed or fled to the other country. In the other country mages hold power and have suppressed any technological development since they see where that sort of thing leads. The two countries are not likely to be on good terms. A war between them could turn very ugly. 

Video While there are going to be more pixels, better focusing and whatnot, I think that the big change is going to be the end of the still photograph. "Why aren't they moving?", youngsters will ask when watching old photos. 

Day job Vampire dad has a day job. He rises before dawn, goes away... somewhere, comes back after sunset and then spends the evenings with his daughter and/or his neighbours and their treed cats. He then goes lie down on his bed, twiddling thumbs waiting for his daughter to fall asleep. He never talks about his job, beyond "Government, very hush hush." It would seem there is a long commute since he is away for more than 12 hours every day. "Can't tell you where it is, sorry. Very hush hush." And working seven days a week, what is up with that? "Can't talk, ver..." Yes, we know. 

I think you can make it work, as a piece of fiction. We have no idea what a post-scarcity society will be like, so you can decide what your version of it looks like. From the detailed question it seems like you have it well in hand. People can talk a lot about "human nature", but the fact is that all humans up until today has grown up in scarcity conditions and bears the psychological scars from that. We don't know what "human nature" will be for human who has grown up in post-scarcity. Also, the science of psychology is still uncertain. In the future they will know more and can use that knowledge to raise children to become proper ungoverned individuals. A few bullet points: 

We just need to learn more about how the brain works, so that we can build electronics that interfaces directly with it. Once we have proper wifi equipment in our skulls, many things become possible. Voluntary telepathy is just online messaging. Involuntary mind reading is harder, that would be hacking the victims brain. If that happened, I would think somebody should have a serious chat with the designers of that wifi equipment. As for clairvoyance, you have the whole internet in your skull! Streaming remote webcams is only the start of what you can do! 

Let me start by ignoring FTL for a moment. There is a colony around Alpha Centuri that want have its clocks synchronized to Earths TAI time (or some other time standard without DST, leap seconds and similar ugliness) Once the colony has established a radio transmitter, it sends a message to Earth: 

Loveland has specialized in healing magic. They supply the best healers in the world. If a foreign country attacks them, their healers leave that country and go work for nicer employers. (This idea is taken from the Chevenga stories) 

Forbidding religion only makes it stronger. It also makes your society into a police state. Don't go that way. It is better to look at WHY you want your society to be religion-free and work towards those ends directly. For example, if you want to prevent terror, don't make a habit of bombing civilians in foreign countries. That sort of behaviour tends to make people angry at you. If you want to prevent ignorance, make education cheap. As part of that education, teach kids about all the religions of the world, and how they can't all be right at once. If you get religious immigrants, you can't expect to convert the parents, but try to reach the children. Try to avoid religious groups collecting in ghettos where children can get the impression that "everybody thinks that God is real". Bus children to different schools if necessary. Many religious groups make it hard to leave them with parents disowning their children and other ugliness. Publicly condemn this sort of behaviour and make sure the victims get good support. The battle against religion should be fought on many fronts. 

While one can imagine a language where a single word is that common, it is hard to imagine the language staying that way. People tend to shorten words that used often, very common words may shortened right out of existence. When everybody understands what you mean anyway, there is no need to actually say the word. If you listen to people speak, you may notice that they will very often drop "the". (in some dialects) In a hundred years, people will drop it while writing too. In two hundred years only scholars will understand what "the" means. 

Douglas Adams, The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy Adams was talking about all of Outer Space, but the quote is still true if you are just talking about a solar system. It is big. Really really big. So, you have guessed that the enemy has a space station in an asteroid... somewhere in this system. Now find it. Not as easy as you might think. There is a large number of asteroids and they lie very far apart. Let's narrow the scope a bit. You are fairly certain that the enemy is hiding an installation on/in Ceres, the largest asteroid. Now find it. Still not as easy as you might think. If it functions as a space ship hangar, it will have a hatch you might see, but that hatch will be camouflage painted to look like the surrounding rock and will be very hard to spot from any distance at all. Even little Ceres has 2,770,000 km² of surface to search through. Good luck with that. In short, hiding is easy if you don't do anything to attract attention, like using a radio. 

The most common problem with fictional AIs is badly defined cost functions. "Make everybody happy" leads to drugging everybody. "Reduce unemployment" becomes "kill the unemployed" and so on. I think this might be the main problem for your scenario too. In the beginning, experts will be setting the cost functions without listening to politicians. They will make sensible cost functions, not optimal, but safe. And people will be overseeing and reviewing everything the AI does, and it is good. But as time goes on the politicians will realize the power of controlling the cost function, and they will seize this power for themselves. People will obviously be arguing over the best form of the cost function. In fact, this will be the main focus of politics in this age. As time goes on the cost function becomes less and less safe, and this happens at the same time as the overseers are removed since "everything has worked nicely so far, so lets remove this needless cost." What happens next? Well, think of all things politicians say that seems sensible while they say it, but doesn't make sense when you think them through. The AI will try to enforce these things... what could possibly go wrong? The comments on the question mention that your choice of AI technology is not the best. I think that the best would be to say very little about the detailed technologies. Just say "Artificial Intelligence" and leave it at that, or say something like "a combination of different methods". Every technology would have some sort of cost function they try to minimize and this cost function is the important thing. 

The first alternative is grim, as other answers have described. From a world building perspective, I find the second alternative more interesting. (Even if less likely) The government is doing their job of administrating the country and everybody is content. People are glad somebody is taking on the boring job. Somebody else, that is. One interesting consequence is that politicians would no longer be celebrities. No TV channel would send political debates since nobody would be watching. No newspaper would print articles about one politician criticizing another for being too soft on some issue. People wouldn't want to read about that, so the paper wouldn't print it. This would mean that people who just like the spotlight would no longer look for jobs in politics. That would leave the jobs to actual public servants who could then get on with the job of running the country smoothly and painlessly. Unfortunately the situation wouldn't be stable. There would be corrupt people who would seek out the very real power of a government job. For these people the lack of spotlight would be perfect. They would slowly turn the blessing into a curse, and we would be back with alternative one. Still, I can dream...