You could try something along the lines of a venus fly trap. Venus fly traps have modified leaves (the kind with "teeth" people often associate with the plant) when they can't get enough nutrients from the ground. When there's plenty of nutrients, those leaves don't even form. As for your plants, you could have their roots capable of ensnaring prey and absorbing nutrients from said caught prey. The light, then, would act as a lure for prey. When there are plenty of nutrients in the ground, the roots would not have to dedicate energy to creating the chemicals needed to cause luminescence. But when nutrients are hard to come by, the lights go on! Now, this would effect your ecosystem. You'd have to have life that would actually be caught by these plants. They can't have a system to catch prey if no prey exists. So, while you don't necessarily have to go into detail of creating a life form, you could briefly describe some "creature" being caught in the roots, obviously dead, looking as though drained. Or something like that, anyway. 

This can be done easily in desmos.com/calculator, where you can easily type the x function and y function, and then put them together as an "ordered pair" (vector function) to see how high and far you'd jump. Jumping at a 45 degree angle results in maximum distance, which simply means that $Vx0 = Vy0$ In short, if you halve gravity, but initial velocity is the same (not guaranteed), you can jump double the distance. But you have to consider how you body works when jumping, and how gravity affects it. Lower gravity would make it more difficult to stay on the surface and push off with the same force, so ir may be less than double. From a strictly numeral basis, though, it can be easily determined with the above equations. 

Ignoring air resistance (as this has to do with gravity), it should be as simple as using a vector equation. Let's say $Sx(t)$ is horizontal position (for how far one could jump), and $Sy(t)$ is vertical position (for how high one could jump). Then it's as simple as this: 

People would stop tanning, cause they know how bad UV rays are for them. In all seriousness, though, I'd say they'd just appear as far more colors. What makes visible light give color? The fact that we perceive it. If you can perceive the entire spectrum, it's likely they'd all be classified as colors. So you'd have a massive range of colors, some of which would be considered "harmful colors" (uv and shorter). Colors already are used to set a tone, influence a mood, draw attention, give definition, etc. With billions of more shades of colors, they'd be that much more integral to setting tones and moods in society. There would likely be a greater emphasis on color, and visuals would be highly important to everyone (not just guys). It's a bit tough for me to speculate what colors they would appear to be, but as the visible colors "blend" from red on one side to blue on the other, it's likely radio would be a much more "extreme red", if you will, and gamma rays a more "extreme violet". 

Thing is, language could likely be learned without being taught through recognition of patterns. Different phonemes being used very often together could be used to learn a word. The problem then becomes associating words with meaning. With nothing but audio, you really don't have a mental image to connect the words to, nor can you observe the words in relation to various objects, emotions, etc., which makes finding patterns among words far more difficult. You could potentially recognize tone, and try associating tone with various words, but this could end up being more confusing in some cases. With the example of children watching tv in another language, they have visual reference in that case. They could potentially, eventually, associate words with objects and ideas. In the case of super-intelligence, this likely wouldn't take long. But with only audio, it would seem to me to be very difficult to associate various words with meaning. I would think the super-intelligence could therefore learn a blank dictionary, if you will. It could construct the language's words, and maybe even letters (without symbols, mind you) based on patterns, but there wouldn't be definitions for the words. To add complications, different dialects or accents could make the phonemes harder to recognize with patterns. If the super-intelligence had visual surveillance, or way of determining what various words referred to, it would likely be possible to learn without being explicitly taught. However, I would think that having only the sound of the words to go by would make it nearly impossible to learn the meaning. 

Firstly, I'm pretty certain shooting a lightning bolt is physically impossible, making this completely magical. As such, you could technically have the result be whatever you wish, so long as you stay consistent. Lightning is the result of a strong negative charge building in the air, attracting the positive charges in the ground to group together. Then, the negative charge bridges the gap (air) and collides with the positive charge (which actually comes up ever so slightly before impact). If you wish to shoot lightning at someone with physics involved, you basically have to have your wand, hand, etc. build a strong charge, and force the target to align the opposite charge. So if there's nothing majorly conductive near you, the lightning will want to go to the strongest opposite charge: your target. Doing it that way makes it such that you aren't really shooting a lightning bolt, but rather manipulating charges such that a lightning bolt could potentially leap from you to hit them. The target would feel the "tingle" as their charges aligned, and could potentially use a "counterspell" to correct their alignment, if that's something your system could do. In that case, the lightning would sometimes still shoot, if another object could align its own charges in response (often the ground). In terms of lightning hitting itself, my prediction would be that it simply wouldn't. However, that result does greatly depend on the charges. Objects impact each other based on the electrons of the material repelling each other. Thus, if the two lightning bolts had opposite charges, they'd be attracted to each other. So they impact, but then the charges would continue to arc through both people. So two lightning bolts would actually make it easier for the bolt to work/hit, but it'd hit them both. If the charges were the same, they'd repel. This could yield two different results. If both people built a negative charge in their hands, and positive charges in their opponents body, the lightning would probably just go from their hands to hit themselves. On the off-chance that it goes for the opponent, the bolts would likely repel each other, but would simply bend around each other to hit the target anyway. It's also possible that, in building their charges, the lightning wouldn't have a strong enough pull to the target to be released in the first place. If you want, you can use the Rule of Cool and just do what you want, having a Harry Potter type lightning. But if you wanted to counter actual lightning, you could do a couple things. Firstly, correct your charge alignment, as said earlier. Simple counterspell. Secondly, you could make alter you alignment to have the lightning flow through you most easily down a specified path, avoiding organs such as your heart. Think Avatar lightning redirection. In the end, just keep in mind: electricity wants to take the path of least resistance. Air is pretty resistant, so having it travel through the air requires the source and the target to be so strongly attracted, with no easier path than a direct line to each other, that the air's resistance is overcome. It'd be easier to electrocute people by sending a shock to them through a conductive surface, like metal. If you want lightning to act realistically, you've gotta create a non-resistant path. Otherwise, use hand wavium and say it's magic. 

We have 24 hour schedules because the earth rotates about once every 24 hours. But what if humans were on a planet that didn't have 24 hour days? Would their bodies adapt to stay awake for far longer or shorter periods of time, then likely also sleeping longer or shorter, or would their bodies still gravitate towards a 24 hour cycle? I assume people living near the poles would likely have the best idea of this, or perhaps those who have lived for an extended time in a space station. I would think that, though our bodies often adapt to their surroundings, that a roughly 24 hour cycle is healthiest for the body. This is because the body seems to do well when it gets enough sleep, but also shouldn't sleep too much, as one needs to eat and (optimally) work to stay in good health. Sleeping is often recommended to be 8 - 10 hours, but is that because of our 24 hour schedule? So, if a human lived in an environment where daylight was too long/short to go by, or no star was available to go by, what would be the optimal time schedule for them? Would they still be inclined to go by a 24 hour time, even if they may not be familiar with such a schedule prior. This is primarily to determine: if people lived on planets where the daylight schedule couldn't be used as days, or lived in space with no star to go by, what time schedule would they gravitate towards (likely for health reasons)? 

In the case of this, lightning may not work well. Is the mana/energy mimicking the effect, or becoming the effect? Mimicking is easier, because becoming the actual effect can be more complex. Fire requires fuel, lightning requires a path of least resistance, etc. If it's energy that's just mimicking an effect (fire = burn, lightning = shock), you can have it act in a simpler way, as though it's simple energy, such that opposing forces cancel.