For a writing challenge, I'm trying to create a near-future world (2030 or so) where the major Western nations have transitioned to a fully solar economy. Hence the rub. The realist in me is aware of the fact that the Earth rotates, putting solar out of reach for any ground-based solar-power for a considerable portion of the day, and at awkward angles for most of the day. Assuming it's not cloudy. Westerners have gotten used to having electricity at night and during rainy days, so I'm trying to come up with a functional solution for the intermittency problem. I've thought of putting it in space and microwaving it back, but initial back-of-the-Google-sheet calculation made it look outrageously expensive (I could be wrong). I've thought of putting it in deserts (no rain) and transferring it from the day side (no night), but the power lines actually are lossy, so the cost of transporting electricity long-distance (half-way around the world) is rather prohibitive. So I'm currently working on the idea of damming a few Fjords and pumping up water during solar peaks, and using up the water for hydro power during solar lows. Seems rather low tech, but I know it can kinda work (albeit with rather low efficiency). I would love to hear some better ideas. So, how do I make a solar power economy work given a) Night b) Cloud c) Winter? Plausible moderately futuristic tech allowed. 

Fernand Braudel talks about the Longue Duree (the long view), i.e. thinking about history structurally, usually through an economic lens. Certain developments tend to occur in order. You get stone axes before you get agriculture. You get metallurgy before you get cannon, etc. Opening one area of progress creates new challenges and the theory is that once you adopt a high-level view, the "froth" of event history gives way to the smooth flow of inexorable trends. In many ways, the Marxist view of the world is similar, with historical trends leading to changes in the means of economic and industrial organization, that supposedly have predictable and unavoidable consequences. Others would argue that ^this is all bunk. Chaos theory (developed later by more mathematically gifted people) suggests that large deviations in outcomes can result from seemingly minor differences in initial conditions. So, who is right? It would be mulish of me (wink!) to try to adjudicate this debate in here, but it is undeniable that there seem to be large scale trends in human history that seem impervious to actual events. World War 2 was doubtlessly a big deal, and our history would be much different without such a cataclysm, but I challenge you to find it as more than a minor blip on the charts below. 

More interestingly, what's the minimum distance you could build and remain un-spaghettified? At about a solar radius, the tidal forces for a 2m tall, 70kg human would be about $10^{-5}$N, which I think is quite tolerable. The minimum is likely even closer than that, but I can't find my old Misner & Wheeler Gravity book to look up lethal tidal forces. 

In Baldur's Gate TOB, the Bhaal spawn Yaga-Shura kept his heart bathed in magical flame which granted him immense regenerative powers, and kept it hidden away in a remote mountain fortress protected by fanatical supporters who worshipped him as a God. Didn't do him much good against the other Bhaal spawn, but it's a good start for your evil anti-hero. Powerful men attract their own posse, those who want the falling crumbs, those who crave proximity to raw power. He would have zero difficulty building a power base and an army of loyal, worshipful followers if he is indeed near-invincible. Power attracts power. Soon, powerful lords would sooner bow their heads than face him in battle. He wouldn't even have to fight anymore, except very rarely. 

Pick a few knights you don't like. Take their armor, and weapons. Melt their armor, using the abundant trees and a smith. Make lots of spades. Make armor-less knights and any nearby peasants dig very deep holes (about 2 golems deep). If they protest, point out to them that they have no armor, no weapons and that you do. Cover up the holes with planks (also made from the abundant trees), and dead leaves. Find a golem. Use the armorless knights and peasants as bait. Or pigeons. Golems hate pigeons. Have the bait flee over the planks (quickly). The heavy golems will give chase, break through the planks and end up in the hole. Repeat as needed (might need fresh bait). ??? Profit! 

It's what they speak on Venus when annoyed, actually. Anyone who has ever had a girlfriend from that planet can testify how utterly, devastatingly effective the language of silence is. 

As you can tell by the formula, unless you get within a few million years of the hypothesized Big Bang, your final T values will be in the 13K - 4K range, so not hugely warmer than today's. We can conclude that in the era you're talking about (7-12 billion years ago), you're far enough removed from the 'Big Bang'-event that the CMB would only make a minor contribution. Given the much, much higher gas densities of the era, I'd be far, far more worried about getting blasted apart by the numerous supernovas popping all over the place, and black hole radiation blasts from the super-massive central black hole and actively feeding nearby black holes. Each of these might be sufficient on its own to sterilize areas ranging from dozens of light years for a supernova to perhaps a whole galaxy for the central super-massive. Plus rare events like a triple neutron star collision, etc. The Loeb 2014 paper can be found here. 

In the red corner, a top of the line Main Battle Tank, you can have your pick, but let's say a tricked out M-1A2 'Abrams' with a full Nuclear-Bio-Chem Protection kit. In the blue corner, a Nuclear Device. Let's start by assuming a standard Teller-Ulam design, say a W70 warhead set for about 15kt TNT equivalent yield, similar to the Hiroshima bomb. As an initial set up, set the detonation point 50 meters above ground at about 500 meters from the tank. The tank is on, sealed, and facing towards the blast. There is a clear line of sight. Would the crew survive? If not, what would be the minimum distance to give the tank crew some sort of fighting chance? If yes, how much closer can the detonation take place? Alternatively, could some modification be made to the tank to dramatically increase survivability against atomics? Note: As the hard-science tag is meant to indicate, feel free to persuade me with numbers, if so inclined. Numbers are sexy, especially when it comes to nuclear attacks and radii of total and utter destruction! In part inspired by this story.