So to summarize, as bad password attempts are prioritized and every bad password attempt is also retried at the PDC emulator, your account will be locked out by any properly replicating domain controller. There are however a few exceptions that might allow you more than your allotted amount of logins: 

In Synology terminology a disk group is simply a RAID array that can then be split it up into several volumes. So if you have 4 disks, you can create one single disk group (RAID array) and create two volumes from it. Or you could create 2 disk groups, and create one volume on each. The difference / advantages being that the single array will have more space, while the separate arrays will have better redundancy. There is a nice write-up on the synology forums about this SHR is a separate concept, and is based on the Linux Raid Management system. It's a design that allows for the usage of otherwise unused space on larger disks added to an array limited by a smaller disk. Full disclosure, I use synology at home but have never been involved with our NAS at work 

There is a difference between allocated and used space. When you create a protection group, a certain amount of space is allocated to it, which DPM will try and utilise for backups for that specific group. What you're seeing is that DPM is warning you that it thinks it doesn't have enough space unallocated. So it might not have enough space to allocate disk space to a new protection group. However it DOES have enough free space within the allocated space to safely back up your current protection groups. 

The directory tab is a way to define security per directory under the virtualhost. You can find the full documentation on the apache.org site: $URL$ 

While it is rare to have any averse affects after installing updates but not yet rebooting, it is still an extra degree of unpredictability that you should try to avoid. Most people wait to install upgrades until they know they can safely reboot afterwards. Keep in mind SP or CU installs are much more impact-full, and the reboot should not be postponed on those if you can help it (if even possible). For middle-ware updates This is completely out of your hands. Each piece of middle-ware is different, and it depends on the vendor, as well as the specifications of the update. If you're updating certain middle-ware to a higher step of the same main version most of them don't really require much in terms of reboots. However if you're installing a new major version, some middle-ware will require a reboot, and be inoperative until you've rebooted. The best advice I can probably give you is: 

A pretty good idea of your average performance A history of performance long enough to be able to map trends A small enough repository of metrics that you don't end up with too much data 

Open the SBS console and select Backup and Server Storage. Select the Server Storage tab. Click the Move Windows Update RepositoryData Wizard. Select the new drive location and click Move. 

Because the account is put in the group by virtue of the group. Mostly these two exist for legacy reasons, but serve two distinct purposes. 

As for hardening the server yourself. If you're a small company with budget constraints, there is a windows wizard available for basic hardening. The Security Configuration Wizard will do some basic hardening on your server. Keep in mind though, it is an automated process, so make sure you backup before implementing it, and test thoroughly afterwards. 

First issue: login failed error. Your database is most likely not fully initialized yet when the tests run. You should catch this in your procedure, an easy way to do this is to query the master database to see if the target database is up and running. 

Normally Symantec Endpoint blocks this by default, and a more common request is to allow for the behavior instead of deny it. At any rate, you can use the steps in this article. Simply replace Allow Traffic with Disallow Traffic. 

My main concern is that this user is currently grouped in with other service account users when it comes to permissions (and the process for obtaining/changing the password). However it is for all intents and purposes an administrator account. Does anyone have any prior experience with removing the CRM app pool users' permission after installation? 

Judging by your comment, it looks like renaming your AD server was the cause. If you have access to AD through some way, try the steps in this article. 

For 4672 (Special logon events): This comes from anything requiring special privileges. Running a scheduled task with administrator privileges, an application that has run as administrator ticked on, or just logging on with an administrator account,... You could review these and see what's running with special privileges and whether or not it should be. 

You shouldn't be restarting servers to fix sluggishness / latency if you can help it. If you think the problem is related to the database being the bottleneck, then test for that. There are some pretty great free or not so free tools out there that can help you diagnose sql server bottlenecks. However when it comes to finding performance bottlenecks in general, there are books on the subject, and you should probably be utilizing your google-fu to find out where to start. Whatever I can write here will probably not be enough. Usually to shut down servers you plan maintenance windows. Please stop rebooting during office hours to fix performance issues. You don't know what might be going wrong behind the scenes, and you don't want to end up corrupting your payroll system because it isn't coded properly and you're half committing something. 

We are currently experiencing failures on our SQL Server machines. It appears that once a server on the same (VMWare) host as our SQL Servers starts a maintenance procedure. The SQL Servers will balloon, loose nearly all of their memory. What I would expect next is for the SQL Server to receive back its memory after the maintenance window. However this never happens, the SQL Server will remain at bottom memory until we force a reboot. 

There is a whole host of authentication methods available for postgresql. However the way you're talking it sounds like your application is using a user that is able to see/do more than you want the actual administrators of the application to be able to. This is a possible design flaw you should look in to. Regardless of the way you authenticate from your application server. If they have admin privileges to the application they could, if they wanted to, abuse that privilege and access your database. What you might want to look into is giving the user that's used to accesses the database the least amount of privileges required to run the app. 

Moving the spanned volume to the other server. This would involve detaching the volume from the current server, and attaching it on the new server. We've done this on the staging setup, however that setup did not have a spanned volume, and information on moving spanned volumes across vm's is sparse. Copying everything from the spanned volume to a new, not spanned, volume, and moving that disk to the new server. This has the advantage of not having to move the spanned volumes. However copying all the data will take a long time, and will mean a long er maintenance window. 

If you're only using this as a fall back in case your actual native backups fail. I don't think anyone will fault you for that. But again, I would never consider it a good backup solution in its own right. 

As I don't see it in your shown documentation, I'm going to assume you forgot to enable IP forwarding. Run the following command to verify that this is indeed the case: 

There are also some cleaner ways using XML filtering. But personally I haven't had a need for them yet, and content matching the message has been sufficient so far. 

When I tried to use the cmdlet from home, using vpn to connect with the same laptop that I was using before. I can connect perfectly using and following the logon prompts. Using the stored entials still fails with the metadata exchange error. I'm assuming that the stored credentials method is failing because it can't redirect to the SSO without the interactive prompt. However I'm unsure what might be causing the interactive logon to fail, as I can clearly reach the SSO, and the cmdlet works on the same machine. What is the difference between the and the cmdlets that might be causing this? UPDATE: The full stack trace error is: 

I'm setting up a powershell script that installs a logman counter on several servers that are in dire need of some performance monitoring. The documentation states that the -u switch works with create update, start, stop, delete and query. Referenced documentation However when I try to run most of these with the -u switch I get the error 

No, you can't run SSIS without also running the SQL Server engine, which means paying a license. The reason for this is quite simple, SSIS is a SQL Server component/feature. It is integrated in the SQL Server Engine. And you will at a minimum require a standard SQL Server edition to use the SSIS runtime. 

You don't actually want to escape your wildcard character. Because then you just end up comparing to the wildcard character, while what you want to do is find out if your string contains an asterisk. The way to do this is by matching on a regular expression. 

A Bastion host is a machine that is outside of your security zone. And is expected to be a weak point, and in need of additional security considerations. Because your security devices are technically outside of your security zone, firewalls and security appliances are also considered in most cases Bastion hosts. Usually we're talking about: 

After you removed the computer from the domain, the domain credentials were removed from the registry cache. This means you'll now have to use a local user. If you don't have access to a local user, and the data on the server is critical, you can remove the new TEST01 from the domain, and run system restore using a windows disk on the old TEST01, and restore it to a joined state. System Restore and Domain credentials Edit: Comment by TheCleaner is probably a better fit, using a boot cd such as Ultimate Boot CD is an easier solution. 

Your problem most likely comes from the encryption your IPSec tunnel is encapsulating your packet in. You need destination and source headers for Natting to forward your packets correctly, however your IPSec tunnel is encapsulating those packets and encrypting them, making it impossible for your router to direct the traffic. Depending on your router model and build there are some common solutions. Cisco hardware can work around this with an access control list Referencing documentation: VPN and Natting explained 

Above you can see that the ballooning (black line) starts and ends during our maintenance window. But the consumed memory does not go back to its expected levels. The next morning we are forced to reboot, at which time the memory goes back up. This reboot has to be done through the Vsphere, as the machine is completely unresponsive and we are unable to log in on it. We've responded by setting memory reservation on all our production machines. However for our STG and DEV machines there simply isn't enough memory in our infrastructure to reserve everything. What would be a way to resolve our issue without overtaxing our VMware environment? What is the reason that SQL Server is unable to get back its lost memory without a reboot? I was thinking of reserving 4GB of memory for each SQL Server, to make sure that a minimum of working memory is available at all times. However without a proper reason for this reservation, I can't justify asking for it.