I have noticed that undervaluing yourself is likely to work the opposite way. People will think you aren't good enough to command the salary they had in mind. Bear in mind 4-5 rejections is not many. Depending on the economy and the hiring at the time I have looked I have gotten offers from the first interview or not even gotten an interview until I sent out over 100 resumes (I graduated in a very bad year for entry level hiring). And hiring is a competition, if you continually get rejected for the same level jobs, you may be applying for jobs at the wrong level. If you want to be a senior whatchamacallit with 3 years experience, you had better have a lot of accomplishments to show to compete with the people who have been senior whatchamacallits for ten years. Now what you can do is try to figure out if you can improve your interviewing skills. can you see a pattern to the questions that you didn't feel you did well on? Are they the hard skills questions or the soft ones? Did you just not know the answer or did you get to nervous to remember it? Are you failing to sell your strong points? Like anything else interviewing gets better with practice. So practice by writing out all the questions you can think of that people have asked (and any others that you woudl ask someone if you were interviewing them for the position you want) and then video yourself answering them and do it over and over again until you improve how you present yourself and until you can answer the questions relatively easily. It's painful to practice by videotaping but it is hands down the best way to improve if you are serious about getting better at interviewing or public presentations of any kind. 

Leveraging cross-functional people to help is good too. For instance, as a data person, I work for multiple teams on multiple projects at the same time. If people brag to me about how they solved problem XYZ and later someone mentions they have problem XYZ, I tend to put the two people together. So use those people (data people, systems people, QA testers, tech writers) as people you tell information to. We often see where there are similar challenges on different teams, make it ok for us to talk to you about it. 

It might depend on the type of experience and how uneasy you feel about the candidate. For instance if the candidate was a stretch for the position based on his experience in my specific stack but had extensive experience in something relatively similar, I would want to verify that he knew what he was doing in the other experience. So the the guy with 6 months of C# and 3 years of Java might get some Java questions, same with say SQL Server and Oracle. This is particularly true if the position was higher than entry level. This is especially true if I wasn't completely satisfied with the experience level shown when asking about the stack I do want him to use because I want to determine if he is simply not good at anything, lying about his experience or just new to the new stack and not as knowledgeable yet. Someone who fluffs some C# questions who is rock solid on Java is someone who can be trained to do C#. Someone with years of experience in Java who can't answer those questions or the C# questions, I would probably pass on. But would I ask the guy about his experience with Hadoop when it is not even closely related to what I do and when he has plenty of verifiable experience in C#. Probably not. I might ask some generalities around that type of experience just to know what kinds of things he did and get a view for his thought process. But not specific technical questions. With that kind of experience I am more interested in find out more about how much he accomplished and what his soft skills were like than whether he was technically proficient. But if he was having trouble with the questions about the stack we do use and had some completely unrelated experience I would probably pass because programming embedded systems doesn't give me any better feel for whether he could do a good job in database work than accounting experience might. 

You can't generalize about any career field based on one job. So no, not all QA shops are laid back. What you need to do is talk to your manager. He is the one who should be providing you with work not the other QA engineers. Since he didn't intiate the conversation, you must. 

Yes it matters. By skipping the leads that tells them that they are not trusted. You are a senior manager now, you need to stop being involved in the technical level of detail the lead and developers have. This doesn't mean you can never talk to devs. But it does mean you have to be aware of how this conversation affects the way the lead is managing his team. If you don't like how he is doing it, the problem is between you and the lead and going directly to the devs is just going to cause problems and make whatever problem you have with the lead worse. Look at it from the perspective of the lead, how would you feel about being bypassed in the communication chain and then there being a problem that you were not aware of or the dev worked on what the PM told him to when you were expecting him to be working on something else? The appropriate level of communication with devs at this point is really basically managment by wandering around. You wander through the office, they mention things to you and then you involve the lead in fixing whatever issues were brought up. 

You will be customer facing so you need to dress professionally. But as a designer you should show a bit of style. What you would not want to do is wear jeans like a developer might get away with. For a man maybe a suit but one less structured than a typical business suit. For a woman there are more options such as a silky dress with a jacket, a nice pant suit (but one that is stylish not stogy) or a less stuffy suit with a touch of color. What you would not want to do is be too sexy, show too much skin (and especially no showing your midriff), wear a very short skirt or clothes that are too tight. You would not want to wear super high heels (regular ones are fine, but keep them more business like rather than lets go out dancing.). It is a bit of a fine line. You want to show some style to show that you are a creative person, but you don't want them to be afraid to put you in front of a client. The more conservative the industry you would support, the more conservatively they would expect a designer to dress as well. 

Depends on who she told. Yes she would have a responsibility to tell your manager (or anyone in his or her chain of command) if you said you would be resigning. No, she should not tell your co-worker, Steve, who has no supervisory reponsiblity over you or Mary in Sales who would have no professional reason to know. If you feel she miscommunicated to someone in your chain was what said, then I would go talk to her again and explain what you heard she said and why that was not the impression you intended to create. It may or may not be too late for this, but I would at least try. Remember in the future that HR is not your friend. They have a duty to protect the company not you. There are times when helping you is in the best interests of the company and you can generally trust them in terms of things like benefits questions and fixing the problem with your pay (unless you work for a highly unethical company.) But in general, you have to consider that nothing you say to HR is privledged and it will be discussed with others in your immediate chain of command if the HR person feels it is needed. They are, however, supposed to keep from spreading casual gossip to those who are not directly involved in an issue. 

If this is the natural way your mind works, woudln't you be happiest in a place that appreciates that? It may take longer to find a job but when you do it will be a better fit if you answer the questions exactly how you think they should be answered. Some jobs needs that ability to deal with the complex and some do not. Which do you think would make you happier? 

Your best bet here is to step up your game and become the absolute best person they have in that position. Show them that age is just a number. Once you have the respect that goes with being the best, then no one will care about the jealous woman and her age problem. In fact it will then make her look petty and unprofessional. Is it fair that you have to work harder when you are older than your colleagues? No. But life isn't fair. Everyone who has something that makes them not like the rest of the group has to work harder to prove they belong in the group. I have had to do it as a woman and, in my industry where people over 30 is unusual, I have have had to do it as someone in my 60s. I know people who have had to do it because of their race or because they are autistic or deaf or in a wheelchair. 

They are a new employer, you list them as such. If you want in the description mention that the client you support is the same as your previous employer. 

If you want to know if this is crossing the line for your own career, then I would suggest that using any obscenity to your boss under any circumstances is a career risky move. Most bosses won't tolerate that and you will either be reprimanded or fired. Even if the boss publicly tolerated it at a team dinner, he is probably looking for signs of anger issues in this guy and he is unlikely to get cut any slack in the workplace. His career is probably already in jeopardy. This is even more true because from your description you are new employees. Those employees have not yet developed a strong relationship with the boss and the company doesn't have much invested in them and they are simply less valuable and thus much easier to make the decision to fire them rather than tolerate someone who can't hold in his anger in a professional environment. The guy with the in-depth knowledge of the applications and the business domain can simply get away with more than the new guy. He probably also has a better idea of what the boss's sense of humor is and how well something like this said in jest would be taken. Was the boss inappropriate in bringing up the subject publicly? Yes. However, the co-worker who reacted in anger and way past what is appropriate in the workplace was far worse. 

One place to be careful is when the person who is very senior to you is of the opposite sex. You do not want to come across as being sexually available and there are managers who would interpret this that way in my experience. (fewer than there were when I was young, but the scumbags are still out there.) Nor do you want your co-workers to think you are having an affair when you aren't. In a case like this, it might be better to get another intern to come with you and both of you ask questions.