Most of the other responders have covered most everything, but I thought I'd throw in a few more cents worth of comments. Everything has costs and benefits. Some riders spend big dollars for light wheels, so they are not going to erase those expensive gains with heavy tires. Personally, it would be better and cheaper for me if I dropped a few pounds off my waistline, so I am less interested in wheel weight and more interested in sturdy wheels and low maintenance tires which seldom flat. I run 700x25C Continental Gatorskins on my main road bike. The wire bead version of this tire clocks in at around 300 grams (according to Continental). The folding version clocks in at 250 grams. As a point of comparison, Continental GP 4000 tires clock in at 240 grams. They are also folding tires (no wire bead means lighter). The difference in weight between the folding and wire bead versions is about two ounces; the difference between wire bead Gatorskins and very light racing tires can be around 150 grams (five ounces). The difference between light wheels/light tires and typical stock wheels/puncture-resistant tires (say, Mavic Aksium Race wheels with wire bead Gatorskins) could be as much as a full pound (16 ounces, 450 grams). That will be very noticeable to any rider. In approximately 6500 miles of riding, I've had two flats. One was a cut by a piece of metal (pictured here; IMO, no tire would have stopped it), and one was a goat head thorn. Three or four riders in my cycling group are also riding on Gatorskins, and in approximately 10,000-12,000 miles on those tires-- including some long-distance riding, like San Francisco to San Diego-- at most one or two flats, total, not counting the ones I experienced. One rider in my group was using a set of cheap tires, and repeatedly flatting... bits of wire, glass, you name it. He switched to Gatorskins, and I can't recall the last time he had a flat. You can get tires with a greater puncture resistance than Gatorskins-- for example, Schwalbe Marathon Plus tires, which are around 640 grams each (my scale), in 700x25C-- but they are considerably taller (may not fit on some bikes) and require some practiced skill to mount easily. 

I'm no expert on Shimano components, but according to Sheldon Brown and Velobase, there were many 32H hubs from the Shimano 600 series: "Shimano added the word 'Ultegra' to their 600 group set in 1988 with the introduction of the 6400 series groupset. Also often recognized by the tri-color stripe on many of the parts." According to Velobase, this is a 32H Shimano 600 Ultegra hub. I'm not sure if that is what you are looking for. Here is another. 

And so forth. Clearly there are many factors that go into the choice of pedal/shoe connection, and happily there are more than a few systems one can choose from. 

You may want to ask your question here. It's a fairly active forum. There are so many options, such as this and the cycles you see here. 

With the benefit of hindsight, I can tell you that had I resumed riding on an old-school racing bike, I would have certainly quit. I was way out of shape, and the bent-over position required for riding a road bike would have been so uncomfortable that there is no way I would have persevered. But this Peugeot was just what the doctor ordered, no pun intended. I rode it for about 1,400 miles (about 2,250 km) before upgrading to the old-school road bike. Of course, YMMV, and you didn't mention your height or your age. BTW, one of my old-school racing bikes has Tange #2 tubes and I am still around 200 lbs. I put about 1,500 miles on that bike, for what it's worth. Final thought: you may find this subforum helpful. There are (and have been) many folks in the same boat. 

From what I heard about the ride, it was tough enough with (multi-geared) road bikes. I suppose, theoretically, it could be done on a fixie. If you look around the Web, there are many sources of bicycle route maps. California Bicycle Coalition is one such example. I have the SLO County map which they link to, and it's an excellent map. Don't miss Turri Road when you go through there. There are also many threads over at BF regarding this trip: San Francisco To Los Angeles thread; Advice for Los Angeles to San Francisco thread; Considering Riding From Los Angeles To San Francisco thread. Just to provide a few. Lots of experienced answers in those BF threads... 

This titanium Motobecane is slightly above your budget range, but it's a very nice bike. It can accommodate a rear rack, and can be outfitted for touring: 

BTW, thought I should add what I keep my ATF in for cycling purposes. I have some old plastic bottles that once held printer ink. They look similar to this: 

Saddles are highly personal-- one person likes a particular saddle, but you may not-- but there is a reason most cyclists who ride 50+ miles in one ride do so with shorts or bibs that contain some kind of chamois: it is more comfortable. That said, does it mean a person can't go long distances without a chamois? Of course not. There are people in the world who can go long distances in their bare feet, too, but most of us wear shoes for various reasons. Clearly there are some saddles which might be more comfortable if you don't wear shorts or bibs with a chamois, and it may even be clear what sort of saddles are more likely to fit the bill (stretched leather over a frame, like Selle Anatomica, or Brooks), but I know riders who have found such saddles uncomfortable with a chamois, so your mileage may vary, no pun intended. 

You can wobble strategically, or ride without a helmet and dress so as to appear as a woman from behind. Sources: Linked above, as you can see. The summary from the British study, from the source. 

In this sort of negotiation, typically you end up meeting somewhere in the middle. You provide a number, the other side provides a lower number, and the actual number is somewhere between those two numbers (possibly close to what the other side offered initially). Even if the number you supply is accurate and well-supported, I'd wager they will offer less. If I was in your shoes, I would start with the cost for a similar bicycle today. Call the shop back and ask for a price, and spec the bike with a similar level of modern components. If it was Ultegra, ask for Ultegra. Clearly this is just a starting point; they will certainly not pay this amount. I would also look for roughly equivalent mass-produced bicycles that could serve as a back-up. Do your homework, and with any luck you can find some comparable bicycles from around that time which have been sold or are for sale (eBay, or some equivalents). Here in the States, one Web site that might be of interest in a situation like this is BikePedia; one could use a site like that to collect some data points of the costs of comparable bicycles. Since your bicycle was not brand new, I wouldn't expect to get anywhere close to the true replacement cost, but don't help the other side by low-balling the value of what you've lost. 

I'm sure you're a better judge of how effective your LBS employees are than people on an Internet forum, but in my experience it isn't uncommon to find some LBS employees are not very enthusiastic about working on bikes they view unfavorably for whatever reason: too old, too inexpensive, and so forth. Some think that working on an inexpensive bike is like polishing a turd, and I have run into more than a few who view it that way. If the bicycle is similar to this one, I would encourage you to check out some YouTube videos regarding derailleur tuning: Tuning a front derailleur Tuning a rear derailleur 

More information would be helpful. What kind of bicycle? How old is it? Assuming the bike has a freewheel or a freehub, there are a couple of things you can check. For example, if the bicycle has a freewheel (in other words, if it is older), it may need lubrication inside the freewheel. Automatic Transmission Fluid (ATF) is a great lube for that application, or you can buy various oils. I would advise against using WD-40 for lubricating a freewheel. A similar kind of skip/slip can happen occasionally (say, once in a few hundred miles of riding) with a freehub, and it doesn't necessarily mean anything is wrong. However if it is more frequent, you may want to service the hub, or have your local bicycle shop service it. If the freewheel/freehub is not the source of the problem, the drivetrain may be worn. The chain can skip, or jolt forward, if the cogs in the rear are worn excessively. 

I have white hoods on one bike and found that Armor-All, like I use for my car, worked pretty well. They are a bit slick for a short time after application, but it does seem to lift the dirt. 

The pump appears to have a valve which is supposed to switch automatically between Presta and Schrader as needed. In my experience, these valve don't always work. I have a similar pump where the valve has become stuck, and I can only use it for inflating Schrader valves now. If this is at the root of your problem as well, among many alternatives, you can 1) buy a new pump, or 2) get a Presta-->Schrader adapter. My guess would be that if you operate the pump off the bicycle tire, air should come out the Schrader valve side. This will show you in which mode the valve is operating. 

There is one on eBay now, no? I would think many Shimano 6-speed freewheels would work, and there are many on eBay. But there were different spacings. The MF-Z012 was late 1980's, so your rear dropouts should be 126mm or thereabouts, meaning you could go with a 6- or 7-speed freewheel. 

It's often wise to spend money on the contact points: bars/grips, saddle, bib shorts (good chamois), and shoes/pedals. I have-- and like very much-- a Selle An-Atomica saddle on my road bike. I have one for my mountain bike as well. The leather of the saddle flexes with your muscles as you move: 

I have an '86 Peugeot Orient Express which is not too different than your Schwinn. The bike pictured below is very similar to mine. 

You may wish to consider this fit calculator to help you figure out what the ballpark range of values is for your body. You'll need someone to help you, but the numbers it gives you will be a decent starting point as you fine tune the fit of your bike. You can use them to do an informed adjustment (if necessary) of your seatpost height/length and likewise your stem. In addition, you can find many videos on YouTube and elsewhere which can help to inform your process: Correct saddle height for a mountain bike Mountain bike fit Etc. Assuming that the people at the bike shop sold you the proper size frame, you may need to increase your fitness a bit, and then be sure the reach is appropriate, and the seatpost height. In other words, you may need to ride the bike a bit to get a better idea of what the real root of the problem is. 35 km may not seem like a long way, but for a lot of people it takes them some time to get comfortable going that kind of distance: time to strengthen their core, their legs, and everything else that can ache at first. After some saddle time, I think you will have a much clearer idea of what needs to be adjusted.