Slovene shows sporadic examples of features that are typically considered "West Slavic", and are therefore closer to Slovak than to standard Croatian/Serbian/etc. For example, 

Some palatalized consonants seem to have a greater tendency to "absorb" their palatalization (in various ways) than others. For example, in standard Japanese, the former palatalized alveolars tj, dj, zj and sj have become [tʃ], [dʒ] and [ʃ]: ("above", etc.) < *zyau ja ("so", "then", etc.) < *dya < dewa chō ("morning", etc.) < *ty(e)u < teu 

As mentioned, modern Scandinavian (Swedish, Danish, Norwegian) seems like a fairly straightforward example of agglutinative IE languages: the only major exceptions to the agglutination in these languages (that I can think of) are the verbs whose past tense is formed with ablaut rather than suffixes. Armenian (or at least Western Armenian -- I haven't studied Eastern) doesn't seem especially agglutinative in its noun or verb system. Although its nouns do not have gender classes and the plural ending -(n)er is used for almost all nouns (I don't recall any exceptions at the moment), many words have irregular case endings. Its verb system has three main conjugation classes, the personal endings are not the same in the past and present tense, and there are many different patterns in the formation of past-tense stems. 

I think your question may reflect an instance of a much more general pattern. That is, suppose you find an expression X in a language, and another expression Y in that language, and you believe X and Y to stand in a "privileged" relation (two types elaborated below). It seems that, across languages, one is likely to find that X and Y occur as simplex (i.e., nondecomposable) lexical items asymmetrically: i.e., if Y occurs as a simplex lexical item in the language, so does X. But simplex X occurring in a language does not guarantee expression of simplex Y. One concrete example to explain one notion of a "privileged" relation between two expressions is privileged antonymy. Consider the adjectives tall and short: we "feel" that these expressions are related in a way that makes the inferences in (1) and (2) valid, but not that in (3) (despite long on occasion meaning something very similar to tall): 

Some student saw every professor There is a (single) student (say, John) such that he saw every professor For every professor x, there is a (different) student that saw x There is a solution to every problem There is a (single) solution such that it applies to every problem For every problem x, there is a (different) solution for x 

However, Japanese has retained most other palatalized sounds as such: velar stops (Kyōtō, Gyōza), back-fricatives (hyaku "100"), labial stops (roppyaku "600") and resonants (ryōri "cooking", gyunyu "milk", etc.). In Norwegian and Swedish, both the palatalized alveolars and velars have changed into something else: "sea") > [ʃ] / [ɧ] tj (as in tjære / tjära "tar") > [ç] / [ɕ] dj (as in Sw. djur "animal") > [j] kj (kjøtt / kött "flesh") > [ç] / [ɕ] skj (skjorte / skjorta "shirt") > [ʃ] / [ɧ] gj (as in gjorde "did") > [j] 

for is an old-fashioned-sounding synonym of "because": e.g., I dared not go outside, for it was raining. But I am not sure if for was the direct predecessor of because. 

The similarity of Finnish hän and Scandinavian hann / English he / etc. is coincidental, or a case of later convergence. Germanic *h goes back to earlier *k (thus hann / he / etc. may be related to the -c seen in Latin hic "this"). By contrast, Finnish h usually reflects earlier *š, or sometimes another coronal consonant: a cognate of hän is North Sami son. It is possible that the frequency of (or preference for) hän has been partly influenced over time by its similarity to Scandinavian hann, but there is no etymological relationship between the two. In Estonian, the 3rd person pronouns are from an entirely different stem: ta "he" and nad "they", related to Finnish tämä "this" / nämä "these". 

Extensive typological study doesn't appear to have been done on this. However, this is probably so because it has been difficult to say precisely what the mass/count distinction is about. What we can understand is that the mass/count distinction tracks (imperfectly) an important human cognitive distinction between objects (or, countables) and substances (or, uncountables, "fake mass nouns" like furniture aside). As with many conceptual distinctions, different languages may mark the difference overtly, others may not. To give a different example, a language like West Greenlandic has a host of "pluractional" morphemes that attach to verbs, one of which indicates whether an event description picks out a series of iterative events, or whether it picks out a single event of continuous extent. English doesn't have such morphemes, but interestingly in this language we see certain event descriptions as underdetermining the two uses (e.g., John ran more than Mary last year, if true, can mean he ran on more occasions (iterative), or for a greater temporal or spatial extent (continuative)). So a conceptual distinction that is overtly marked in West Greenlandic is left implicit in English. Similarly, English does not mark mass occurrences of nouns, but marks individual (with the indefinite article a(n)) and plural (with the -s suffix) occurrences of nouns. The bare form of a noun is often understood on a material reading (which is why the gruesome interpretation in There was boy all over the road, as if uttered after a horrific accident), and singular/plural occurrences are understood as picking out a singularity or multiplicity of individuals that fall under the concept named by the noun. If a language, for example, doesn't have a singular/plural distinction, one might think that noun occurrences there are understood via a combination of the preferred conceptualizations of things falling under the concept (e.g., we think of boy best as describing individual boys, and water best as describing an unindividuated substance), and extralinguistic context. The grammar doesn't force such speakers to express which conception they intend. An oft-discussed counterexample to the idea that the distinction is universal, is the claim that all nouns are actually mass in Chinese---"count" nouns don't exist except in the sense that they are "built up" in combination with classifiers. However, as Cheng and Sybesma argue, and Chierchia accepts, even this language has reflexes of the conceptual distinction---i.e., it uses only "classifiers" for nouns that are understood as "count" (i.e., highly individuated), and only "massifiers" for those understood as "mass" (i.e., low individuation). In sum, the role of grammar seems to be specifying what kind of conceptualization we're after. In English, there are a lot of nouns that are comfortable occurring as either mass or count, the difference ending up in whether we want to express a notion of the material, rock, or that of some quantity of individuals comprised of that material, rocks. Other occurrences, like muds seem less acceptable, but this could just be a matter of the frequency with which we encounter individuated MUD; if we can talk about kinds of muds or jars that contain some mud in a context, so that I bought three muds at the mud store isn't really so bad. Extralinguistic context can help us individuate even under the concept MUD. Whether a language uses grammar to express the mass/count distinction will be a fact about particular languages, but the conceptual distinction is likely universal. (Hat tip to Dustin Chacón for discussion of Chinese.) 

These kinds of features are more common in dialectal Slovene than in the standard language, but I don't know how the particular dialects compare with each other in this respect. 

In some Iranian languages (maybe Indic as well), the past tense construction involves a verb that is etymologically a passive participle, agreeing in gender with the verb's object rather than its subject: e.g., Pashto mā xǝza lidǝla "I saw a/the woman" The literal translation of this sentence would be something like "the woman was-seen by-me", since the pronoun mā is an oblique 1sg. pronoun, the nominative form being zǝ. 

Welsh shows some signs of a semantic classifying system in its noun plurals. There are a great many plural affixes in Welsh, partly reflecting the old stem-endings of nouns (which have often disappeared in the singular forms due to the loss of final vowels) and partly reflecting new analogical processes based on semantics. For example, the suffix -od very often occurs with animal names: llewod "lions", cathod "cats", llwynogod "foxes", tyrchod "hogs, boars", crancod "crabs", llyffantod "toads", drywod "wrens", etc. etc. The most widely-known animal names tend to resist this pattern, perhaps through the force of frequency: ceffylau "horses", cwn "dogs" (pronounced [kun]), defaid "sheep", ieir "hens", etc. Many of the nouns with plurals in -od also have an alternate (and possibly older) variant of the plural: e.g. llyffaint "toads", crainc "crabs". Another pattern can be seen with the plural suffix -ydd, which seems to be frequently used with nouns referring to pathways (roads/rivers/etc.), fields and certain other geographical locations: meysydd "fields", heolydd "roads", afonydd "rivers", corsydd "swamps", dolydd "meadows", neintydd "brooks, streams", camlesydd ”canals” and so on. (I haven't seen this pattern with -ydd pointed out in a reference grammar yet, but based on my survey of the lexicon, it seems pretty likely that there is or has been a semantic aspect to its use.) As with the -od suffix, there are words for which -ydd coexists with a possibly-older plural form: cyrs "swamps", naint "streams, brooks", camlesi "canals". Alongside these features, Welsh retains the IE masculine and feminine gender classes (the neuter having dissolved into masc. and fem.). In the modern language, there is no longer much systematic difference in the way that masculine and feminine plurals are formed, although some patterns can be observed. For example, the vowel -e- is generally more likely to appear in feminine nouns (both in the root and in suffixes): cf. dinasoedd "cities", modrabedd "aunts". (This is because the old feminine ending *-a, which disappeared a long time ago in Welsh, had the effect of lowering the vowel *i in a preceding syllable to *e.) 

The main question you're asking has been addressed directly in a recent paper on the relationship between morphological and semantic markedness. 

Linguistics is the scientific study of language. A language is narrowly defined as the set of rules that "speakers" (speaking or signing) acquire when they are very, very young. There is evidence for processes of language acquisition underway at the very youngest testable ages (under a year old). A speaker with a grammar like mine knows, without ever being told, that strings of words like colorless green ideas sleep furiously are well-formed, but strings like furiously sleep ideas green colorless are not. I can say that the first sentence would be true if (i) there existed some things that were colorless, green, and ideas, (ii) such things could sleep, and (iii) such sleepings could happen furiously. The other string supports no such interpretation. Since I don't have to look up these two strings in some kind of book to tell whether one is good or bad, we say that my grammatical rules are internalized. The rules of grammar (again, in the linguist's sense) are learned implicitly. They are not taught, as the rule "i before e except after c" has to be learned when one learns how to spell, but rather inferred on the basis of experience in a linguistic environment (i.e., a community of speakers who do some speaking in the presence of the child). Lastly, knowledge of language is universal. Barring severe cognitive deficits or social deprivation, every normally-developing child acquires a native tongue. Written language stands in sharp contrast: children learn to read and write much later (usually once they start attending school) than they learn to understand and produce spoken language; written language has no internalized rules, it reflects only the speakers' internal rules and, possibly, a speaker's regard for the prescriptive rules of style; written language has to be learned explicitly (often laboriously); and, written language is not universal—there are many, many people on this planet who have knowledge of language but can't read or write. "Written language" is an artifact of (some) human cultures who already had spoken languages. Spoken language is definitional of our species, and it is this kind of species-specific capacity that linguists study. This is not to say that the capacity for writing is not complex; it is in fact more complex than the capacity for language, in that explaining how we can have writing systems requires in part an explanation of what the language we're writing down is in the first place. 

Why wouldn't adjectival phrases like English born again (in the religious sense) count as examples of a right-branching nominal modifier? 

Is there a strong correlation between geminate consonants and initial-syllable stress, or stress in the earlier syllables of words? A survey of European languages suggests that there might be such a correlation. For example, in Italian, where antepenultimate stress is common, geminate consonants are ubiquitous (fatto "done", troppo "too much", etc.). By contrast, geminates seem rare-to-absent in standard Spanish/Portuguese (which have more thoroughgoing penultimate/final stress) and French (which has mainly final stress). Similarly, most Germanic languages had geminates at some point in their history (although many are no longer true phonetic geminates due to sound change), and initial-syllable stress was historically the norm in Germanic. Cf. English tap < Old Eng. tæppa, Icelandic tappi "cork, peg", German Zapfen "peg, pin", etc. Thanks for any further insight into this issue. 

I just remembered that English sometimes uses capitalized pronouns to address or refer to God (Thou, He, etc.). 

I'm fairly sure that the language is Armenian. For example, the second word on the top line is միշտ (mishd) meaning "always", and the fourth line has the words քեզ (kez) "you" and մարդ (mard) "man". I'm not fluent enough in Armenian to easily decipher the whole text, but the final line appears to read "January 1861".