Reinerpost and Cort's posts both make strong points. I would say that colour is not a universal with respect to either space or time. Regarding space, the expansion of the universe results in a so called red-shift. This means that light that has originated at great distance as, say blue, will have shifted towards the red end of the spectrum by the time we sense it. Light that has originated as red may have shifted outside of the optical spectrum. Thus, if we could see an apple it a distant galaxy, its reflected light may start out as red, but by the time we see the apple it may appear grey (since the apple has absorbed the other non-red colour frequencies creating a gap in the frequencies being reflected, and the original red light reflected may have shifted outside of the optical spectrum). The astronomical effect of gravitational lensing also manipulates optical light resulting in colour change. Regarding time, consider that there is only one form of life on earth. Most animals on earth today have poor colour vision relative to humans. Most animals' colour sense appears to be restricted to greys with a bit of blue and yellow. Some animals "see" ultraviolet frequencies. With this in mind : Our minds have evolved to create the sensation of red when certain wavelengths of optical light interact with our eyes. Our minds and our eyes will continue to evolve. If we follow our evolutionary chain back, we will witness changes in our colour perception towards those of more lowly evolved animals on earth today and eventually redness would vanish. Similarly, it seems reasonable to assume that our future evolution will also witness changes in our colour perception. So I would say that colour is not universal with respect to time. 

The scenario you describe is sometimes referred to as the inverted spectrum problem. One method of seeing if it is possible has been explored by C.L. Hardin and Austin Clark. Their method notes that any particular colour can be given a detailed description in terms of its relation to other colours. When these relations are made explicit, they form an abstract structure called a colour space - a system of relations which give each colour a precise location. This space features certain asymmetries. For example, the "warmth" of red versus the "cool" of blue; or the number of shades discriminable in red versus the number discriminable in green; etc... Thus, if you and I were to look at an object that we both called red, but I "see" red while you "see" blue, then you would not, in theory, react as I would. I would declare experiencing the "warmth of red" while you would declare experiencing the "cool of blue". And similar differences in experience would be noted amongst the other asymmetries. I'm not sure of the outcome of their inquiries, but I believe that we would have heard about it if they showed anything that undermined materialism. 

I'm not sure that I entirely agree with your analysis. Firstly, and perhaps somewhat pedantically, let's note that although randomness has a precise definition in certain mathematical theories - e.g., information theory, where we define randomness as the inability to compress information - in a philosophical context randomness has no precise definition. Furthermore, it is far from clear that randomness exists in reality. For example, there are deterministic interpretations of quantum theory. So let's stick to unpredictability. In practice, I do not believe that any unevenness in the coins composition - i.e., the coin having anything other than the ideal centre of gravity - would have any real effect on the predictability of the outcome of an individual toss or a sequence of tosses. This is because other factors, such as the force of the toss and the binary nature of the outcome, would overwhelm any bias attributable to unevenness. The outcome would be completely determined by the original orientation of the coin, the net initial forces exerted, and the characteristics of the landing surface. For any unevenness to play a role in determining the outcome, we would require a near-astronomical number of rotations of the coin, which, of course, is not the case in practice. Thus, I would argue that achieving an unpredictable outcome for a single toss is possible. If the coin's unevenness does not influence the outcome of an individual toss, it cannot influence the outcome of a sequence of tosses. Any bias that may manifest itself must be bias in those factors that determine the outcome. 

As virmaior has commented, this is a difficult question to read and includes many apparently different statements. With regard to the first part, you ask for a term describing the view "time itself doesn't exist and that, really, is just a timeline to put change against". This is a form of relationism which views time as a measure of change. Relationism incorporates elements of realism and idealism. It is idealist in that it treats time as a merely subjective matter, with nothing in reality corresponding to it. Relationists take the view that time is simply a way we relate events to one another, but the relations are real. The relation being referred to here is the "before-after" relation. This is the view put forward by Aristotle in response to Plato's view that equates time with change. For Aristotle, the relation between time and change is not one of identity, but rather it is the relation between the thing being measured and the means of measuring it. Here, time is not a process, it is an abstract "number" or unit that can be used to describe processes in nature, analogous to the way numbers can be used to count things. As Aristotle put it : "time is the number of change with respect to before and after". Thus, time is a subjective system which captures something real about nature without being part of nature. The remainder of the question is difficult to address. It appears to express views contrary to the initial view of time as a measure of change. In addition, it appears to include inconsistencies. You lost me with the toothpaste versus stamp buying comparison. 

EDIT Sep 23 I have been tempted to ask this, but my lack of maturity has made me reluctant since it may be a rather sophomoric point. Our formalization of (classical) logic may not be ideal but our theorems are surely valid. One could argue that since arithmetic cannot be both complete and consistent we have big problems with Plato. Even with a complete and consistent form, such as Euclidean Geometry, we have problems. I shall spare you the details and choose a more economically expressed issue. Plato's world must itself be an ideal form. That is to say, it must, by conception, be a member of itself. (Boy, I really am getting sophomoric now.) This leads to all of the obvious paradoxes associated with self-reference, rendering Plato's world either inconsistent or incomplete. 

Occam's razor is a guiding principle which we have formulated in the belief that it accurately reflects a necessary feature of the landscape of Plato's ideal world. We don't expect this world to included redundant or unnecessary forms just as we would not expect this world to contain poorly formed ideals. We expect this world to be exactly what is necessary for its ideal formulation and nothing else. Importantly here, we expect the ideal formulation of Occam's razor to be found in Plato's ideal world. It would therefore appear to be in some ways ironic (not to mention disingenuous) to start hacking away at Plato with one of his own forms. Plato's ideal world must stand or fall on its own. In this regard, one has to say that it appears to fall. I'm sure the Stanford arguments referred to in your comments do a perfectly good job of rejecting Plato's ideal world. Yet mathematics contains many examples of how simple ideas and elementary arguments can lead to profound, beautiful, and even shocking results. Here, mathematicians often believe they have glimpsed an ideal form. It feels very real. So although Plato's vision of a unique, well-define world of ideals appears to be inconsistent, the notion of an ideal form does not seem to be problematic in a given context. This more selective acceptance of Plato's vision is consistent with the views expressed in your question and highlights how engrained Plato's ideas are in our own modern view of mathematics. One is happy to accept the ideal expressed by Occam's razor for example, while perhaps feeling uncomfortable with the full implications of an idealized mathematical world. 

How is one to make sense of this equation. How can the sum of all natural numbers equal negative one over twelve? The odd thing about this identity, as I understand it, is that it occurs in our physical theories. For example, I believe that it occurs naturally in string theory. There are also other ways of deriving this identity. The notable Indian mathematician, Srinivasa Ramanujan, derived this identity in the early 20th century. Other methods also produce the same result. Perhaps we would do well to make note of Hegel's position that, when we apply legitimate methods to obtain seemingly absurd results, we must accept the legitimacy of those results. EDIT Here are some examples of the identities Ramanujan sent to Hardy from India before Hardy invited him to Cambridge. These identities were derived without any knowledge of the methods of complex analysis. 

I would like to suggest that the notions of past, present, and future are all nonsensical. A complete scientific description of the universe would not tell us when now is. The "present moment" cannot be endowed with any special property that is not shared by any other temporal moment. Thus, the concept of now appears to be a purely subjective one, and one which is obviously very important to the way the world appears to us. Yet we never seem to experience the present moment. The processing of sensory information takes time. Our perception of the world around us must travel through our nervous system along the various neural pathways to our brain. There it must be integrated with the disparate sensory information we are receiving to form a coherent representation of our experience. Yet once this process is complete and the information is cognitively available to us the moment has passed. 

This question is the subject of a vast amount of philosophical inquiry which includes idealist views, realist views, and everything in between. Since Kant has been mentioned by other users, and your question is about the idealist view, I thought I’d tempt fate by attempting to summarize Kant’s “idealist” position - if nothing else, it will be helpful to me. For Kant, space and time are not “things in themselves”; they are “forms of experience”. This is to distinguish between what we experience and the nature of experience - i.e., what we find in our experience and the nature of our experience. Another way of saying this is that we do not experience things in time and space, rather we experience things spatially and temporally. Note the noun/adverb distinction. At this point, it is probably safer for me to continue by directly quoting a professional philosopher, Adrian Bardon : 

The validity of the method of proof which you have outlined follows from a combination of the second and the third law. The method is referred to as "Proof by contradiction", or "The reductio ad absurdum method". This method is a valid method of proof in any application of classical logic - specifically, mainstream mathematics. In the context of a mathematical proof, the term paradox is equivalent to contradiction. That is to say, a statement of the form "P and not P". Here is an outline of the proof by contradiction method as applied to proving a proposition A: 

But because time flows, before an event happens it has the property F(h), and after it happens we have P(h). Thus, according to McTaggart we have : 

borrowing our notation from that of intervals in the real line. The notion of compactification you describe in your question is strongly Euclidean and so does not readily apply to the ordinals in general. However, because it is tempting to view the ordinals as a line in the plane, there are number of nifty pictorial representations of infinite ordinals, drawn in a compact region of the Euclidean plane. Here is one I found via google images of the limit ordinal ωω as a spiral : 

So far you have argued : We are given not(Y) and not(Z) as P3 and P4. As you note, applying this and modus tollens to P2 gives us not(W and X), or equivalently not(W) or not(X). [note : there may be some confusion here since you are writing an implication symbol rather than a symbol for logical equivalence. Formally, you should write each statement as two consecutive statements on separate lines, noting modus tollens and De Morgan in the margin.]