Don't. Just don't. You are ruining your future. You are dropping your education, you are not getting a good reference from the only person you have ever worked for and for what? 4 months of a higher paycheck? Finish your education. It's perfectly fine to look for other jobs afterwards. Compare your current employers offer to other offers. And you can certainly start looking now and if you find something, take an offer with a starting date after your education's end. But only after you have finished your education and after you have fulfilled your contract should you switch your job. Anything else is career suicide. 

Indeed the term in software development would be "technical lead" or "architect", maybe "technical architect" if the project has more variety and has differently flavored architects. As titles are not regulated, it might be anything close to those. I found it's not as much a soft skills role as management. In management you need soft skills to sell your people stuff they don't really want to do. As a technical architect it's way easier because you need to sell things they should want to do. Your suggestions should make their work easier if you are doing your job right and that's not hard to sell. So yes, it sure helps to read some books about people and project management, just to know what you miss out on. Just to know what the others act upon. Personally, I like Peopleware a lot, although it's quite old already. What is more important is your technical knowledge. Your programmers will respect you on the base of your technical knowledge. So you need to keep that up to date. Even on technologies you don't use, because you should know why you don't use that technology instead. I guess I don't need to tell you what to do in that regard. Books, Conferences, User groups, hobby projects. One important aspect is that the more you get into a supporting role of teaching and planning, the more you lose contact with the people doing the real work. Once in a while, drop all your books and plans and cancel your meetings and get your boots dirty. Grab a ticket and implement it. That's important because you will experience the problems first hand and make better decisions for your programmers that way. I have seen too many ivory tower architects, that insist on doing it one way while the compiler insist that it's wrong. Keep your contact to the roots and know what you are talking about in detail. If your people see that you can do what they have to do, it's a lot easier to convince them to do it also. If your solution has 100% code coverage and works great, it's easy to sell. If your solution is 5 years old and unmaintainable crap, people will have a hard time respecting your guidance. Practice what you preach. So in short: 

You are not free to discuss these private details with your team. Other answers explain why, I will not repeat it here, it's simply not professional. And quite frankly, the team doesn't care that much about the nitty gritty details. Sure, it's curiosity, we all have it. But what they really want to know is "is my job safe, or will I be next?". From their point of view, you just fired somebody out of the blue. They don't know about the prior warnings, they need to know that it wasn't a spontaneous thought you had when you came in today. You gave ample warning and the employee did not comply. You need to communicate, that despite what it looks like, you will not fire random people on the spot. Everyone who is in danger of getting fired will get a private warning from you first. This solves most of their morale problem. It does not solve your personal "I don't want to go through that with another employee" problem. If someone else does the same thing your ex-employee did, you will have to take them aside for a private warning as well. Hopefully, they will remember your little speech and take the warning more seriously, knowing that you do fire people if they don't comply. 

If said apps are publicly available and you get them through a public channel (for example you load them on your private tablet through the public store and pay for them with your own money and have your own private user account) and you did not sign anything that would explicitly prevent you from doing so, then yes, that's perfectly fine. As a guideline, anything your interviewers could do themselves is fine. Accessing a public store, downloading an app for example. Anything you need special knowledge or credentials from your former employer is not. Logging in with your employee account for example would be bad. 

In Germany, such a waiver would be illegal, because what's the point of regulations if you could just opt-out? It appears that it's legal in the UK but it has to be voluntarily and without repercussions if you don't opt-out. Based on your description, I suspect that your employer will not honor the later. 

Not at all. Recognizing the need of the company and trying to find a good solution for both sides is a very professional thing to do. Asking your boss is a very good first step. However, you should not sell yourself short. Getting your money worth for your work is the whole point of being a professional. So an offer to move your vacation to a more convenient date is fine. Getting money instead of a day off is fine. Offering to forfeit it is not. That's unprofessional in the very sense of the word "professional". Your boss might be happy, and he'll certainly not tell you, but he will respect you a little bit less if you offered to work for free. There are laws around "Urlaub" in Germany and a lot of specialized court rulings, but in most cases laws and court rulings only apply when employer and employee disagree. As long as you and your employer agree on something, it should be fine. 

Obviously we cannot read their minds. Maybe they wanted to use it as a test. Maybe not. But they blew it. Completely. Asking if something you eat contains alcohol is completely normal, just as asking whether it contains nuts or any other allergen. Asking why you don't want to eat or drink something in return is completely out of line. That's non of their business. "I don't like the taste" is perfectly fine as an answer. "I'm allergic to it." without going into details would be ok too (assuming they actually are). In the specific case of alcohol, "Ich muss noch fahren" (literally "I have to drive", meaning the person came by car and does not want to drink and drive) should always be accepted without questioning. After all, it's the law. If they wanted to trick you, they would have lead on with lighter questioning after the alcohol question. Like saying "Oh, did you come by car?". Asking why directly is the stupidest thing they could have done. That said, there are countless reason to assume they are not tricking anybody, but are simply not good at interviewing people. They are simply bad at their job. That happens. Especially males in Germany are completely taken aback at the thought that somebody might not drink alcohol. If you tell them, it's like you tried to explain quantum physics. They need a medical explanation for their own mental well-being, because it cannot be that somebody does not like to get wasted on Friday/Saturday. That might be an explanation for the weird reaction. The interviewer simply did not expect that at all. The behavior you witnessed can be explained by stupidity and is way to incompetent to actually achieve what might be seen as a goal to get information illegally. So my guess would be they simply blew it. An interview goes both ways, you represent yourself, they represent the company. Giving them the benefit of the doubt, assuming it's incompetence and not malice... it's your choice whether you want to pursue this job offer further. 

I think you got some basics about information security and software engineering wrong. Let's take a look at chess. When you first learn it, you plan your moves and hope your opponent will not see through your clever plans. If someone would announce your plan, you'd be doomed. Only later, when you get more professional about it, you will see that chess is an open game. Everybody knows everything. Making a move hoping your opponent will not notice your plan is child's play. The same goes for computer programming. When you first read a book, you are like "I will make a secret password. It's 'fart'. No, that's not secrect enough, I'll make it 'secretfart'. Hihi. I'm secure, nobody will guess that.". But that's child's play. When you get more professional, you will learn methods to secure software and information that are not dependent on this kind of "secrets". Facebook is no secret. Every programmer could probably code you a Facebook clone in weeks. Amazon is no secret. Look at the thousands of shops. They are successful because they run a successful business. Just like an offline shop might be a successful business even though every highschool drop out knows the "secret" of "buy goods for less than you sell for". So yes, obviously you don't give your accounting software's administrative access to your janitor. But that's not hot new stuff. You did not give the key to the treasure chest to your stable boy 1000 years ago. If Facebook published their source code... nothing would happen. A few nerds would get kicks out of the cool things and a few other nerds would find a security hole that would let them post pictures of reproductive organs on peoples walls. A third group of nerds would build a shadow-facebook on the same code that would not take off because nobody would join. And after two days, Facebook would be back to normal. There is no secret kill switch. That only exists in fictional stories, or in software written by kids. 

You never stated where you're from, so we cannot say if this is the normal procedure where you live. However, I think that singing a new contract before handing in your notice for the old is pretty common. After all, if you don't do it in this order, you could end up without a job. On such a short notice and being a multi national company, I don't think they mean harm. Probably, they just need the time to get the contract through their buerocracy and mailing it back and forth would take too long. Why don't you ask them if you can come over and sign the contract at their place before handing your notice to your old boss? 

To me it appears like you are using a private device. Companies don't do that. They may allow the use of a private device but they surely don't allow private devices to alter your messages sent in their name. Sending me information that is not part of a professional message is unprofessional. If you aren't an Apple representative and we aren't talking about iPhones, information like "sent from my iPhone" is an advertisement for a third party. I don't want that from a business partner. If you are mentioning it to apologize for poor message quality, that appears unprofessional as well. Don't send me automated excuses in advance, instead improve your message quality. That would be professional. Obviously I don't expect a professional mail from a private device if it is a private device. Someone who calls in sick from his private phone in the morning can have any signature he likes. To summarize: sending me unsolicited advertisements in the mail does not appear professional to me. 

My career choice test revealed I would prefer to be a tailor for women's clothing. Not kidding. But I still got into software development. Sometimes, a test is just an educated guess. And maybe just plain wrong. Don't drop out just because a test told you something. Continue studying. See if you like it and don't listen to tests. There are team and individual spots in most companies. You just need to find the right one for you. 

Your friend should act accordingly. If there are still signs of it to be found in a background check and your friend is asked about it up front, then by all means answer honestly. Personally, I cannot see any good coming from mentioning it proactively. If they don't ask, then they don't want to hear about it. 

If it was an excerpt from an IQ test then indeed you cannot prepare for the test itself. Your brain will be able to do this in the time given, or not. You can take another thousand tests and it will not change. However, the process of getting the task to your brain, reading the instructions, understanding what task you need to do, is something that does get easier with practice. So just go on the internet, google IQ test and do a few for fun. You won't get a better IQ, but you will get better at understanding the instructions to random, unknown puzzles. 

This is not okay. Discriminating against people on the base of them being "not Chinese" is illegal. Other answers go into more detail about that. However, you did list reasons that would make it legal in other jurisdictions. You said your office language is mandarin and that helps a lot in communication. Now that could be a skill requirement. A skill you are allowed to discriminate for. Put that in your job ads. Candidates must be able to fluently communicate in mandarin and have a basic understanding of Chinese culture. This is no discrimination, if you seriously consider non-Chinese people who do speak mandarin and have a grasp of your culture. It's not your fault if only Chinese people apply. Make sure you hire a good lawyer because US law may still consider this racial profiling based on how strong your "requirement" actually is. Please keep in mind that the way you got to this point of having an office language of mandarin is probably still worth a lawsuit. 

A scrum standup meeting is not the same as a status report. It's supposed to be short information exchange about the status of the team members, focussing on problems that a team member cannot solve alone. If all went well yesterday, your contribution could be