The physicists answer: there could be such a measure (it exists for example for the insulation of buildings), but it would in the case of clothing depend on so many factors that it would be close to useless. Factors that have an influence here are things like physical activity, wind, humidity or personal disposition. To begin with the last one: There are people who get cold hands even if they just go out to collect their letters and newspaper from the letterbox and such that can engage in a two hour snowball fight without wearing gloves. And, this can change to some extent on a day to day basis. That already sets quite a wide base for a temperature range. Then there's physical activity. Let's compare it with other pieces of clothing: While a good base layer shirt and a wind breaker jacket may be a combination totally suitable for an hour run in the winter, the same setup in the same weather would let you freeze within minutes while standing at the bus stop waiting for the bus. With gloves its not different. Need an example? You can see many soccer players play without gloves even in deepest winter with temperatures well below freezing – that's only possible since they are physically active and the blood flow heats their hands. With wind and water you have another two factors that can change a lot. I have a pair of thin fleece gloves that are really really nice and moderately warm in normal weather. However, once it gets a bit windy or they get wet, they seem to loose all their insulation. Now you might argue that your gloves won't get wet in sub-freezing temperatures. However, consider some light climbing or scrambling over rocky terrain in the mountains, where the sun has molten some snow or ice to slush. Sooner or later you will touch such a chunk of slush and bang!, your gloves are wet and possibly your insulation is gone. To conclude, there are too many factors that influence the insulation itself as well as the perception of cold that it is quite impossible to deduce a measure of insulation that is valid for more than a dozen of people and being misleading for a wide majority. 

Let's go through the different aspects of phone versus dedicated GPS device point by point (however, quite surely without being complete). Basically you have to decide which points apply in your situation and how you weigh them. GPS reception and accuracy When the first smartphones with GPS units hit the market, there was the saying that their GPS positioning was less precise than that of dedicated GPS devices. The technical rationale given for this is that the GPS antenna of a smartphone has to be mounted hidden somewhere within the phone's body where it might not have optimal reception. In contrast dedicated devices have an antenna that is positioned in an optimal way, even if that means that the antenna sticks out a bit. However, that does not mean that the GPS accuracy in a smartphone is necessarily worse than a dedicated one, as for example this test has shown. State-of-the-art smartphones, especially the higher end ones, are in principle able to play in the same league with dedicated devices. But there are two possible drawbacks due to the internal antenna: 

I don't know for sure, but your suggestion seems right. As you can see on the picture you posted, these birds have their eyes on the side of their head which means that they quite surely are not able to see things right in front of their beak. So by turning their head they can look at their prey with one eye (no stereo vision but with better detail) before they then have to peck it more or less blindly. For us this appears kinda strange and impractical, but obviously it works quite well since their prey is moving slowly and is rather large compared to the bird's beak. So even if the prey is moving a bit over the time the bird needs to turn their head there and back, it will still be nearly at the same spot and the bird will normally need a maximum of two attempts to pick it up. 

Firn/névé: Snow consisting of several millimeters sized grains that develop by repeated melting in the sun and freezing over again during the night. Typically occurring in late winter and spring when the temperatures rise again or – in higher altitudes where snow exists all year – during summer. Powder: As the name says, very fine-grained snow that fell at rather cold temperatures (I would guess something like -5 to -10 degrees Celsius). sticky snow: Snow that fell at temperatures around zero degrees Celsius. Heavier than powder and sticks together when compressed – good for building snow men and snowball fights. harsh (Does this word exist as a noun in English?)/snow crust: A hard and thin, ice-like surface on softer snow underneath. Forming mostly on powder that whose surface was slightly molten during the day and froze over again in the night. Especially annoying if it is not thick enough to hold the weight of a person as moving (skiing, snowshoeing, walking) under such conditions is quite exhaustive. hardpack/wind slab (Don't know if necessarily the same?): snow that was carried away from its initial place and deposited somewhere else. Through the wind it is mostly quite compact. 

Above that, test facilities for such rope tests are very expensive and rare –I think to remember that there exist less than ten such test benches in whole Europe. Therefore performing such a test with a used rope would surely be more expensive than just buying a new one when in doubt. 

In short: Build up your base endurance! This will give you the ability to perform at moderate intensity over several hours and to recover quickly after the tour. This means, try to get many low-intensity but long training sessions. For your cardiovascular system it doesn't matter in the first place whether you do this by bike, running or hiking, just keep it long and easy. You basically wouldn't need any anaerobic exercise for that, however going to the gym or some climbing doesn't do any harm. For base endurance Steve House's Training for the New Alpinism recommends running or hiking over cycling as with cycling you are sitting and don't have to engage your core muscles that much which you will need to stabilize your body. I for myself am tempted to deviate a bit for that since Steve House seems to have only road cycling in mind if he thinks of cycling. In my experience mountain biking is not that bad here since it invokes a greater part of the body. In my personal experience also the type of load that you put on your thighs when pedaling is quite similar to that you have when when walking up over block terrain where you often have ascend up over steps of 20 to 50 cm height. Concerning running, don't care too much about intervals, up- and downhills and stuff, but focus on long and easy runs and not on pushing for speed. If you feel like doing some intervals, then do so, but sparsely. If you have some nice hilly ways to run then do that every now and then but don't concentrate too much on them (especially not in the early phase of your training, you can shift a bit more on those as your trip comes closer). In hilly terrain concentrate on the uphills – running downhill is primarily putting your leg joints at risk and doesn't give you much benefit, so see it as a necessary thing that you need to do to compensate for the uphill elevation gain but don't search it. If you run in hilly terrain try to combine steep uphills with flat downhills to maximize uphill performance and minimize injury risk. For hiking, in general don't take a heavier backpack than you have to (you can of course every now and then, to get a bit used to it and if you want to check things like if it fits) but try to have fun and get a long endurance workout. If possible, try to get your hikes in terrain that resembles a mountain tour, i.e. don't walk the rolling hills with 50m up, 50m down but try to get somewhere where you can have an hour or more of uphill followed by a downhill. In this case practice to hike quick but stay in the zone of aerobic exercise. As a recent song by Meghan Trainor says: It's all about that base!