According to Keynesian theory, if a country does not run a budget deficit of at least 1 percentage point greater than GDP growth, this will cause sunspots to appear, thus causing their economic future to be bleak. This can be contrasted with private markets where saver/borrower status of non-governmental agents is assured to enable rational optimization without succumbing to animal spirits. 

This could happen in fairly special conditions. I'm not sure that there would be much value in trying to state the conditions in a mathematical theoretical statement for a situation like that in Amsterdam. In other situations, the existence of positive externalities and network effects, a la Silicon Valley, can be stated concisely in a way that is relevant. But even if you can establish a mathematical theoretical statement expressing something to the effect of "once it's sufficiently up and coming with hipness, then prices may continue to rise even if supply increases faster than the number of incoming residents", it's hard to see what use that would be. Some fairly practical possible explanations which don't require anything complicated: maybe a lack of alternative investments caused people to invest more in their houses, driving up prices (demand being comprised in units of monetary instruments and not number of residents); perhaps the average newcomer was quite wealthy compared to previous residents (some of whom may cash in and move to cheaper suburbs); a low interest rate environment could result in the monthly rental rate of property being equivalent to a higher price. 

Trade deficits enable to export USD-denominated debt which is held by others, which is extremely linked to the ability to maintain reserve currency status. If the US were to pay off all its debt, or otherwise recall all USD-denominated debt to the US, or stop other means of exporting USD, then there would be less volume and liquidity of the USD. This would tend to reduce the importance of the USD in the international system, and thus reduce its use as a reserve currency. As for the exchange rate itself, various indicators and metrics are presumably of differing relevance in different times and contexts. But surely they can be more or less summed up by some notion of a) demand to hold/use USD and b) supply of USD-denominated financial instruments. In sum, trade deficits help to export USD which ensures volume and liquidity that underlies the reserve status, and that liquidity itself provides a stability which underlies much demand to hold and use USD. (Also, yes, please, check your numbers.) 

It depends if it's expensive to warehouse or stockpile it. It depends if it will be just as useful in 1 year or 5 years time. For example, you can stock a lot of iPhones in a small space, but no one wants to buy last year's iPhone. Whereas iron ores might be very useful in 5 years' time, but it would cost a lot to stock any relevant amount. 

If you research "discount rates", "time preference" or similar, you'll find all sorts of stuff about seemingly inconsistent decisions, some of which can in fact be explained quite well and some of which show some ways that people can be dumb sometimes. You'll find lots of approaches to modelling comparisons involving things like someone revealing an implicit interest rate of over 100% per annum in one situation while accepting 5% as a good return in another situation. I wouldn't focus too much on any specific paper. Check the bibliographies and see the variety of what's out there, and maybe narrow in on a handful of most-promising conceptualizations afterwards. As a point of contrast, you could introduce the lifetime income hypothesis of Friedman as discussed in many 1st and 2nd year textbooks. 

Because it is easier to model. If the main point were the role of risk preferences, or if risk preferences would affect the conclusions in some important way, further extensions would presumably be provided. 

It would increase the total supply of US treasuries available at any point in time, which would require a higher interest rate for the market to clear. Higher interest rates would increase the cost of capital in the US economy, which in most conditions will reduce investment. However, higher supply would also decrease the exchange rate of the USD, which could be beneficial for exports (which needs to be considered in a context of higher cost of consumer imports and higher cost of production inputs). "Dumping" would be fine as a descriptive word for many informal contexts, but "dumping" has specific meaning in an international legal context, such as in the WTO, and so regarding the specific question of what it would mean to unload large volumes of US treasuries at the same time, e.g. for the purpose of negatively impacting the US economy, "dumping" would not be the correct term. It should also be mentioned that China would immediately lose significant financial assets if the 1.2 trillion in treasuries were to lose 100 billion or 200 billion dollars in equivalent value. Considering the relatively large volume of credit extended in the Chinese economy relative to financial assets, this implies a relatively major economic cost to China if it were to make such a move. On the matter of strategic reasons to hold large volumes of US treasuries, the face value argument of the Chinese government is legitimate, if not the complete story: What else should they be holding if not US treasuries? 

Just because you have a trade deficit with the grocery store does not mean you would be better off growing your own food. 

Let's say the bank holds 100 dollars in deposits. If they are required to hold 5% in equity (or any other asset class that contributes to the requirement), then they can loan out 95 dollars of the 100 dollars. If they are required to hold 20% in equity (or any other asset class that contributes to the requirement), then they can only loan out 80 dollars of the 100 dollars. A relevant concept is "risk-weighted assets", where a highly rated asset (lower risk) contributes more to the requirement than a lowly rated asset (higher risk). If you read up on Basel III in Wikipedia, you can find out more about different types of capital requirements and other stuff that goes with that, in addition to other relevant concepts such as liquidity requirements, etc. Sometimes the main idea is to prevent a minor run on the bank from turning to catastrophe (maybe a depositor takes their 10 dollars out of the bank, and the bank is left with minus 5 dollars, and cannot meet the ongoing financing requirements of an investment project that they had previously committed to). Other times, it may prevent a small economic downturn from causing havoc in the financial system (maybe several loans are not repaid until later, and the bank has no additional liquidity to finance any new investment projects, causing investment in the economy to collapse). In both cases, the higher capital requirement provides protection against a small problem with one or two banks turning into an economy-wide catastrophe (although it is possible for the requirement to be "too high".) In other cases, a central bank may use capital requirements to influence overall credit in the financial system, similar to how central banks manage interest rates to influence inflation and thereby other macro variables.