On top of all this, here in Europe CX is pretty much a niche market. Most road bikers won't touch a CX bike, because they think they are slow (not true, as long as you don't race for a living). High end new CX bikes are all that leave the shops, those bikes then end up on the second hand market after a few years, where nobody seems to want them, thus you can get a much nicer bike for your $. All parts are interchangeable with road bikes too, apart from the brakes, so upgrading is always an option. All in all, CX bikes are just more rugged road bikes that seem to get very little attention by the mainstream road crowd. Too bad for CX manufacturers, but good for us no-nonsense bikers who are looking for a 3-in-1 bike solution. 

I am looking for practical advice on compatibility between various Shimano hydraulic disc brakes, especially the lever assembly. Currently I have two separate sets, one M446 Left lever, attached to a short hose and a caliper (front brake) and one M395 Right lever with a long hose (rear brake). I would like to have the right hand brake to be the front brake. Can I simply disconnect the brake hose and swap the levers? Do I need new 'Olives'(line inserts)? I know some Shimano disc brakes use a Banjo bolt connection, but this is not the case for my brakes. Some sites claim that all Shimano hydraulic parts are interchangeable. Others claim that there are very small differences in the brake hose diameter for newer brakes. Is there anyone who has made such a setup work? 

I am upgrading my MTB to disc brakes. I have disc compatible wheels and a set of Shimano M446 Postmount callipers and 160mm rotors. Front fork is a Manitou who decided to jump on the Postmount wagon pretty early, so setting up the front was straightforward. Mount the disc to the wheel, calliper to the frame and align everything. Done. The rear disc mount is 51mm IS, therefore I bought a Shimano rear IS to Postmount adapter. I mounted the rear 160mm disc to the wheel and installed the wheel, making sure it sits nice and straight in the dropouts. Trying to mount the rear calliper to the adapter, I noticed it doesn't fit. The adapter is a couple of mm too far to the left, so the calliper bolts will not fit. When looking from above, the disc and adapter are not parallel. The adapter itself is not damaged and is straight. The problem is with the IS disc mounts on the frame itself, they seem to be at a (slight) angle and not parallel with the disc. Using spacers to solve the problem is not an option, because of the angle between calliper and disc. As far as I know the bike has no crash damage and there are no signs of damage anywhere near the disc mounts. Probably something went wrong with manufacturing the frame? In case of a steel frame I could carefully bend the disc mounts back to be parallel with the disc, however as this is aluminium I am a afraid of damaging the frame. What are my options? Can I attempt to fabricate asymmetric spacers that will cancel the angle difference? 

[Source: Peugeot 1985 product folder] Note however that these frames are generally of good quality, and if not terribly rusty can be used for many more years (and of course are very cool and retro looking). These old racers still make for great touring/commuting bikes! (Not entirely unbiased as I have multiple bikes like this and love them a lot!) The price of such a bike, given that the frame is OK, is mostly determined by the state of all other components (wheels, gears, seat etc.) By the looks of it, most of the stuff on your bike is original, and looks like it's in good shape (definitely check this for yourself, photos are deceiving). If everything is ok, I would probably pay around 100 - 150 € for this. Don't be fooled because of the supposed retro-coolness, these bikes are quite abundant and not rare at all. If everything is not ok, drop the price below 100€ and do some work yourself, very rewarding and fun! 

TL:DR Get the CX Bike, you'll love it! You get three bikes in one, without trading in any noticeable performance on the road. This answer is subjective and based on personal experience, you have been warned: I have a CX bike that is used as a do-it-all bike, and I love it. For almost all aspects that concern any non-professional cyclist a CX is as good, or even better when compared to a "true" road bike, with some nice added benefits. Here's why: I use it to commute because: 

That bike is much older than 10 years. Probably somewhere in the '80s The bike pictured below is quite similar to yours, and was built in 1985. 

The main point of failure, and in my opinion the largest disadvantage of dynamo vs battery lights, shared by both hub dynamos and side wheel dynamos is: wiring. The wiring on a bicycle is often very fragile, and in my experience it is always the first thing to break on any bike. This is especially true if you park in a bicycle parking area where your bike is subject to other bikes falling over or otherwise being mishandled by other people. Add corrosion of the connectors in wintertime (salty spray from the wheels) to this mix, and you understand why dynamo lights are not reliable. The frequent movement due to steering of the wire as it crosses from the front fork to the frame can also be a frustrating point of (intermittent) failure, that can be especially hard to find. The rear wiring is especially vulnerable due to the length of the wire to the rear light (in case of a front dynamo, which is most common here) and the messy wiring that goes with connecting the light across the frame and rear mudguard. Some bikes use the frame as a conduction path (grounded frame) which at least eliminates one wire. This however requires conducting mudguards for rear lights and has the disadvantage that corrosion of the connecting points is common and leads to a gradual decrease in light output. The connection between a rear light and the metal mudguard is a notorious example of this. This also explains why bikes with a front side wheel dynamo and dynamo powered front light, combined with a battery powered LED rear light were very popular (in Europe at least) until a few years ago. This setup at least removes some of the major concerns (no more wire breaking due to steering, fewer connections and fewer and shorter wires) There have been a few improvements in making more reliable wiring, such as integrating conducting strips into the mudguards and using semi-automotive type connectors that should make the wiring more reliable. I would prefer to use dynamo powered lights on my bike, as I tend to forget my LED lights when I need them or forget to charge them, but the poor reliability of the dynamo/wiring combination prevents this.