To me it seems non-channeling spells are akin to traditional firearms with more variety and channeling spells appear closer to artillery. Therefore, channeling spells become a complete tactical weapon. Such large tactical weapons are part of the art of strategy. Imagine, for example, you have 5 veteran mages. As you say, they can each take out 3 soldiers each with ease. If you treat them as soldiers, they would each be performing to their abilities as individual mages. Let's say if it takes 5 minutes for each of these mages to take out 3 soldiers each, in thirty minutes your soldiers will have defeated 90 soldiers (.6 soldiers per mage per minute x 5 mages x 30 minutes = 90 soldiers). However, if you treat mages and magic as a strategical weapon, you would have these 5 mages stay back behind the lines and complete a channeling spell. After 30 minutes, those 90 soldiers are initially still there, but now some immense magical event takes place. Let's assume that the enemy doesn't have any mages so we can observe the pure effect of magic (like an experimental control). If they summon zombies, they've effectively created unkillable soldiers that will relentlessly pursue the enemy, effectively winning them the battle, if not the whole war (if they really can only be killed by arcane powers, as you say). This is akin to infinite reinforcements. If they summon a a weather effect, they eliminate far more than 90 enemy soldiers in a fraction of the time. This is akin to an air strike or an artillery strike. By removing the mages from the battlefield, not only do you prevent them from being attacked in the middle of battle (ignoring the potential of a siege), you also incomparably and exponentially increase the killing potential of your army. Two soldiers as infantry act like two people with guns, but put those two together in a tank and you have an armored behemoth that can annihilate far more than two machine gunners combined would separately. 

A one time pad at least as long as your message (or, if we're willing to settle for a shorter cipher, as many ciphers as you have messages) Received every message you've sent me up until your current one (and both of us destroying pads once they've been used) Successfully hidden my one time pad from the enemy 

The big thing to remember is that transgender people are a minority of a minority - as little as 0.2-0.3% of the population. Contrast being gay, which clocks in at one in ten. Most people in today's age of interconnectivity won't meet even a single transperson, let alone in pre-modern conditions. The most famous western example was the Marquis d'Eon, who effectively blackmailed the King of France into recognising her as a woman, and even she's pretty obscure (though transgenderism did come close to being named Eonism after her). With that in mind even cheating in modern medical knowledge for the setting would make it pretty difficult for transgendered people - even those with significant means to go with their motivation. But not impossible. Synthetic hormones are produced today using soybeans, which could be procured with effort. From there it wouldn't be outside possibility for a skilled chemist to develop a path to synthesise the appropriate hormone - whether for transition or something more pedestrian like menopause. Bearing in mind the combined rarity of the condition, the difficulty in procuring the raw materials (both base and any reagents needed for production), and the need to retain a personal chemist of no small skill, the whole process of transition, while possible, would be difficult in the extreme. Definitely only for wealthy monarchs or high ranking aristocrats. (Surgery? Sink me, no. The only thing you'd get that way, in those conditions, is another victim of infection.) 

There's a particular type of civilisation fairly common in fantastic worlds that broadly meet the following criteria: 

In principle there's nothing stopping a plant from developing a natural radio. Let's start with what a radio really is, in the most reductive form. A radio is nothing more than an antenna made of conductive material to particular dimensions, to make it resonant with electromagnetic waves of a particular frequency. By applying a changing electrical charge to it, we can cause it to emit signals of that frequency, and we can use it to receive signals of that frequency. Optionally, we might add a waveguide to concentrate or direct the signal. The conductor is easy - any nervous system is already a network of conductors transmitting electrical signals. Forming a section of nerve-like tissue in the shape of a patch antenna (so named for simply being a rectangle of copper on a surface or similar), placed near the surface, would make a perfectly serviceable, if rudimentary antenna. With this alone the rocket could communicate by radio over short distances by thinking into the antenna. Power is an issue but not insurmountable, given your plant is intelligent and able to grow rockets. Adding a waveguide isn't much harder. A properly shaped section of wood could easily act as a parabolic dish, and specially shaped cavities to act as resonators and waveguides is not without precedent- whales and dolphins already evolved this for their sonar. On the ground, a natural crater or dormant caldera would make for a marvellous dish - a particularly tall tree with a handful of antennae at the focal point of the dish would make for an excellent receiver. Combining the two, you could in theory have a plant that manages to incorporate a radio. It doesn't have to be a patch and a parabolic dish, either: if your plant can engineer a rocket, it can engineer an antenna and waveguide of any kind. In practice a lot will depend on the specific properties of the materials available to your plant. Mere wood as we know it is unlikely to be suitable for a waveguide, and the nervous system is unlikely to be up to the task of transmission. In the case of Avatar, the superconducting unobtanium rather dramatically solves the latter issue, though something more boring like a copper nervous system would probably be more than sufficient. Either way some exotic plant materials may be necessary to make this all work. 

A change in writing style is most easily explained by a change in language. If, perhaps due to some virus, the prevalence of deafness in the population massively increased, culture might change to one like Matha's Vineyard in the 18th to mid 20th centuries, where everyone, hearing and Deaf, used a sign language. Sign languages are not commonly written, but when they are, they are written vertically, in Sutton SignWriting. As the use of sign languages became more prevalent, they would probably be written more. Spoken languages would not disappear, of course, but as people became used to writing vertically, they might start writing their spoken languages that way too. 

Would you count a Flettner roter using the Magnus effect as a “sail”? Veritasium has a video on the Magnus effect and its usage in boats and planes. These boats with spinning cylinders rather than (or as well as) traditional sails can get quite large. A Gizmodo article refers to them as mega-ships, and describes Flettner rotors being retrofitted to a 110,000 dwt (Suezmax) tanker. The efficiency gains are tricky to calculate, and these Flettner rotors are intended for supplemental use in addition to an existing engine, but with more predictable wind conditions the calculations involved would be simpler and this type of vessel could become common. 

* Sign languages can be written, of course, but they often aren’t. ** Examples drawn from An Introduction to Language (6th Edition), by Victoria Fromkin & Robert Rodman. 

Historically, it has often been the other way around: the land is named after the people. Hence the large number of countries whose names end in -land or -stan. To answer your question, 

So how can you build your cephalopod language? Celaphapods have tentacles that can move. They don't have hands that can form complex handshapes. That, then, is where the colour comes in. Colour may have a direct morphological meaning (red means anger, for example), but no doubt would also have more abstract meanings (perhaps red as an intensifier, or brighter hues as an intensifier), and direct meanings (red means red). Tentacles can move and gesture; colour can change during the course of a sign, or be held over the whole thing. Different tentacles can sign different concepts at the same time, and bring them together to show a relationship (as in my the bus went past me example from earlier). Colours on the body of the animal (either the whole body or in patches of colour, maybe even moving patches of colour), meanwhile, function in a manner roughly equivalent to movement of the face, head, and shoulders in sign languages, functioning mainly as discourse markers, intensifiers, and indicators of tone and emotion, though there is no reason why other grammatical features, such as tense, aspect, or evidentiality, could not also be indicated there. 

None of these tactics guarantees a kill against a powerful Blood Shaman, but they all present at least a small chance to gain the upper hand against a Shaman. And the Shaman has to win every engagement. We just have to win once. 

Now it's our good fortune that this hasn't caused a nuclear accident to date but of the 32 broken arrow incidents to date any one of them could have ended in nuclear fire - many over US territory! So yes, it's entirely realistic and it wouldn't be all too distant a world in which we look back and ask 'is there a world where we never had a nuclear accident' Today's nuclear weapons are much safer by design, of course - a product of a great deal of hard work by many people - but it's not too hard to see how we could be back to that level of (hidden) risk. In 2011, some technicians at the Los Alamos nuclear laboratory decided it would be neat to pose 8 plutonium rods for a photo op. They were close enough that reporters clustering around to take photos would have caused a criticality incident (from their bodies reflecting neutrons), killing everyone in the room. As it was it was realised and carefully defused in time. The safety team walked off the job in disgust afterwards, and to this day the lab still hasn't been able to satisfy safety checks and remains closed. It's no effort at all to imagine a world not too far from now where growing political pressures and global instability have led to the development of new weapons. Where concerns about the ability to guarantee their detonation overrides concerns over how to prevent it. A new missile, built without the hard-won lessons of the nuclear age, 24/7 alertness drills, a miscommunication to an operator in Hawaii... It would be all too easy. 

The best reason to have human pilots, when the factions are roughly equivalent? You're trying to counter the remote drones. ECT has already gone all-in on drones, the answer isn't necessarily to switch to drones and try to catch up - ECT will have the advantage having already retooled their factories and refined their drone designs. (It could be the answer but that spoils the premise) Instead, SEDA takes advantage of the inherent need for a drone to have a remote link. Missiles packed with radio-interfering chaff. High tech electronic warfare suites. EMP missiles. A manned fighter can shield against this - a remote drone can't shield its antenna(e) For SEDA, manned fighters are the best option. They can fully EMP shield their own fighters then jam as loudly as they please, knowing their own fighters will be less affected and thus gain the advantage in a given battle.* There are a number of other smaller advantages (like reaction time being necessarily shorter being in the plane vs being 1000km away in a bunker, cheaper sensors in the form of the pilot, drones vulnerable to decapitation strike in remote facility) and disadvantages (a drone pilot survives their plane exploding) but how exactly those stack up and balance out in the end is up to you. *I discount here effective AI driven piloting as a major factor, as you've already specified - that would invalidate the premise altogether. If they exist they must be significantly inferior to a human pilot because otherwise even remote drones are gone 

Most conlangs are the work of one person. Whatever the legalities, it would be odd to borrow them for a new work. However, there are ongoing efforts in many conlanging communities (such as Reddit’s /r/conlangs), to construct conlangs within the community, with no one owner, open for use by anyone. There are a couple of active projects on Reddit, and no doubt also a few elsewhere. 

English grammar, I assume. And the answer is that it could be almost anything, as English is happy to adopt words from other languages, and demonyms are often highly irregular. If you are deriving the name of the people from the place (as does happen, sometimes), Bonfithian seems right. But compare Mancunian (Manchester), Liverpudlian (Liverpool), Londoner (London), Hollander (North Holland & South Holland), Glaswegian (Glasgow), Galwegian (Galway), Corkonian (Cork), Rohirrim (Rohan) to see some of the variability out there. If you develop a conlang, you could derive the English word from that of the conlang. Basically, the choice is up to you. You should consider the history of the kingdom, and think about where the name comes from. If the land is named after the people, then the people should have the shorter name; if the people are named after the land, then the name of the people will be longer: probably the land name followed by a suffix. Or the two names could be completely unrelated: consider the Dutch living in The Netherlands. 

Symbols matter. When the Irish Free State started minting their own coins, there was massive controversy. The Free State was no longer part of the United Kingdom, but at the time still recognized the British Monarch as Head of State. And yet they minted coins with just a heraldic harp, not a heraldic crowned harp. Some people saw this as disrespectful. Perhaps it presaged Ireland’s eventual exit from the British Commonwealth of Nations and declaration of itself as a full Republic with an elected president as Head of State. 

You, uh, you understand that this demand leads immediately to the total defeat of the moon, yes? Earth happily capitulates, then shortly thereafter wins the war. In this world you've designed, the moon relies on its ability to arbitrarily shoot down anything Earth launches at it for its defence. Now you ask Earth to start sending rockets full of resources. You just gave the Earthlings an all access pass through your defences. They could do anything with that access. That resource rocket actually contained an enormous nuke. Those resources are contaminated with an insidious genetically engineered disease. That last shipment smuggled in Flash Gordon and now he's going to seduce the beautiful daughter of your brilliant but moral-to-a-fault lead scientist. That rocket just unfolded to reveal a WW2-era Japanese battleship, and it's charging its overpowered energy cannon now. Better go back to the drawing board. 

One of the points made in a number of recent questions regarding underwater races has prompted me to review one of my older pieces of world-building. Namely: the difficulty of producing common structural materials like steel or concrete in an aquatic environment. I have a species of intelligent, fishlike aliens that live on an ocean world - a world much like ours, only the sea level is high enough to submerge all but the highest peaks. This species is the product of a prolonged uplifting program by a much more advanced civilisation - their technology is by now distantly descended from a wide variety of prefabricated factories introduced to them during the initial uplift. Accordingly the bootstrap problem isn't a big deal, since it can be assumed they acquired any necessary knowledge and equipment from their erstwhile benefactors. Similarly necessary raw materials such as ores can be safely assumed to be present. Technologically they're what we might think of as a contemporary - they're comfortably industrialised and have turned their attentions to spaceships. What components they can't fabricate underwater are produced in aerated industrial complexes built in shallow parts of the world, supported by vast logistical networks. Suitable locations are limited, though, and I'd prefer not to rely on shallow plateaus for all industrial production. In general for this species, air-breathing manufacturing is expensive and inefficient but nevertheless possible - their motivation for moving industry to aquatic manufacture is a matter of efficiency more than for lack of alternatives. What I'm looking for is a structural material that can be produced underwater with little to no reliance on atmospheric gases or access to the surface. Optimally it would be usable in ways comparable to steel, but it should at least be suitable for construction. Typical applications would be shelters/homes (against wildlife and aquatic weather), storage, workplaces, and so on.