Coherentism Note their view on skeptisim of an external world (Brain in a vat / trapped in virtual reality / universe is a simulation arguements) 

Ah qualia, a source of much controversy in the field of philosophy of mind, some deny it entirely (What really?) others argue about what exactly it is... Before we talk more about it, let us loosely define what it is exactly : 

I will attempt to contest this point under the rules of the thought experiment. I'm assuming when you say "you" you mean a "me" on twin earth. and 

A Facebook group Philosophy Matters posts philosophy related jokes from time to time. Today they posted this image : 

It seems like you are worried that betting on your life might cause you to die somehow through some kind of supernatural means. This is just your personal superstition at work. You will not magically die because of your bluff. However, if you bet on your life to someone that might decide to extract revenge on you, there is the possibility that they might try to make you pay your self proclaimed stakes. This bet might be OK in casual circumstances with friends, but don't verbalize it inside of any crime rings. 

You have proposed two moral principles: 1) You don't want to be a "wage slave" (as you define it). 2) You don't want to live on the resources of others. There are two assumptions a) working for yourself is not readily available and b) you want to survive. In the context of the assumptions, the two moral principles are, on their face, inconsistent -- a common human problem. We usually try to live with the inconsistency, using one principle at one time and the other at another depending on the situation or our emotional state. Alternatively, you could choose one and jettison the other. In doing so you will have to compare their value. Which principle does the most good? Which one can you live with? Under what circumstances would you be able to change your mind? As is typical, I have answered a question with more questions. 

Now not knowing anything about Hegel I of course do not know enough to get the joke, aside from the obvious juxtaposition in the pictures. What is this le sacre monstre according to Hegel, and why do the 3 views/person see it the way they do? 

So really your acquaintance almost hit the nail on the head when they claimed you were describing except what he REALLY meant was as you pointed out. The "Objectivist" is not arguing from an "Is" to an "Ought" but from an "I want" to an "ought" and as such, they really have an even bigger gap to close, if they want to provide a gap closing rationale. 

Or more simply stated, qualia is what a conscious mind experiences. So why should we doubt our qualia? This is the age old debate between the rationalist and the empiricist, the hard-line empiricist stating all we can trust is our experiences, and the hard-line rationalist saying only trust reason. This being of course a very shallow summary of the debate. There are many hypothetical arguments on why to doubt qualia, the inverted qualia thought experiment for example... however I believe you are looking for something more concrete. In that case we can go to something that everyone has experience with... Dreams, dreams are the strongest example that we can in fact be mistaken about our qualia. We can tweak some of the ideas in Descartes' Meditations to derive a convincing argument that we cannot always trust our qualia. There might be people who deny that they have ever been immersed in a realistic dream, only to awake and realize their experiences for the past few hours do not exist in the objective world, but we doubt their sincerity in such maters. 

If we restrict ourselves to the definition of create and eternal: Create: bring (something) into existence. Eternal: lasting or existing forever; without end or beginning. Then the answer is no. You can not bring something eternal into existence because that presupposes that it did not exists before it was created. By definition anything that once didn't exists and now does exists is not eternal. This is perhaps just babble in semantics but it is what your questions asks. However, to not kill the fun of the question, perhaps we can think of eternal as relative to something. It may be possible that something is eternal in relation to one thing but not in relations to something else. 

To support you on "only the physical exists", if you break down all functions of the brain to be a hierarchy of thought patterns (aka electrican signals), then the sort of intangible concepts you are referring to are simply the result of very complex network of interconnected patterns. Take for example the internet. What is the internet? Where is the internet? your computer is not 'The' internet. A particular website is not 'The' internet. They are both part of it, but the internet itself is something that emerges from the complexity of interconnections between nodes. So to answer your question. When we speak of happiness or pain or justice or society it is a complex structure that our words are referring to. There is not one thing that we can point to. It is the combination of many things which we have encapsulated in a word for easy reference. The reduction to something physical can, at least, be found in the human brain if not anywhere else. Something else to consider: If you have a Pile of sand and you start removing 1 grain of sand at a time. at what point does the Pile cease to be a pile of sand? is 2 grains of sand a pile? what about 10 grains? Is the whole idea of a pile of sand not a physical reality? Another one: A grouping of musical notes arranged in a certain way create a song. call it Song 'A'. Take those same notes and re-arrange them. Song 'A' no longer exists; However, all the same components of the Song 'A' remain. What exactly is it that made the song a song? Do you consider a song physical or non-physical? I suggest you read: Ray Kurzweil's How to Create a Mind. - He breaks down how the mind is just a network of complex patterns. Also read: Tubes: A Journey to the Center of the Internet by Andrew Blum - Blum takes the intangible concept of the internet and tries to give it a physical reality. 

I believe the simple answer would be that this intelligence is not naturally occurring, but engineered or created. Once created it learns naturally, but there is still the prerequisite of being created. 

I found the Oxford Handbook of Epistemology quite helpful. It does a great job at clearly defining what each view or topic in epistemology is, before diving into the problems, virtues, and arguments for and against each view. There is a ton of information in it (around 600 pages) and I have yet to finish it, but it is very readable and a great reference. I checked the index and unfortunately Hypnagogia is not contained within the book bindings. The titles of the chapters within are as follows 

The difference between nihilism and and existentialism is that nihilism proclaims that there is no meaning, whereas existentialism (mostly) states that each individual must decide their own meaning. The Myth of Sisyphus written by Camus speaks of rolling a rock up a hill over and over only to have it fall back down. This is an interesting metaphor and Camus' argument against nihilism. The last two lines of the story I have quoted below, but you shoulds really read the entirety in a sitting when you have time. 

If you are looking for a congregation of almost all atheists which provides religious-like activities such a Sunday school, baby naming ceremonies, memorial services, wedding ceremonies and a community nurtured by regular meetings, you should try Ethical Culture. Ethical Culture congregations are located primarily in the northeast from Washington to Boston. The biggest congregations are in St. Louis and Washington. There are also congregations in Texas, North Carolina, Silicon Valley, and a few other places. Check the website of the American Ethical Union for more information. (Disclosure: I am a member of the Baltimore Ethical Society and the AHA). Some Ethical Culture Societies are affiliated with the American Humanist Association (AHA). Other Humanist related congregations in which atheists can feel comfortable include The Society for Humanistic Judaism, Reconstructionist (Jewish), some but not all Unitarian-Universalist congregations, and some Buddhist groups. Each of these secular congregations has found their own way to make peace with religion, the professed dominant culture in the US and most Western countries. You might also investigate Humanism, which, for some, is a philosophy and, for others, a big tent encompassing ideas that range from Naturalism to Deism. The AHA is a strong advocate for Secularism; it publishes books and a monthly magazine and it holds an annual conference. In all these venues various non-theistic ideas are discussed. For reading, I suggest the 2009 book "Good Without God: What a Billion Nonreligious People Do Believe" by Greg M. Epstein, the Humanist Chaplain at Harvard. It contains a nice Appendix with thumbnail sketches and contacts for over a dozen "Humanist and Secular Resources." 

There is no universal purpose for learning which applies to everyone. Just as there is no one reason why someone becomes a Doctor. Some become Doctors to help people, Some for social status, some for the money... The purpose of learning for many people is a means to an end. So it is easy to see why many people prefer a spoon fed answer when asking a question. Sometimes the purpose of learning is for the satisfaction of gaining knowledge and better understanding for no other reason then to"know". Myself for example consider learning a hobby and enjoy it for its own sake. The best way to answer a question or pass on your knowledge to another is to empathize with the goal of that specific individual. If they want a quick answer then give them one. If they want deep understanding then take the time to help them understand.