Cutting off a head in one blow is somewhat harder than it may sound; the main issues are that the vertebrae are hard bones and unless the executioner is skilled he could miss, hitting the head or back instead. If the executioner misses by even an inch things can get very messy. In those days a class of professional executioners existed who used specialized swords designed for decapitation. An example is shown below: 

The town of Novigrad may be the most northern town of Greek origin. Reputedly it was originally founded by the Greeks as Neapolis (new city). 

The show trials of the 1936 to 1938 period were widely denounced throughout western Europe and the United States. There was formed an international inquiry to exonerate Trotsky, sometimes called the "Dewey Commission." This board made highly publicized reports documenting the falsification of the evidence and unsubstantiated allegations made in the Vyshinsky prosecution. Counter-Stalinist responses were given wide publicity, not just as editorials, but as news. For example, when Trotsky wrote an open letter from exile in Norway claiming that Lenin's widow privately denounced Stalin as "without honor" and immoral, this was widely published as news. In the United States, although some public leaders like Roosevelt and his followers made no statements against Stalin, many others routinely condemned both the murderous policies of Stalin against the Soviet people, and his vicious oppression of opposition to his rule. For example, in 1938 Herbert Hoover, the former president, gave a speech the theme of which was the following: 

Although the Portuguese had dozens of small forts and watering stations all along the coast at various times, none of these were developed as settlements because South Africa originally had no interesting or valuable trade goods to provide. South Africa has a dry climate and the aborigines were very primitive hunter/gatherers. There were no mines, spices or other useful commodities there, so the colonial nations, including the Portuguese, regarded it as a barren wasteland and more or less ignored it. Eventually small farmers and ranchers started settling there for the precise reason that it was relatively unoccupied. They could just move in and graze cattle freely. Once this happened, eventually valuable mines and minerals were found in the interior of the country. But originally, none of this was present so the Portuguese had no interest in occupying the land there, especially since there were much larger and developed trading areas such as Mozambique. 

Cardigan did not exist in Roman times. It was established by the Normans in the 12th century. The nearest known Roman remains to Cardigan are in Carmarthen, about 25 miles away. The entire area was in the Irish sphere of influence before 700 AD. 

Where the time since the vikings (850 AD) is the current age, being a time of secular kings who have "degenerated" away from Christianity in the view of Erasmus. Note that both schemes vaguely imagine an unnamed pre-Bible age where marriage was unknown, a sort of "pre-god" period in which the earth was populated by heathens. 

It should be noted that historically most bailiffs were private persons anyway and the only thing that distinguished them was possession of a writ of arrest. Other countries generally always have had similar laws. For example, in pre-Meiji Japan the law was that a person could not arrest another, but you could demand a person's name and insist they report to the nearest police station to answer for a crime. In such cases YOU (the accuser) had to go to the police station immediately as well. To fail to answer such an accusation meant death. Note that you could only arrest a peer in this way. A commoner, for example, could not demand the name of a samurai. If a person was an outlaw in Japan, anybody could kill them freely. The general pattern in Europe follows the Roman principle venices injuriam, the vengeance of the injured, which allows anyone who is harmed, or even a witness, to raise hue and cry and arrest the perpetrator. For example, in the Republic of Venice anybody could arrest a criminal on the fly. Quoting from Lithgow (1770): 

During the siege of Corregidor the Japanese used an observation balloon for artillery spotting (14th Army Opns, II, App. VIII, pp. 37-45.) The Japanese used an observation balloon during the siege of Singapore (see any detailed history of the siege). At the Battle of Nomonhan (1939) the artillery had a small, independent detachment called the "Balloon Unit" that operated hydrogen-filled observation balloons for artillery spotting, apparently a very dangerous duty. (see Nomonhan: Japan Against Russia, 1939, by Alvin Coox) No English language discussion of the use of observation balloons exists for China that I could find, but that is probably just because there were not that many English speakers involved in the battle for China. I am sure Chinese sources will describe the balloons, as the Japanese undoubtedly used them for artillery spotting throughout the war. 

A traditional British regiment was divided into 3 battalions. A standard battalion had nominally 800 foot soldiers. A standard regiment, 2400 soldiers. Quoting from "A New and Enlarged Military Dictionary" by Charles James (1802): 

The saying is apocryphal and was originated by the populist author T. Cushing Daniel, a Washington-based lobbyist and lawyer, in his testimony before the U.S. Congress in 1911 in hearings on House Resolution 314 (whether financiers were restricting trade by domination of the money supply). This is what Daniel said: 

Later the poem describes how King Constantine of the Romans was converted to Christianity and speaks of Eusebius, "bishop of Rome". There were actually many Roman cities in England and even in the 8th century "Rome" still existed in England in particular communities containing real colonists descended from actual Romans. So, not only were the people in England aware of Rome, they considered them to be friends and neighbors, even. There is a very interesting book, recently published, which is a micro-study of one such town, called Wasperton. The book is called "Wasperton: A Roman, British and Anglo-Saxon Community in Central England.". As you can read in this book, Latin was still widely being spoken in England in the 8th century among ordinary people. Many people even considered themselves to be actual "Romans" even though they were "temporarily" being ruled by barbarian kings. Now, you might ask, how could someone consider themself to be a Roman, when their king is a Saxon? The answer is that often the Saxon king was far away and the real leader of the community is a bishop, as was often the case. The bishop speaks Latin, every Sunday you go to mass and hear the Latin, you and your friends speak Latin and British. The king might be Saxon, but he speaks a strange language and is not even a Christian and he lives in a town far away. You and your friends live a Roman life, even though Rome itself has been destroyed and the capital moved to Ravenna. Latin was the lingua franca of the entire island and it was widely spoken by not just ex-Roman communities like Wasperton, Withington and Viroconium, but in many other areas. This is what Bede wrote in the first sentence of his book on the history of Britain: 

In the 1865 catalog of Bernard Quaritch (one of the oldest and most respected book dealers in the world) it says that the epithet of "Il millione" (by the millions) is an idiom meant to be a mocking nickname for someone prone to exaggeration. In his own time, many of Marco Polo's stories were regarded as outlandish and wildly exaggerated. Someone who tells stories "by the millions" means that they are making huge exaggerations. Also, by the way, Marco Polo was born and raised in Korcula, not Venice. His family originally was from Sibenik, but by the time of his birth they were operating out of Korcula. 

The wax was engraved with a pointed wooden stick called a stylus. The reverse end of the stick had a spatula which could be used to erase, as can be seen in the image above. The writing on papyrus was relatively slow compared to using a pen, because it was brushed on. This was unimportant though, because when something was written to papyrus (very expensive) it was usually an important work, so the amount of time taken to write it was not important. If they wanted to write notes or something fast, wax would be used, which was reasonably fast. In some cases charcoal was used to take notes on a convenient surface like clay or stone. 

Middle China between the Yangtze River and the Yellow River has a very wet, muddy physiography. At the time the roads between Nanking and Hankou (now called "Wuhan") were poor and water logged. Moving heavy equipment and motorized vehicles over such terrain is difficult. For this reason it made more sense to attack from the north, not the west. From the north there was better ground and a railway line to use for reinforcement. 

The remedy was a quack preparation promoted and sold at least since 1911 by a convicted criminal and fraudster named Charles Aycock who posed as a doctor. He first tried peddling "Tuberclecide" in Albuquerque, then moved to Los Angeles. In February of 1915 the United States Department of Health issued a bulletin denying that they had been "investigating" this nostrum to counterattack false advertisements being published by Aycock. In 1918 the Attorney General's office in Los Angeles tried to sue Aycock for "misbranding" (mislabelling) his products unsuccessfully, the FDA concluding Aycock had labelled his products in "good faith". In 1927 the Postmaster General ordered the Los Angeles Post Offices to stop forwarding mail to Aycock's company on the grounds he was perpetrating a fraud and Aycock sued the postal service unsuccessfully. After the Post Office cut him off Aycock decided it was time to retire. By that time he was extremely wealthy. Tuberclecide was one of many patent medicines sold at the time for tuberculosis which included products such as "Tuberculozyne," "Lung Germine," "Oxidaze" and many others. The practice of selling such remedies ended in the United States with the passage of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938 which was incited by the Elixir Sulfanilamide poisoning and greatly increased the FDA's powers. Ironically, sulfanilamide was not a nostrum at all, but was a legitimate medicine. So, it was outrage over a poisoning by a real medicine that led to fake medicines being banned by federal law. 

I have not seen any Soviet posters featuring the pro-German propaganda during the one-and-a-half year non-aggression pact era (October 1939 to June 1941), but undoubtedly they existed. The pro-German propaganda is well attested by many scholars. For example: 

In the August, 2001, issue of the journal Geology a paper was published "New evidence for the geological origins of the ancient Delphic oracle (Greece)" (pp. 707-710) claiming a geologic fault emitting gases was located directly below the location of the shrine. 

The President could dismiss the Chancellor (Hitler) at any time. The Reichstag could force the resignation of the Chancellor (Hitler) or any other government minister at any time by a vote of no confidence. When Hitler became President and took power by emergency decree, the Reichstag could have legally nullified this decree by vote if it so chose. 

The United States has traditionally been a free country, not requiring people to carry identifying documents. Even today, there are only some states that have stop and identify statutes requiring people to identify themselves when stopped on "suspicion" or for other non-criminal reasons. Even those states mostly require a person only give their name, not provide actual documentation. Before recent times (about 1970) people in the United States were mostly known from employment records. When a person was employed a detailed investigation of their identity was generally done. This would involve questioning their "credentials" which might include letters of recommendation and a birth certificate, for example. When this was complete and satisfactory, an employee identification card was issued. Here is an example from 1906: