Basic Beginner Lifting If I were new to weight training and doing yoga (or almost anything) four times a week, I'd either: 

Running benefits from strength in the posterior chain, particularly the hamstrings, glutes, and lower back. Lower body strength generally will help as well. Dumbbell squats, squat-jumps, lunges, and deadlifts, done as heavy as possible, would be ideal for this goal. Power and speed development is also important. For that purpose, dumbbell cleans, swings, and snatches are called for. In the interest of balance, it might be nice--but not required--to add in some overhead presses and dumbbell rows for the upper body. I don't see any particular reason to do sit-ups for a 10k race, particularly if you're getting stronger in the abs from heavy lifting. I prefer planks. But they would probably be fine. 

The first place people look for the purpose of rapid general strength gain is generally Starting Strength (the wiki is as quick-and-dirty as possible; the book is the best and most detailed overview on this topic I've ever seen) or StrongLifts (ebook sign-up), which is most appropriate for non-athletes or people who have been inactive for several years. Either of these would be fine. However, any simple beginner barbell strength program would also be fine. Per Mark Sisson's overview: 

On review of your previous questions, I'm worried that you may be program-hopping. I understand that injuries are to be respected, but it's more important to be consistent on any one single program than to constantly switch from StrongLifts to Reg Park to a minimal bodyweight-only program to dumbbells and onward to something else. You seem to be experiencing analysis paralysis--or its cousin, hyperoptimization after excessive research. Resolve yourself to stick to one program for three months. Mark down the dates. Keep the training volume low. Scale back your expectations for progress. If you get injured, remove or replace only affected exercises and continue doing everything else the same. Picking a program has a lot to do with what you've been doing previously. Is what you describe a good program? Yes! Does that mean that it's better than whatever you're already doing? No! A bad program followed diligently is better than switching from program to program, even if each one is better than its predecessor. Maybe I'm mistaken, and you haven't been program-hopping. But I strongly recommend reviewing your workout log (you do have a workout log, right?) and seeing how frequently you abandon one approach. I've done it myself for long stretches of time, and my results were always better when I stuck to one thing--any one thing--for at least three months at a time. 

It doesn't much matter. I switch it up to avoid favoring one side or the other. If always starting on the right helps you keep track of sets, then I can't see it being a tremendous problem. 

When describing exercise routines, people are referring to sets per exercise. But flat and incline bench have enormous amounts of overlap, so doing sets of five for both will mean that you are almost certainly shorting one or both of them with regards to maximal weight, meaning you will build bigger muscles but get strong less quickly. Picking one or the other--and perhaps alternating it with overhead press--would be superior for the goal of strength. 

The Bare Minimum of Exercise Major health science organizations recommend a minimum of substantial aerobic activity and several strength training workouts per week. For instance, the CDC says that according to the evidence, 

One. Overtraining is person-specific. Most given routines could overtrain one person while leaving another atrophying from insufficient effort. Two. In general, alternating muscle groups doesn't prevent overtraining. You can absolutely overtrain while using such a method. 

This says the same thing as above--three warm-up sets, then three work sets. I think this is perhaps my most unambiguous and concise notation, making it the best. It has a drawback that is also a benefit: it accounts for failures. This is good, because it minimizes scratching out "3x5" when I fail at the last set. It's bad, because it reduces the consequences and certainty of completing the sets as planned. 

You have to ask yourself: are you lifting because it's fun, or to achieve a goal? Do you want to fart around in the gym, or are you there to achieve something? If you want to exercise, modify away. Do the exercises that are fun, arrange them for maximum enjoyment. But if you are training, if you are working towards a goal, if you want to get somewhere long-term by picking up the barbell, I recommend being diligent and consistent and sticking as close as possible to the program as written. It's your choice. You are inevitably burdened with the responsibility of choosing freely. 

Without much detail it's hard to know what your deficiencies are. But what worked for me was three things: 

...and many, many more. The test is simply, "can you do it at all?" for any of the items on the list. In his CrossFit gym, Dave Werner uses a similar set of Athletic Skill Level tests (PDF) which includes non-strength attributes. Starting a strength-measurement regimen Since you are just starting out with measuring your strength, I would recommend the following: 

You have not stalled. The workout program has not become ineffective. Your struggle is normal. Barely finishing your last set is normal. It is okay. It is expected. Most of the time, it still means you should add weight to the bar the next time. Because you'll be able to lift it. The weight you're at is never going to feel light. It's always going to feel heavy. You'll just be able to lift it. That's a big transition right around 200 pounds--190 for someone your size, 210 or 220 for someone my size. It's where most people go from "oh this is hard I suppose, but...grrr...OK there it goes" to "WHAT IS THIS ON MY BACK I'LL NEVER STAND UP GARRRHAGGAGGGAGHHHH". You're in the transition from the weight feeling doable to the weight feeling heavy. Ignore this feeling. Lift it anyway. I bet you can. It will never get easier if you keep lifting 190 or less. This is actually the stage when the program becomes most effective. But you must push yourself, not just physically but mentally. You must attack the bar. Keep in mind good form and proper depth and so forth, but first and foremost YOU MUST LIFT THE BAR. 

Strength work, particularly deadlifts, is very beneficial for sprinters and middle-distance runners. It may help for marathon work as well. Take care with too much stretching work: mobility/flexibility of some kinds is inversely correlated with some sports performance. For instance, a short, tight Achilles tendon makes for better running economy. 

He notes that the difference between the sexes is really just a function of body mass distribution between the upper and lower body: 

Throughout, I will refer to actual dips, not bench dips. What is the real difference between dips and push ups? First of all, dips are harder than push-ups. Good. That means they're better at making you stronger. That's why the "Average F'ing Program" you link to advises people to switch to dips as soon as possible. It's a strength program, after all. You do a small number of mostly barbell exercises, nearly as heavy as possible for 3 sets of 5 reps, and you increase the weight every workout. People get stronger on these programs, very efficiently and very quickly. Push-ups get you stronger, but not as quickly or efficiently or as much. Dips are plain harder, and therefore more productive. They're only included as an assistance exercise for pressing strength. (And regardless, the overhead press and the bench are responsible for the vast majority of strength increases; push-ups and dips are a way to do something like those two exercises, but not spend a lot of energy on it.) Under which circumstances should I choose which exercise? You should choose dips over push-ups when you want a harder exercise that builds strength more effectively. Push-ups require less equipment, which is nice. They're also easier to do a lot of volume with, so that can make them better for non-strength workouts. What would be an effective method to combine both of my programs? I'm not a fan of the "X number of Y exercise" gimmick. 100 pushups, 150 dips, 500 sit-ups, 200 squats...all of these "programs" are just a money machine for people to buy the smartphone apps instead of getting on a real strength and conditioning program. They promote a simplistic view of exercise and encourage people into unbalanced workout routines. For instances, pushes should be balanced with pulls. If you want to stick with these programs, I'd do pull-ups along with push-ups instead. (Then again, I have doubts that most people could get to 25 consecutive full-range-of-motion, no-kip pull-ups in the kind of time frame these programs advertise.) That would probably be better than putting two pushing programs together. Or, you could do pull-ups and (real) dips. But more importantly, these programs aren't meant to be combined. A hundred push-ups is a fairly specific goal, and the program assumes you aren't doing another one concurrently. Maybe it'll work anyway, but I wouldn't assume it would. I'd expect to get burnt out doing so much work that overlaps. If you're willing to branch out into other bodyweight strength and conditioning programs, I'd look to Coach Sommer or Ross Enamait. They have real strength, strength-endurance, and conditioning workouts and programs using bodyweight only. 

What you need to determine is how many work sets you're doing, not how many total sets. For me, anything south of 250 is more of a warm-up set. I'll do 3 to 5 at 135 or 145, 215 or 225, and in the upper 200s before doing a set (or two) in the 300s. Only that last one is what I consider a work set, which is the one that matters. Doing five sets from 115 to 175 (which is near your max) is a little odd, however. It may be fine--maybe the idea is to pyramid up--but it couldn't hurt to ask which ones are warm-ups, which ones are meant to be heavy, and how the programming works. But don't get married to the "one set of five for deadlifts" idea. That's common for novice programming, but not necessarily the One True Way. 

Yes Sure, extra training can cause overtraining. But I don't think it'll be because you're overworking your legs. Squats are Not "Leg Exercises" Squats and deadlifts are only leg exercises if you're concerned with bodybuilding. They may be primarily leg-oriented, but they are full-body exercises. Your back and trunk, for instance, do a large amount of work in both squats and deadlifts. Recovery is a Whole-Body Affair You might overwork your legs. But it's much more likely that you'd overwork everything. The problem, if overtraining arises, would not be that you're overworking your leg muscles. It would be that you're taxing your recovery ability generally. Interval training and lifting both take a lot to recover from. Your sleep and nutrition have to be spot-on to do both in a 5-6 day workout regimen without risking burnout in the long term. This doesn't mean that you necessarily will run into overtraining issues. My point is just that if you do, it won't necessarily be because of your legs. Your current workout plan sounds pretty great. If it's working, it's working. If you start feeling burnt out or lethargic, dial it back, eat more, and sleep more. 

My preference would be to do conditioning like sprints on non-lifting days. Tuesday would be a good fit: you won't undercut your lifting efforts by tiring yourself out before a max-effort or volume day. But if I had to do my sprints on a lifting day, I'd make it Friday for the extra recovery time. 

This program looks like a lot of exercises with not a lot of weight. Even if your goal is getting big purdy muscles, I'd reduce the number of exercises and focus on getting better at a wider variety of movements. Stick to one kind of curls per workout--you're not big or strong enough to need more than one. After removing a bunch of exercises, I'd put more emphasis on pull-ups and chin-ups, add in dips, consider adding rows, and do at least some push-ups and Hindu/divebomber push-ups. 

No static program will bring constant improvement. If you want to continue increasing flexibility over time, you need to do something like regularly attend a yoga class, where the exercises used progress over time and you're exposed to a wide variety of movements. 

If you want upper body muscle and less body fat, you need to do (1) upper body strength work and (2) whole-body conditioning work. Right now your program has some of the first and none of the second. Here's what I would add, in order of likely usefulness: 

I think this approach works well for coming back from an injury and taking it easy on potential injuries. For what it's worth, I've also found pull-up negatives to be helpful with elbow tendon inflammation. 

I don't have research that specifically addresses static passive flexibility, but I have this from Thomas Kurz' Stretching Scientifically: The meaty, scientific evidence comes on page 27: 

The two approaches are different. There is an intensity component. The state of your body qua warming up is different. Recovery between sets is different. Each can be effective, but usually one should do work in a workout rather than on its own. See "greasing the groove". 

The Old Science: "Walking Is Enough" Let's frame the health question with some data from the American Heart Association: 

Squat-specific movements More recently, my squat form has been tremendously improved through the use of a variety of mobility exercises and stretches, such as: 

Yes, go. It's okay to work through soreness. If you're so despairingly sore that you can't lift your arms, don't go to gymnastics, see a doctor. 

Once the trainee is comfortable with this exercise using greater than bodyweight loads for sets of 5, it's a good time to introduce Olympic movements like the power clean. 

Minimum height You need to be able to hang from the bar and not touch the ground with your knees. Maximum height You need to be able to pull yourself all the way up, chest touching the bar, and still have at least an inch or two of space between your head and the ceiling or anything else. Optimal height It's great to be able to just barely reach the bar by getting on your toes, because then you can hang from it and not have to bend your knees. Some people even prefer the bar higher, so they need to jump, or step up on a box or something, to get on the bar. It's also great to have a ton of space above the bar for muscle-ups, skin-the-cats, and other gymnastics. 

There are many kinds of weight training. A well-designed program designed to develop strength, power, conditioning, and athleticism for sport will not make you less flexible. The movements themselves in such a program will make you more flexible and even force you to improve mobility in order to complete the program. Hallmarks of such an approach are full range of motion exercises like deep squats, exercises that require proper posture like deadlifts, and a balance between pushing and pulling. To (over)generalize, bodybuilding-style training often neglects these factors and hinders mobility, whereas Olympic-weightlifting style training by necessity produces fairly flexible shoulders, hips, and hamstrings. 

Strength is defined as the ability to produce force. The closest analogue for this is the ability to lift or otherwise move a known mass. So yes, lifting more weight by definition means one is more strong. (That does not mean that lifting more on Tuesday than you did on Monday means that you've become stronger. It's possible that you are of the same or lesser strength, but are simply working at a higher effort.) Technically a weaker person might lift more than a stronger person because of other factors--luck, a mistake of balance or breathing, and so on--but the simplest test of who is stronger is who can lift more weight in a given movement. The deadlift is the highest regarded test for this purpose, though the squat, bench press, and overhead press are solid contenders as well. Lifting the same weight multiple times measures strength, but is confounded by the role of muscular endurance. 

I'll try to stay tight to your "science" and "evidence" clauses, because there's a whole lot of non-science reasons to use free weights. (Just off the top of my head, there's cost, versatility, compactness, and portability.) This roundtable discussion (PDF), with copious references, is one of my favorite sources for the machines/free-weights science. Among the points made therein: