Warsaw is not a port. It is in the middle of the "country" (the earlier version of Poland, not today's), which is why it was chosen as the capital. Warsaw was also something of a rail hub, as far as was the case in Eastern Europe in those days. The easiest way to get to a port such as Gdansk, on the Baltic, was by rail from Warsaw. A few other cities in eastern Europe (Kiev, Minsk, etc.) were also connected to Warsaw by rail. Otherwise, people took more "primitive" forms of transportation (e.g. wagons) to Warsaw, and from there, to Gdansk. Few people went from modern Poland to Italy (a different country). Early in the 20th century, most of Poland, along with most countries of the former Soviet Union, was part of Russia, with Poland being the westernmost of these countries. Hence, people from the modern Belarus and northern Ukraine might head west for Warsaw, and from there to Gdansk and abroad. The city that I called Gdansk, which is now part of Poland, was the German city of Danzig in 1917. At that time, there was no "Poland," only Polish land and cities divided between Germany, Russia, and Austria-Hungary, following the three "partitions" of the country in the 18th century. Gdansk, where most people spoke Polish, would have been the most logical port for someone from Poland, or even the Ukraine who spoke Polish. Salonika, Venice, Hamburg, or Amsterdam would have been much harder transit points for speakers of Slavic languages. Someone from the south (as opposed to north) Ukraine might have preferred Odessa, a Russian port on the Black Sea. There may be a reason why your grandmother made the trip in 1917, and not some other year. That was when Germany had conquered not only Poland, but the western Ukraine from Russia, meaning that one country controlled the whole route your grandmother traveled (Ukraine, Warsaw, Gdansk). I can't imagine her making a trip across the (Russo-German) border earlier in the war. Such a trip would have been possible, but difficult, before the war. 

The Continental Congress was arguably the most "united" Congress that the country has ever had. As Mark Wallace pointed out, the Federalist papers tried to quash the notion that the there were differences of opinion. But as a practical matter, most members of the Continental Congress were elected for their "patriotism," that is, opposition to British rule in the earlier days, support of a "United States" after the Revolution was won. Other differences, North vs. South, agrarian vs. industrial, large state vs. small, paled by comparison. The ethos was, "we won the war, let's win the peace," whose nearest equivalent in modern American history was the period during and immediately after the Second World War. 

In 1940,-41 Germany was able to enlist the support of Roumania, Hungary (the latter at the expense of the former), and Bulgaria, in the Balkans. Yugoslavia initially signed on with Germany, then soon switched sides and declared herself for the Allies. Why did Yugoslavia do this? I have a recollection of a difference of opinion between the minor (seventeen year old) king, and his uncle, the regent. Was this the real cause, or were one or both men pawns in a larger struggle? 

According to Winston Churchill, "A History of the English Speaking People," pp. 90-91: "For ten years, [the Duke of Marlborough led the armies of the Grand Alliance, [England, the Netherlands, several German states] and during all that period he never fought a battle he did not win or besieged a town he did not take. Nothing like this exists in the annals of war." He won major battles against the French during Queen Anne's War from 1702-1711 at Blenheim, Ramilles, Oudenarde, and Malplaquet, although some consider the last a "Pyrrhic" victory. 

George Bush Sr. (a former oilman) was mainly concerned about the oil of Kuwait, and worse, Saudi Arabia, falling permanently into Iraqi hands. When the Iraqi army was "rolled back" out of these countries into Iraq, he was willing to stop the war. George Bush Jr. believed (or professed to believe) that the Iraqis were on the verge of obtaining weapons of mass destruction. To combat this "threat," he had to occupy Iraq to discover the existence (or lack thereof) such weapons. The 1991 Iraqis had (some) modern weapons, but the soldiers were mostly poorly trained, supplied, and motivated. They were particularly lacking in transportation and communications equipment. That's why America's General Schwartzkopf opted for a "Hail Mary" attack around the flanks instead of a "head on" attack against which the Iraqis might have done some damage. In 2003, they were even more outmatched, except that they did have the "home court" advantage. 

When the Soviet Union detonated its own nuclear weapon in the late 1940s, the U.S. government came to the conclusion that the leaking of the relevant secrets was the work of a "spy ring." The investigation focused on the Rosenbergs (Julius and Ethel, a husband and wife team). It eventually pulled in a number of acquaintances, although it didn't exactly discover a "ring." The Rosenbergs were executed, although their guilt probably wasn't proven beyond a reasonable doubt, at least in hindsight. These events were part of, and contributed to the (Second Red Scare") generally associated with Senator Joe McCarthy. (The first one was connected with Attorney General Mitchell Palmer in the 1920s.) 

Marshall Conde of France took part in the "Fronde" insurrection in France, in the mid-17th century. He (and his sister) were "excused" because they were upholding the sister's husband, not in their own right. According to Wikipedia: 

One reason is because of the poor topography, and the lack of good transportation. Take the southern cone, for instance. The Andes Mountains divide Argentina and Chile. They also divide Colombia and Venezuela further north. One kind of wonders why Uruguay and Paraguay are separate entities from Argentina, until one realizes that they formed around Montevideo and Asuncion respectively, and are badly connected to population centers in Argentina and Brazil. (Plus some 18th century Jesuit priests trained "local" Indian armies to repel invasions from invaders from the other two countries.) Peru and Bolivia might have logically united, except for opposition from Chile. Unlike Brazil, which is relatively compact, the Spanish speaking parts of Latin American are basically strung out in a long, thin, line. Even the six or seven central American countries basically consist of settlements along the coasts, with jungle in between DISconnecting the main cities (and hence countries) from one another. 

There were several reasons. The first was that most of the LOCAL (to Massachusetts and parts of Connecticut) Indians had either been involved with King Philip, and were defeated, or conversely, had allied with the settlers, and were sharing the spoils of war. The second reason is that most of the damage was done in the initial part of the war against isolated settlements. A result of the war was than many settlements were abandoned, and people moved to major towns, where there were militias on guard. A third issue might be why Indians from OTHER parts of the country didn't come in and try to drive the settlers out. Transportation (and communications) were poor in those days, and different Indian tribes seldom cooperated between themselves. There was no sense of "Native Americans" taking back "American" land. Most tribes only cared about what was going on within their immediate vicinity (e.g., within a modern American state). 

According to the Oxford English Dictionary, Lollard means: "From M[iddle] [Dutch] lollaerd, lit. 'mumbler, mutterer', f[rom] lollen to mutter, mumble". This was a pejorative term to refer to a CLASS of people that held certain religious beliefs, as opposed to holders of the beliefs themselves. Specifically, it referred to "uneducated" Englishmen (in the traditional sense), who had never been trained in the "catechism" in Latin, and therefore were considered to have "no basis" for their beliefs. Hence the designation Lollards, or "mumblers." Wycliffe HAD been trained in the traditional way, and chose to deviate. Calling his followers "Wycliffites" was considered "too kind," when most of them could be attacked on grounds of "ignorance," as opposed to merely the "unsoundness" of their beliefs. 

This is a legal issue that is perhaps better for Law SE than History SE (I'm on both sites). Mary Surratt was found guilty of "conspiracy" to kill Lincoln. Under that legal theory, being part of a conspiracy to commit a crime is tantamount to actually committing the crime if one person actually does, or tries to do so. Surratt was convicted largely on circumstantial evidence. That is, she harbored known Confederate sympathizers in her boarding house, which had become a "go to" place for such individuals, had long conversations with them, and ran errands on their behalf, whether innocently or otherwise. There were also (unproven) allegations of espionage on behalf of the Confederacy, a capital offense, along with treason. She was the subject of postwar hysteria (think of the McCarthy hearings of the 1950s after the end of World War II, beginning of the "Cold" War). It is at such times when people will be accused and convicted of various crimes when their real offense is "disloyalty." 

China's problems with science appear to have begun with the steam and internal combustion engines of the 18th and 19th century. Prior to the 18th century, China appears to have been ahead of Europe in science. On the other hand, China was less noted for "engineering." Basically, the Chinese culture discouraged educated people from getting their hands dirty, so only "laborers" (and not scientists) would deal with mechanical issues, particularly when they used large amounts of energy and gave off large amounts of pollution. China's resurgence appears to be tied to the fact that the world is moving beyond "industrialization" and into an information society. This is a world in which China can compete very well; the abacus may be seen as a primitive form of a computer, and Chinese rote education actually lends itself to "coding" minds. China's recent weakness in manufacturing is covered by computer aided design and computer aided manufacturing. Basically, educated people can now direct manufacturing without getting their hands dirty (forget for a moment about "sweatshop" laborers). 

Submarines are most effective against unarmed merchantmen, preferably on the open sea with few or no escort vessels, and fewer aircraft in the general area. The English Channel was "covered" by the greatest concentration of Allied warships and aircraft. An all-out battle in the confines of the English Channel would not have allowed the subs sufficient (lateral) "space" or depth to operate effectively. Instead, it would have been a "killing ground" for the Allies against the submarines, without the chance for the subs to inflict commensurate damage on the landing ships. Submarines had their best chance in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean, where land-based aircraft could not reach. 

The Germans have been criticized for not using strategic bombing against Soviet factories, oil fields, etc. to suppress Soviet weapons production. On the other hand, it is hard to argue with the Germans' battlefield success (given the relative numbers of troops, tanks, artillery etc.), much of which was due to tactical bombing. Given this fact, and the fact that German plane production didn't reach its peak until 1943-44, did the Germans have enough bombers to spare for strategic bombing in 1941-1942? Or are there any military historians who suggest that Germany would have been better off spending more bombers for strategic bombing, even at the expense of the battlefield successes they did enjoy? 

Arguably, Henry V laid the foundation for a united, strong, modern England. After a misspent youth, he put down rebellions against the English crown by Percy, the "Hotspur" of the North, and Glendower of Wales, another dissaffected area. This was basically the last time that "England" threatened to fall apart. Overseas, his victories at Agincourt and elsewhere almost allowed the English to claim the French throne. In the minds of many historians, these achievements outweighed the brutality by which they were accomplished (which was practiced by others). Subsequent events (e.g. Joan of Arc) prevented the conquest of France, but Henry V gets credit for "trying." Henry also launched expeditions further afield to help the Teutonic Knights defeat the Lithuanians. again, they were not successful in their original purposes, but did put England on the map, because they demonstrated the degree to which England was able to project power. 

The origins of American labor unions took place shortly after the founding of the country, beginning in key cities like Philadelphia. These were initially trade and craft unions. Later, a group of unions formed the Mechanical Union ("guild, actually) of Trade Associations in Philadephia in 1827. In the middle and later part of the 19th century, immigrants from central and eastern Europe flooded the country, brought their own labor Union heritage with them, and joined the American strains. This led, in 1886 to the formation of the American Federation of Labor under Samuel Gompers, an immigrant from England who spent a lot of time with German immigrant workers, acted as a "bridge" between American- and foreign born laborers. 

The Soviet Union, or Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, was an attempt by the Communists to recreate the Russian empire under "socialist" principles. The idea was to blur the differences in "nationalities" in favor of the common, socialist "good," so that the different peoples would forget their petty differences and work together for a worker's paradise. They did so to distinguish their government from the failed Tsarists. The original "republics" were Russia, the Ukraine, Byelorussia, and "Transcaucasia," but the smaller "republics" demanded, and obtained their separate identities as a "consolation" for being absorbed by the larger USSR. 

The 1948 (election) link to wikipedia states:"The election is considered to be the greatest election upset in American history.1[3]" with no less than three sources. One possible reason might have been the Congressional elections of 1946, in which the Republicans brought about a swing of 18 states, five in the West, five in the Northeast, and eight in the heartland. Of those, Truman went on to win the five western states, Dewey the five Northeastern states, and Truman won seven of eight in the heartland. One factor in Truman's favor was that he came from Missouri, a heartland state, while Dewey came from New York. That gave Truman an advantage in the competition for Illinois, Ohio, Wisconsin, and of course, Missouri. On the other hand, Eisenhower, from Kansas, in 1952, won all but nine states, (the four Strom Thurmond states plus five other southern states). Truman won the 1948 popular vote convincingly, 49.6% to Dewey's 45.1%, or four and half percentage points. What is noteworthy was that Truman won three big states, California, Illinois, and Ohio by less than one percentage point each. Swing the vote total by one percentage point in each of those three states (or even across the board), and Dewey would have won the electoral college while losing the popular vote. Did people at the time make the argument that the electoral college "math" stacked up in favor of Dewey, even though Truman might win the popular vote? My sense is that this was not the case, and Truman was expected to lose the popular vote also. Why might that be? 

In April 1945, toward the end of the Nazi regime, Heinrich Himmler, the head of the Gestapo (Secret Police) and "SS" military units, left Berlin against Hitler's orders, and began negotiations with representatives of neutral Sweden, as an attempt to surrender Germany to only Britain and the United States, while allying with them against the Soviet Union. He did this on his own authority, without the consent of Hitler (who expelled him from the Nazi party), in fact, against Hitler's express instructions to stay in Berlin. His overtures were rejected, but he was basically the highest-ranking Nazi (fourth after Hitler, Goering and Goebbels) to try to negotiate with the Allies without authority from Hitler. (Admiral Doenitz, who did surrender to the Allies, did so with authority vested in him by Hitler's last will and testament.) 

"Standard" anti-tank weapons used by infantry included bazookas and anti-tank rifles (the latter being heavier than infantry rifles, and requiring special shells). In a "pinch," infantry used "Molotov cocktails," made of gasoline in glass bottles with lighted fuses. But these weapons were used by "active" infantry who were braver, or at least more aggressive than most, and who sought out fights with tanks. Many studies have shown that "average" soldiers will "fight when fought" and fire when fired upon, but otherwise not seek combat. Such soldiers often took refuge from tanks in trenches, where tanks could run them over. Was there a weapon, such as an explosive attached to the end of a club that entrenched soldiers could stick into the bottom of tanks, thereby almost assuring the destruction of the tank as well as the weapon? (This would be for "retaliation" when their own lives were directly threatened.) Were such weapons considered too dangerous to issue to soldiers in trenches? Or did armies prefer other anti-tank measures? (For instance, Soviet commanders would have tanks "iron" entrenched soldiers in practice to teach them to dig deep enough to avoid tanks.) I would expect such weapons, if they existed, would more likely be used by Soviet or Japanese soldiers, with their fatalistic view of the world.