So, you'd take a < 30 minute one way ride in the morning for 1 Euro, ditch the bike for the day, then take a (probably different) bike home for 1 Euro. 2 Euros round trip. That's probably cheaper than taking transit, and I challenge you to find a bike rental for < 15 Euros daily. Even if you can, as noted in the comments above, you then have the additional worry of theft/ vandalism, and hassle of having to return it to a bike rental place when you're done. If you want to do a longer bike ride or full day of bike exploration before or after your conference, you could do a one-day proper bike rental for that. 

I'm curious to get some opinions on this from other cyclists. FYI this event took place in Ottawa, Canada. On my work commute, there are about 3 blocks where I ride in the lane with cars because there are no bike lanes or sharrows, and I need to make a left turn in one of two left turning lanes, onto another street which also has no bike lane, and no shoulder. Details below in photo. During that part of my commute two days ago, I stopped at a red light, in the middle of the left turn lane at the front of a line of several cars. The car behind me honked while we were still stopped, clearly wanting me to get out of his way before we'd even started moving. I stayed where I was since there was nowhere to go: another left-turning traffic lane to my left, and a straight through lane on my right that only buses can proceed through. After taking the left turn, I proceeded in the center of the lane for one block before signalling a right turn, after which I normally ride on the side of the lane because there is more space. While I was riding the block right after the left turn, the driver who had honked at me pulled into the other lane to pass, then while passing, i.e. while right next to me, quickly swerved back about halfway into my lane, coming within about one foot of me while I was riding, then back out into his own lane. This was clearly meant as a threatening maneuver to scare me. The vehicle did not make contact with me. I was able to memorize his license plate, make and model, and car color, and I took note of the exact time time, so I can certainly pinpoint who it was in a police report. So I'm wondering if it's worth reporting something like this to the police, or will that just be an exercise in frustration? If anyone has any tips or suggestions on reporting something like this, I would appreciate it. (Again, this is in Canada, so any locally relevant tips would be great) 

Wheel & tire sizes are a source of unending confusion. The more you learn, the more confusing they get. 29" mountain-bike wheels have the same bead-seat diameter as modern road bikes: 622 mm (which are sometimes referred to as 28" wheels in Europe, which is confusing, because they're slightly smaller at the rim than 27" wheels…see what I mean?). When mountain biking as we know it today was being pioneered on the repack ride on Mt Tamalpais, riders weren't using road bikes, and they weren't using mountain bikes because mountain bikes per se did not exist. They were using "cruiser bikes," which had fatter tires and slacker angles, making them better suited to bombing down fire trails. This is a case of people using what they had to hand and adapting it to circumstances, rather than designing something for an intended purpose. The question of why cruisers have a different (and otherwise non-standard) BSD is another matter. I will note that a rim with a 571-mm BSD mounted with a 1¾" tire (which passed for "fat" back in the day) has a very similar outer tire diameter to a road bike using a 622-mm or 630-mm rim with a skinny tire, and sizing the rim to the intended outer tire diameter is common in bike history. Also, Schwinn, which created the cruiser, dominated the US bike market and could make de-facto standards whenever they wanted. I can't answer whether 29ers back in the day would have conferred an advantage, although you might not have been able to squeeze those wheels into those old cruisers. 

I just bought an RSD Sherrif II fat bike and it has a carbon fork with a thru-axle. It appears to be a non-quick release axle - no lever of any kind, so I need an allen key to remove it. I have a few questions: 

Can someone tell me what this pin is doing, and was I supposed to remove it before riding the bike? If I'm not supposed to remove it, in what maintenance scenario would I ever remove it? If I was supposed to remove it, is it possible I've done damage by riding with it in place? Thanks. 

FYI, I finished an 8,200km tour on these tires with no punctures, and a decent but not complete level of wear on the rear. I would not have started another long tour with the same tires. IMO, your tire probably has 5,000km left in it, but you should suck it up and buy a new tire before your next tour so you're less likely to need to replace mid-tour with the challenges that come along with that (Where to buy replacement? Do you need to get them shipped to a hotel? Etc.). When you're finished your second tour, you'll probably have 4 Marathon tires that all have a decent bit of life left in them and you can run them into the ground commuting around town or Randoneurring, situations in which it's not a big deal to have a tire wear out (just replace it at home at the end of the day). That way, you've got plenty of tread for your upcoming tour, and no tires are going to waste long term. 

I did get chain slap damage on a carbon road bike, like one or even more millimeter deep scratch in the chainstay. I still don't know the reason, but chain seems to easily hit the lower part of the chainstay, the one that is not protected by plastic guard. Even going down one of those bumps in the road intended for slowing traffic makes the chain clack against the chainstay. So it can be a problem. Had never happened to me before. Bike shop tells they see no problem. I don't know why this happens, maybe the chain is too long ? It's got a compact style drivetrain which I had not used before (used 52-42 and 52-36) and the big hit came when going through a pothole in the road big ring in front and small sprocket back. I've had worse encounters with potholes ( to the point of banging tyres and bending rims) with not a scratch in the chainstay paintjob. But this bike is somehow prone to chain slap. Been wondering if it's a thing of compact drivetrains, or nothing to do with that. But yea don't just write off chainslap as a source of problems 

Ultimately, I've found my CX bike to be a real swiss army knife and it's allowed me to experiment with a lot more different types of riding than I think I could have if I'd gone with a dedicated road bike. In the end you should test ride both bikes, a couple times if the first rides aren't conclusive, and see what you like the feel of better. Also, quick caveat: in the time since I bought my bike, spinoffs of road racing have been proliferating and manufacturers are putting out more and more high end bikes within those niches (e.g. high end all-carbon CX bikes or gravel bikes), and like a dedicated road bike, those will not be as multi-purpose as an entry level CX bike would be. E.g. if you look at a high end CX bike, it will probably be all-carbon, with no fender/rack mounting, so will not offer much in the way of touring capabilities. Hope that helps! 

Starting from a dead stop, am afraid it is a matter of leg and core strength and handling skills, which seems that you do not quite have yet. They will come with enough riding time. In the meantime you can try to get the bike in motion by pushing the road with your leg as when you push a skateboard or a kid's scooter, then turning the cranks will be easier. I do this a lot to start when I am in hard gears, not only uphill. If the slope is too steep it may not work, but if slope is too steep you might not be able to resume climbing unless you go down and then turn 180 degrees ti face the hill again. 

It is not allowed by UCI rules, but comissars usually allow it if it is due to mechanical reasons and used to get back to the peloton, since they have discretional ability to decide. Time penalties or disqualification if used to gain advantage over the peloton. So, rule enforcement may vary depending on many circumstances, and I guess they don't want to lose stars like Froome, that could also be important when turning a blind eye on some minor issue 

In your case there are no bikeways of any kind showing: pathways, or even shared lanes (dotted lines) on the bridge: 

I have a 2010 Specialized Tricross Sport Triple. I want to know what type and size of Bottom Bracket I need to replace the original one. Specialized's archived page for this bike lists the BB as a "BB-7420 w/crank bolts". From what I've read online, this is a British threaded, square tapered, 68mm BB. From what I've read elsewhere online, a common replacement for this is the Shimano BB-UN55, at around $15 CAD online. However, I haven't found a consensus about what length the Tricross needs. Here someone says 118mm for the 2011 Tricross; Bikepedia lists 113mm for the 2010. Is there any way to figure that out without taking the bottom bracket out to read the specs off of it? And is there any other spec beyond the threading, width, taper style, and length, that I need to ensure compatibility? Finally, if there's a better replacement than the BB-UN55, I'd be curious to know about it. I'd like to stay under $50 CAD. Thanks. 

I have a single-speed with a KMC chain and that master link. I have removed it and reinstalled it without incident. 

A great deal of engineering has gone into making shifting smooth and predictable. Up until ~1984, shifting was done by feel and sound: the shift lever moved continuously through its range, and you moved it until it caught the adjacent gear. Different brands had different actions, and you had to develop some technique. In 1984, Shimano rolled out "indexed shifting" (there had been previous attempts, but this time it really took). Here, the shift lever clicked into specific positions; the spacing between gears on the freewheel was standardized (before, the spacing varied within a freewheel); the shift cable was pre-stretched so the action wouldn't change; and so on. There was a lot of skepticism that indexed shifting would stay reliable in the long run, but it did, and took over. Since then, there have been additional refinements. Individual gears on a cassette have "ramps" that help lift the chain from smaller gears. Gears are aligned relative to each other to ensure good uptake. Chainrings have pins to help lift as well. 

Having such a limited amount of time for a group ride that in order to finish it on time you would need to push group speed up to a point where the ride is not enjoyable or even feasible 

It is an old question, but, one important thing I didn't see mentioned is to actually test the climb to see what gearing you will ride it... Since averages are averages and some parts may be less steep, you could start with big ring and upper cassette gears then drop to small ring for a steeper part. Also, if in small front ring, keeping at least one easier gear to resort to and feel a bit of relief by the end can be mentally refreshing. So, more than pacing I would say that finding your ideal gearing for the climb is the point. Your upper body will also play an important part. For pacing itself I would say it is all out, but contrary to what people say I will go really fast from the beginning, because the finish line works as the proverbial carrot, and you will go all out when it is in sight, but if you've been too conservative at the start the all out for the finish may not be enough. 

I don't bother to carry a patch kit or any tools on short-distance commutes. My rule is that if I could walk home in a pinch, I don't need that stuff. FWIW, I've had more instances of running out of spares due to multiple flats on long-distance rides than I've had instances of walking home because of a single flat on in-town rides. 

It's difficult to make out in this picture, but I believe the keeper bar on the cage should be forward of the chain. The way to determine whether the chain is threaded correctly is to see whether it drags on the keeper bar when it moves. If it drags, it's threaded wrong. 

I doubt it would hurt your back over that distance unless you're carrying a very heavy load. I'd be more worried about the back of my shirt/jacket getting sweaty and wrinkled and looking unprofessional. I've done some light touring over long distances and a variety of road surfaces on my road bike while using a backpack. My pack probably weighed 3 kg. I definitely noticed the extra weight, but it didn't hurt. 

Because I have had my feet sliding from the pedals indeed, and foud that the shape of this sole (possibly just one of the slots/carves on the sole, not two) does make my feet grip better to the pedal and does well to avoid sliding. I'm a student so I'm not wealthy, and I rather not buy some pedals and shoes just to check and see no real improvement. But what is more, I use the same bike to commute and to go on longer routes, and I don't see myself going to class or part time job with cycling shoes, or get the platform/cleat pedal combo. But I also wanted a jersey after those rides, to keep the cereal chocolate bars in the handy pockets, and the pants with cushion, and what is more, I wanted a better, lighter, shifters in brake levers, bike. I was / am, seriusly considering spending some of my savings in this, that is, in the full equip for a road cyclist, expecting to be able to ride at the other riders pace in an easier way. But I'm afraid that the main reason that I lagged and struggled was that I am just not as fit as them in regards to longer cycling. I live way uphill and daily climb some 6 km in 5-10 % steep, in town, and I usually go on longer routes (30-50 km) some evenings and weekends, but I reckon they are simply more fit. Now, thinking of buying a new road bike, I would be afraid of leaving it on the city street, so that implies keeping two bikes. For the new bike, I feel weird to get a 1500€ bike and equip it with platform pedals, so I should get clipless, and get shoes, and then, I feel like I have to buy also jersey and pants, and then I started thinking that this is a bit like internet explorer in windows, it goes bundled, you must go with cleats and spandex, because everyone else is doing so, so it must be better, but if it was not that significantly better it is a bit weird, at least to me to just wear this, maybe with a couple pockets on the side: