From these 2 sites: whitedwarf.org and imagine.gsfc.nasa.gov both states that stars less than 8 times the solar masses would eventually become a white a white dwarf. So, depending on the mass of the star, a white dwarf having 1.4 solar masses is possible. 

Yes you can find them anywhere on Earth. The thing is that by the time they reach the Earth's surface, these meteorites are very small, usually ranging from microscopic to dust sized particles. Searching How big does a meteor have to be to make it to the ground? 

How they have concluded that there could b.e a subterranean ocean on Ceres is by Spectralscopy. Spectral Signature can be summarised to like this: 

As you said it is easier to find meteorites in snow because it is white and contrasts with the usual colour of meteorites. It would be very hard to try and distinguish those small particles with the normal soil on Earth. As for finding one randomly in a concrete building... the chances are very low and it possibly would have done some noticeable damage to the building. A rather simple experiment to prove that yes you can find it anywhere on earth, follow this example. This is to search for micrometeorites. I have done this before and I found it to be particularly inefficient as it is rather wind in my area, but hey you might find it different. You can attempt to search for meteorites somewhere else but just don't expect to see large chunks of it lying around. 

On the following page, $URL$ It mentions Main, Giants and SuperGiants. However for Dwarf Stars (e.g. D, Sd) , do I apply Main Sequence to the solar type? For other types, IV, II, do I apply Main Sequence / Subgiant / Giant to the type? If you look at the linked webpage, you'll see it mentions Types (V,III,I) but for instance where would Procyon (F5IV-V), Sargas (F1II) fit or should there be a different table for types IV, II? Would groups (D, sd, IV,m II) have a different table? Rigil Kentaurus (G2V) would clear fit into Main Sequence. 

If declination is the degree measurement from the celestial equator roughly the Earth equator unless I've misunderstand plane. "The celestial equator is a great circle on the imaginary celestial sphere, in the same plane as the Earth's equator." $URL$ Where is zero degrees for Right Ascension, is it the GMT Line or International Date Line or some other line? 

Whats the reason for the discrepancy, CRVAD2.dat is an old version like there's two Hip data files (97 and 07)? 

Additionally, if I look at Regulus, the number of rows I associate with the star matches the amount that Wikipedia says for the star, the magnitudes roughly match what is said on Wiki. In answer to another question of mine, an expert said I shouldn't put too much emphasis on the figures matching exactly because we're probably using different sources. 

So how the scientists would have concluded that there was water because of the water vapours in the atmosphere. It gives off a certain wavelength that could be compared the closest element that gives off the same wavelength which is water. Then the scientists would have used Galileo's magnetometer(an instrument which measures the strength and direction of magnetic fields) to conclude that there could be an ocean on the dwarf planet. The strength and response of the induced field would tell the scientists a rough estimate of the dwarf planet's sub surface which in return they could deduce the fact the there is a large amount of water present which equals an ocean. 

This is referenced to a paper written in Yale university: "Frontiers And Controversies In Astrophysics Transcript 9", although that's a dead link. By linking so, I believe that it is a reliable source. This got me thinking that is there a black hole that doesn't suck in surrounding matter? And is there a star that don't take in surrounding matter? 

As a star runs out of hydrogen fuel, the fusion slows, causing the gravity to overpower the outward force of pressure, thus contracting. Contraction of the star causes high temperature and pressure, to the extent that it is enough to fuse helium into carbon, then the energy released is stronger than the gravity, increasing the size of the star into a red giant. The following paragraph from an article explains this: 

Planetary systems are formed from clouds of gas and dust. The gravity of the cloud's mass holds it together; the densest part at the center of the cloud collapses until it's dense enough to begin nuclear fusion, turning into a star. Things further out randomly collide and stick until a few of them become big enough to have significant gravity of their own. When those "planetesimals" collide with each other, on average their orbits become more circular. After billions of years of this, you wind up with relatively few bodies in nearly circular orbits: the planets of a solar system. Capture of bodies arriving from outside the solar system does happen, but formation from a proto-stellar gas cloud is the more common way planets are formed. 

In several equations of orbital elements (such as the determination of true anomaly from mean anomaly), the terms 1-e and 1+e appear. These are the ratios of the orbital periapsis and apoapsis to the semi-major axis, but do the ratios themselves have names? 

Hours to days. The orbital period is proportional to the 3/2 power of the orbital radius, and the orbital period of the moon Methone (and thus of the particles in its associated ring arc) is very close to 24 hours. Working from the orbital radii given in this table, I get: 

Using data from Hipparcos is it possible to calculate Radial Velocity. If we take 19 Leonis as example, RV is -3.70. Is it calculated from Proper Motion? Can I ask that any formulas be done in long hand please, i.e. how you would enter it into a standard spreadsheet rather than with symbols etc. $URL$ Additionally Took the advice and found CRVAD2.dat ( $URL$ ). The following line comes from CRVAD2.dat file and when I looked up HipId 40829 which is below, the RV value is -3.70 which matches the link above. 

What is the difference between Absolute Magnitude and Absolute Bolometric Magnitude, is it a case of multiply one by a constant to get the other? Can you give an example for a star, say Vega? 

$URL$ displays R.A. on screen in hh:mm:ss format but when you export the table, it gives the R.A. as a decimal. Likewise for Declination. How can I turn for example 24.35417 (WASP-18) into 01:37:25.0 ? And likewise for Declination -45.67778 to -45:40:40? I'm looking for a method, not a website that will do it for me. Either a way to convert between formats or how do I export in non-decimal format? Thanks 

According to List of Common Misconceptions by Wikipedia, under the heading of astronomy, this line can be found: 

As much as parallel universes go, there's a theory for this known as the Multiverse theory, part of the String theory. 

Searching for the definition in dictionary.com you can find this under the word origin and history section: 

The primary source of comets for our solar system comes from the Oort Cloud, a smaller amount coming from the Kuiper belt. The Oort cloud is thought to have originated from the remnants of a proto-planetary disk. This paragraph explains this better: 

The amount of mass lost is more due to stellar wind, rather than to fusion. To answer your second question, the pressure will never overcome completely the force of gravity. When a star reaches the iron nickel stage of fusing, it'll stop, unable to go further. This causes a rapid contraction for either a star to go supernova (which is really tearing most of the star apart except for its core), or cool down to a black dwarf. 

Now to address your point if we can ever know if a parallel universe exists exists. Opinion: Possible but unlikely. I don't think that we are close to achieving this. 

Is there a formula to convert the B-V index to U-B index or are they totally different and separate observations and can't be convert like you can with Fahrenheit->Celsius? (Updated) I know F->C is not astronomy related directly but there is a formula to convert between the two measurements. 

The star is located at a distance of 163,000 light years in the constellation of Circinus. As the Milky Way is 100,000 light years, this would then imply the star is outside the Milky Way? Would it be a data anomoly if that is the case or is it in another galaxy like r136a? Would it be on the far side of the galaxy, other side of the Galactic Centre? 

Is it possible to derive Metallicity/Age/Radial Velocity/Rotational Velocity/Surface Gravity of a star from Hipparcos data files or are do they require individual studying? 

If I look up Sirius (32349), it says the RV is -7.60 but when you look up Sirius at Simbad, it says -5.50 ( $URL$ ) 

Suppose an alien race fired a laser beam from the centre of the Milky Way, it went through the Sun and then off further out of the galaxy. What Constellation would the light beam head towards, closest star also if possible? Am not interested about how much devastation the light beam may or may not cause, just the journey and destination. Would that direction be the quickest/shortest way out of the galaxy if we had a spaceship that could travel that fast? 

They are called diffraction spikes, and they're artifacts from a supporting structure inside a reflector-type telescope. 

As it happens, I was writing code for the exact same transformation last night using this memo as a reference. I haven't yet tested my implementation but the document is quite clear about what each step is doing, which pleased me greatly. You'll have to understand the terminology to some degree; "epoch" means a reference time for which you have the orbital elements, and "considered epoch" means the time at which you're evaluating the position, for example. Other points requiring caution: the equations inconsistently drop subscripts; the use of the Newton-Raphson solver isn't particularly clear (i.e. how many times should it run)? Make sure you get the units right also. 

The position of the hypothetical object is not known with any certainty, so it's hard to know where to point your telescope. The paper proposes a wide range of orbital distances anywhere from 400 to 1500 AU semi-major axis, with a perihelion (closest approach to the sun) of 200-300AU. This is 8 times as far as Neptune. (I didn't read the article closely enough to determine whether the body would be near perihelion or not at present; it could be over 1000 AU away, 30 times Neptune's distance.) With a mass of 10 Earths, we would expect the body to be something like 2-5 times Earth's radius -- somewhat smaller than Neptune. The combination of distance and size suggests the body would be far fainter than Neptune, no brighter than magnitude 16.5 at perihelion, and likely much dimmer. 

I've come across $URL$ and am trying to decipher the hip2.dat file to work out whether a star is a solo, binary or multiple star. Ideally would be interested in knowing how many stars are in the system but I'd be happy with just knowing if its (SBM) solo, binary or multi. What I don't understand is which item in the line identifies its companionship (SBM), I believe it its 8-10 but the value for 32349 is 0 when its widely known that Sirius is a double star system so I think I'm wrong there. I've deliberately excluded the names of the star. I'm not expecting the answers to everyone, I just need the explanation of how to decipher one line and i'll do the rest because I can't understand what they mean. Do the values under - d and -s refer to bitwise values of the value in 8-10? I know 49669 has 4 stars in its system, 32349 has 2 and 79374 has an alleged 7. The other descriptions of the other items in the list are about Parallax and Coordinates, nothing that appears related to the information what I'm after. All the stars I looked up are all either binary or multiple stars, I couldn't find a solo star, apart from the Sun (debatable).