Five precepts was declared by Buddha to maintain sustainability of society and harmony with nature is the best explanation and not for gain qualifications to get rebirth in upper realms. E.g killing each other will leads to spread violence and extinction and kill other animals may leads to unbalance and harm the delicate balance of nature. stealing discourage people form farming and manufacturing, sensual misconduct leads damage the health, taking intoxicant,alcohol or drugs damage health and crate violence, lie and break trust will spread violence and damage business and financial development. So five precepts are vital,wholesome and positive moral value essential to maintain sustainability and development in both personal and society-wise. Also adhere to these will give us result here and now no need to wait until next life. See the world with intensive violence,wars,STD(specially AIDS),non chronicle deceases like diabetes,cholesterol,stress,anxiety,corruption,crimes,robberies etc.. and when five precepts are followed individually and society-wise is the proven cure for above issues in world. 

The deepest description of love I have come across in my walk is a state where one does not oblige oneself to draw a distinction between one and the subject of one's love. One can give freely to the other, not out of obligation or expectation or even altruism, but simply because one does not see a reason to distinguish between giving to their love and giving to oneself. 

Forcing awareness is a tricky concept. I would not be surprised if every practitioner of meditation has done it on occasion. The best analysis I have found for the issue is that forcing awareness can, in theory, allow one to become more insightful and aware. However, the act of doing so admits the "desire for insight and awareness." By meditating in this fashion, it is not possible to simply let that desire pass through you. It is held on to. At the very least, this is a desire which will not pass. It can obscure that which you are looking for. At its worst, it can lead you down a false target leading you along a less ideal path. I have found that forcing awareness in meditation can be effective for identifying illusions and assumptions, but it is less effective at actually encouraging awareness. Accordingly, in this complicated world with its many illusions and assumptions, I feel it has its place. However, the traditional approaches as advised by the other answers are more effective as these things they do best. A focus on them is wise. 

So I have thought to give some reasonable and rational answer to your issue. I will not push you to mystery or darkness with my answer. First of all our (human) brain include 100 billion neuron cells and trillions of electro-chemical activities called "functional brain or stream of mind" create lot of illusions and dilutions we totally failed to understand and interpret. Our mind is a the great creator of everything. When I state everything it include our mind. So this is a one whole system. I have similar(small compare to yours) paranormal experience and I have realized it as distorted brain function. Your paranormal experience is so strong. When you come to mind it create illusion of me,mine,I and lead to lots of trouble. I suggest to you engage with meditation suitable to you like Zen or any other. Try to live and stay in present. Don't try to live in past. Try to convince mind using same mind what you recall is past event and that's an illusion. conquer the mind and become a great conqueror. you have to confront a grate battle with mind and it require lots of courage.If you require further explanations please do not hesitate to communicate. hope my suggestions will help you. Thanks and metta! 

In the same vein as ChrisW's answer, I would ask you, "You and I live different lives. I do not live your life. Is it appropriate for me to give advice?" The answer is generally "yes," especially in the position you have chosen to put yourself in, asking us for advice on this forum. =) So what is the difference between me giving you advice on a life I don't live and a monk giving you advice on a life he or she does not live? One may argue that it's a level of differentiation, but that immediately begs the question of what level of differentiation is appropriate? Indeed, is it not reasonable to seek advice from everybody? I know that, in my culture, we prize the ability of children to see things through their young eyes and reveal what we cannot see ourselves. Of course, we aren't obliged to follow their advice either. If we were, my toddler would have far more cookies in her diet! You point to the title of "venerable" as an object of concern. Alan Watts had a line of reasoning in one of his lectures that addressed this issue. He focused on the concept of the teacher, and asked "From what does the authority of a teacher come from?" What gives a teacher the right to tell you what to do. The answer he offered: "The authority of the teacher comes from the student." If someone wishes to learn from another, they might say "hey, tell ya what. I'll call you teacher, and you call me student," and from that the authority stems forth. As you say, they are fallible. But they have also devoted a tremendous amount of time to seeing the world through eyes very different from your own. If they are willing to share their advice with you, that should be seen as a blessing. I can call myself "venerable" if I want. It's just a word. Whether anyone wishes to act upon my claim is entirely up to them. However, as a general statement, we find that the lay society has decided that when a monk or nun is called "venerable," we really mean it. There is something special there. You obviously don't have to take my word for it. I have no authority. But the fact that lay society accepts that monks and nuns can and should be given this title is something worth noting, and you should decide what to derive from it. If I were in a position of authority, I'd argue that it indicates that your peers have found their advice is worth heeding, but as I stated, no authority here besides that which you give me. 

Find the mind! mind is the creator of every thing. even "mind" is a creation of mind. what ever you precept using mind with the help of other facilities like eye, ear, nose, skin and tongue. mind is a phenomena of nature which you can't find it's true nature. Only you can do is watch the brain scan how mind behaves and functions inside brain or monitor how neurons fire to maintain "mind stream". 

e.g An patient in unconscious or coma situation, Some psychotic medication and some chemical(e.g chloroform,adrenalin,opium etc... can be used to manipulate mind and thoughts patterns. Also when consider and analyze Heart Sutta and culla sunnata sutta express the similar thing. But the second view is make huge controversy to first view in ethics,tradition in the purpose of doing good(karmic effects) and bad,doing wholesome and mundane,super-mundane concepts. 

I am not Buddhist, but from what I have heard from them, my experiences are sufficiently applicable to be worth voicing here. I have found great value in studying religions that I do not necessarily believe in. I find it to be a very powerful way to learn from a culture that is very different from my own. In particular, I have found it very effective at highlighting causes of suffering in my own life. The world is an amazing and beautifully diverse place. We have found many ways to live. Many things I was brought up to assume were simply "the way humanity acts" have been shown to be very culturally specific as I study how other cultures work. As an example in my own life, I have been raised as an American and thus naturally raised to believe in the "equality" of the sexes. Exploring other cultures, I found that the other cultures did not always have what I would call "equality." Studying the religions of these cultures helped me understand how a society could be "good" without equality of the sexes. At the end of the journey, I identified that it was not my fellow cultures that were wrong, it was that my personal definition of "equality of the sexes." My concept of what that phrase could mean was too rigid. Studying other cultures which have succeeded with different meanings helped me widen my opinions. I now hold a wider belief (preferring the word "incomparable" over "equal") which helped me elevate above self-inflicted suffering caused by my overly rigid definitions. However, there is a difficult counterpoint to this. Studying other religions is an easy question. However, some things cannot simply be studied in isolation. They must be lived. For these things, I recommend not seeking any carte blanche directive. Your life is too important to sign a blank checque. Seek those in your life that you respect for guidance on such things. It is my belief that much of the richness of life is found by experiencing contrasting worlds, but it can be difficult to do. It is easy to blur the worlds together, and miss out on the most important part of both worlds. This is why I recommend seeking guidance from those you respect on such activities. They may be able to help you set yourself on a path which gains as much as possible from the interaction without doing harm to either group, nor yourself. However, there's no one way to do it. Those in your life can help you find your way to do it. 

If simplified Dhamma as teaching of Buddha. It's also interpreted as behavior or process of nature. E.g when you consider three characteristics(anatta,dukkha,anicca); those are exists in nature and can be observed with our wisdom. Simply Dhamma is how nature is operated or functioned with its fundamental laws and constants. 

Technically egg is a singular cell. it doesn't feel pain.So does break egg violate the first precept? Most often doctor prescribe fish oil(cod liver oil) as a medicine for rejuvenate brain cells as it contain omega -3? Doses it violate first precept? 

Absolute, true and mathematical time, of itself, and from its own nature flows equably without regard to anything external, and by another name is called duration: relative, apparent and common time, is some sensible and external (whether accurate or unequable) measure of duration by the means of motion, which is commonly used instead of true time ... According to Newton, absolute time exists independently of any perceiver and progresses at a consistent pace throughout the universe. Unlike relative time, Newton believed absolute time was imperceptible and could only be understood mathematically. According to Newton, humans are only capable of perceiving relative time, which is a measurement of perceivable objects in motion (like the Moon or Sun). From these movements, we infer the passage of time. After analyze above text by Isaac Newton and state; The "Absolute time" is just a concept rooted from "Anatta"(impermanence) the one of three characteristic of nature in Buddhist teaching. Anatta is everlasting process without end or start and is very helpful to eliminate the wrong view of "creation". So this is one vital explanation that Buddhism ahead of scientific theories. So if I say the fabricated absolute time concept not genuine and the declaration of "Anatta" is the fact and genuine invention,is it acceptable? 

One could practice meditation until arriving at the knowledge of what is inside a black hole. However, it is less clear how long such a meditation could take. Perhaps it may take a million years or more to reach such extended awareness. Along the way, one's meditation may lead one to understand other things closer to home. Perhaps on the way one acquires awareness of why a teacher never replies to emails, or just exactly what is down in the crack between a car's seat and the center console, or where one's taxes go after they are sucked in by the IRS. One may even become aware of why one wishes to acquire knowledge of black holes, and find that the answer to this question is even more valuable than knowing the contents of black holes in the first place. At this time, one could choose to set aside the search for such knowledge, and continue along a path of one's choosing. The choice is always your own. 

Brain( material/physics or rupa) and mind are two different things. once death of brain, mind is caused to next birth. buddhist way chutti citta shape the next birth. Also memory recall of past life is taken as supportive proof for the rebirth. Here is very strong witness information of Prof.Ian Stevenson rebirth exploration as an example. In the case of the boy who said he recalled the life of someone who had been shot, the sister of the deceased told Stevenson that her brother had shot himself in the throat. The boy had shown Stevenson a birthmark on his throat. Stevenson suggested that he might also have a birthmark on the top of his head, representing the exit wound, and found one there underneath the boy's hair. 

In my own search, as a non-Buddhist, I have found that logical questioning is useful, but it has limits. In particular, it is reasonably effective at identifying paths that cannot lead to enlightenment once you have decided on characteristics of enlightenment that are important to you, and reasonably effective at identifying the general direction towards enlightenment in many situations. It can be a useful tool to assist you in your search alongside the advise of those teachers you respect. In particular, it can be a powerful tool for upsetting existing assumptions in your own mind. These assumptions can be dealt with in other methods but sometimes logical thought can arrive there faster. If you go far enough down the path of trying to apply logical thought, you'll eventually come across Gödel's incompleteness theorems or Tarski's undefinability theorem. These theorems demonstrate limits in mathematically rigorous thought when dealing with self-referential systems (such as nearly any religious statement including the word "I"). They demonstrate that, for a large body of questions which are highly related to enlightenment, logic simply cannot provide the answer. Often it can barely even phrase the question. From experience, I can also provide a warning: if you rely too heavily on logic, once you reach its limits you can feel lost. Always try to find a happy medium between logic and the more traditional approaches such as meditation and vipassana. Also be ready for that ideal balance to both change as you grow and to be extremely difficult to quantify using the logical and mathematical part of your approach. 

As per my thinking "Metta" can not be interpreted in to English with true essence of meaning. Love is mention as hindrance in Buddhism as Kama channda. Base of love is an attachment and liking so when you love some one or thing you have an attachment of it and grows your desire more and more. Please refer the question; what is the love described in Buddhism? I agree that metta is a mental state to practice.which is a kind of goodwill to all without preference, without exception-this statement also very versatile and profound.But metta is something more than goodwill. Also your example;lion eating unborn calf or you frying unborn chick to feed you loving child- as you mention loving child is very precise and prove love is an attachment some time lead unwholesome deeds. If you mentions loving child like fried chicks so I have fried unborn chick;that will explain it well. If you react with metta, you tend to see both your child and unborn chick with wholesome view. e.g What happen if your child has to experience as same as unborn chick. How painful is it? then how about my feeling and etc.... so you will realize the things as it is and avoid unwholesome deeds and direct your wisdom for alternative solutions.(E.g find some vegetable to feed your child or find access to different food) For the lion example;The mental state of metta is exist in human realm and higher realms. it can't be observed in animal realm and lower realms. Lion possesses strict inherent instinct to physical survival of their kind and they are limited to that narrow mental state. so animals are not tend to think as humans. that's the reason animal can't practice metta. To practice metta in practical life; one must get clear understanding about the what is metta and can practice through meditation or awareness(of metta) first you have to start from you by spread metta towards you and and spread gradually to outer world and universal level. you can't spread metta towards non-living things. It has to convey living being who suffer as one of characteristic of nature. wish genuinely get freedom from suffering and reach happiness. Also be kind enough to refer "karaniya metta sutta" and you will get proper awareness of "Metta" May all being remain peace and harmony May all being attain realization of Nirvana May all being be happy!