Despite this, there is little evidence (that I can find) that opium gained the same prominence in Russia as it did in England, France, and America. It is possible that opium became more popular in those countries due to the forced trade of opium in China as a means of maintaining control over the populace and deriving profits. These merchants who were blessed by those European powers to trade opium in China then brought opium back to their home countries. I don't know too much about Russia's involvement in the Chinese Opium trade, but what evidence I have come across suggests they largely kept out of it. If this is true this would be supportive of that hypothesis. 

Also from the same book by Johnson, "...according to Anatoly Dobrynin, the Soviet ambassador to Washington, as early as February 1986 Russian president Mikhail Gorbachev concluded that,'...to destroy or neutralize the American SDI system, we [Soviet Union] only would have to spend 10 percent of what the Americans plan to spend.' ". Also according to statistics presented in the book the Soviet spending on weapons procurement dropped from 4 to 5 percent to 1.3 percent per year and that Russian appropriations for offensive strategic weapons declined by 40%. I have long believed that the USSR fell due to reasons outlined by Chalmers, that being that, "The USSR collapsed for three basic reasons-internal economic contradictions driven by ideological rigidity, imperial overstretch, and the inability to reform". What I want to know is if there is a counter-argument, based on legitimate evidence, that supports the claim that SDI did indeed significantly contribute to accelerating the fall of the Soviet Union? 

First, there was hardly such thing as "German monarchs": before Bismarck Germany was fractured into a bunch of small states, each with its own monarch. True, they were formally united into "Holy Roman Empire of German People", but, as Voltaire pointed out, "Holy Roman Empire is neither Holy nor Roman nor Empire". And when Bismarck finally united Germany it was too late for colonization: the World was pretty much already divided up by other European powers. Not that Germany didn't try: its ambition to redraw the World is sometimes cited as one of the causes it was so eager to launch WWI. Second, Germany was mostly a continental country, not land-locked of course, but further from the routes to the usual colonization lands. Most of the German fleets were involved in Baltic Sea trading, not across-the-ocean ones. Not surprisingly, early German attempts for colonization were directed Eastward along Baltic Sea: one can say that Hanseatic League expansion into Livonia and Estonia was an attempt to colonize North-East Europe. 

I'd recommend either purchasing the DVD the series has on the transcontinental railroad, finding it at your local library, or at least reading the article. I imagine that given your interest in the subject you would really appreciate it. 

I have been reading the fascinating study on Iran by Nikki R. Keddie, "Modern Iran: Roots and Results of Revolution", Yale University Press, 2006. In it she outlines the dramatic modernizing policy of Iranian ruler Reza Shah (r. 1914-1941). In her chapter on Reza Shah, she describes a fairly autocratic leader who made great strides in improving certain aspects of Iran (notably in military capacity, public education, and transportation infrastructure) by adopting Western style reforms. While there seem to be obvious winners and losers in this process, with the former being landlords, industrialists, the class of civil servants and military officers, and to a lesser degree women in general; with the latter being the ulama (Muslim legal/religious scholars), peasants, trade unionists, socialists, and proletariat. While Keddie provides a very thorough explanation of Reza Shah reforms on a macro level, her focus on the larger history of Iran leaves more in-depth questions unanswered. I am interested as to what the general population of Iran thought of the reforms. One particularly interesting clue comes from a lengthy quotation in Keddie's work from a professor in International Relations and History, Houchang Chehabi: 

If you replace "literacy" with "access to information" you find that many governments were and are doing that to varying extent. The prime example today is North Korea that controls its people in part by controlling information. Another modern example is Russia that recently assumed government control over media that let it disseminate enough disinformation about the current events to gain 85% support for an array of heinous acts that only a couple years ago would be unthinkable. Something similar happened in many countries in 20th century: Orwellian control over information in lieu of control over literacy. 

To elaborate a bit on climenole's answer I'll add a bit of math behind the swastika symbol. Swastika in both clockwise and counterclockwise direction has been, and still is used in many cultures. In some areas of modern India it remains to this day as one of the symbols used to decorate the bride during wedding. The logic behind that symbol is actually straightforward: swastika is rotationally symmetric but not mirror symmetric. It kind of rolls in one direction, if you take the legs as directions, but not the other direction. Consider, for example, a square. You can rotate it as well, but there is nothing to indicate a preferred direction of rotation. Mathematicians would say that a square has symmetry group $D_8$, which includes both 90-degree rotations, as well as mirror symmetry, which postulates that it's impossible to make any convention for the preferred rotation direction. Swastika, on the other hand, has symmetry group $Z_4$, which allows to establish a convention for the preferred direction (such as "where the legs point to", for example) Since ancient times peoples half the World apart have noticed this asymmetrically symmetric feature of 3- and 4-leg swastikas and used those symbols to indicate unidirectional movements, such as "going only forward, never backward". Therefore the symbol could appear quite independently in various cultures. 

There is a very thorough explanation on Japanese economic growth in the work by Asian scholar, Chalmers Johnson in his work Blowback: The Costs and Consequences of American Empire. In addition to a very well researched explanation on American actions and the intelligence community derived concept of "blowback", he provides a very detailed explanation on Japanese economic success (you would probably be interested in his work with a more direct explanation of the role of the MITI specifcally, MITI and the Japanese Miracle: The Growth of Industrial Policy, 1925-1975). His argument in Blowback is that in addition to the Japanese skill in industry promoted by the likes of MITI, much of their incredible growth was due to their ability to use their geopolitical surroundings to their benefit. 

Regardless of whether the Japanese government was seriously considering surrender, the bombing forced the decision and was less costly to the Americans (obviously) than a protracted war. Whether a protracted war would have spared Japanese lives as opposed to several more months of brutal warfare is an open question. It is my opinion that this motivation was one of several competing reasons as to why the Americans decided to detonate nuclear bombs on Japanese civilian centers. In a large part I feel this was simply the natural evolution of the doctrine of total war applied to aerial bombings of civilian targets, first seen in action during the German bombing of Guernica and continued by the Americans both in the fire bombings of Dresden and Tokyo. Beyond this there was also the ability to justifiably test an atomic bomb in warfare conditions. American military scientists were very interested in seeing the effects of nuclear weapons in many environments (even detonating them underwater to see what would happen). Obviously the most important environment to test it on would be that of urban or military targets. The prior would be unthinkable, outside of a war anyway. Also, by deploying the bomb America was able to send a strong message about the balance of power after the war. Given that there is always some degree of uncertainty about political relations and military stability after the war, the bomb was certainly a strong message that Americans were not to be messed with. I don't think any of these motivations were alone sufficient in explaining why the American high command decided to drop the bombs; its far more likely that it was a combination of several of these and possibly additional concerns as well. 

There were numerous "divine visions" that the commanders relayed to their troops, as in Constantine did; one can call those beliefs in magical help, I guess. The practice didn't quite end in medieval times. During WWI Russians used projectors to display an image of Virgin Mary on overhead clouds to convince the troops of divine support of their cause. From the viewpoint of an average semi-literate drafted soldier the appearance of Virgin Mary in the night skies would feel like magic. Couldn't quickly goodle a reference for that though. 

I can witness personally that such discrimination existed at Moscow State University. It was kind of an open secret: most people knew about it, but not discussed in public. If you are looking for personal accounts by prominent mathematicians and scientists who were rejected by Moscow State University, that's relatively easy to do just by googling. Here's how it has been done. All top university had several entrance exams, including at least one oral. The admission pool was rather large, so the crowd of the prospective students was separated into a bunch of smaller groups, at least 20 groups for oral exams at Moscow State University, and each group had an exam in its own classroom. The professors assigned to take exams in particular classrooms have been instructed on the range of grades to assign. The group of "the right people" would get nearly automatic 5 (which is "A"), and the group of out-of-town Jews would get 3 (if they can withstand an hour of grilling over 50 questions all over the subject without a single mistake) or 2 (which is "F") if they make a single mistake or if they fail to write it down completely in the exam's protocol. These were not isolated incidents, it was the university policy. Despite a large number of Jewish mathematicians working there admission for Jewish students was severely restricted. 

Actually the motivation is pretty well-known. The motivation for the invasion of Spain was similar to that of all Muslim conquest of the period. Islamic armies under the command of the "The Rightly Guided Caliphs" and the following Umayyad and Abbasid caliphs benefited from a unifying religion to form a large and motivated armed forces, out of what had been inter-warring tribes (exactly how this was managed is still difficult to fully comprehend). Much of the initial conquest was focused on using the established tradition of caravan raiding to gain wealth and find weaknesses in neighboring states. One of the major motivating factors of this conquest was less on missionary zeal, and more on gaining wealth not just on conquest, but from the jizayh tax leveed on non-Muslims. This motivation is one of the most potent reasons as to why Muslim civilizations were less evangelical and more accepting of Jews and Christians, who they saw as fellow "people of the book", monotheists, and eligible for jizayh tax (other non-Muslims had to convert or face exile). The initial raids by mostly Berber converts to Islam where motivated by this and ultimately culminated in the Battle of Guadalete and the establishment of Umayyad rule over much of what is now Spain. This process of conquest and its motivation were similar to the process that lead second of the "Rightly Guided Caliphs" Umar ibn al-Khaṭṭāb, to capture the Sassanid empire and most of the Byzantine empire. The key point is that the motivation to invade largely Christian and Jewish Spain was based on both the wealth from the initial conquest and the wealth generated by the jizayh tax on the population. To learn more I would heartily recommend the following sources on Islam and Arabic history: 

It's being presumed in a few Q&A and discussions here that democracy is the most optimal political system. I'd like to see whether this assertion can be substantiated or refuted here. Are their historical trends in the circumstances that would favour one system over another for economic performance? For example, it has been argued that Soviets defeated Germany in the fields of WWII, something that French or British couldn't do until 1944, because Stalin's violent dictatorship led to single-minded mobilization of all resources. On the other hand, in the times of plenty the opportunities for diverse free enterprise implied by democracy would lead to better economic performance in a democratic society. I'm looking for trends such as above: historically, under what circumstances would a tight oligarchy tend to outperform, and under what circumstances a democracy would? Notice that I'm not asking for opinions such as "which system is better". I'm looking for measurable performance - such as the health of economy in the times of piece or prevailing in the times of war. 

I'd say controlling oil possibly played some role in the desire to go to war, but it was neither the sole reason or necessarily the impetus to start the war. My analysis of why neoconservative leaders such as Cheney, Rumsfeld, and Wolfowitz were determined to war with Iraq was based on several factors. First, Iraq's location serves as a perfect buffer between major American allies Israel and Saudi Arabia, and Iran. A strong pro-American government in Baghdad would help to ensure that Iranian influence would be minimized in he region. Also, many of the neoconservatives at the time were deeply influenced by the Vietnam war, which soured many American's towards the imperialist policy of the neocons throughout the 60's, 70's and into the 1980's. At the end of the cold war there was also a need to justify American military presence overseas and with the 9/11 attacks there was the opportunity to do so. However, this would require more than a police action against Al Qaeda and more of a full on international war. Given the mindset of the neoconservatives, I doubt the former was ever considered even if it were far more rational given that Al Qaeda is a non-state actor. Financially, oil was probably less of a motive than the lucrative military contracts and expenditures that a war and occupation could provide. Furthermore, this was an opportunity for people like Cheney and his former company Haliburton, to not only make a killing off of an almost endless stream of government money, but to also remake the military in accordance with their ideological principles. A significant development in the U.S. Iraq war of 2003 was the privatization of the army. Not only in a non-combat contractor force to provide services (often at inflated rates), but in a massive mercenary force employed to protect state department officials and other security tasks. The latter also allowed the US to recruit soldiers from all over the world, even in countries that opposed the war. Even more frighteningly, the gray area concerning the legal status of mercenaries allowed them to perform tasks which were certain illegal and immoral. Mercenary companies such as Blackwater (renamed Xe and now Academi) do not have to disclose their activities as they are considered "trade secrets" and their employees only faced being fired even after it was shown that they would engage in insanely aggressive acts (such as running over traffic and opening fire on civilians) to dissuade any attacks on their state department officials. Given that the state department officials were the ones both being protected AND charged with investigating mercenary groups, Blackwater was able to avoid any serious threat from the US government. Anyway, to answer your question, the war itself was not necessarily that costly to the US. The following occupation has proved to be extremely costly. Not only has the US spent a considerable amount of money and resources attempting to secure the country, but Iran wound up gaining a far greater degree of influence over the region than they have for decades (Iran was very unpopular in Iraq due to the very bitter and bloody Iran-Iraq war). The US did a lot to try and impose American (specifically neoconservative) values on the Iraqis, and took measures such as imposing their chosen political leaders and writing large portions of the Iraqi constitution. In addition to the flagrant abuses by the likes of Blackwater and the imposition of American military bases, this lead many Iraqis to take up arms and accept support from even Iranian associated groups. The Iraq war also played in with many of the abuses of the "Global War on Terror", severely damaging American civil liberties and freedoms. This war was damaging in so many ways that it is hard to mention them all. There are a lot of good books on the subject from so many angles. I'd recommend Jeremy Scahill's Blackwater: The Rise of the World's Most Powerful Mercenary Army for the damaging effects of the military industrial complex and America's recent turn towards mercenaries. The late East Asian scholar Chalmers Johnson has a whole series of books (Blowback, Sorrows of Empire, and Nemesis) and a bunch of articles on alternet which detail the harm imperial overreach has on the US. Finally, a good book on getting the mindset which led to the American invasion is provided by Rajiv Chandrasekaran in his Imperial Life in the Emerald City: Inside Iraq's Green Zone.