One of my previous employer wants me to update a tool that I developed during my internship. It would be remote work, part-time for about 20 hours a week, and I expect the work to last ~1 year. To make this work, I would have to make certain changes that would require significant financial commitments. How can I ask for a guarantee of employment for a part-time job? I don't want to be left with unaffordable budget if the part-time people change their minds after few months. I don't have experience signing contracts so I'm not sure if it would be appropriate to ask for: 1 year guarantee, or early termination fee. I know certain parts of an employment contract (like noncompete for a year) are not really enforceable so is something like this enforceable? I don't expect them to backtrack if they agree to such provisions ... but still, I am wondering about the legality and how often such provisions are agreed to. 

Been in this situation before with English, French, Hindi, Punjabi, and Mandarin competing against one another..! It is highly unlikely you will get them to change by simply asking them. Once an enclave is formed, it will stick until something drastic happens around them (e.g. rearrangement of their work desks to be far apart from each other). I would advise that you ask them two more times (a total of 3). If that doesn't change anything (likely), talk to your supervisor about it. Ask him/her to enforce English-only at work rule. There is no magical way to get them to talk in English. You can try and strike up a friendship with two of them individually and then mention in a light-hearted manner that you wish you could speak Telugu to get them to understand. Again, unlikely to work but if you don't want to escalate that's probably your best approach. I would strongly recommend asking your supervisor to establish English-only rule at work place. 

After you get a formal offer, look at your start date, look at your salary. Negotiate salary if you need/want to. Negotiate the start date to make sure you have enough time to give your current employer notice and that your new job start won't overlap. I would guess you have about 1 week to do the above. Once you accept your offer, and you get a confirmation, you notify your current employer. If you tell your current employer before accepting a job, you will probably get fired and if your offer falls through, you will be left unemployed. Even if they match the new offer, you are marked as disloyal employee so they will probably start looking for replacement. 

The phrasing above might not fly in South East Asia, which I'm guessing you're from, but you get the idea. This is good practice for people you can't just ask to send you an email, ie. your boss or a client. It makes sure you're both on the same page. A final point, you don't have to be told to use Jira (or any other ticket system) to actually use it. A few months ago I was the only one in my team using Mantis (before a company-wide switch to Jira) and I was using it as my personal to-do list. 

You can grep out keywords of interest but then you'd end up with a buzzword counter. I doubt that's what you're after. You're asking for a tool to eliminate evaluator bias. You can simply add more evaluators, and each CV gets scored by many people. Assuming you trust your colleagues, you can turn the (rather ideologically charged) concept of unconscious bias into a positive, where the bias works in favour of the company's culture. There's no mind-reading software, and there's no software that spits out bias-proof content. At the end of the day you have to rethink and improve your hiring process. 

If the designer doesn't want to e-mail you, you can take down notes when you're on the phone and then send him an e-mail with what you discussed. 

Your boss may or may not notice your performance decline. He might guess there's a personal issue you might be facing, and choose to ask you if everything's OK himself. If the performance drop is noticeable, it's best to preempt his checking in with you and go with option two: 

During my job hunt I noticed one or two companies asking for A-levels results. For those unfamiliar with the term, I understand it stands for Advanced Levels and it's the UK equivalent of two High-school senior years in America (but I might be wrong). In any case it has nothing to do with University transcripts, and the position which requires them is usually entry / graduate level. 

When a coworker happens to make a joke in a similar vein I usually look at them, or elsewhere, until they stop chuckling and realize they're being stupid. My body language basically tells them "that wasn't funny". I think women are much better at it (the stare). It probably won't work on a group though. If these messages are exchanged via IM, you could point out that this is easy to get misinterpreted if someone sensitive became aware of it. You know what I mean, all that PC stuff that everyone keeps going on about. Do you really want a record of yourself saying this stuff? Same thing with the jokes made verbally : Imagine if someone walks by and overhears you. People are sensitive these days. I know you're joking, but every time you do you're taking a risk. What I'm doing here is pointing out the penalties to the co-workers without making myself involved, or presenting me (well, you) as the offended party. 

For the technical side: I discovered that ear-bud type headphone is great for this. It kills noise pretty well even without anything going, and provides pretty good-sounding music. Without leaking to outside. And not really wearing on the head or ears. My only remaining problem is to pull them when I stand up or someone wants to talk... 

I'm sure he has no right for such request. If I was in the situation I would have pointed that out quite directly. And unless he takes it back as misunderstanding, I'd ask this order in written form. From there whatever route would be interesting. 

I don't think "most commonly accepted etiquette when it comes to tattoos and work sponsored events" exists, and even if it did, would be pretty irrelevant. You don't live with some "average" or idealized company but a very concrete one. Therefore you shall figure out the local rules. If you have an ombudsman position in the company I suggest to consult there first. If not, I'd suggest starting with colleagues who you trust, then possibly the boss or some HR folks. (In general I would not think it be a problem of any kind, but the fact you feel for asking here raises suspicion.) 

Don't ask about policy, that is futile. You won't get usable information. However you can construct a few stories with a conflict and can use that. Tell the story and ask what the company would do in the situation. If it sounds good, ask ahead, that what enforces it. Or switch to a variant where you discovered that some decision-maker failed to do that, and ask what can you do in the situation, where to turn, how to resolve, etc. Probably you get a better picture. Though still can hit a gap between theory and practice. 

That part of the interview is not there as another manipulation opportunity. As an applicant you should ask question that you're genuinely interested in and need the information. Especially whatever is relevant to make a decision on accepting an offer. But "just curious" is also a fair game. I suggest NOT asking anything just for show. A good interviewer will not build any conclusion of that section, as candidates may be well prepared so not need to ask. Or what is usual, just be mentally exhausted at that point. Os just shy or anything. 

Correlation does not imply causation. I'm not familiar with US laws but I understand that a green card is a legal requirement. This may be a company's way of signalling their law-abidingness. If a company is willing to consider green card holders they'll likely get far more applications than one who isn't. This means that, statistically, they'll get more CVs that are better-looking than yours. The best way to deal with these "Schrodinger's racists" is to ensure your skill level eclipses any other factor. You can't do anything if they're dead-set against hiring foreigners, but you can certainly make yourself attractive to those who are willing to. 

You can't change his mind, nor should you. You don't represent all immigrants, you don't speak for any portion of them but yourself, and you have no way of conclusively disproving his point... as he has no way of proving his. In other words you're both pushing a conjecture. Drop it, befriend the guy if you so wish, and if he brings up politics again just stay out of it. 

People have mentioned code reviews or automated testing, etc. That's all well and good but beside the point. The person you wanna talk to is the PM who doesn't understand coding practices, but understands money. You need to make the following argument: 

You can thank them for the opportunity and let them know you've found another position that's better suited to your {skills, culture, etc} you. They might even come back to you with a better offer. After reviewing this website on the subject I drafted the following (hoping to use it someday): 

Only to law enforcement under a court order (and under duress). The accounts might belong to the company but passwords are personal. End of discussion. If she wants to make sure you have no company IP in your personal email, she can hire a computer forensics company. 

If your colleague gets paid by the hour, he's effectively stealing from the company. If not most of the rest of this answer does not apply. Some people suggested (or implied) that you should only report him if it impacts your work. I disagree. If you witnessed someone stealing something of value from the office, it might not impact your work directly, but it's still theft. Ultimately it's down to what's in his contract, he may be entirely entitled to do it as far as anyone knows, but this behaviour should be reported, just in case.