As a constructive suggestion, you could make the force $1/r^2$ at long distances but have a short-range correction term that makes it fall off to $1/r$ at short distances. This isn't beyond the bounds of what's reasonable for a physical force. One way to motivate this is to imagine that your 2D world is actually 3D after all, it's just that everything in it happens to be a flat shape lying in the same plane, and all objects are exactly one inch thick in the third dimension. Then if you're more than a few inches away from something the forces will behave just as you describe, but when things get closer than that they will attract each other like normal 3D objects and you won't get the divergent sum. This kind of idea could probably be couched in terms of "rolled up" dimensions a la string theory, if you felt so inclined. 

And what if we discovered them on some far off planet? Well, there would be news headlines for a month or two. "Scientists find aliens on Tau Ceti," "Aliens on Tau Ceti don't live in houses". From there there are two possibilities: 

(Image from $URL$ ) Quite frankly, you couldn't boat on that with "normal" boats if you tried! But jet boats were designed in NZ in 1954 and now we can travel on the rivers: 

Side note: The upcoming Mortal Engines movie is likely to feature airhaven - a flying city using airship-type technology. 

On the left we have a boiler. It's roughly based on a fire-tube boiler where the flame/exhaust passes through tubes in the boiler itself. This is more expensive to produce, but reduces the amount of time for your gun to "get steamed up." I'm not too concerned about the source of the fire. Perhaps it's coal-gas, perhaps propane, perhaps white spirits. I'd go for gas as there's less to go wrong if you drop your gun. Just for safety I've put a pressure gauge on there - so you don't end up firing half-charged shots without knowing about it, and you know if your gin is about to explode. Despite drawing the boiler in a position that looks like it may be a hand-grip, do not build it into the hand-grip. During operation it will exceed 100 degrees (pressure raises boiling temperature), so gripping it is a terribly bad idea. Old steam engines got up to about 250PSI, but because we have a small projectile we'll may need more than that. For reference the chamber pressure of a modern 9mm round is in the 34,000 PSI region. There's no chance we can get that high, but I hope your metallurgy is good enough to get to several hundred PSI. (the lower the PSI the longer your barrel will need to be, or the wider the round). In the middle we have a rotary valve. The D-shaped part rotates until the steam can flow from the boiler into the barrel. THe timing of this is quite important. If it's too short you lose power. If it's too long you waste water. This gives a way for the user to regulate the shot, providing a solution for the first part of your #8. I'd suggest an escapement mechanism for driving the valve, possibly with a spring to provide the rotation. The trigger just releases the escapement, it does a single turn and returns to it's original position. After the shot the same clockwork mechanism can rotate the chamber. This could provide a very consistent shot-to-shot power. The valve releases steam into the barrel, where it pushes the bullet along, and hopefully towards the enemy. 

I'm surprised no-one's mentioned aerial warfare: with the stuff as described in the question, you could use it to fly high in the air. Of course, controlling altitude and velocity would be a major challenge, and the only way to come back down is to let go of some very expensive antigravity ballast, but still, it might be useful from time to time, for surveillance or for dropping bombs of some kind. 

The asker says in a comment that "there is so many layers of bureaucracy and indoctrination that the aliens themselves don't even know why they are invading Earth or any other planet, other than if they don't they will be executed for insubordination." This seems to me all that's needed for an answer. The commander continues the invasion because to do otherwise would entail filing the appropriate paperwork - and that would be a far more difficult and dangerous task than simply continuing to send more troops indefinitely. I actually quite like that as a basis for a story. It does what it needs to do, and has a darkly comic message about the futility of war. 

When Atlantis was sinking, the residents knew about it only slightly in advance. Being sensible people, they rushed into their basements and shut the doors. One atlantis had sunk, they dug between the basements to form a network of underwater/underground rooms. They somehow figured out how to get air down there (and how to build airlocks), and decided there was no reason for them to move. Over the past thousand years, the sea gradually destroyed all of the buildings. If you know what to look for the doors aren't hard to find, but the lack of above-sea-floor structures make it almost impossible to locate on sonar. 

We try get in physical contact with them. This only works if they are more advanced than us, or it's far future. In this case, society will change quite a bit. We try get in radio/communications with them using something faster than light. Society will change slightly. Probably make some large bounds both in science and philosophy. Neurologists and biologists will have a field day. We can't reach them other than in multi-year-long messages. If it takes 4 light years for a signal to reach them, 8 years for a return journey, then how long will it take before we can say "hi" rather than sending prime numbers? Years. As a result, life for most of the planet continues as normal. 

There doesn't seem to be an answer suggesting the only obvious solution besides the ones you mentioned (and discounted) in the question: simply make the moment of inertia larger along the axis of the cylinder, so that rotating along that axis becomes its most stable state. This of course requires adding a lot more mass. But since this kind of structure has to be built in space anyway this isn't necessarily a big issue. Simply attach a number of captured asteroids in a thick ring around the midpoint of the cylinder, and stick them together with carbon nanotubes. The ring should extend out from the cylinder as far as possible given the material limits of the nanotubes holding it together. Of course, your cylinder might be so big that you're at the limits of carbon nanotube tensile strength already. In that case this plan won't work at all, since the mass of the ring will exert even more centrifugal force than the cylinder itself. Because of this, a cylinder using this stabilisation method would have to be a lot smaller than the theoretical maximum. It could still be enormous, though. (I should note that this answer is somewhat tongue in cheek. I'm not sure it would really work, because an object on that scale wouldn't really behave like a rigid body. The ring would want to spin one way while the two ends of the cylinder want to tumble, and that might cause the whole thing to tear itself apart. I don't know whether it's possible to prevent this or not. I suspect that in reality the only ways to do it are some kind of active stabilisation or some kind of counterrotating mass, with the latter probably being far more practical.) 

In New Zealand there are plenty of rivers, but relatively few that people can boat on. Why? Most of them look like this for most of their length: 

So how to generate it? A nuclear reactor and an electromagnet is one way - but that'd be power hungry. However you would have to constantly feed power into whatever magnetisation system you're using. Each particle it turns away from the ship will weaken it slightly. [work = force * distance. Force != 0 (it turns away), distance != 0 (the particle is moving while force is applied) therefore work != 0. If work != 0, then energy input is required]. Probably more efficient than a nuclear reactor and electromagnet running all the time is to use the reactor/electromagnet to magnetise a bar of iron. Then you can turn the reactor off until the iron is demagnetised to no longer be useful. You remagnetise it, and off you go again. 

Here are some educated guesses from a physicist about what would happen if the Earth were split in two. I'm assuming that the splitting happens magically and instantaneously, with one half just suddenly disappearing and reappearing somewhere else. Although this leads to quite extreme effects it's actually the best-case scenario - any other way of splitting the planet would add energy to the system, making it even worse. I'm also assuming the split happens along the Grenwich Meridian, so that it splits England, Africa, both poles and the Pacific Ocean into two, while the Americas and East Asia end up in the middle of their own hemispheres. For someone in central America or Indonesia, the very first thing they'll notice is that gravity is suddenly half of its normal strength. This will probably feel like a terrible earthquake, as if the ground has suddenly started to drop away underneath them. This is just an illusion, though - it hasn't. Yet. For someone closer to the edge of the hemisphere, gravity has not only reduced but also changed direction slightly, since it now points towards the centre of gravity of the hemisphere instead of to what used to be the centre of the Earth. However, this is the least of their problems and they will not have much time to think about it, because of the enormous shockwave that's passing over the land at the speed of sound, destroying everything. This occurs because the air at the edge of the hemisphere is suddenly in contact with a vacuum and is rushing into it. The air that goes over the edge will then start falling towards the core of the Earth. Speaking of the core, this has now exploded. It was previously under a huge amount of pressure, so much so that the inner core is solid iron, despite being hotter than the outer core, which is liquid. Once that pressure is released it will turn back into a liquid, expanding as it does so. I'm not sure exactly what the volume change is, but I'm sure there are now unimaginable amounts of white hot liquid iron rushing out into space at 6000C. This explosion can't be seen from the surface, but it causes a shockwave of its own, which will travel up through the mantle and manifest as a huge earthquake, which will destroy everything the atmospheric shockwave doesn't get. For places far from the edge, the earthquake will arrive before the atmospheric shockwave, because it has less distance to travel through the Earth. After that, the half-Earth will start collapse under its own gravity to turn back into a sphere half the size of the original. The Earth's core is now entirely liquid and the mantle, while largely solid, doesn't have anywhere near enough strength to hold itself in a hemisphere shape without collapsing. I don't know how long this collapse will take but it will be well underway within hours if not before. If you watch simulations of the Moon-forming impact you'll see that the Earth behaves like a liquid when it is subject to forces on that scale. The process of collapse turns gravitational potential energy into heat, with the result that once it's finished the half-Earth will have a surface of molten rock and an atmosphere made mostly of hot gases that were previously trapped in the mantle and core. In short, most people will be dead within hours, and long-term survival is completely impossible. 

So what would happen? Well, modern engineering would fall apart in an extremely rapid fashion. Most modern engineering techniques require sophisticated analysis. Several decades ago people did this by hand, now they do it using computers and as a result, people would have to re-discover the techniques the previous engineers used. (possibly including slide rules and log tables, but mainly the various heuristics and 'good enough' approach). This would mean that current things like ships and aircraft would be the last designs for several years. Many can still be produced, but work on new ones would halt. Some operating technologies will fail. Many are protected against EMF, but if it is powerful enough anything from aircraft fly-by-wire systems to nuclear reactor controls could be disrupted. These systems are designed to be super-tough, so you'd need a pretty severe situation to knock them offline. The most significant one is that most people would get bored. I don't think this is a bad thing, but without cellphones and computers to entertain them, and entire generation (or two) who have not developed the skill to entertain themselves will be extremely bored. This may result in an increased crime rate, or in an upsurge of various 'forgotten' hobbies. Couple this with nearly all of modern bureaucracy being computer based, and vast hoards of people who work in a computer industry (eg software engineers, web designers) and you may have soon have a significant incident. Computer development would stop it it's tracks. We use computers to design computers, and without functioning computers we are sunk. Scientists and engineers would start looking for ways to build replacements. Maybe they'd find it, maybe not. Maybe they'd just find a better form of shielding. Maybe we'd have to go back to vacuum tubes or discrete component computers. 

This is implicit in the other answers, but it deserves to be made explicit: if you want a deeper ocean, a smaller planet will be better than a big one. The main thing limiting the depth of a liquid ocean is that when the pressure gets to around 1GPa, the pressure will cause the water to become ice, even at warm temperatures. This is a special forms of ice (actually one of several different special forms of ice) that is denser than water, so it sinks and forms the ocean floor. Probably most of the oceans on the icy moons in the Solar system, such as Europa, have exotic ices at the bottom. The pressure at a given depth is given by the density of water multiplied by the height of the water column, multiplied by the strength of the planet's gravity. Thus the higher gravity of a Jupiter-like planet would mean that exotic ices would start to form at a shallower depth of water than on an Earth-like planet, whereas on a planet smaller than Earth you could have deeper water before you reach the critical pressure. The relationship is linear, so a planet with half the gravity can have oceans twice as deep. 

All right. What does it take to build a horse and card? A carpenter and some animal keeper. Great, that's easy. The animal keeper is easy. So long as you have a beast of the burden on your space ship and a human on your ship, and your planet doesn't kill them, you can have a horse and rider. Carpentry is a little more involved. Typically you'll need steel tools to build a cart. This means you need: 

That is more energy than is present in a ... .50 cal rifle (20kj) by more than an order of magnitude. So to say you're going to have issues is an understatement. The major issue you are going to have with the arrow is splintering. You are accelerating your arrow crazily fast. It goes from 0mph to 1900mph in less than one meter of space. For the mechanics of a bow/arrow, this means all that force is concentrated on the back of the arrow where the string pushes against it. Without the support of a barrel, you'd be hard pressed to stop the back of your arrow "mushrooming" out. It could be done, but you'd likely need some hard material at the back of your arrow. I'd just go for something more like a long bullet than an arrow. You can't spin the arrow (no rifled barrel), so you will still need fins, but they certainly won't be made from feathers. I'm no aerodynamics expert, but I think funny things happen at supersonic speeds, so I won't give any advice on fin shape. The material will also have to be incredibly stiff to avoid the fin "fluttering." Then there's the matter of the bow. I tried fooling around with an "arrow speed calculator." I can't ascertain it's accuracy with such large numbers, but using trial and error, it seems to hint that our bow will need a draw weight of around 4500 pounds, or about 2 ton. I hope your archer is very very strong. Even with a high draw weight there is the issue of the return speed of the limbs of the bow. This is an issue because the drag acting on the limbs of the bow slow them down, and most materials have a maximum velocity they return to "neutral" at. I'm just going to assume our crazy draw weight somehow overcomes these limitations.