Dennett talks about this as "Skyhooks" vs. "Cranes" A Crane is something which can build great complexity, but it rests on simple, fundamental principles. This is like evolution. A Skyhook (a crane hanging from a helicopter) is something which can build great complexity, but it rests on no firm foundations. This is like creationism. Some of the criticisms you bring up have been brought up by others who say that Dawkins doesn't differentiate well enough between these two in his Boeing 747 Gambit. He may not have presented the argument perfectly, but others have made it more rigorous. 

While it's a big area, John Dewey has to be near the top of this list. Experience and Education probably serves as a good crash course. Since you specifically mentioned ethics, his book Moral Principles in Education may be of interest. The basic summary is that education should teach not just things like algebra but also "how to live a good life", which would include education about ethical reasoning. 

At the end of the second section of On Liberty, Mill gives a summary of the four reasons why there should be free speech: 

His home page has links to papers written about this, with reference to science and mathematical beauty. 

There seems to be an equivocation between "rational" and "believes only in things which are 'true.'" This is not at all what "rational" means: 

I think you really need to understand what "utilitarianism" means to Mill. The caricature of utilitarianism as "the greatest good for the greatest number" is good as far as pithy sayings go, but it leaves a lot of complexity out. You might consider Mill's famous claim: 

The idea that our minds and bodies work according to some physical (as opposed to supernatural) laws is often sourced to de La Mettrie, though of course as with any major idea it's hard to give one source. The Wikipedia page on materialism lists thinkers going back as far as 600 BCE; the Cārvāka thinkers had ideas I think Anderson would find quite suitable, for example: 

I am going to focus solely on Bostrom's argument for the simulation hypothesis, as opposed to metaphysical skepticism in general. First, note that Bostrom himself doesn't find this overwhelmingly likely: 

I'm interested in sources discussing the obligations we have to be "beneficent", e.g. through charitable donations. Famine, Affluence and Morality is one of the more famous articles of this type. SEP has an overview as well. I am more interested in utilitarian-based reasoning, and things discussing what the "common man" can or should do, as opposed to things like medical ethics. 

I'm looking for references on population ethics, preferably those with a mathematical bent. Broome's Weighing Lives is a good example of what I'm looking for. 

I think Phenomenology might be a good subject heading for "philosophy of the passions." Wikipedia's description: 

Skinner, of course, believed that free will is an illusion, so there's nothing to take away. (Hence this conditioning is not immoral.) His book Walden 2 describes a society in which social engineering techniques (like you describe) are used to create a utopia. Your question is timely because a popular ethics book called Nudge has recently promoted some of these ideas. Nudge argues that there are some (relatively benign) ways we can change our environments to "nudge" people towards making the right decision. The SEP's entry on autonomy might be a good place to start. It sounds like you may be new to the wonderful world of differing ethical opinions, but suffice it to say there are several competing schools of thought with diametrically opposed views on the matter. If you are interested in reasons why losing autonomy might be a morally relevant action, you might consider whether rational (autonomous) thought is important for ethical reasoning, whether losing autonomy will make it harder for you or those around you to satisfy your preferences, or whether making autonomous decisions is important for being a "good person". Some classics in the area would be Kant's Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals (see e.g. The Categorical Imperative - Freedom and Autonomy) and Mill's On Liberty. Contemporary thinkers tend to be distrustful of the idea of "freedom" in general. (Frankly, I am surprised this question hasn't been answered with a flood of posters questioning whether one can ever make a "free" decision to begin with.) I heartily recommend The Latest Answers to the Oldest Questions which is an introductory-level book to some important philosophical ideas, including questions of freedom. 

The work of Noam Chomsky is generally accepted as the cutting edge of linguistics and because of his contributions many people regard him as the most relevant living intellectual in the world. The basis to Chomsky's linguistic theory is that the principles underlying the structure of language are biologically determined in the human mind and hence genetically transmitted. He therefore argues that all humans share the same underlying linguistic structure, irrespective of socio-cultural difference. In this he opposes the radical behaviourist psychology of B.F. Skinner, instead arguing that human language is unlike modes of communication used by any other animal species. Chomskyan linguistics, beginning with his Syntactic Structures, a distillation of his Logical Structure of Linguistic Theory, challenges structural linguistics and introduces transformational grammar. This approach takes utterances (sequences of words) to have a syntax characterized by a formal grammar; in particular, a context-free grammar extended with transformational rules. Perhaps his most influential and time-tested contribution to the field is the claim that modeling knowledge of language using a formal grammar accounts for the "productivity" or "creativity" of language. In other words, a formal grammar of a language can explain the ability of a hearer-speaker to produce and interpret an infinite number of utterances, including novel ones, with a limited set of grammatical rules and a finite set of terms. He has always acknowledged his debt to Pāṇini for his modern notion of an explicit generative grammar, although it is also related to rationalist ideas of a priori knowledge. A popular misconception is that Chomsky proved that language is entirely innate, and that he discovered a "universal grammar". Chomsky simply observed that while a human baby and a kitten are both capable of inductive reasoning, if they are exposed to exactly the same linguistic data, the human will always acquire the ability to understand and produce language, while the kitten will never acquire either ability. Chomsky labeled whatever the relevant capacity the human has that the cat lacks as the language acquisition device, and he suggested that one of the tasks for linguistics should be to determine what the LAD is and what constraints it imposes on the range of possible human languages. The universal features that would result from these constraints are often termed "universal grammar" or UG. Though Chomsky generated the universal grammar theory with the belief that language is uniquely human, a series of studies from various laboratories have shown the existence of acquired language in several great ape species, including common chimpanzees, bonobos, gorillas, and orangutans. Thus, great apes at least partially possess whatever mental functions might underlie the LAD, and are therefore important species of study for exploring the neural basis of language. 

I would recommend b.f skinners behaviorism and Freud's psychoanalysis theories because they are pioneering and comprehensive attempts at psychological theories of everything. 

What is the basis for believing that there is such a thing as human rights? I am all for human rights but it could be argued that the notion of human rights is imaginary and reducable to absurdity (that humans by virtue of being born are magically entitled to certain things) when trying to prove it scientificaly or logically. It also seems incompatible with evolution, where survival of the fittest would dictate, that you either have what it takes to secure the resources necessary to survive, or you perish if unable to secure said resources, evolution doesnt state anywhere that everyone is born with a right to a specific alotment of resources. Is it possible to reconcile these contradicting positions or is it more logical to conclude that human rights are a human invention? 

Science, generally is analyzing information gathered from observing phenomena, and coming up with theories to try and explain the phenomena. Then, attempting to predict a new phenomenon before it happens (when we can do that we usually say that we have discovered "a fundamental law of nature"),and when we can consistently produce the same result, this is regarded as proof of the theory. Mathematics is different. it does not rely on these experiments in order to claim the discovery of a new truth. Theres a distinction between what Mathematics claims as proof in contrast to science. For a scientist, ten experiments with consistent results might constitute proof, For a mathematician, a million successful experiments is not enough proof. Instead, mathematicians rely on logic. Mathematics is very often inspired by nature, but it is a purely intellectual pursuit. It is just a bunch of ideas in our heads, like philosophy. Pure abstract reasoning. Mathematics is so intricately related with science, Mathematics being the language used to describe scientific theories, but the difference between methods for arriving at proof appear to make the notion of mathematics as a science inconsistent. Is Mathematics considered a science? 

Suppose we believe the "thirder" position of the Sleeping Beauty Problem. That is, we believe that . Applying Bayes' theorem, we get 

By the definition of the problem, , and similarly since it is just the marginal over heads and tails. This leaves us with . So does that mean the thirder position implies that the prior probability of getting heads is 1/3? I.e. that even before the coin is tossed, we should assign a probability of 1/3 to heads? 

Nanotechnology and problems with super intelligence were the two most likely reasons the experts gave for human extinction in the next century. You might also believe that that humans will go extinct before becoming "post-human" simply because post-humanity isn't possible (e.g. it simply isn't possible to simulate a human mind on a computer chip). The second fork of the trilemma seems harder to argue for: perhaps people will view this as unethical, or perhaps simulations will be extremely expensive, but it seems harder to argue for this. 

Cody and Joe gave good answers, but I'd like to add that a common form of argument that you find in philosophy and not so much other places is a Syllogism. This is an argument of the form "P implies Q, P, therefore Q." As an example, a simple form of the argument from marginal cases goes like: 

I emphasize "morally relevant" since it is a question for biology to list the anatomical differences, which is of course an important thing to do, but off topic here. Phrased this way, this is the argument from marginal cases. Essentially, the claim is that so-called "marginal humans," such as those with severe cognitive handicaps, have mental capabilities similar (or inferior) to some non-humans. Quoth Singer (from Animal Liberation): 

I don't think I fully understand your example about CH (it seems to me you could indeed go quite wrong assuming that CH is true with probability 1/2...) but I would encourage you to check out The Philosophical Significance of Cox's Theorem. It highlights some domains in which Cox's theorem could be plausibly said to fail. (One of which is, as you say, when the law of excluded middle fails.) On the other side of things, Quantum probabilities as Bayesian probabilities demonstrates a link between Bayesian probability and quantum probability (a domain in which the distributive property doesn't hold). So this idea is quite robust, even in the bizarre world of QM. 

A harder question to answer would revolve around defining 'truth'. We might suggest that to assert "X is true" means something like "it is useful for one to believe X". We could point to an increased sense of community among believers, for example, as evidence that belief in a divine being is useful and therefore true. This is a (poorly phrased version of a) tack that James took. 

Confucius is sometimes considered to have promoted a form of social contract theory. He would be an exception, having been born into poverty in rural China. 

Dissenters from this argument generally embrace the view that the question is misguided: ethical value doesn't come from having some set of capabilities, but rather arises through a shared contract etc. Carl Cohen defends this view, for example. Entire books have been written about this, if you are interested to continue researching it. On other fronts, you might be interested in the work that Varner, among others, has done to describe the likelihood that various species feel pain which can be roughly summarized as "vertebrates feel pain; insects possibly not so much". And Dan Dennett expresses some uncertainty as to what extent non-humans are conscious, but of course he is quite skeptical of most accounts of human consciousness as well. 

I found that Diamond and Koopmans have booth done some interesting work in this area. The blog post Kill the young people has a discussion of Diamond's paper, and Koopmans' "Stationary Ordinal Utility and Impatience" can be found here. Basically, they investigate the idea of "impatience" (valuing things which come earlier more) and show that under some reasonable conditions, population ethics must be impatient, a very counter-intuitive finding. It is often mentioned in the context of environmental ethics.