Obviously atheism is not a religion. Atheists completely ignore some strange belief system that some people have which causes those people to do all kinds of strange things. There are always people who say they believe in some god and atheists don't, but atheists don't say "I don't believe in god", they say "what is that god thing that you are talking about"? Since that strange belief systems of others is ignored, it doesn't play any role in the life of an atheist and is of no importance whatsoever (except that from time to time this needs to be clarified to some people). As it doesn't play any role in the life of the atheist, claiming atheism is a religion is quite ridiculous. See also a quote of Asimov in this thread where he says "I so strongly suspect he doesn't that I don't want to waste my time.". 

We could quite reasonably say that there is a logical fallacy of "argument from authority". However, we should then also say that "argument from non-authority" is probably a much worse fallacy (assuming that something must be true because some minor celebrity having not a clue of the subject says it's true, which happens often enough). And the logical fallacy doesn't make it wrong. It's not proven, but most things in life are not proven, and in the absence of proof we cope by using probabilities. If 97% of scientists agree on something that is within their area of expertise, then the probability that it is right is quite high. If you insist to act only on things that are 100% proven, then consider that "climate change is not created by humans" is only supported by 3% of climate scientists, and therefore much less proven than the opposite statement. 

is false. There is one statement about my location - on the bench or not. There's another statement about the importance of the first fact. There is no reason why these would be related. Or take a company trying to hire a new employee: 

The bible is not a scientific text. It is a religious text. In a scientific text, I would hope that the author doesn't make any stupid mistakes like using circular reasoning. As a scientist, that's the kind of mistake that he shouldn't make. On the other hand, if I knew that the author regularly beats his wife, that would lower my estimate of him as a human being, but doesn't affect my opionion of his text. The bible is something completely different. I don't expect the various authors to be master logicians. I expect them to be fully convinced that what they are writing is the truth. If one of them writes "everything in the bible is true, because it's the bible, and everything in it is true", I don't take it as a cheap attempt to trick me by using a logical fallacy, but as evidence that the author is fully convinced of the truth. And that he hasn't seriously studied logic, which is not surprising, since it was all written 2,000 years ago. So does a logical fallacy discredit the bible? Not one bit. 

If you have a statement and its negation, then one of them is true and one of them is false. That's the definition of "negation". The negation of a statement is false if the statement is true, and true if the statement itself is false. Whatever the situation, one is true and one is false. Now take your statement "At least two of my library books are overdue" and your proposed negation "At least two of my library books are not overdue". If you have borrowed ten books, five are overdue and five are not, then both statements are true. Your proposed negation is not a negation of the original statement. 

Might be "perfect solution fallacy" aka "nirvana fallacy", meaning that any solution but a perfect one must be rejected. In this case, rejecting any course of action that doesn't prevent all robberies. 

The "death is inevitable" conclusion is wrong, because while death is inevitable for humans, a healthy life style can increase the number of years you live, and can increase your enjoyment of these years. So unless the healthy food is so awful that you would prefer dying young to eating that food and dying old, there is a very strong argument for living healthy. The whole argument may also be an example of the Nirvana fallacy, where any solution to a problem is rejected unless it is perfect. So any suggestions to reduce the number of abused children would be rejected unless child abuse can be completely prevented, a burglar alarm would be rejected unless combined with automatic weapons that can keep any army away, and of course healthy food is rejected unless it makes you immortal. 

You are trying to argue that "he had a beard" is a true statement, when you actually know that the person was clean shaven. In the normal interpretation of "he had a beard", a clean shaven person does not have a beard. Tomorrow morning, when I haven't shaved for 24 hours, even though you can see beard hair, I do not have a beard. If I then don't shave for the rest of the day, you could say "he is badly shaved", but I still don't have a beard. So in this case, you are telling a lie and you are not saying the truth. If your statement interfered with catching the robber and the police could prove it, and if it was important to them, you could be prosecuted. All this means you picked a bad example. Now you may say things that are the truth, but you know that they will misinterpreted (in your example, you didn't say the truth). For example, you might say "Joe was arrested for murdering his wife" while fully knowing that the true murderer was found and Joe was fully exonerated. You are telling the truth, you are not telling a lie, but you are intentionally misleading. (That's a situation where saying the truth doesn't protect you in a libel case). So in this case, the truth is not a lie. But saying a lie means saying something that you believe to be not the truth. You may be wrong. If I tell you truthfully "Jim is in this bar", you mishear it and believe that Joe is in the bar, and then you tell people that Joe isn't in the bar, then your statement is the truth but at the same time a lie. 

First, the word "believe" as it is used in religion, precludes evidence. A true believer believes without evidence. If they had evidence, that wouldn't actually help them believing at all. As a non-believer, god or "a god" is supposed to be an almighty being. I can imagine things happening that could be caused by humans. I can imagine things happening that could be caused by a civilisation much superior to that of humans. Any such thing wouldn't be prove for the existance of god. There would be a limit, where some effect couldn't possibly be produced by anything in the known universe. Which doesn't mean the cause would have to be a god, but we might as well assume it is, since having a force that is more powerful than anything possible, but less than god, is quite hard to imagine. 

There are two problems with the argument. First, let's change it to "well traditional sports have used it for decades thus it's obviously the optimal system for traditional sports". Well, that's not true. Traditional sports might be using a non-optimal system for whatever bizarre reasons. Or it might be a system that is known to be second best, but the transition to a different, better, system might be very hard. (Say there are two paths separated by barbed wire. You walk on one path. You clearly see the other path is better, but you can't switch because of the barbed wire). Second, even if that system is optimal for traditional sports, that doesn't mean it's optimal elsewhere. I wouldn't say this is "generalisation from induction". That would be making the same observation in five similar situations and assuming that the same thing would happen in the sixth similar situation. Here the claim is that the same observation would happen in a different situation. 

It depends on the kind of miracle. Some miracles could be just the consequence of extraordinary coincidence - so extraordinary that we never expect it to happen. And any coincidence is possible, just very unlikely. To point out the blatantly obvious, if something is possible, just very unlikely, then there cannot be any proof that it is impossible. 

You don't just spend money, you also have to make money. If Chile paid $20 million to save 33 people, they have to get that money back. Tax payers need to work to produce $20 million of taxes. People working have accidents, and sometimes people die. You can just run statistics in your country how much was produced in taxes, and how many people died in work related accidents. Divide the numbers, and you'll find that to produce x million in taxes, one random person will die. At that point, paying more than x million dollars to save a life is not ethical anymore. The other problem is that usually you have only limited amounts of money available. Let's say you have a hospital in a poor country with one million dollars to spend in a year. When the million dollars is gone, you can't buy medication, can't use power that you can't pay for, can't have personnel that you can't pay. On the first day of the year someone comes into your hospital whose treatment will cost one million dollars. If you save his life, you can't help anyone else for the whole year. Now tell me what's ethical.