Mercy killing is bad simply because it is unskillful. You may be helping to spend some one elses karma, but what you really doing is bringing it upon your self. You have to be very careful when you get yourself involved in solving other beings problems, not to bring the same problems upon yourself. 

From my understanding they are called aggregates not necessarily because they are made of something. Its because they are described in plural. For example 'Foam Aggregate' is translated from Rupa Skandha, meaning the aggregate of Rupa or aggregated rupa. Same goes for other 4 as well. Also asking what they are made of in general sense might not even be correct. Because some are not things, example feeling is a process/action/event so as perception. And when you take all 5 together, what is described is an ongoing process, which we incorrectly perceive as an object (self). 

I just want to add that Jesus first miracle is turning water into wine. So, as you said yourself, the guy may not think it's offensive at all. He mean well. And it gives you opportunity to teach about Buddha's opinion on alcohol. If the beer is of high quality, I do not see anything negative with it. 

$URL$ In Indonesia, due to muslim influence, believes in an "Esa" God is one of the founding principle of Indonesians. The words "Esa" in Indonesia can mean many things. Some says it means one (as in islam), or united (as in christianity) or comprehensive (according to my hindu friends). It seems that whoever wrote "Ketuhanan yang maha esa" wants to unite Indonesians under some open to interpretation terms. The buddhists in Indonesia then have this concept of Sang Hyang Adi Buddha which they called is "God" Is it? What is it? Is it God? I thought God is more like Bakka Brahma in Buddha. Is this just Indonesian thingy or is it common among buddha? In that wikipedia article I found a strange paragraph 

I am not sure about the Law. But in Sri Lankan culture tattoos are quite looked down upon. As a result when you have a tattoo of Buddha it is considered as disrespecting Buddha. But as long as the tattoo is not exposed (covered with clothes) while you are in public places, you are fine. Most probably air port will be the only place that you get directly in trouble with law enforcement with related to a tattoo. As far as what symbols get you in trouble, I think anything that can be interpreted as a Buddha would do. 

Parents of buddha pamper sidartha with women even when he was a child. Such act would be considered child abuse in western world though most males would think, "nice" There are some characters that are obviously fictional. 

I am not a buddhist. But there is an article in wikipedia $URL$ Both talk about 2 people Vakkali and Channa Both committed suicide And both seems quite okay 

Ozamu Tetzuka wrote a comic about Buddha. I read that and is quite impressed. However, some of the element may not be true. And based on what I read, I tell some stories in it, and my friends are offended. Some of the elements: 

It is a misunderstanding that Buddhism can cure sickness, or end pain. Sickness , Physical pain and suffering are realities of life. Being enlightened will not end that. Even after full enlightenment your body will still be fragile and subjected to forces of nature. Even Buddha got sick and was in pain. However there is an incorrect expectation in mind, that I shall not get sick, I shall not be in pain, which is not in sync with reality and cause you to always battle with reality. This create additional mental stress/pain on top of your physical suffering. Through Buddhism, you free your self from this mentally created suffering. 

Buddha says that he hears some god having foolish thought. I think it's the story of Bakka Brahma. He "transfer" himself to the god's presence and lectures. And his disciples too. That seems like long distance communication. That seems to be well within the realm of science. Now anyone test this? Get a buddha, or a bodhisatva (buddha had many disciples, each can show up on Bakka Brahma tools). Ask them for one number and let the other guesses. Would it works? 

Some drugs, like ecstasy, help build empathy and help our mind see things from a different point of view. What about if meditation is the obsolete ways to see enlightment and perhaps drugs are the easier ways? 

Only the five heinous crimes are guaranteed to manifest their results. According to what I have been told, others need a suitable environment/conditions to manifest at percent/future. But this is not entirely in your control. Ex:- If you have in the past get involved in fights and beat up people, you would build up karma to eventually get beaten up in a fight. Because it is only natural and fully inline with dependent arising that you will over time keep increasing your abrasive nature and eventually meet your match. However if you stop getting involved in fights, that probability will be greatly reduced. But it is possible that someone from the past who held a grudge against you, plot revenge against you and succeed at a moment that you are weak. 

I have no idea what Udana Nikaya (VIII: 3) is. I wish we have something like biblehub for buddhism. Let me translate that to English. Know Bhikkus, Something is not born, something doesn't manifest, something isn't created, something is absolute. Hi Bhikkus, if nothing is not unborn, not manifested, not created, not absolute, then we cannot be free from birth, manifestation (or incaranation/reincarnation), forming, and resulting out of previous causes. But Bhikkus, because something is not born, not manifested, not created, not resulting from previous cause, then there is a possibility to be free from birth, manifestation, forming, and resulting from previous causes. Any Indonesian can say that my translation is about right. Am I? 

Debate in the worldly sense has no much purpose in buddhism. What is there to win in a debate in Buddhism? If I debate you and win you over, what does it mean to me? I would debate only if there is something for me to learn out of it. That would be debating to loose. Can you call this debating? Another thing would be digging deep on a teaching with another person using debating as a tool. This is two people trying to understand something deeper But that's not really debating ether. To my view only situation it may work debating in the worldly way is if you know the other person is misguided or being misguided and you know for sure that you can help them see the truth without confusing them any further. This is primarily what Buddha debated for.