It is a very common opinion in my circles to either hate sports or invalidate it as a form of entertainment. None of them play sports, and those who do/did don't/didn't enjoy the experience. Now I've been keeping up with and watching rowing recently, and I must say that I find it quite entertaining (I was on a rowing team for a time). However, my peers think otherwise. They object that all sports are meaningless activities of movement of matter (getting a ball in a basket, kicking it back and forth across the field) for a goal with no ultimate value (finishing 1st, new best time, etc.), and therefore liking/doing sports is irrational or even a waste of time. I don't find this criticism particularly worrying, because all things considered, every act is reducible to absurd atomic descriptions, and the goal of watching sports is to provide entertainment, and my goal for doing sports is to improve my physical condition and work ethic: two things that I doubt anyone would discount as wastes of time. Even if you're some absurdist/nihilistic physicalist, all actions are brought to the same level of pointlessness; this would defeat the same criticism. The more worrying objection regards the justification of (specifically) watching sports. I've thought at one moment that my liking to watch rowing was justified because, as it was a form of entertainment, I was being entertained. However, you likely would not call someone who finds entertainment value in slowly squeezing people's lungs until they die justified for their proclivity. Thus liking to watch a sport on the grounds that it's entertaining alone doesn't seem to be a sufficient justification. Let's say that Bob enjoys reading, specifically encyclopedias. His justification for liking to read is that he gets to increase and fine-tune his knowledge base. Now this instance seems to me to not really be about the activity. It's about the ends of the activity (e.g. expanding one's knowledge base). You're not reading for reading's sake; you're reading for the sake of the attainment of knowledge. However, this makes the unfortunate distinction between liking something for what it is in virtue of itself and liking something for what its consequences. I don't think there's really any activity that's done for its own sake, and fundamentally, all forms of entertainment act as vehicles for happiness/fulfillment of desire: the ultimate bottom-line(s). So the only things that differentiate Bob's justifications and a sports-watcher's justifications are the "in-between" attitudes and reasons. Why might the expansion of one's knowledge base be a better justification for an action than the suspense of competition in sport? Now let's change scenarios to something that a friend of mine would likely endorse: Bob enjoys watching movies because he is fascinated and inspired by the motifs and symbols used. The problem with this seems to me that Bob is justifying his affinity for movies by appealing to his affinity for something else. It begs the question as to why Bob is "fascinated and inspired by the motifs and symbols used." The original statement can be reduced to something like "The reason Bob likes to watch movies is because he likes clever storytelling devices." It's not much of a justification. Perhaps sports are intrinsically fun for some of us the same way apples are intrinsically desirable for apple-lovers. If this is the case, then there's really no significant justification to be given for watching sports. However, I doubt that this is the case for anyone, and this might seem to fall back to the example with the sadist who finds entertainment value in choking people to death. Anyway, that was a long-winded path to ask: 

A short answer: the ontological status of points is the status of mathematical objects. Different views on this more general case have been expressed, e.g. by platonism, intuitionism, etc., and points are a (usually trivial) particular case within their framework. A longer answer: a distinction is drawn between mathematics and physics as they form different ontologic domains. While this was ignored there seemed to be a genuine problem known as the constitution of the continuum.A general solution was sought until non-Euclidean geometries made obvious that geometry is not physics; the theoretical arsenal of contemporary physics (spin foams, loops, networks, whatnots) makes the concept of 'point' rather superfluous. The full answer would have to start with the ancient Greeks (geometers, atomists, Platonists, etc) and try to disentangle the metaphysical mess accumulated during the next 2+ millenia. Leibniz should get a special treatment and next the founding of classical mathematical analysis which offers a way to speak about 'material' points, needed by physics. 

One should note that Descartes had no qualms about admitting "degrees of reality" and, as most of his contemporaries, thought 'the real' to be somehow superior to 'the possible'. (Leibniz said that god gives reality to the best of possible worlds.) It was only after the discovery of non-Euclidean geometries that people came to accept 'the real' as a particular case of 'the possible'. Eschewing ontology early in the XX.c. was called "ifthenism" 

It is a good question even if it seems to be inviting speculations rather than historical references. The obvious answer is that we cannot tell how Aristotle would proceed but there is a good exemple of what could be the central issue as it generated the s.c. linguitics wars. (and further a book with that title by Randy A. Harris, Oxf. 1995). In 1958 Emile Benveniste published Categories de pensee et categories de langue (Jstor), a remarkable analysis how Aristotle took the grammar of his native language to be of metaphysical significance. The mistake was not irreparable as people already in the middle ages (e.g. R.Bacon) understood that it was just an instance of a more general universal grammar. The idea has been reworked in early modern times and it became rather popular with Chomsky's work, who was the commander in chief of one of the warring parties. The other side was promoting generative semantics but at that time there was already a modern reworking of Aristotle by Joseph Greenberg in his Language Universals (1966). A less known contribution was made Polish linguists and Anna Wierzbicka, who emigrated to Australia, achieved some notoriety with her work on semantic primes or primitives. As the name suggest such entities cannot be defined in a non-circular way in language - but they are understood as they embody human experience. (The best known example seems to be "time" all attempts at whose definition turn out to be circular.) So what would be Aristotle's view depends essentially on what would be the conception that distinguishes syntax from semantics and the arguments with which it is implemented. 

Now if you were to have originally said Craig is ALL green or Craig's eyes are ALL green, then you would be absolutely correct that this statement is wrong, unless Craig is one freaky looking dude. I think there is one further point to be driven out of this discussion. Saying something is green or red or any color is colloquial. Lets examine this linguistically for a second. Green and red and colors in general are by definition a property possessed by an object of producing different sensations on the eye as a result of the way the object reflects or emits light. Simply put colors are properties possessed by objects (what a shocker, right?) Strictly speaking it is incorrect to say that object X is a property possessed by objects. So what is a better way of saying this? Craig contains green or Craig's eyes contain green It might sound a bit odd at first but its kind of like the difference between "Im good" and "Im well". The first is colloquially used by many many people and accepted as correct; whereas, the latter is strictly by definition correct but most people don't use it in everyday language. You can also say Craig displays green or Craig's eyes display green. Ultimately using weak verbs like "is" and "are" causes a bit of ambiguity. Strong verbs like "display" or "feel" or "contain" alleviate some of this ambiguity. Thus as long as you are not restricting the statement by adding quantifiers, saying Craig is green is not wrong. Yes it would be better to say something like "Craig contains green" but due to the colloquial use of the word "is" and its ambiguity as a verb I think it is acceptable. 

I have yet to make up my mind about attributing property P to objects whose parts do not all share the property P or not in the same way. However I disagree that saying Craig is green or Craig's eyes are green is wrong. Here is my reasoning behind it: There is a difference between saying Craig's eyes are green to saying Craig's eyes are ALL green. By saying Craig's eyes are green the only thing you can actually claim is that somewhere in Craig's eyes the color green presents itself. From the premise "Craig's eyes are green" you cannot make the claims presented below, unless you add additional restrictions to your original premise: 

Your problem is that you are asking a question in terms of propositional logic (which is binary), then demanding an answer that is outside of the domain of propositional logic values. You are only allowed to work with True or False values. There is no maybe in propositional logic. So yes you are correct that outside of propositional logic, if A and B are false and A -> B, then the statement would be ambiguous. Outside of propositional logic you can say "oh maybe the worms will come out". Binary logic will not allow you such luxury. In this case if it's not true, then its false. If its not false, then its true. You can also look at it from the view point of negations. In PL "not false" = true. You are saying ~F. ~F=T and ~T=F 

The SEP articles mentioned in the comments outline everything that can be reasonably said on the topic. But they are rather technical, so there is perhaps room for a more intuitive presentation. The gist of the problem appears to be the coordination of two pairs of opposites, e.g.: un/real and im/possible. Traditionally the first is assumed to be the most general and known while the second is subordinated. It is contradictory to say that the real is impossible and, at least ontologically, it makes little sense to say that it is possible, so both are seen rather as species of the unreal. In this way there is graduated ontology: real, possible, impossible which is actually a genus-species mix. But this is the view most commonly associated with Leibniz who proposed that god gives reality only to the best of possible worlds. In later times, especially after the discovery of non-euclidean geometries, logic and epistemology acquired a superiority and the pair im/possible came to be accepted as the major one with un/real as species of possibility. As the older view saw the possibility of the real as a tautology, now the unreality of the impossibility is even more obvious (unless we accept miracles). 

It is an irony of history that Aristotle's First Philosophy came to be seen as coming last and was dubbed Meta-physics; for Descartes it is still the First and its answers determine the rest. And first of all are the questions about what exists. So in the Discourse part IV Descartes wrote: 

During Descartes' times there were enough books with advices and theory on how to write (good) poetry, known generally as 'Art poétique' (e.g. by Boileau, Horace or Aristotle). Rhetoric had gained a new popularity with the Renaissance, medieval uses of Latin were treated disparagingly and books on Rhetoric, old and new, were marketed with promises to make you successful. Descartes would have none of this and apparently he looks at all of them just as today we look at books of this kind. He was somewhat of an enthusiast for promoting new science and thought that reading and writing such texts is a waste of time, so he argues that natural gifts for thinking or feeling are more important that techniques: 

The principle of inertia seems to be a good candidate for an "apriori truth": it is never verified and connot be verified positively, but explanations are adduced why a certain body does not continue its regular movement to infinity. The conservation of energy was also considered a good candidate and different kinds of energies have been introduced in order to save it. (Feynman has memorably written on this topic.) Recently people have started to argue that it does not apply for the universe as a whole; however, appealing to symmetry and eventually explaining why it is not observed still seems to be a kind of aprioristic stance. So, one might like to argue that principles are apriori ruths.