You should inform her that you heard the rumor. It's a show of good faith to give her an opportunity to address any confusion. I would let her know that regardless of the rumor, you are please with her work and want her to stay. Maybe she needs to know she has some job security. I would also point out that it's not wise to have these kinds of phone conversations in the office. I don't know the company policy about personal phone calls in the office or flex-time, but it's wise to handle them outside of the office and probably on her own time. It's the best way to avoid these kinds of rumors and misunderstandings. 

First, do it with the one you're most comfortable with and then try the other one. If you're satisfied with the results, submit both with some comparison and contrasts. You may prefer one over the other for this particular application. If you're not comfortable at all with the new language, don't submit or say anything about it at all. Don't even think about bluffing your way through this. People get nervous at interviews, so you want to focus on things you know the most about and are the most comfortable with. This will be a good learning exercise regardless. 

After asking a few questions that the candidate has struggled with, you can stop and see if they have any questions. There's no way they could know you intended on asking more. Of course they may feel you didn't do a thorough job vetting them with so few questions, but if they're aware they don't know the answers, they will probably get the hint. As a side note, avoid playing trivia games with programming job candidates. The goal is to see if they can write code. In one interview, I was asked if I ever did top-down and bottom-up design. I should have been able to figure-out what those terms mean, but just didn't do it during the interview. Maybe I was nervous. Funny think is, I just said I had designed databases for new applications, as well as, broke down databases for third-party apps for ETL and reporting in a data warehouse. Unfortunately for me, I was being interviewed by a person with no technical skills who was convinced I didn't have any either. Maybe like loops in programming (which aren't trivial IMHO), a good database analyst should be able to explain standard design methodologies, but I'd rather work with people who can actually do it than label it. 

Tell her you are relaying the instructions from the boss. Make sure she understands what to do and is capable of doing it. If she doesn't do it, ask her why. Let her know it is your job to report her status back to the boss. Do not do her work. Make sure you get your work done. Teachers have to be willing to let students fail. It is part of learning. Your boss will have to decide what to do if she doesn't get things done. He seems to think you can just yell at her or be firm and she'll comply. He is managing in the wrong century. 

Finance/Banking is an industry where most companies give their bonuses around the same time, so many employees change companies shortly thereafter. Very few people leave before getting their bonus. I've heard of getting paid for left-over sick days, but not a performance bonus. There are a few points you could mention in your request: 

A cover letter can summarize a CV and make it more focused on a particular position. You can indicate this is an industry you want to work with or you've heard positive things about working for this company. Of course these will get discussed in an interview, but you need to get there first. It's a good way to separate yourself from other candidates. Also, a cover letter can help explain many potential questions about a CV: 

Strange things can happen. In the process of accepting a firm offer listed on the website and told during the interview process it was "very" firm, I asked to have my evaluation time period shortened (Which is when I would be eligible for a raise.), so they decided to just increase the salary. Find out if you really want this job. Review everything in the compensation package. You may be able to get more paid holidays, flexible scheduling, etc. or they may just offer more. I don't recommend going into this process thinking you can just ask for a larger salary at a later point unless you are really basing it on other assumptions like you assumed it included a 401k or other retirement plan. Since it does not, you would need a larger salary to compensate. 

The told you there was a range (40-45K), but didn't mentioned the criterion used to determine where? Were you speaking to someone who was talking off the top of their head and didn't know the exact amount? Did it depend on the financial stability of the company? I would find out why you got the lowest end of the range because this initial impression is going to follow you the entire time you are employed until you can prove otherwise. It could be lack of previous experience, but your trial period should account for something. It would have been assumed the number you were given included benefits. I can't imagine indicating a possible offering without benefits and then include benefits later on without explaining this upfront. 

You need to consider what your boss's boss considers as well. If they expect him to be perfect, there isn't much you can discuss unless you want to educate upper-management on how to see the forest for the trees. If this is purely your boss's interpretation, hopefully, he has the same level of expectations for himself. Does he recognize the fact that he failed as well? Other than these two possible exceptions, my gut tells me you're trying to argue with an idiot. They say great people are very demanding and unreasonable. Taking this too far tells me you manager could be replaced by 5 year old brat who cries when he doesn't get everything he wants. Instead of trying to convince him to take the constraints into consideration and realize there's no way you could be perfect, use this to your future benefit. If he wants perfection, more resources are required. More time for testing and creating perfect testing environments will be needed. When perfection is the only acceptable outcome, there are not consideration for costs. If he can not obtain 100% of all the resources your next project may need, then he'll be the failure. 

Don't assume all bad references are the result of saying negative things. A lot of times its because they're just mediocre. A reference of "She was an adequate teacher." isn't very helpful. Also, some people don't know how to give a good reference. This is why you have to be very careful in picking professional references. Make sure you have their permission first. Let them know what the job requires and why you think you'll be a good fit. You don't have to put words in their mouth, but provide some background information. It could be a private school that emphasises teacher's academic qualities and is less interested in discipline where as a troubled school may be the opposite. 

Since they know you are currently employed, they should know they need to offer competitive salary and benefits. I don't think you should indicate what you are currently getting if you don't have to. Go over their offer and make a counter-offer for what you want (You may want more than what you are getting.). If they think you are too high, you can indicate it is close to what you are currently getting. Find out what parts of their offer are negotiable. Let them know you can be flexible in this area if they're willing to work with you. Sometimes a company can't offer to pay more of your healthcare or include life insurance, but they may be able to give more vacation time. 

I would ask if the 40 hrs is flexible. Putting in extra time when necessary is easier to do if you can come in later the next day or take a break some other time. The play-hard aspect could be another area of concern. Is it considered: optional, over-time, or part of the 40 hours? Where does the play hard fit into the 40 hrs? Example: It's like the chain gang in Cool Hand Luke. Luke gets them all fired-up to pave the highway in double-time. They're all exhausted and there is more time in their workday. One guy asks him, "What do we do now?" Luke's answer, "Nothing." If they work hard for 20 hrs, are they going to let you play hard for the next 20? Hopefully asking questions about the typical work day, how they handle projects that fall behind and emergency situations, will give you more insight. 

I don't think that it's about your performance not mattering at all, but it has to be put into the context of the projects you work on and how much the company makes. What you can ask for is for your manager to increase the amount of your contribution to the project. I don't know if they have exact numbers, but let's say they have calculated how much this project is worth and how much they want to compensate everyone = Total Bonus. If they felt you should get 10%, you may want to ask for more. There is a problem if you don't know what you'll get or how much you've been perceived as contribution to the project. You can say you're contributing more, but how much more and more than what? 

Pick a time that won't interupt everyone where you can ask several questions at once. Have a discussion with your supervisor about expectations. The timeframe they expect you to be up to speed may be much longer than you're comfortable with. Are you writing production code? Is it going to get reviewed? I think the other answers are correct in having "you" provide some structure to your questions. Maybe you're more worried about making mistakes then they are? They probably had to learn things for themselves and hope you do the same. This is probably part of the startup culture where they don't have the resources to document everything. 

Sounds like you are just going about business as usual and are available when expected. If your boss was over concerned about you staring at your monitor for a full day, he would make more provisions to monitor everyone. The ethics are going to come into play when you are assigned more work. Are you going to lie and claim you don't have enough time? Will you volunteer if asked? Could you be helping coworkers who have too much to do? Many people are allowed to work from home because the nature of their work is more project oriented and less clock punching. If you work at your job long enough, you should be able to do the same amount of work in less time; I don't think anyone should be punished for that, but that is up to the agreement between you and your employer. Sounds like there hasn't been enough clarification. Make sure your boss recognizes you are truly getting things done. 

Wear headphones, put up your feet on your desk, and sleep in your chair. If you can't do this for 15 minutes, you're not that tired. If you need a longer nap, start working on improving your sleep habits because this problem is only going to get worse. You won't get away with this when you have a full-time job, but you'll get a pass as an intern. Everyone was young once and will be thinking you're out having the time of your life. Edit: Did I miss something or doesn't the question apply to lunch break? 

Discuss this with your boss. The key is how to prevent this from happening again. Are there reports you can run to verify the data? I'd hate for you to do something drastic like making a screen shot for each entry. Weigh all this against the consequences. Does you boss trust you less or think you are less competent? Will your bonus or change of promotion be limited? Of course your boss has to reprimand you in some way. Sending an email (depending on the content) doesn't seem like you are being punished too severely. Maybe this system has a one in a million chance of missing a data entry. Nothing is perfect, but let's face it, there are more user errors than computer errors.