There's a general thesis, called "Fordism" which contains a two pronged argument on a global phenomena in the advanced capitalist societies: Employers in specific wanted higher quality and stable labour supplies, and so voluntarily offered permanent work; and, generally wanted educated and healthy workers. But they wouldn't use pay signals to get these. Which meant that capital-in-general, usually in the form of the more "progressive" of the standard parties would need to force all of the capitals-in-specific to behave in certain ways. This accounts for the introduction of OHS, hours, retirement, health access, free education to year 11/12, etc. Following this thesis, the Canadian Liberals would have been pushed by specific (more progressive) capitals, and by labour to modify capitalism to meet this urge for quality labour. The question specific to Canada, in this frame, would be why it took until, or was achieved so early, in 1960. In societies similar to Canadian society, the 40 hour week was achieved between 20 years earlier and 20 years later than 1960. 

There are a number of good accounts of the development of warfare in Europe, but the two key things you need to realise are: a) "morale" b) "mass" Much of European warfare has been conditioned by these two abstract concepts. Broadly, morale is the capacity of a unit to continue to engage in what it is doing despite adverse outcomes and mass is the capacity of a unit to bring effective force to bear at a point. Melee infantry operate by bringing a mass to bear on a point directly, they are only effective as a unit. To be effective at doing so, the morale of a unit must remain unbroken. When men are lost one by one it rarely causes the members of a unit to turn and consider if their position is untenable. When twenty or forty men fall at once it causes people to think. The chief reason that archers fired on command was that this was the way to achieve a military effect, by harming the morale of units of the opposing force. The individual's personal rate of fire was not a militarily significant feature. 

I'd like to expand Felix's answer in relation to soft-power (such as "legitimacy"). Mercenary captains did not participate in the reproduction of feudal wealth, they merely directly expropriated it (or received payment from the emergent state). Traditional rulers participated in the full reproduction of economic life, they imposed status on the third estate and benefitted from taxation and corvee. Mercenaries were not imposing such relationships on the level of the traditional domains controlled by the traditional ruling class. Mercenaries ravaged crops, they didn't keep peasants infeudated such that they would prepare a crop for the next year. So there wasn't a serious threat to the structure of the existing ruling class because Mercenary captains (unlike the burghers of the cities), did not offer or suggest a different social organisation of productive relationships. As far as the actual composition of the ruling class changing, Felix admirably uses Wallenstein as an example. There's no point in killing off the existing ruling class, and substituting yourself for them, unless you can organise the hegemonisation of power. And here soft power ("legitimacy") is important. If you look at early modern disputes over legitimacy, consider the sordid business of England, an illegitimate ruler faces an extended multigenerational period of disquiet from minor members of the ruling class. Easier to gain access yourself to the existing system of the ruling class, than to disrupt it. A smaller slice of a bigger pie, rather than a whole small pie. In fact, as we can see in the emergence of the Absolute State in France, the existing ruling class actually preferred a stronger and stronger capacity for force by the Crown as an abstract principle in this period, the better to enforce higher rates of feudal extractions. 

Braudel Longue duree Most cultural/social history of peasantries Basically: very different. Class was expressed through legalised social status issues including dress, habit, language, gesture, stance. This was much more rigidly enforced because the classes mingled to a much greater extent than today (when have you met someone who owns $5bn of capital?). Food customs differed remarkably, though 1512 was a period of food custom change (as always, but) to a greater extent than previously. Sumptuary laws regulated a hell of a lot of this, and are widely written up. Herman Pleij, Dreaming of Cockaigne: Medieval Fantasies of the Perfect Life (2001) Columbia University Press might be a good start given that the fantasy of corporeal satisfaction embodies a lot of these issues. (It depends on where, when, and who a hell of a lot by the way.) 

The anti-work current in libertarian socialism is based on a conception of work as human activity controlled by others. Basically, the marxist analysis of wage slavery is that the wage slave sells the right to control their labour power to a boss, and during that period is alienated from their own capacities by this social relationship. Management has the right to dictate when and how workers conduct themselves. In contrast, libertarian socialists with an anti-work perspective like the Situationalists view socialist or communist relations between people who are now workers as being reconstructed in radical collective and individual freedom to choose how people use their lives. Namely, that the democratised process of doing things together, which you can enter or exit without the threat of someone else starving you to death, is a radically different way of being than what we know as work. This is in contrast to the pro-work Stalinist PCF's view of social transformation, which would maintain work as we know it and the factory hierarchy, but merely change the purpose of production from the benefit of the bosses to the benefit of [what the PCF viewed as the interests of] the working class in general. We work for wages under foremen and bosses for 9 hours making volkswagons instead of limousines. In contrast, the Situationalists wanted the abolition of foreman, bosses, compulsory hours, and top down direction of production. 

During the 1940s and 1950s the "anti-labour" (and incidentally, anti-Labor) parties finally got organised, and started whipping their backbenchers. From the 1940s Australia has had a well developed party system with fairly rigorously controlled party internals. Part of the reason for the development of rigorously controlled parties can be seen in the central division of Australian politics over the issue of labourism. The nascent labour movement failed to gain absolute and complete control over early socialist parties, and the requirement to keep our friends in the AWU inside the tent as much as possible led to a fairly vigorous discussion on binding parliamentarians within the Labor party and the Labour movement. Movements to the left of labor within the labour movement, such as the CPA or the Greens exercise even more control over their parliamentarians than Labor has or did—in part because of the criticism of Labor's failures here. Prior to 1940 the anti-labour parties were fairly disorganised. They usually formed as a result of a split within Labor, with right wing members of the labour movement walking outwards towards the nationalist and imperialist right wingers, taking votes straight into the hands of the Country Party or the urban bourgeois party of the day. Menzies stopped all this. His new party was well formed and organised. Menzies modelled a fair bit of his party organisation on Labor, but not so much as to offend anyone, and only the bits that worked for an urban bourgeois party. Dixers are a result of the well-bound and well-founded parliamentary parties, their monopoly over Australian parliament, and their division over the anti-labor issue during the 20th century. 

Your question embodies large amounts of modern fantasy. Firstly, imagine that nothing can be bought or sold by the vast and overwhelming majority of the population. Coin does not exist or circulate for most people. 

Since the 1970s and social history, particularly reflecting on E. P. Thompson's work and the work of C.L.R. James, some of the strands of Marxist historiography reacting to the humanist Marxist turn in the 1940s and 1950s (Johnson-Forrest, the Hungarians, the Operismo) have taken to viewing the enforcement of property rights as far more contingent in any society than previous perhaps more "schematic" Marxist historians did. For an example lying outside of that tradition, and more inside the US new left tradition, there's a book on the floor describing medieval property law as a continuous contest between nascent bourgeoisie (in their true form as oppressed urban artisans) contra feudal extractions and dues. Viewed from this angle, the historiography has bent towards viewing "primary accumulation" as much much more important, and as a continuous process occurring throughout the period of capitalism. This in some ways extends Lenin's thesis on Imperialism and the necessity of differential accumulation within capitalism to prop up the advanced metropole. The effects of this is that Capitalism continuously seeks out new areas of life, society and human conduct to commodify, valorise and reduce to the value form. In the case of copyright and IP, this involves both the extension of the duration of property (with an obvious limit in effectively perpetual property), and the extension of the scope of property (gene patenting for example). This is a relatively common understanding of the structure driving the extension of intellectual property in time amongst Marxists—though some cling to an older more schematic view and seek to deny the importance of recent enclosures. 

What property relations existed between peasants and those who took from peasants in early Ottoman rule (1300-1450) in Anatolia? How was social surplus extracted from peasants, by who, with what conception of property? Was property extraction ethnically or religiously different? Was there a concept of legality? Were there extra-legal extractions? Was extraction as cash, crops, or labour? Were peasants here free or unfree, in what way? I'm following Banaji (citation below) on peasants as: 

Non-historians need to be aware that historians produce history using historiography. Historiography is an empirical methodology, it deals with the outside world using fallible human apparatus. Historiography is a discursive methodology, it deals with the close reading of large sets of known to be fallible and incomplete texts. This means that history tends towards complex explanations of complex phenomena which are not definitive. This also means that an idea that a non-historian has of the "actually existing past" should be very carefully revised after having read appropriate histories. Historians work in a high context environment, which means that plucking the eyes out of a work is counter productive. Historiography has a small horizon for reasonable explanation and interpretation. Historians seek to make bridging claims in areas lacking evidence as small as possible. This means that historians produce detailed works. This also means that historians tend not to produce large theories, as large theories are trivially falsified. Historians mainly produce results in two modes: monographs and journal articles. Non-historians should be aware that historical journal articles are spread across multiple journals, and topical organisation by journal is not necessarily high. This means that searches need to be broad. Additionally, the tendency of historians to produce specific readings of dense texts sets means that you may find many journal articles that partially deal with your problem. Most historical journals are peer reviewed to the standards of the field, if in doubt check the journal publisher's claims regarding peer review or Ulrich's serials database. Historians also produce monographs. These tend to be through presses of varying quality, and the sign of quality if both long term (60 year) citation and review in journals. Searching for reviews in journals should be relatively easy. Searching for monographs on the subject should be easy. Most historical monograph titles contain a summary description of the chief topic of the work. Reviews can come out up to five to seven years after publication, but most reviews come out within 3 years of publication. Before making claims about what historians think, you should locate sources, test their usefulness (peer review, review of monographs). Finally historians regularly write "review articles" for journals that cover changes in major problems in history. These are the key to "what do historians in general believe about x." They're unlikely to provide an anecdote, but relying on history for anecdotes is almost certainly a misuse. Anecdotes are often given without the high context required. 

Meats supplied for domestic consumption through the US supermarket system are either processed or pre-cut. This contrasts with other food cultures where meat is supplied as whole animals, or slaughtered / butchered on the site of sale. We can estimate that earlier in US history, meat was slaughtered and butchered domestically in rural areas, or slaughtered and butchered at point of sale for domestic consumption. What caused the change to processed and off-site butchered meat for domestic consumption? Does this relate to commercial consumption? Did consumer preference lead this cultural change, or did processing techniques or capital intensification lead this change? When did this change occur? Who were the major agents of change? Is Sinclair's The Jungle an adequate characterisation of the point of change?