A general rule for flat belts is to twist the belt midway between the front and rear belt drives, it should twist to 90 degrees with moderate two finger effort, if it goes past 90, then it is too loose, if you cannot make 90 without great effort, then it is too tight. This method depends on how strong your fingers are and the width and thickness of the belt, the more you use this method the better you get at judging what is correct for any given belt. Another method is to make small tension adjustments until the slippage stops. 

I was an automotive mechanic for quite a few years, yes I did get quite greasy when young and dumb, I used Naptha to get the grease out of my jeans, worked well, but it did make the washer a bit smelly, I Kept some naptha in a spray bottle, I sprayed the grease spots right before washing and used extra soap. This worked quite well for many years. There were only a few "stains" it did not get out over the years, but I think this was other contaminants besides oil and grease, but it always removed the grease completely. I never experienced any negative side effects for the washing machine besides the after smell. 

My current pump (a floor pump) clamps onto the valve with a clamp instead of threading it on. I can very quickly release it. This could be at the expense of not being able to pump it to 120 PSI (which I don't need). It may be possible to adjust the pin in the business end of the pump so that it stops pressing on your valve sooner when you unscrew it; that way you lose less pressure. 

I think that the question is appropriate if it can be answered in a way that helps other community members answer the question for themselves. So if someone asks, "I just inherited this bike from some relative," with a serial number supplied, then anyone in the know about the different serial numbering schemes can explain how the serial number allows the bike to be identified. 

Yes, report it. Then if at some later point (heaven forbid) he decides to hit you, or tries to scare you again and misjudges things and hits you, the police will have a prior report establishing a pattern of behavior. 

On the size of your current tire there will be the measurements in inches that you are used to, and there will be another measurement that consists of a two-digit number, a dash, and a three-digit number. Both figures are in millimeters. The most important part is that the larger number must be the same for the replacement tire as it is for the current tire, or else it will not fit on the same wheel. The smaller number can vary, but not by much. You can generally get away with a few millimeters either way unless you are already using the very smallest or very largest tire your wheel can support. 

Never liked them myself, too much movement for me. Its a preference, and performance of that type of seat may be affected by the weight of the rider. 

I was on vacation at Mesa Verde Nat park this year, I met a nice couple bicycling cross country from California, they were riding reasonably loaded Surly Big Dummy's. They were surprised at the calories burned and the cost of food on the road to keep up energy levels. They said they could do 35 miles on a very good day, averaged 20, mind you they were in South West Colorado headed to central Colorado, lots of steep climbs. They set up camp every night and cooked what they had at the time, basically living on the road toting all the gear on the back of the bikes, guitar and all, awesome guitar player by the way. . 

The advantages of investment casting are: Excellent surface finish High dimensional accuracy Extremely intricate parts are castable Almost any metal can be cast No flash or parting lines 

If they are not full floating calipers, most are not, then the problem may be the fixed side of the caliper pad has worn and you need to adjust the fixed side pad closer to the rotor (eliminate the gap) The squeal comes from the movable pad pushing (flexing) the rotor over to make contact with the fixed pad. This type of caliper needs periodic adjustment of the fixed pad as the pad wears. 

The lock nut is used to wedge to crank on the bottom bracket spindle. If you open it, you should still not be able to get the crank off, at least not easily. For square tapered bottom brackets, usually you have to use a tool called a "crank puller", which is hold in place with the outer thread. See this article over at Sheldon Browns for details and very interesting pictures showing whats going on inside the cranks. 

The purpose of such a steering damper is to stop the front wheel from turning when using a (two-leg) kickstand or while pushing the bike. Not much use otherwise. 

Put your shifter in 4th gear. Adjust the cable tension so that the yellow lines match. There really isn't more to it. Not much to do wrong. If you can then shift all the way up to 8 and down to 1, the basic installation is correct. However ... from my experience, these hubs change a little over time. Mine (Alfine 8, basically the same thing) shows slippage in some gear every time I re-install it. After aligning the yellow lines, try to slacken the cable a little bit. This could be closer to the setting the hub was before you changed your tire. 

Saturday I went on a ride with the local cycling club. At a certain point in the ride (after about 20 miles/32 km), I was extremely tired to the point that I decided to get off of the bike and walk for a space. After dismounting I became so dizzy that I fell over (and don't remember falling over). Oddly enough, I rode the same route the week before without any problems. I am curious to know if anyone else has had this problem and what steps they took to effectively deal with it. The two possible causes that I am already aware of are: 

One thing I do not see here is to ensure that the other activities of his life (and yours) do not interfere with his cycling. If he's anything like me, he will want to have specific times during the week when his schedule is clear for riding, alternating with days on which he does not ride. If random events are constantly interrupting that, it will discourage him. As an example, I myself just started riding three months ago, and have a schedule of riding every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday at 7AM. Without bothering to consult me about it, my wife agreed to help a friend get to work, which means leaving for my own job too early for the weekday ride. Also, make sure that the household finances permit the bicycle to be repaired immediately if it becomes necessary, so that the husband does not need to give up cycling while he saves up money to get the bike fixed.