Probably best to see a doc. But it would probably work to lay off for 3-4 days (at least until you can gently cycle without immediate pain), then start up again, being careful to limit the stress on the area. If your pain level stays low then SLOWLY work up, otherwise back off or stop (and see the doc). You should probably find some stretches (from a PT or maybe on the web) to "balance" the muscles in the area. 

As a thumb suck, I'd say that the ratio for commuters (to work) is maybe 8:1 here in the Rochester MN area. In terms of recreational distance (longer than 1 mile, say) cyclists that you'd see out on a Saturday the ratio is probably 4:1. Why no more female commuters? First off, quite a few stay-at-home moms here, so the worker ratio is probably around 2:1 overall. Beyond that, I suspect that women (in our culture) are less likely to think of/want to combine an athletic activity with commuting. And then there's the whole hair thing (which I suppose is code for the fact that women tend to need to dress up more for work, especially in a white-collar community). The major businesses in town do provide shower/locker areas, but only just adequate, and they're a rarity in the smaller businesses. Commuting to the grocery, etc, is relatively low across the board, since the area is set up as an auto community, with only maybe three neighborhood groceries left, and major quadrants of the city with no grocery at all. (I'll add that the Rochester area is exceedingly safe by most standards, so security is likely not a major factor.) 

So it's legal to use to ride one on the road in the UK. Cycle paths are a bit more complicated as some legislation refers to "bicycles" and some to "pedal cycles", so it would depend on how many wheels you've got and what type of cycle path / cycle lane / cycle track you wanted to use. If you want to use a velomobile or recumbent bike on the road between sunset and sunrise then you may have problems. To be legal you'd need 2 pedal reflectors on each pedal and these have to be clearly visible from the front and rear. The design of most velomobiles and recumbent bikes do not meet this requirement. This law is rarely (if ever) enforced, I think your main worry on this point is if you were involved in an accident then the other party might try to use your lack of reflectors to show negligence. Note - If your velomobile or recumbent bike is electrically powered then there are additional regulations that must be complied with, but I think that's beyond the scope of the question. 

I have had this problem when running (it's known as jogger's nipple). It's caused by friction when your top rubs against your nipples, moisture from sweat (or rain) tends to make it worse. Wearing technical clothing that draws moisture away from your skin will help, along with some kind of barrier cream. Personally, I use bodyglide as I find it easy to apply, but vaseline or nappy rash cream should work just as well. 

For novice riders I've proposed that you target your cadence to be about twice your respiration rate. This is more to encourage higher cadence, without being too "clinical" about specific RPM numbers, but it also discourages rapid, shallow breathing. (And rapid breathing actually reduces your ability to absorb oxygen.) Most forms of cycling involve exercise over a prolonged period -- tens of minutes or even tens of hours -- whereas most other sports, even when they are stretched over a period of a few hours, involve mostly brief spurts of exercise. Endurance is what counts in cycling, not (for the most part) peak output. Also, with sports of extreme short-term exertion such as weightlifting a big concern with breathing is to avoid "weight-lifter's hypertension" -- the increase in blood pressure that occurs if you hold your breath while lifting. With cycling the body is in more of a "steady state" with exertion (except maybe if you're climbing a steep hill with an extremely low cadence), so weight-lifter's hypertension is not a major concern. 

Stiffness is a frequent point of debate in cycling circles. For instance, touring bikes tend to still be made of steel rather than aluminum, because (among other reasons), for equivalent strength, steel is more flexible, and will absorb road shock better. A common complaint against early aluminum frames was that they were too stiff and rode too "harshly". (And note that a flexible frame does not "dissipate" energy to any significant degree -- steel has a very low damping factor, so the energy that goes into flexing the frame comes back out as "bounce" of a sort.) OTOH, stiffness is valued in the "twisting" mode of the bike. A frame that is not stiff against twisting between front and rear wheels will be more likely to become unstable and vibrate at high speed. 

I found this article - Tykes and Bikes - Injuries Associated With Bicycle-Towed Child Trailers and Bicycle-Mounted Child Seats The paper estimates the numbers of trailer-related injuries and the number of child seat injuries: 

However, while the left and right signals are commonly used by cyclists, horse riders and tractors, I have never seen the I intend to slow down or stop signal used by anyone. 

The Canine Aggression FAQs from the RSPCA has some useful general advice about aggressive dogs. If you encounter an aggressive dog while cycling it recommends the following: 

The Copenhagenize Index ranks the top 20 cities by bike friendliness in 13 categories. It's a world-wide index, but most of the top 20 are in Europe. The European cities that made the top 20 are: 

To test a bicycle helmet you attach it to dummy head and drop it from a height onto a solid object. The acceleration experienced by the head is measured, if the acceleration is too high the helmet fails. Stringency of the impact test depends on how high you drop the helmet from and the maximum acceleration you allow for a pass. There's a comparison of the various standards here. Snell B95 uses the largest drop (2.2m) and is the most stringent on that count, although it allows acceleration of 300g. Other tests (e.g. Canada, Europe) have a lower limit on acceleration, but the drop heights for these standards are also lower. If you can find a helmet that is Snell certified and also Canadian or European certified then go with that. If not, then just Snell certified is probably the best bet. 

I run SRAM chains on my bike that has Shimano cogs. It's by choice, as I prefer the SRAM "Powerlink" to the Shimano scheme. 

The tire itself is not properly seated on the rim. Let most of the air out and work the tire sideways back and forth with your hands to make sure it's well seated. Reinflate and spin the wheel and look at the junction between tire and rim. The tire should not appear to wobble up and down relative to the rim. The tube is twisted inside the tire. If this is the case you will not be able to get the tire properly seated -- there will be "bumps" and it will seem uneven. Remove the tube, inflate it until it "fills out" and limply holds its shape, then reinstall. Some of the spokes have broken or come loose. They might have been ready to go and mucking around with the wheel "pushed them over the edge". "Pluck" each spoke. On an older, unmaintained wheel they will not likely all have the exact same tension, but none should feel loose, and one is really loose you will likely notice that it has broken, probably at the hub. If you have loose or broken spokes you probably need to take the wheel to a bike shop to get them fixed. The hub bearings are loose. This can happen when you are unscrewing the nuts to remove the wheel. The symptom will be that, when you push the wheel back and forth from the side of the rim, you can see that the hub is wobbling relative to the axle. If you're mechanically inclined you can adjust this yourself, but if not it's best to take it to a shop. 

You don't need insurance, a driving license, Vehicle Excise Duty or a helmet to ride an Electrically Assisted Pedal Cycle. It's possible to get electric bikes with more power and / or a higher speed limit. These would be classified as a moped and would need insurance, driving license, etc. You also couldn't ride them in cycle lanes and cycle paths. Some Electrically Assisted Pedal Cycles come with an "off-road" mode which removes the speed limit. The linked article describes the legality of these as "at best, questionable". 

I think a more practical solution to your problem of forgetting to lock your bike would be a device (or method) to remind you to lock it. You could try a bluetooth proximity alarm tag. You pair the tag with your phone, then attach the tag to your bike. When the phone gets out of range of the tag an alarm goes off on the phone (range is typically around 10 feet). So when you park your bike and walk off, your phone will sound an alarm. This will remind you to go back to the bike and lock it. 

References: Bikehub - Cycling and the Law, Traffic Signs Regulations and General Directions 1994, Road Vehicles Lighting Regulations 1989 A velomobile or recumbent bike is covered by the same law as regular bicycles: 

You should refer to the manual for the helmet for cleaning instructions. Usually it will say to use mild soap and water. A helmet will not be damaged by water, but don't use heat to dry it afterwards as this can destroy your helmet. Also, if the padding is removable then you might be able to get replacement pads. 

If the blood is from other individuals then there are a number of hazards, from AIDS and hepatitis to malaria and Lyme disease. Plus there's always a chance of a sort of allergic reaction to the blood due to mismatched antigens. If the blood is "autologous" -- from your own body -- then the above risks are avoided (so long as someone doesn't mix up the blood). But there are non-trivial risks of infection, blood clots, and iron overload. On the "donating" side, since you're probably stressing your body in several ways, there are additional risks. 

There is a technique known as "toeing". Basically, as you turn the crank with your feet your toe angles up and down -- up at the top of the stroke and down at the bottom. This makes use of some of the strength/energy of the calf muscles. But to do this well you must be riding with the ball of your foot on the pedal (generally implying toe clips or "clipless" pedals). If you ride with the arch of your foot on the pedal then toeing does little good. Also, a good cyclist will have a (semi)conscious forward/backward motion with the legs, pushing forward at the top of the stroke and pulling backward at the bottom. Probably doesn't involve the calves much, but does contribute to overall power. 

The rings should be oriented to extract the maximum energy from the most powerful part of the stroke (from roughly 3-oclock to 6-oclock, viewed from the right). The rings should be oriented to maintain a (relatively) constant forward force/velocity, despite the change in leg force through the rotation. The rings should be oriented to maintain "smooth" leg motion. (Whatever that means.)