This is a psychological issue. You feel a sense of responsibility and ownership towards the project you worked hard on. However you did not own it and your responsibility de facto ended when you left. You're having trouble letting go, but in the course of your career you'll find you have to leave maybe hundreds of projects you invested time in (and got paid for !) and they'll all need more work. You can't keep them all. Let go. 

This is a fundamentally unreasonable viewpoint, but, if they insist on taking this view and HR back them, not you, then it's simply a working environment you cannot tolerate and you need to look for a new job elsewhere. You should, however, approach this formally through HR, not relying on managers. Managers, alas, often prioritize not challenging rules over making a stand on common sense grounds. HR are often much more concerned with health and safety concerns (with legal repercussions) and will prioritize them over other rules and policies, which is why they may overrule managers in this case. I would also suggest you make this known to people around you and with whom you deal, formally or informally as you feel is best, so that they do not think you're being unfriendly or aloof or something like that. 

Quite a lot happening, and all of it bad on both sides. Firstly it sounds like you were AWOL. In most jurisdictions your company could initiate (at a minimum) a formal disciplinary procedure against you for that. In some (and you have not said where you are) they could fire you with a letter. 

"Expecting" and "going to get" are different things. You may be assuming you'll get a call based on your own opinion of how you did, but that may not be how they saw it. Keep an open mind on this and have fewer expectations is a good general rule. 

Just to flag this as worrying. Aleeve pills are, if I understand it, painkillers. Unless you have an ongoing health issue that causes serious pain (not the odd ache) then I'd worry you're abusing painkillers to compensate for your real problems (a not uncommon behavior). To put this in perspective for you I also have arthritic knees and that does generate some pain every day (and all day). I generally do not take any painkillers. I'd suggest you void painkillers unless you've been advised to take them by a doctor or it's an exception - e.g. one day a month or maybe week. Painkillers can cause other medical problems if used for extended periods without medical need. If you're suffering headaches, and I'd expect that if you're not sleeping, all those aches and pains will probably go away if you deal with the sleep issue. So again I'd recommend take whatever medical treatment is offered from qualified people who have reviewed and examined you. In case you have not, you must inform your doctors that you are taking painkillers like these every day. 

You are a working developer who gets the money they need to eat, drink, be housed and clothed from coding. Keep that in mind. While it's perfectly reasonable to maintain contact and answer the occasional technical question with colleagues (that's just networking - a good thing to do as long as it flows both ways), if you're really operating as an unpaid consultant then you need to put the brakes on this. Don't drift into becoming an unpaid worker for your former employer. You left the company and all the work it did behind. You need to accept this as a fact and move on mentally. 

But it is an issue. Don't minimize this. When you start at say (?) 9am in your time zone it's already 12-noon in theirs. They'd be thinking about lunch (and can they take their lunch period whenever they like ?), so for a large chunk of your morning, they can be out at lunch, maybe in drips and drabs, maybe all together. When they get back from lunch it's also not an uncommon time for teams to schedule meetings, so they'll maybe be locked in a meeting where they specifically won't be allowed to communicate. But by the time all that's done, you're probably at lunch. And then they're going home at 5pm (?) and lo-and-behold it's still 2pm where you are. So time zone is, IMO, a huge issue here. There is little natural overlap for communication to occur. Have you considered that if they need something from your office at 9-am their time they have to wait for you or other people in your locale ? It cuts both ways and I suspect you're not factoring in how it looks from their point of view. 

Wow. A whole day ! Seriously ? Develop some patience. Recruiter B was either getting some follow-up info for A or has a different role she's filling and may require relocation. These things may require some internal discussion, and they may simply be waiting to complete a full round of interviews and contacts with other candidates before proceeding. I would never recommend being pushy about contacting recruiters unless you were explicitly told to expect a call or email by a specific date. And, again, drop the "expectations". They won't do anything but make you more uptight. The best running assumption to make about any interview, IMO, is that you didn't get it. That let's you get on with your life and chase other options. One thing you do need to do is start asking questions when you're speaking with people. Part of the problem is that you did not get a clear statement from B as to why they were contacting you (instead of or on behalf of A or for a different role entirely). You should always get a clear idea of why you are being spoken to. You need to know this to properly consider a response to any questions. For example, if I ask you if you are willing to relocate, the answer might be different depending on e.g. exactly what role you'd be relocating for, or to where, or if they give financial support for moving. Generally give an answer like "I'd be willing to consider it, but I'd need a lot more detail. Can you email me what you can about this ?". 

If you require their approval for something then you wait for them. Presuming the authority to override them will simply create a much bigger set of problems, and ones likely to get you fired. As the devil in in the detail it's very hard to advise you on a specific plan, but a some basic guidelines : 

Private internal documents do not particularly need to be fixed in this way. Prioritize other work over this. 

Not accepting pull requests from third parties suggests it's not really being done as a proper open source project (at least in my mind). While there's no obligation to accept third party contributions in your own branch, it's pointless operating "open source" if you just blanket ignore such contributions. From a practical point of view this means you cannot continue contributing to that project. You can fork it and create your own version which will become a different project (as they won't merge your contributions anyway). 

The reasons are past. The future can be changed by learning skills. The past is not a good reason to learn new skills. 

EDIT After my post the OP has mentioned in comment that they are USA based and the practice of sending "Thank You" emails seems more common there. I'll leave my answer unmodified for general use. I would, however, leave the resume off the email regardless. It's not going to help at this stage. 

That's unprofessional behavior by both of you. However the fact that your communicated by phone should be recorded somewhere, even if the words spoken are lost. It's not much, but it's something. Personally I would simply never let something like this rest on verbal communication - and I experienced a similar bereavement, BTW (condolences to you). So you should assume that you're gone, one way or another, in these circumstances and proceed on that basis (i.e. get another job and assume this one is gone for good). Now regarding the alleged forgery ... As described it's a crime, possibly more than one, in most places. It's possibly an identity theft. Someone impersonated you. It's possibly an computer hacking crime (you suggest it's possible at least). Note that : 

Pounds, shillings and pence. Your boss has to allocate resources in an efficient way. To make this attractive to your boss it has to be sold as a better way to use resources than the current system. So what are the benefits ? And what is the costs ? And what can go wrong - how risky, how easy to make a mistake that brings half the systems down ? Money. Talk to your boss about the money (waste fixing problems you could avoid) vs. the cost of implementing your fix amortized over the same period or a small multiple of it. 

Errors in code (messages of any kind included) need to be properly addressed using a bug tracking system. They can then be prioritized properly and dealt with on that basis. And it's possible to screw up these changes and mess up code doing it. Happens all the time. 

You have a manager. That is the person you should be asking ! Our opinions can be looked on as advice, but your boss is the person who must make a decision. They must decide how your time is best used. 

Bottom Line : You must show management the estimated cost of their plan because they only care about money. You must demonstrate a false economy is being made. 

Think of it this way : a human being is essentially a mobile book you can learn from and interact with. It can even be fun. 

Now it's quite possible that upper management will still bury their heads in the sand : I've seen this so often I actually expect it to happen more often than not. However, by actually converting the expected disaster into a financial cost they can relate to (and it's all they care about), you might get their attention focused on the need for more realism. It may even be that the potential loss of staff could cost more than replacing your problem client. Don't be afraid to draw that conclusion, at least as a possibility, if the figures show it to be the case. But of course there is one other possibility : you do the maths and it turns out that upper management are right and the potential costs of staffing problems and the rest of it are less than the profits from keeping the client happy. There have been strange cases of the upper floor actually being right in the past (my socialist heart says it can't be true, of course :-)). But you may need to open your mind to the possibility that this actually is a viable and well considered plan by the company. If you're ethically uncomfortable with that then I'm afraid you might need to find a new job. 

Not your clients. Never them. I'd suggest that you discuss telling your employers (perhaps HR) with your doctors. They will be better able to gauge your needs that I would and would be more familiar with your circumstances. Likewise your doctors can advise on whether a sabbatical is advisable. From my own experience I think you'd find that while the anxiety symptoms are hard to shake (therapy can help with strategies to deal with that), dealing with the sleep issue would be of enormous and relatively quick help to you. So first and foremost find a way to deal with that by consulting with the medics and respect their opinions. Defer decisions about talking to your employers about this until you have first addressed the sleep issue to some extent and feel more rested. If they start to ask you about your performance, I'd suggest you say that you have some health issues and it's early days with the doctors. This will tell them you're aware of the issue and addressing it as best you can. Be open to the possibility of moving to a position (if possible) with less responsibility if they suggest it. You may indeed have to make changes to your life, but do not rush into anything with work. I can only hope that you are able to take and benefit from the medical help you are offered and I offer you my best wishes in this regard. 

Keep that email ! Print it out (preferably with the full header information showing) and keep a copy for yourself as well as for your employers. Keep a copy of the email you send your employer. Do not do this reporting verbally. Keep records and keep records of any contact you have with this former manager. 

You are a product of your upbringing, however that does not mean you should consider it OK to stay that way. You almost certainly have the intelligence to learn to interact with people in this way. Seek professional help in doing that. Think of it as an investment in the future. It is an opportunity to create new options for the future. 

Typical symptoms of depression and sleep problems include all of the above. The thoughts that people will harm you are mostly anxiety related, but will be greatly aggravated by poor sleep. You can do absolutely nothing about noise or people in the office. The only thing you can change is yourself. And qualified medical help is the best course of action to do that. I have little doubt (not least because I've had PTSD for over ten years), that your doctors first priority will be to get you sleeping regularly and well. Typical and reasonable treatments are mild, low to moderate dose anti-depressants but they may do something else to focus on the anxiety. I'd strongly recommend, from your comments and as someone who has been there, that you take some medication that your doctors prescribe. Seek a second medical opinion if you have worries, but from what you describe you need to open yourself up to the need for, at least, short term medication. 

But above all you have to start thinking of them as team members and peers, not the cause of the problem. The cause of this problem is, IMO, just the clock and a lack of planning by people on all sides. 

I'd suggest you should quietly (and without making a big deal about it) mention it to your (mutual ?) manager. Why ? Well the occasional remark or comment is to be expected. I'd be astonished if I didn't utter something like "Son Of A Motherless Goat !" (a personal favorite :-)) several times a day. But that's one sentence every hour or two, not a stream of them for twenty minutes. But the behavior of doing this for extended period continuously (you said 15-20 minutes of this), would be a sign of considerable stress, IMO, and possibly that needs to be mentioned to a manager who can make sure this person is not getting swamped, or overworked or stuck or frustrated or has health problems that need dealing with - there's no end of reasons why someone can be like that. However beyond mentioning it quietly and discretely to his manager you should do nothing. And you should not mention it twice. One brief remark. Maybe "Hey, is X OK ? He seems pretty wound up to me these days." or something like that. Remember : You. Can't. Fix. Everything. 

This is irrelevant. What other people do that is inappropriate is not what you should do. Those are choices they made. Now it's certainly perfectly reasonable that you stay in touch with former colleagues - that's just networking. It's also quite common for people to make use of material they got through previous employment. What is problematic is that this former manager went out of his way to seek this information longer after he left. And not from a friend, because you were not friends, but from a former subordinate. That's just wrong in so many ways. 

Any change to code is a formal change. Changes to comments and other elements can introduce bugs - people make mistakes doing this. I advise against this without explicit instruction from your line management. 

No you should not. It's not practical and you are working for free. Never work on what is in fact a commercial project very loosely pretending to be open source. 

Actually if you took the time to talk casually about it you would gain something : respect, standing in the social group. 

I would not and never have. When people interview you, they also have sifted through a lot of other stuff to get to you and the other interviewees. My experience is that they're typically sick to death of interviewees by the end of this. So when they get it it's a 50-50 chance that they'll consider it a sign you're too pushy or arrogant or impatient. It's not necessarily going to get you any advantage. This would be something I'd only do if it was a cultural thing where you are (and they are). And if it's not the cultural norm for them they may even consider you are trying to "cheat" - you had an interview, why should they give you another look when the other candidates may not have the same chance ?