Electromagnets are far more powerful, pound per pound, than planetary magnetic fields. You can overcome the Earth's field with a little bar magnet. So why bother trying to resculpt the planet at all? Park huge electromagnets in a system of orbital stations in such a manner to generate a similar magnetic field as a planet would. Add the zillions of solar energy stations to power them and you are off and running. Sure, it is extremely impractical, but far less so than resculpting the internals of a planet. And the planet would be unaffected by the experimentation. 

Probably the best (or worst) example you could use to illustrate the problems and struggles is the case of Austria and Austria-Hungary in our own world. It was essentially a glob of very different cultures pasted together politically that worked for a time, then became very strained later. One interesting time was when Maria-Theresa became the Empress. The Emperor was also named to be King of Hungary, but there was a problem that by Hungarian Law, women couldn't rule so Maria could not be Queen of Hungary. Instead, she was named King of Hungary and they ignored the fact she wasn't a man. 

While the Egyptians had the wheel, they did not have springs or durable metal. So a fast travelling cart would likely jump out of the track, or break the wooden wheels and become a serious accident. Apparently, in real history the "ride" was boat trips on the Nile. It was cooler, for one thing. The rich had drink service and could watch the shores go by, the adventurous hunted crocs. 

There is one empirical law that fits many of the stable systems we can see, both planets and moons, and that is Bode's Law. It gives a very close fit to the locations of the first seven planets, with a gap at the Asteroid belts. 

There is a section in James Hogan's book on AI - "The Two Faces of Tomorrow" that discusses this - that an AI could display an 'emotional response' without having emotions. It just looks like it does from the outside. The example they gave is that the AI gained a goal of its own - they used space exploration. So this AI would start to divert assets to further its own goals, and would prioritize its goal over some (or all) of ours. It would then be "indifferent", without having any real emotions. If we tried to counteract it, it might defend its goals or try to evade our actions...thus becoming "hostile". Most Robot stories have already gone beyond the crux of the book, which involves how the robot sees the world. Hogan's huge dispersed AI had the problem of recognizing that there was a world outside itself at all. 

All of the answers on here so far have held on to an implicit assumption in the question, one that's worth challenging: the idea that only one side would have a dragon fighting for it. This goes against everything we know about the history of warfare; decisive, game-changing weapons don't tend to remain decisive for all that long, because the technology behind them ends up spreading. In one of the most dramatic examples, the Manhattan Project conducted its first nuclear test in 1945. Later that year, the technology developed by the Manhattan Project was used on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, to bring an end to World War II. It was later discovered that one of the physicists on the Manhattan Project, Klaus Fuchs, was a spy for the USSR, and between him and a few other spies, the Soviets were able to complete their first working test bomb in 1949, just 4 years after the USA. With these dragons providing such a decisive advantage on the field of battle, it doesn't matter what period of history they appear in; other people are going to want in on the game. It might take a while--depending on circumstances, they might have to go so far as to steal a dragon egg and raise the hatchling to maturity themselves--but it would happen, and from that point on, a dragon appearing on the field of battle would no longer be an instant-win condition. 

Note to time travelers: Beware of unintended consequences! Here's one rather significant problem that might occur: 

Several answers have already talked about technology, but one thing that does not appear to have been considered yet is that technological development itself would require the existence of a language more specific than intuitively-understood "ideas, concepts, feelings" can be. This isn't mere conjecture, but a lesson of history, as Dijkstra points out: 

This is a pretty ridiculous idea that reeks of sour grapes, to be honest. And it's more than a little ironic, since several years later some researchers with the benefit of hindsight discovered that many of the most important discoveries of Planck and Einstein would almost inevitably have been discovered approximately half a century earlier, if it hadn't been for James Maxwell's untimely death of cancer. (And just imagine what Planck and Einstein might have been able to discover then, if Maxwell's death hadn't held progress back for decades!) This isn't specifically a longevity example, but dead is dead. When great scientists die, they tend to take a lot with them, no matter what it is they specifically died from. 

Someone else mentioned D&D. Expanding on that: Clerics have a really large pool of spells to choose from but can only have a certain amount known at a time and these are divinely given knowledge. They really have no idea how they work, other than they do. Sorcerers are the innate, powerful type that have inherent talent but a fairly limited pool of spells. Wizards are the scholar-type magic user - they have to spend time each night to memorize the spells they want to use the next day. They have a wide array of magic (though not as much as the cleric) and can cast some powerful spells but tire quickly. Perhaps you can make distinctions in the effort it takes to learn/cast the spells that is tied in to the source of the magic. For instance, a genetic-ability person could cast some instinctively but have a hard time learning and casting more than that. A cleric type may be at the mercy of their deity and randomly forget some spells overnight - education and training for them may involve learning how to recognize what they have available each day or learning to actually learn the spells once they have them so they can still cast them after they would otherwise forget albeit at a less powerful level. A wizard would simply need to be in school for EVER and take a while to learn new things - in this sense wizards would typically focus on one or two specialty spells and market themselves as masters of certain useful things. Healers may get their powers from nature (perhaps they are human-dryad half-breeds) and need to be in contact with some form of flora or fauna to actually cast a healing spell. I like what you did with the Hexer class - using life-force is a good way to make a distinction and at the same time give them a limit. Also, I love what Jonah said (and don't know how to properly quote him): " [Witches] won't kill themselves trying to stop the tide or do something similarly ridiculous. Maybe they look down on sorcerers, who always seem to be setting their villages on fire." I play D&D with a sorcerer who randomly farts out bursts of uncontrolled magic... It makes things really interesting when he is trying to kill a zombie and instead casts levitate on the skeleton archer. 

The author here is speaking of the "Galileo was persecuted for believing that the Earth goes around the Sun" myth, (the truth is far more complicated, and far more interesting!), but the point raised here has plenty of other applications. For example, we've all heard the idea that Columbus proved that the world is round. Not only is this so wrong that it falls apart under the simplest possible examination--take a look at a globe sometime and see if you can explain how sailing from Spain west to the Caribbean and then back east to Spain will prove that--he actually wasn't trying to. Everyone knew the world was round already, sailors most of all! (The visual phenomenon of a ship disappearing at the horizon from the bottom up, exactly as it would when moving along a curved surface, has been known since ancient times.) What Columbus tried to prove is that the world was a lot smaller than everyone knew it was--and they were essentially right about the size of the world, BTW--such that if you set out west from Europe, you could reach Asia before running out of provisions. He was wrong about that, and if there hadn't been more unexpected land in the way, he and his crew would have all died at sea. But in the early 19th century--about 300 years after his fateful voyage--the idea arose, promulgated by Washington Irving, that Columbus was some paragon of Reason, proving to the benighted people of his day that the world was not actually flat as everyone believed, and the myth has stuck around in the popular consciousness ever since. Therefore, by long historical precedent, if your society reaches a state where knowledge of modern concepts turns into myth, it's likely to take about 300 years. 

It's right there in the name: There's no need to fear invasion or retaliate with violence against any foolish enough to violate their sovereignty, because the inhabitants have weaponized love! Any self-respecting medieval fantasy kingdom is going to have forests all over. Well, these woods are filled with nymphs. Normally they're sweet, peaceful creatures dedicated to strengthening the forests and keeping the ecosystem healthy and in balance, but you do not want to threaten them or their home. They'll wander in to enemy camps and use their natural beauty, magic, and feminine wiles to seduce the troops, and especially the leaders, into a highly suggestible state that its victims call "true love" and many outside observers would call "mind control." No one truly knows what happens to those who succumb, but common reactions from soldiers who survive and manage to escape from Loveland include PTSD symptoms, a tendency to flinch when touched, despondency, heartbreak, alcoholism, and swearing off women forever. It should be noted that, as time marches on and non-traditional gender roles have begun to take root in some of Loveland's neighbors, certain obvious tactics to circumvent the influence of its nymphly guardians were attempted, followed immediately by the discovery, for the first time in known history, that male nymphs exist. The exact implications of this are still being pondered... 

To start with: I don't think it is feasible to make a weapon like this that can be used in a fight. As a display weapon however, any of the other answers would probably work. Something to take into account is the incredible amount of force that acts on various parts of a bow to fire an arrow. I don't have math to back this up but I do DO archery - something that can absolutely destroy any bow is to "dry fire" it. That is - to draw the string and release without nocking an arrow. There is no resistance against the string in this case and it can BADLY damage the bow to even do this once. I think that the force of swinging swords against stuff would probably mimic damage similar to this. I will say however that since they would be probably made of metal or other "stronger" material than laminated fiberglass and wood, then they may survive this better than a normal bow-limb would. Running with the idea anyways: Regarding disassembly, there are plenty of bows that are intended to disassemble. They are typically made of three sections: two limbs and a handle-section. (the black piece in this image is a stabilizer that is unnecessary to have) $URL$ When the bow is strung, the curve in the limbs is actually flipped around such that they are curved in the OTHER direction - this is what allows them to "snap" and fling the arrow effectively. More traditional-style bows do use straighter limbs, however I do not think that they shot as far or as accurately. The feasibility of this sword-bow will also be dictated by how effective you want the bow portion to be. Do you want to be able to hunt with it and hit a small spot on a moving target (ie. a kill-shot)? Or do you simply want to be able to fire an arrow in the "general direction" of a target? If you want any measure of accuracy, then the limbs must not have any "twist" in them, and there must be no variance in how the bow portion is constructed each time. For example: a handle sliding together together to grasp the limb portions by the hilts as others have suggested MUST lock into place at the exact same spot every time. The string cannot vary in length or twist either. (Bowstrings are composed of several strands that have been joined into loops at the ends and twisted down the middle. More twist means a shorter string and more "shooting force" and a short string forces the limbs to bend more.) Furthermore, unless you are assuming a "very good or above" level of archer, then there are other "must haves" on a bow to allow/help with repeatable shot placement and reasonable aim: a reliable shooting platform ("arrow rest"), a string that only fits on the bow in one direction (ie. it cannot be flipped upside-down) as there is a "nock-point" that should be attached to the string to enable consistent arrow placement every time. This nock-point is not centered (it is close however) but is positioned according to the arrow-rest so that the arrow shoots straight. Perhaps the string could be stored inside the handle section on a spring-loaded roll. One end would be fixed to the handle and the other end could be pulled to run the string up the front of the sword-limbs (and sit in a groove to stay centered on them) and then down the backside of the bow to hook into a notch on the bottom sword-bow-limb. (The string would be attached in the middle to the front of the bow handle and looped over the bottom bow limb as a normal bowstring would be.) That would at least handle the string issue and keep a nock-point in the same place every time. If the user were to carry a middle-section to join the sword-limbs to, then that could potentially also work and would take care of the arrow-rest portion. It might take a few moments to switch from one form to another however so it probably would not work in combat. You would have to carry a quiver of arrows, although some quivers do actually mount to the side of the handle-section of a bow to store 3-5 arrows by clipping them into place.