In general, technology advances at a rate proportional to the number of people times the stability of the society times the wealth surplus times competition. The stability of the society permits records of what was invented to stay around. The wealth surplus is required to give people time to invent. If you are spending every ounce of effort just staying afloat, you don't invent revolutionary things. The number of people reflects the fact that a new invention pays off for everyone but only has to be perfected once. Competition reflects the fact that an overly stable centralized society can ossify without competing power centers. With competing power centers, innovation can give one of them an advantage and failing to take up the new innovation causes that one to replace the others. 

So a solar arm or the bulge of the milky way would be about the same area as a 10 cm by 10 cm shape held at a distance of 1 meter. (Bulge is about 2 kpc in diameters; spiral arm What would you see? There are about 10 to 20 billion stars in an arm of the Milky Way. The core has about 100 billion stars. The Orion–Cygnus Arm is roughly the same area. The other arms are a few times larger. The entire galaxy is about as big as a 4x3 meter object held at a distance of 1 meter; quite large. The bulge has 5E9 solar lumosities, ignoring dust blocking the view. At 50,000 ly this is 5E-10 times as bright as the Sun is from Earth, or 0.02% as bright as the Moon, and a larger cross-section. The Moon is about as large as a 4 mm by 4 mm object held at a distance of 1 meter. The galactic Bulge is is 600 times larger, and 5000 times dimmer, making it 3 million times less bright per unit area. And that is before accounting for dust. That would make the galactic core as bright per unit area as a magnitude ~4 star the size of the moon. Spiral arms are 1x-6x larger and each have about 5 times fewer stars as the Bulge does, so they are up to 100 times less bright per unit area than the core (again, ignoring dust). That makes the arms as bright per unit area as a magnitude 9 stars the size of the moon (but much larger). You'd be able to see the galactic bulge, and maybe some wisps around it (especially if you blocked it out), but I suspect it would be less impressive than our milky way view. Which makes sense, as what we see contains stars that are much closer than 50,000 ly. 

The hard part of guns is metallurgy. This is true of both cannons and muskets, so simply having poor metallurgy isn't enough to explain this. However, if there was an alternative source of large-calibre cannon technology (a tube strong enough to contain the blast), then metallurgy wouldn't be needed to explain it. Instead, the fact that the alternative source provides only large calibre bores, and not small calibre bores. Imagine a plant that generates a ridiculously strong tube, like a super-strong tree where you can bore out the middle. The super-strongness of the tree or plant might not develop until the plant is of a certain size. Small arms cannot be grown this way, while large caliber weapons can be. Possibly the Fiber structure of the tree doesn't permit cutting smaller bores out of the larger cannon and have it still remain strong enough. Possibly these plants are bred to be stronger than they used to be, with metal-doped soils and special breeds. Over time, the plant has gotten both stronger, and smaller versions have been bred. But they are still a long way away from being able to create a human-portable firearm. 

In a world with magic, everyone uses magic. Now, they don't memorize spells and wear robes. But every blacksmith uses magic to forge metal, every leatherworker uses magic to cure leather. Midwives use magic to birth babies, matchmakers use magic to find matches. Magic is everywhere, so everyone uses it. Every kind of effective armor must be enchanted, because unenchanted armor is garbage. The other side has enchanted swords, and they will cut through your unenchanted armor like butter. Even human bodies are enchanted. From the little things, protective magic placed on them by midwives, mothers, fathers. Ancestral blessings placed on them through prayer wheels. Everything uses magic. Wizards are people who collect magical secrets in the form of spells. In order to cast these spells, any enchanted items you have on you have to be taken into account. The magic that infuses weapons and armor doesn't work well with most wizard magic. Their presence on the body warps the spells. The "armor" that a wizard must wear is enchanted with effects that help them cast their spells, and the "weapons" (staffs, wands, orbs) likewise. These enchanted tools and clothing don't protect you against swords, at least not passively. Instead, they enhance and enable you to cast spells. If you could find a armorer willing and able to make it, a wizard could wear unenchanted plate armor just fine. Wouldn't do him much good against anything other than hail stones, as any crude dagger used by an urchin with even a modest enchantment makes your plate armor useless. This also permits there to be "wizards" who do use armor and weapons. They either use a different form of magic/spells, and/or they have unique enchantments on their armor/weapons that permit both weapon use and magic use. Such "spellswords" may not be able to cast as powerful a spell given the same level of training as a traditional wizard. 

Putting things together is information. The arrangement of metal that distinguishes a pile of coal and rusted iron from tempered steel is information. The way we usually do this is through crude processes that generate gradients that rearrange the locations of the atoms in a favorable way, and we iteratively move towards the arrangement of matter we want. This involves the application of energy to generate a entropic gradient of the right shape, which is the only way we know how to mass re-arrange atoms into a new form. But it is just information. Some energy needs to be added to get some states from others, but the net energy difference after processing tends to be far far less than the energy used -- most of the energy is leaked off as heat, not captured. This leaked heat is entropy -- loose information. The ordered energy we use to induce the changes stuffs some of the information into the new structure, and the vast majority leaks off as heat. If all the humans know is our current crude methods of infusing stuff with the structure we want, then they'd basically have to reinvent industrial civilization. Time would be measured in generations not years, as they would have to breed a population sufficient to manage the industrial civilization needed. If they instead had all of the information they need to make it efficiently, and the ability to exactly use that information, they could literally walk around and hit things perfectly with hammers and cause them to reassemble into the shape they need. Remember, all that is required to uncrack an egg that fell off a table is the exact right set of taps, impacts and sounds. It is the lack of information, and the difficulty in doing the actions exactly (low energy, extreme precision) that makes this impossible. The easiest way for a human to uncrack an egg is to feed the cracked egg to a hen, or compost it and feed the food you grow to the hen. This level of knowledge and precision in action is far beyond what any human could do, but you did say the had exact knowledge on how to do it. And mere mortals have social issues. Clearly you are not talking about mere mortals, as they have no social issues.