One possibility is to avoid the problem entirely by making the place you store the dishes also be dishwashers. So you put dirty silverware in the silverware drawer, and clean silverware comes out. The drawer detects dirty silverware and washes them automatically. The cupboard where you store your plates and bowls also washes those plates and bowls if they are dirty. The cupboard where you store your pots and pans cupboard also scrubs and washes those pots and pans. If you take it a step further, you don't deal with the storage at all. You stick your dirty dishes in a machine. The machine washes them, sorts them, and stores them inside itself. Next time your kitchen makes a meal, it knows exactly what dishes you will need and the machine provides them for you. The washing, storage, and retrieval would all happen on belts behind-the-scenes. 

One possibility would be to give the planet some sort of long-term cloud system forming a belt around around the equator that blocks out sunlight, or perhaps even having the clouds form high-altitude ice crystals that reflect sunlight away. You could still have day-night cycles even at the equator, it is just that the equator blocks enough of the light to reduce temperatures. Some of the gas giant planets have storms lasting for centuries or even thousands of years that form bands around the planet vaguely similar to what I am describing. However, I am not sure what specific set of geographic features would encourage the formation of such a weather system on a rocky planet. 

"Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic". If "magic" was common place it would probably cease to be wonderful. A firearm would seem 'magical' to a pre industrial society. In a modern society, its simply a mechanical object. Likewise widespread use of what we'd term as magic would dull the sense of wonder and awe around it. If only mages could cast fireballs, it would be magic. If streetvendors regularly used it to cook food, it would be somewhat less exciting. Chances even if it was less common, it would be treated much as science was or the 'natural sciences' with different schools of thought and specialisations. At some point however "meh, he's just levitating an apple" 

Much likely the same as it does now. Its worth considering that that fundamentally revolutionary technologies are relatively rare - Many things are merely enhancements and clever usage and synthesis rather than something that's ground breakingly new. So, technology gets refined. There's a lot we can still do with existing technology being refined. We don't have any new magic materials? We try doing more with what we have, and at worst, build things bigger and uglier. People die at 80-90? Plenty more people are on the way. Computers stagnate? We have computers that people 30 years ago would likely have given their left body part of choice for. In terms of history, I suspect the last 2-3 centuries has been an outlier rather than a trend in terms of rapid technical growth. Eventually things will settle down at an equilibrium, or we (or our children's children) would find themselves in a overcrowded trash heap and die. More likely though, we do more with what we have - modern PCs are ridiculously powerful and we just adapt society to technological stagnation. That said, this might actually be a good thing - we might go to a repair/refurbish culture, since a new machine is no better than an old one. You'd likely have no obsolence, with machines getting repaired rather than replaced. Basically things get run till they fall apart. Then stuck back together. Would mess with modern consumption patterns but meh. 

Unintelligent but fast-reproducing nanomachines. In the same way that simple, fast-reproducing organisms dominate the world today (there are more bacteria cells in a human body than human cells by number, for example), simple, fast-reproducing machines would dominate your AIs. However, they could lack many of the limitations that keep biological microorganisms from completely replacing us, allowing them to replace their creators entirely. 

There are different branches of the reptile family tree. Crocodilians have semi-erect posture and a four-chamber heart because they belong to the same branch of the reptile family tree as dinosaurs and birds, which shared these features (and were warm-blooded, crocodilians appear to have later lost this trait). There are other branches, with the main existing branches being the lizards (including snakes) and (maybe) the turtles (which may actually be a sub-branch of snakes and lizards, their origins are a bit murky). There are also smaller branches like the tuatara, but they are rare enough that they could still exist without violating your scenario. So the easiest way to have most reptiles be like crocodilians is to have the lizards and turtles never evolve to begin with, or die out early in their history due to some freak extinction event. If the rest of history went exactly the same way, the (non-bird) dinosaurs would have died out, as would have most of the members of other groups like tuataras, leaving the only cold-blooded land animals being crocodilians. They would then radiate after the dinosaurs died out to fill various niches currently filled by lizards and snakes (since legless lizards have evolved several times) and turtles (since there are extinct armored crocidilians and close relatives). In the past crocodilians have had a much wider variety of forms than the underwater ambush predators that exist today, so we know this sort of radiation is possible for the group. 

This is smokey. She was a War hero during WW2 She's known for warning her human comrades of danger, and helping pull a line across a ditch. So.. messenger dogs Small, fast, smart fleetfooted creatures. Dogs have been known to cross miles to find their way home and are natural survivors. And of course, dogs are social/pack animals. A formation of trained dogs would be something quite dangerous in a meelee, especially uparmoured and protected. 

Your sensors can swivel 360 degrees You have stability (since you have 3 points on the ground) on a smaller, more flexible setup than a 4 wheeler. Its uniquely suited to fit into a standard recepticle, which is compatible with other models like the R5 and BB series. Of course, they also sometimes had to climb out, in the middle of a gunfight, and r2 got hit a few times. Oh, and did you know you could fit a little person inside one? Lets consider a few more robot designs the mouse droid or K9 from dr who. Box with wheels. Cheap, simple. Completely baffled by stairs. 

Its India. There is only one choice. While its lost its cachet, its basically the indian vehicle. While british in origin, its earned its place in history, being the vehicle of choice of politicians, and the standard taxi for many years. 

Nearly any metal would work but steel is a sensible option. There's a few things worth considering - designing around a path for lightning - If you arm your rabbits with grounded spears , that might end up being a preferencial path for lightning. Imagine a long pole with a steel tip, with copper inlaid continuously along a wooden handle wrapped in leather where your warriors would hold it. A conductive endcap, with an attached conductive tassel ends the weapon. You have a lightning rod with a pointy lightning conductor on top, and an easy path to ground at the bottom. Which also acts as a pokey stick. If relying on armour - you'd want to design it around the skin effect The metal needs to have pretty continous coverage (so platemail), and presumably you want to have some good padding between the rabbits and plate, with a good, easy path to ground. I'd also recommend pinning those great bit ears back, since armoured rabbit ears would be pointless and natural antennae 

It isn't really feasible. They would need an unbroken line of trees stretching the entire distance. Unfortunately, there are deserts and planes in the way. You can see this map of tree cover for North America: 

There could be as many pathogens as there are types of self-replicating organisms or molecules. Bacteria and eukaryotes are earth organisms. Other planets would likely have radically different organisms, any of which could be a pathogen. Both single-celled and multi-celled organisms can act as pathogens here on Earth, so alien single-celled and multi-celled organisms (or even organisms that lack anything we could identify as a cell) could be pathogens. It wouldn't have to be a full organism, any self-replicating molecule could be a pathogen, as long as it can successfully enter the body and find the raw materials to replicate inside. This could include molecules not found on Earth. It can also include molecules that are found on Earth that have the potential to self-replicate, but don't currently self-replicate on Earth, such as RNA or DNA (there are "naked" RNA pathogens, viroids, but they use a cell's replication machinery rather than replicating themselves, and in the cell RNA and DNA need other molecules to replicate). Similarly, prions work by causing other proteins to mis-fold into more prions. But RNA and DNA also fold in important ways, so there is a potential for RNA or DNA equivalents of prions to exist (although as far as I am aware none are known). Finally, from what I have found there is one (and only one) group of organisms on Earth for which no known pathogenic forms exist: archae. However, archae are particularly hardy, often living in extreme environments. This could make pathogenic archae hard to defeat with our natural defenses or medicine. 

Depends on the role/profession. In a sense, Londo's pretty much always dressed 'formally' and the majority of centauri you see are nobles and other folk who think rather highly of themselves. Considering many modern military ceremonial uniforms are based off or evolved from traditional outfits, its entirely plausible. Outside of that, its also trying to set a very important cultural example - that I am dressed in the manner of my people. Londo's the centauri republic. Its no different from when a female Indian dignitary wears a saree, or an Indonesian ambassador wears a batik shirt. Londo is not just Londo Molari. He represents the might and glory of the centauri republic (not to mention, nearly ever Centuri you see is a noble or at least wealthy). 

CROM Have people believe the gods frown upon weakness. And that strength is pleasing to the gods. Only through struggle and suffering can one truely get the blessing of the gods. That valor and endurance are the best form of prayers. And the gods do not do parlor tricks. Imagine responses to prayer like this... If you tie up your camel, its less likely to wander off. Got 2000 people to feed? I'm a god, not a caterer. Walk on water? Meh, get a boat, you showoff. Damned boatman's got 20 kids to feed. Piss me off badly, and I might decide you're not worth dropping a rock on. So, divine gifts? Hope that one can endure, strength to do all one can, and hopefully a sharpened piece of steel that does not break at the wrong moment. What else does one need? or to borrow that wonderfully pithy line from Conan the Barbarian. 

Another solution is segmentation. Some organisms have multiple body segments, each with its own set of organs. Although vertebrates are segmented, we only have one or two of most of our organs. But a more strongly-segmented organism could have one complete set of organs for certain segments. There wouldn't even need to be a strong reason, it could just be imposed by their evolutionary history (like the fact that human segmentation is laid out for an animal that walks on all fours). 

No. The answer to your title question is "yes", there is nothing about black powder specifically that makes it inevitable that it would be discovered before steam power. But your full question is a very different one, with a different answer. It isn't really feasible feasible for steam engines to be developed without gun-like weapons also being developed. The simple reason is that the same principles used in a steam engine can be used in a projectile weapon: a steam cannon. In fact, such a weapon is considerably simpler than a steam engine and designs of such weapons predate any usable steam engine. Steam guns were never used in warfare because by the time the technology was made to manufacture them in usable numbers and quality, easier-to-use gunpowder was available. But if gunpowder were not available, steam guns would have been a natural outgrowth of the much more complicated steam engine development. It is true that Heron made a very early steam-powered device long before gunpowder or steam guns existed. However, this device wan not a practical way to use steam to power machinery. It produced far too little power to do anything useful for a feasible amount of water and fuel. The machinery to get useful work out of steam is much, much, much more complicated. 

Dead bodies float, typically so it depends on what the troll is made of. If the troll is made up of mostly meat, it should likely float (especially once it starts rotting a little), and at best, or worst, they could add wooden outriders. So patch up any holes in the chest, plug up that big ol maw and nose, and slide the big ol beastie into the water. They can go ahead and break up ice as needed Then they can sit on the troll and row or drag. If the ice is thick enough, then just slide the troll across. 

Money is anything that has value. While recently money has not been tied to the value of a physical commodity traditionally it has. Lets consider a few concepts. Obviously the settlements have to agree on the value of 'money' and an exchange rate. Lets start with a 'basic' non unified currency exchangable for a physical resource as needed - for example bringing in a "gas" chit of the value of 2l would get you 2l of gas of a certain quality, or a "wheat pound" gets you a pound of wheat. Based off that, set the value of currency off of the average value of a bunch of these commodities, exchangable based off the current agreed value of them. Of course, someone needs to handle this - this is one of the situations where a government of sorts is handy. Set up a central authority with offices in each settlement, with civil and military/police administration shared amongst them. Anyone can walk in, and exchange goods for 'money'. Since its based off a bunch of goods no one settlement has an advantage, control is shared, and since each settlement works towards its own self interest, it should self regulate. The central authority makes money (with some degree of signorage for operation costs) and moves goods from one settlement to another based on demand.