This is Legge Romanisation, as taken from the 1879 volume of Sacred Books of the East. It is a transcription of the "Mandarin" speech of 19th-century Beijing, which is slightly different to both later transcriptions of standard Mandarin e.g. Wade-Giles. The symbol under question bears most phonetic resemblance to the zemlja of the Cyrillic script, з, although it is probably just a z but written in Fraktur as opposed to Italic script. It represents the sound of z- in Pinyin, the alveolar affricate, which had a wider distribution than in current standard Mandarin. Note also that k is different from k. 

Korean is another language that has final unvoiced stops that are unreleased: ㅅㄷㅌㅎ are all realised as /t/, ㅂㅍ as /p/, and ㄱㅋ as /k/. With the large number of loanwords coming from English into Korean, many of which have a final stop that is released, the epenthetic vowel /ɯ/ (written ㅡ) is usually inserted. For example, "lamp" /læmp/ is borrowed as "램프" /ɾæmpʰɯ/. Hence in Korean, the difference between released and unreleased phonemes is keenly felt. So how can this perceptual acuity occur? It is a mistake to think that a plosive consonant's identity comes only from its release. Traditionally, as summarised on the same blog, plosives are analysed into three phonetic phases: approach (also called closing), hold and release. The approach phase can influence the vowel's phonation, as the earlier blog post states: 

English also has so-called unreleased stops, mainly in consonant clusters, e.g. act [æk̚t] vs apt [æp̚t]. The phonemes that have no audible release are certainly contrastive in English here; they are simply masked by the release of the /t/ that follows. There is of course the case of the glottal stop, which can be considered phonemic, especially in connected speech. For example, this example from John Wells's blog: 

The same principles apply to the much later development of the cheshirisation of voicing leading to the lower register tones. With comparative cognate evidence, the Wu group, including Shanghainese and Suzhounese, still retains a marginal form of voicing (usually breathy voice in practice) where the Yue group such as Cantonese has one of the lower-pitched tones (tones 4, 5, 6 in Jyutping). Some loanword adaptations are also evidence for this: compare the modern tones of the transliteration of the above Sanskrit word (e.g. 毗, which corresponded to voiced बृ in Sanskrit). Furthermore, we actually have documentary evidence: the three-way distinction between 全清、次清、全濁 in the obstruents (plus the 次濁 for the sonorants) was recorded in the rime dictionaries, and comparing these forms with the modern forms is straightforward. The classic example: 

My grasp of Asturian is pretty poor, but I think the gist is that as a loanword from Spanish to Portuguese/Galician/Catalan as well as Asturian, the other Iberian languages automatically adapted the h- to f- in this loanword, "according to the phonological system" regardless of the original language's use of /h/. There is also the possibility of interference from the language gaining the word, here saying that the Asturian furar favoured the adaptation. This was also the case with English hurricane, where the i was introduced through the influence of hurry. 

However, you can see that cheshirisation has left aspiration as well as tone change in Mandarin and in Cantonese. It is not always the case that the net result is tone change: in Mandarin, what was shǎngshēng 上聲 and qùshēng 去聲 was split according to voicing and then re-merged, losing the voicing contrast but without net tonogenesis. Both Cantonese and Hokkien exhibit (or rather maintain the result of) tonogenesis though. 

In Reichenbach's scheme of eventuality, reference point and speech point, the "future of the future" describes where the eventuality is after the reference point, which is after the speech point (S - R - E). This "posterior future" makes the referred event the "act of preparation" rather than the act or event itself. The classic example is the Latin abiturus ero, which in English is (idiomatically) translated as "I shall be one of those who will leave". I've also seen the translation "I shall be going to leave", which is a little more compact but feels a lot less natural. In some English grammar textbooks this is named the "future prospective", but I agree that this (currently!) looks and feels like a purpose clause. I've seen statements that the "future of the future" or "posterior future" is "not attested in natural languages". I personally think it's just hard to disentangle them from other semantic colourings, much as all future tense-based forms are. Kannada reportedly has an auxiliary verb construction with +posterior and +future, and the third person neuter form is apparently quite frequent. But it has an obligatory force to its meaning: one needs to go. 

This barred q is one of the abbreviations for any one of many Latin words beginning with q, among them the super common relative pronoun "qui, quae, quod", which would apply in this case (as the neuter gender form quod, as seen in full here). 

This line of evidence has also been found for the qùshēng 去聲 tone of Middle Chinese, which is presumed to have derived from Old Chinese *-s. Sanskrit and many other Indic languages had final -s (or one of the other sibilants, conventionally romanised as -ś and -ṣ in IAST), and these were transcribed with characters that would later have the qùshēng tone of Middle Chinese. One example is: 

It may be instructive to note that Sino-Vietnamese readings are not the only Sinitic-based Vietnamese lexemes loaned into Vietnamese: there exist earlier substrata of Chinese loans (compare 呉音 go-on and 漢音 kan-on for Japanese kanji, where 漢音 is the "canonical" Tang China loan). Additionally, there are indications that the Sino-Vietnamese are not strictly limited to the Middle Chinese of the Tang court, but perhaps later borrowings. However, going from Middle Chinese /j/ to Middle Hanoi Vietnamese /ð/ to Modern Hanoi Vietnamese /z/ is well-attested. Middle Chinese 喻母 /j/ with 四等 (i.e. a particular distinction in chongniu) generally went down this route. Compare 遙 diêu, 引 dẫn, 鹽 diêm, 異 dị. Fortition of /j/ is not exactly uncommon, often via [ʝ] to [ʒ]. Spanish has been going through this change at the moment, and it is (currently) most salient in the Rioplatense region. The real outlier though, is that 贏 was division III in Middle Chinese, so it "should" have become a h- or v- in Vietnamese! How it ended up reallocated under a different division is an interesting question, yet to be explored. If you think 赢 > doanh is weird, look up what happened to 民! 

It must be remembered that in the Japanese language system, the lexeme's sound and the lexeme's spelling are much less correlated with each other than even in Chinese; the phenomenon of 訓読み kun'yomi means that one lexeme can be written with several different spellings (even if the spellings overlap in meaning). The most well known example for beginners is あう = 会う or 合う or 遭う etc. which all have slightly different connotations on paper for "to meet". Although かわい​い has only one kanji spelling 可愛い, it is known to be an ateji 当て字, i.e. neither 訓読み kun'yomi nor 音読み on'yomi. Hence the etymology of the かわい​い is probably derived from something else, despite the similarity of the 音読み on'yomi of 可 (か) and 愛 (あい​) to かわい​. Wiktionary has an alternative to the straightforward "Classical Chinese to Japanese loan" etymology, one that is borne out by 語源由来辞典 (Gogen Yurai Jiten)'s entry. According to this, the original expression was 顔映ゆし (historical kana かほ kaho + はゆし hayushi), attested from the late Heian period, originally meaning "face radiating" in a negative sense, i.e. embarassed or shy. The assumed phonological development of 顔映ゆし goes as: kahohayushi > kawohayushi > kawahayushi > kawawayushi / kahahayushi > kahayushi > kawayui, which is one possible reading of 可愛い. This regularly becomes かわい​い kawaii. One of Wiktionary's quoted sources is the Dictionarium sive thesauri linguae Iaponicae compendium compiled by the Spanish-born early 17th century Dominican missionary Diego Collado. Under the entry for "miserabilis", i.e. pitiful (emphasis mine): 

This is certainly not what we in the 21st century would call cute or adorable; again, in fact like in English, there has been a semantic shift of "that which is to be adored and loved" to "cute". So even if they share the characters, it is only the modern use that has become aligned; the roots of the words themselves are rather further removed from each other. 

Hence the closing gesture as the vowel is shut off into the plosive consonant is what is perceived. This can even be visualised on spectrograms. 

The written collocation of 可愛 has a much longer history in Chinese, dating back to the 書經 Shūjīng / 尚書 Shàngshū (the "Classic of Documents"), traditionally dated to the late Zhou, where it exists with a rather transparent original meaning in Chinese. In chapter 3, the 大禹謨 Dà Yǔ mó "Counsels of Great Yu", the following question is posed: 

Phonological change is not composed solely of mergers and losses. You can have chain shifts, where the net number of phonemes stays more or less the same. It is also possible that the number of phonemes increases, in phonemic splits and additions. Phonemic additions are usually via contact with another language. A good example in English is the phoneme /ʒ/, which was imported from Middle French loanwords; the basis for this was that the Middle English /z/ was already palatalising into [ʒ], so the "foreign" phoneme was already phonetically present in the language. Phonemic splits are usually a result of interaction between sounds in the language, and often branch out from allophones. In British English, the - /ʊ/-/ʌ/ split of the mid-17th century and the - /ɑː/-/æ/ split of 17th-/18th-century London are the most well-known. Taking the - split: it was the result of phonetic lengthening before fricatives like /f/, /s/, /θ/, later even /ns/ that brought it about. However, it had incomplete diffusion through the language, preventing it from becoming a complete chain shift. At the moment in southern British English, what has been called the - split is emerging, where /əʊ/ of the set has an allophone [oʊ] before the dark, almost vocalised final /l/ when in the same syllable. A reversal of phonological merger can occur, but a net reversal and a retardation/resistance to change are different. The case of and in the English of 16th to 17th-century southern England (specifically London) is one of the better known cases of the former, where had been /ɛː/ at the end of Middle English, maintained that phoneme through the 16th century, and had closed to /iː/ by the 17th-century; whereas had been /aː/, merged into /ɛː/, and then re-emerged as /eː/ (as summarised in this 2004 paper), although it has been analysed as 1) contact between sociolects as reintroducing the phonemic split, or 2) only a near-merger occurred. Localised resistance to change can also result in a form of reversal, although this is unlikely to be phonemic. The vowel in colloquial London English has moved from quite near cardinal /ʌ/ to a more central /ɐ/ and back towards /ʌ/ with the rise of "Estuary" English over the 20th century (see this 2006 paper). 

I don't think you'll find claims that Korean coronal consonants are velar! This is unlike for example Mandarin Chinese's j- q- x- range [as transcribed in Hanyu Pinyin], which diachronically was a merger of a velar and an alveolar series in front of high front vowels. In standard Chinese though, this would never be realised as anything resembling the velar series k-, g-, h-. This points to one possible reason for the apparent confusion: should ㅈ, ㅊ, ㅉ range be phonologically labelled "palatal", "palato-alveolar", or even "alveolar". The "fundamental" nature of these phonemes has been under great debate, and so even the IPA symbols used to transcribe the phoneme vary widely. Some of the basis is to do with palatalisation, introduced to students of beignner's Korean with ㅅ and ㅆ in front of Korean's high front vowel ㅣ (and of course in the iotated vowels / before the yod glide). However, palatalisation after ㅈ, ㅊ, ㅉ is way weaker than for ㅅ, ㅆ e.g. 저 and 져 are much more similar to each other than 서 and 셔 (indeed, for some speakers the former pair are pronounced the same). For some, this indicates a palatal nature to the phoneme. Diachronically, it's actually the ㅅ, ㅆ range that changed though. In Late Middle Korean of the 17th century, palatalisation stopped being contrastive after sibilants, including ㅅ, ㅆ, ㅈ, ㅊ, ㅉ. Hence you see both 사람 and 샤람. This 2012 paper states that Korean dictionaries for French speakers published at the end of the 19th century explicitly state this fact. As English loanwords were adopted into the Korean language, both /s/ and /ʃ/ were transcribed unsystematically. Apparently though, before back vowels /ʃ/ ended up getting a lot more iotation than before front vowels. This would seem to imply that a contrast between 셔 corresponding to English /ʃʌ/ and 서 from English /sʌ/ started to emerge (and the same for ㅜ /u/). Interestingly though, before front vowels, the vowel ㅜ is often added, e.g. 쉘 for Shell and 가쉽 for gossip - an effect of the phonological restriction in Korean. For ㅈ, ㅊ, ㅉ this wasn't replicated, and as standard rules were laid down for Korean transcription, iotation was more or less officially disallowed. As palatalisation was not all that contrastive (and not phonological, according to this 2011 paper), it has also therefore not been consistent, and the extent and notability of the palatalisation has been debated quite a lot. Hence we see the inconsistency across different descriptions. All-in-all, I think it's just down to the field of Korean linguistics having developed and matured later than for English or French. For a phonetic account, a 2004 study using stroboscopic-cine MRI from Phonetica says it's an alveolar place of articulation with a laminal tongue shape. A relatively detailed "user's" account of the articulation is found in the 2012 book The Sounds of Korean on p.77. 

The difference between these four is the topic of the article on yotsugana (四つ仮名). In south Shikoku, they appear to be all different. However, in standard Tokyo Japanese, じ = ぢ and ず = づ. The actual diachronic change of [dz] to [z] is variable in standard Japanese. According to "The Sounds of Japanese", the affricate [dz] occurs at the beginning of a word or immediately following a syllable-final consonant, and the fricative [z] occurs in the middle immediately following a vowel. This isn't affected by which kana is used to transcribe it. The kana じ and ず are more common anyway since the gendai kanazukai (現代仮名遣い) post-WW2. As for Rōmaji input, I've always used t + u / s + i with dakuten. 

For such sociolinguistic characterisations of speech (especially one as culturally-specific as "plumminess"), one has to disentangle all its many possible features. These may vary between different speech producers; as Watt (2018) states: 

Baxter goes on to talk about loanword adaptation, involving shǎngshēng syllables being chosen to represent the short vowels of Sanskrit (it must be remembered Sanskrit did not have final glottal stops) when transcribing early Buddhist texts into Chinese; he states that: 

Alternatively, even segmental features can contribute a "plummy" sound to speech; Arboleda-Guirao (2014) suggests it's not just vocal timbre: 

I've seen the claim that when it comes to tonal contours, contour tonal languages "select from as many categories as possible" (Routledge Linguistics Encyclopedia). They posit the four basic tonal shapes as: level, rising, falling and convex/concave; naturally, standard Mandarin's four tones fit into one of each of these. However, this is noticeably absent from standard descriptions of any Yue Chinese group (which includes Cantonese and Toisanese as well as the 10-tone Bobai dialect) that I'm aware of, as well as from the main Hakka varieties and from the Hokkien branch of the Minnan Chinese group. Both of these groups have more than four phonemic tones (although the Teochew branch of Minnan has a low falling-rising tone for the 阴去 category). Many Mandarin varieties, not just standard 普通话 / 國語, have a concave tone. From Wikipedia's page on the four tones of Middle Chinese, Jinan in Shandong, Chengdu in Sichuan, and Nanjing in Jiangsu all share this feature with Beijing. The Nanchang variety of Gan and the Wenzhounese variety of Wu seem to also have concave tones (Wenzhounese having this longest of contours reliably paradoxically in the historical 入声 tones, which are the shortest tones in most of the rest of south China!). Of those rarities that have both, Fuzhounese of the Min Dong family is probably the most well-known Chinese variety, with the 阴去 tone a concave one, whilst the 阳去 tone is convex. However, to my ear the concave tone is subject to a similar "smoothing" as in standard Mandarin, whilst the convex tone is somewhat more salient. The status of the tones in Suzhounese of the Wu family is subject to debate (as with all the tones of Wu really - tone sandhi has just become too complicated there!): the concave one is well-attested, but the convex one is allophonic to... something else (either low rising or low falling). Leaving behind the Sino-Tibetan for the Oto-Manguean, Yoloxóchitl Mixtec has both too, although I'm not sure what other tones there are. Just glancing at the literature for Vietnamese phonetics, the case with Vietnamese phonation and pitch-register is particularly interesting, as the "citation" concave tone "hỏi" is probably the one "tone" where the pitch contour is most important; the breathiness has been analysed has merely a phonetic realisation. However, it seems that it may be confused with huyền in Hanoi where the rising end of the hỏi contour is weakening. Southern Vietnamese on the other hand does not have a canonical concave tone: hỏi has merged with ngã to form a low-rising tone. What generalisations can be drawn then? Common ancestry? Areal effects? Even support for the maximisation of the distribution of tone shapes is shaky. The only commonality would be that rising and falling tones always exist alongside the concave and convex.