A number of Slavic languages have the word "cena" meaning "price": Slovenian, Slovak, Polish cena, Russian цена I wonder whether it is related to the word cent 

I do not know what kind of English we were taught in Russia. It had American-style vowels, but no rotacism. I also think the spelling was British-like, but this could depend on a textbook (official and Soviet-style textbooks would use British rules definitely). So people who went to British-speaking countries said "we were fooled in schools, they pronounce the vowels more like they are spelt than we were taught". 

In early PIE the full form of the clitic was -q̆et, it is a root meaning "a pair", other words with it include q̆eta̯ pair q̆etea̯ti counts q̆etu̯ores four This is a very ancient root, which meant quite the same (a pair) as early as Proto-Eurasiatic. 

Yes. One such word is Russian word вынуть "to take out". Here the вы- is prefix, -ну- is suffix and -ть is ending. The old form of this word was вынять which had the root -ня-, but later the root was re-analyzed as suffix by analogy with other words (сунуть, дунуть). 

Russian word "utrom" most likely came from Proto-Indo-European root a̯u̯es- meaning "glow". It is cognate to English "East". Compare PIE words a̯u̯estrom east (-> Austria, Australia) a̯u̯esos dawn "Aura" and "Aurora" are also of this root. 

I have a single native language (Russian) and have learned English. I can say that I occasionally think either in Russian or English even though I have never lived in English-speakling environment. The key thing here is that thinking is usually modelling a phrase in a conversation with imaginable opponent. So if I model some phrases to counter arguments of imaginary opponents or partners on English-speaking forums, like this one, or describe my vision to them, I think in English. If I think about something I discussed on a Russian-speaking forum or with a real person, like my relatives, I think in Russian. The language you think in is not something to which you stick in a long term. I think I even thought in programming languages when I was thinking about how would I code this or that. 

It seems to me that some words that have -p- in stem in Latin have clearly reconstructible -ku̯- based on other Indo-European languages. Some examples include 

If you count the number of separate roots, English seems one of those with the highest number. If you count word stems, English is far behind say German and Russian. But in the latter case one cannot make an exact comparison because the later two languages have extensive rules of the formation of the new stems by the use of suffixes and root concatenation, which produces astronomical numbers of possible combinations most of which are meaningless or hardly useful. 

For my studies of Proto-Indo-European I always use Russian speech synthesizer. It is not perfect: Russian lacks some phones that were in PIE, also it pronounces unstressed o as a (following the Moscow dialect) and sometimes places stress wrongly. Yet in most cases I can get what I actually wrote: cleu̯os ndhghu̯itom qu̯oteros pa̯tēr 

Is Japanese "subaru" related to Russian "soberu" ("I'll put together") and Latin "conferre" ("to bring together")? I think both Latin and Russian words derive from Proto-Indo-European "com bheroa̯" "I am putting together". 

One theory is that it was a labialized sound [xʷ] similar to [kʷ]. Weill would you call [kʷ] a voiced sound? I think, no because such compound sounds are usually assigned voicity according the first component. 

This is normal consonant, as you mentioned, it is the voiced version of "ch". Besides voicity it (like "ch") can exist in soft and hard variants. For hard version of it Serbian and Macedonian use Џ џ letter, Tajik uses Ҷ ҷ letter, Azeri Cyrillic uses Ҹ ҹ (Azeri Latin uses "c" in some positions), Khakassian uses Ӌ ӌ, Gagauz and Moldovan (Romanian Cyrillic) use Ӂ ӂ, Udmurt uses Ӝ ӝ, Kalmyk and Turkmen use Җ җ. For soft version of it, Serbian uses Ђ ђ (Đ đ in Serbo-Croatian Latin), Altai uses Ҹ ҹ, Tatar uses Җ җ, Macedonian uses Ѓ ѓ (in Macedonian it is an allophone of another consonant though) 

In Russian there are adverbs дома and домой similar to English adverb "home" (as in go home, at home) Я дома = I am at home (adverb) Я в доме = I am in the house (noun) Я иду домой = I am going home (adverb) Я иду в дом = I am going into the house (noun) 

This is because they are not minimal pairs. They differ in a consonant. The "бить" has soft б while "быть" has hard б. 

I am a native Russian speaker. When I am listening to songs and music in other languages, which I do not know, such as Italian, Romanian, Greek, Bulgarian, and even Japanese, Finnish, Kyrgyz and Hebrew, I usually can write what I hear with Russian letters (with possibly adding 1 to 3 additional characters for sounds not present in Russian). But that is not the case with English. When listening to English songs I can barely understand anything even though I can write and read in English well. Even more, I cannot even write down what I hear, I do not recognize usual vowels and consonants, as if they were singing with extraterrestrial non-human sounds or if it was just a noise rather than human speech. Is English so special in terms of phonology? Notice that this is not a question about spelling, English spelling is another big story. 

Indo-European languages are more closely related to Altaic (including Turkic, Mongolic, Japanese, Korean), Eskimo-Aleut, Chukotko-Kamchatkan than Semitic. The most of speakers of those language families belong to Mongoloid race. It is thus difficult to infer any relation between race and language based on this fact. On the other hand, the speakers of, say, Chinese while belonging to Mongoloid race, speak a language which is much further from Indo-European than Semitic. While we can more or less reliably speculate that the speakers of Proto-Indo-European were Europeoid, we cannot do any conclusions of similar reliability about Eurasiatic or Nostratic. 

English is unique for its "hieroglyphic reading" feature. All other languages either use ideograms (hieroglyphs) for writing or use alphabetic/syllabary spelling that can be read following certain rules. English is unique in that while it uses usual letters, it has no general reading rules that could lead a reader to unambiguous pronunciation. A reader of English reads not single letters or syllables, but the whole words at once: to learn reading in English one has to remember the reading and spelling of the whole words. In this quality English is close to hyerogliphic languages where the reader or writer has to remember pictures for the whole words. Although words in English are formally composed of letters, they do not play a similar role as in other languages, rather they are used as parts of a word's picture which should be remembered as a whole. 

In Afro-Asiatic we have the feminine ending -a which has the following evolution history: -a < -aha < -at < et where ha is aleph In IE (for instance, in Russian, Greek, Latin) we also have the feminine ending -a which has the following history (classically): -a < aha < eha where ha is the a-coloring laryngeal. Can we by analogy suppose that ha < t? This gives a number of analogies between other PIE words: haeuhaos <-> teutos (both "grandfather") (also haetos is reconstructed for "father" in PIE -> Russian otets) (compare Proto-Afro-Asiatic haabbaha "father" here) haequ- <-> tequ- (both "flowing water") haecsom <-> tecsom (both "axe") haecmon "stone" <-> tecsōn "builder" haeĝos <-> teĝos (both "leader") haersos <-> tersos (both "dry, e.g., land") (compare also Greek χερσος, "dry land") How can it be explained? 

No, egg comes from something like PIE a̯ōu̯iom "egg" (some speculate, from the word for bird). The eye comes from PIE o̯oq̆u "eye". 

These words may be related. The Latin word comes from Proto-Indo-European solu̯os "healthy, whole". It is hypotized to derive from Proto-Eurasiatic calom "to suffice, be full" which also gave reflexes in other Eurasiatic languages such as Eskimo-Aleut ciɫǝ-m, Altaic čā́lo, Uralic cilä, Dravidian sāl- The Arabic salaam and Hebrew šalom both derive from Proto-Semitic šǝlǝm "healthy, whole", which in turn derives from Proto-Afro-Asiatic s/cǝlǝm "healthy, whole". Since both Eurasiatic and Afro-Asiatic belong to Nostratic (and considered quite close to each other), it is reasonable to suppose they are related. Notice also Proto-Sino-Caucasian ʒó̆ɫǝ "healthy, whole" (example from Lak language: cullu-s:a "whole, healthy, undamaged") with Proto-Sino-Caucasian groupped as sister family to Nostratic into Borean.