It's not torture until it's very painful (causes death) or causes injury to internal organs. By using this logic the supporters of torture want to give a greater area of freedom to torture. It's okay because it it is for a greater good and saves more lives in the long run by extracting crucial information. (Logical). 

To clarify- this was cited not as the sole research that says torture is ineffective. It is simply the "backstory" that the counterview can effectively counter: 

-from wikipedia When looking at human settlement of the Pacific, anthropologists divide the Pacific into two regions: Near Oceania, which was settled by humans by 30,000 BP. Remote Oceania, which was not settled until around 3000 BP. ~~~~ 

Although the wikipedia article notes that a major cause of the rebellion was an agrarian crisis, note that famine is often caused due to factors other than agricultural production alone. Often bad distribution, heavy taxes and low market prices for agricultural produce cause famine. While it may look like agricultural technology was in its infancy then, remember that (parts of) China was one of the earliest agricultural centers. Geography and climate combined to create conditions for the agricultural revolution in China. And there were comparatively great advances made specifically in the period (Around 220 B.C to 200 C.E.) Background From Neo-lithic age: Current research states that there were six more or less well-attested centers of origin for the Neolithic agricultural revolution. One of these is the Chinese Center, which was first constructed in northern China 8500 years ago on the loess terraces of the middle Yellow River, then was completed by expanding toward the northeast and southeast between 8000 and 6000 years before the present. 

Compte de Mirabeau was an opinion leader at the time and a great oratory. This other archive suggests Regnault was the MP of Nantes. (I'm suspicious that Regnault was the painter that lived at the time, because the latter was born and seems to have worked in Paris.) I've honestly no idea if the rule is peculiar to France. But the French exported a lot of French ideas and ideals during the Revolutionary Wars, including e.g. its (then future) Civil Code in Malta, so it's at least plausible that you might find the same tie breaking rule in other European countries. I would also point out, as noted in the Le Parisian article from my first comment, that the tie breaking rule doesn't apply to all elections. In particular it does not apply to the French presidential election, where the tie breaking mechanism is undefined. Were it to occur in practice, France's Constitutional Council would be called in to decide what to do, with two likely outcomes according to a jurist it's citing: recount with a more stringent eye to eliminate even more invalid votes (if memory serves, anything that gets in the way of a vote's legibility makes it invalid, but there presumably is some tolerance in practice to accommodate for e.g. dirty fingers or your kid playing with a pen while you're voting) or a straight up rerun of the election's round. As to why that difference even within the country, it might be because direct universal suffrage for the president wasn't (re-)introduced until 1962 through a referendum, and the electoral college that it replaced didn't have or need such conflict resolutions. The electoral college's electoral process was, I would imagine, have been part of the Constitution from the 5th Republic, which had been written from the ground up by Debré, de Gaulle, et al., or been outlined while creating the 3rd Republic (which intended to explicitly get rid of direct universal suffrage, to avoid another Napoleon III). In contrast, the various levels of local elections that got introduced in France occurred through parliament, where the modus operandi would likely have been to copy/paste the language in existing electoral rules as a starting point and then edit. But, again, this is merely a hunch - it would need further research to confirm. 

This gives an idea of the kind of beverages prepared. Here is a news report about an ancient alcohol recipe. See also the Wikipedia entry on alcohol in ancient India. 

So definite methods existed, which means that a "science", however ill-formed, was developing. In fact, the later methods of the US and other countries in what was termed Enhanced interrogation techniques seem to be an extension of these methods. Some of these "refined" methods were developed by French collaborator, Frederic Martin, known as Rudy de Mérode, and Georges Delfane, alias Masuy, whose offices were at 101 avenue Henri Martin. He is reputed to have invented the torture of the bathtub. (Later developed further by the US). 

If we accept mythological and "divine" figures as having "divinity" or being "sacred", here is a short list from the Hindu pantheon, and by no means exhaustive: Ila: Is both sexes, changing sex seasonally. Married to Budh or Mercury-God (planet Mercury). Goes through many transformations. 

Well at least there is social commentary in the form of cartoons. St. Louis Post-Dispatch cartoonist Bill Mauldin drew a cartoon of a dog with its own personal fallout shelter, which was widely reprinted. 

Arjuna: The hero of Mahabharata also changes gender. Urvashi cursed Arjuna when he refused her advances, that he would become a "kliba", or of third gender. Arjuna used this as a disguise during his last year of exile, taking the name Brihannala and living as a woman. Vishnu: Changes gender and becomes "Mohini" (the enchantress) to trick the demons into giving up "Amrita" the nectar of immortality. Vishnu as Mohini became pregnant from Shiva, and gave birth to Ayyappa. 

Edit 2: If symbols and punches count as a means of communicating a coin's denomination, then this article by Koray Konuk, which was published in the Oxford Handbook of Greek and Roman coinage, would suggest that Lydian coins (i.e. the very first coins to ever use gold and silver according to Herodotus), which were minted circa 700 BCE to 550 BCE, had a methodology to denote what they were worth: 

Put another way, even though the phenomena wasn't properly described and understood until much later, the magnifying property of lenses was known as far back as antiquity. What more, it was described as early as Seneca as a potential reading aid. The source cited is: 

Some counts are off because I didn't bother dropping a day when a session ended on the same day as the next one began - but it's no big deal to see trends. The sheet also breaks down whether Congress was in session during spring, summer, autumn, or winter. (But unfortunately not how many days.) Anyway, a few patterns emerge: 

As to why none of these went down in history as world war one, I believe Tom's and Korvin's answers sum it up: 

Cursory googling suggests the superstitions date back to Hindu beliefs and Aztec times, so tracing the superstitions' exact origins and their precise explanations may prove very hard or impossible. That said, their explanations probably are related to this: 

Another important choice was in the the routes used by the merchants, which were selected according to the political stability of the regional power. Centralized states, confederations and regional powers promoted trade and diplomacy. They invested in communications and economic infrastructure such as secure roads, water depots, inns, reliable coinage, standard weights and measures. They imposed taxes on travelers and traders. The merchants found it wiser and safer to pay the controlling authorities for safe passage than to risk encounters with bandits. 

Some of the oldest known languages in the Indian Subcontinent were Pali, Sanskrit, Brahmi, Prakrit. Prakrit definitely predates Sanskrit, but Sanskrit was popularized as a "marga" or "higher" language by the monarchs at a certain point after the "Aryan" influence. Several scripts too were known, such as Kharoshti, derived from Aramaic. The Indus Valley "script" has not been deciphered. None of the older languages are in use today. Regional languages as we know them today were later developments- some well into the 11th century CE. These languages were derived from both the Sanskrit as well as Dravidic roots. Tamil, Kannada, Telugu show greater Dravidic roots than say Hindi, Bengali, or Oriya, which show greater Sanskritic influence. Sanskrit, however, is still studied by many for academic and religious reasons. By inference, smaller groups of specialists also study the other archaic languages. But these are not in use even to the extent that Sanskrit is. The division of states on the basis of language is a post-independance phenomenon, and has been cobbled together from many kingdoms, princely states, British Presidencies and other non-linguistic political divisions. While it has been criticized by many as "divisive", others have hailed it as a successful experiment. 

Your source might be referring to the potential link between schizophrenia, or more specifically milder versions of it, and religiosity. Cases of "possession" and "inner voices" attributed to gods and spirits that eventually led to organized religion could indeed have been mild cases of schizophrenia. The theory originates from Paul Radin in the 1930s. Interesting lecture on the topic: Dr. Robert Sapolsky on Biological Underpinnings of Religiosity. He discusses precisely the topic you're wondering about around 12:00. There's also an interesting bit on the link between ritualism and OCD around 30:00. 

The main driver was China's open door policy, which started in 1978. Before that, China had no material commercial relationships with the US. The latter didn't even have diplomatic relationships with mainland China (they treated Taiwan as the legitimate China) until Nixon visited China in 1972. In the mid 1980s private sector began to be a thing again in some areas, and things quickly picked up from there - it naturally helped that the US was the world's largest consumer market and that China had a cheap workforce. Per the comments to your question there was already a trend to manufacture toys in Asia in the 60s and 70s, but the real inflection point occurred when production moved from Hong Kong (and Taiwan) to - much cheaper - China in the late 1980s. 

You're looking at this with 21st century eyes. Back then, pillaging and looting were part of war. It was customary to let your troops plunder for a few days (typically three) after winning a siege - doing so basically was how you'd pay your troops. A few examples of atrocities that shocked by the standards of the time: 

However, only much later did "confession models" come to be studied, as psychoanalysis came into play. These included : 

(From Wikipedia.) So what you are referring to in 1990 is the "modern" Mongolia. And the banks of modern state of Mongolia would be from 1990 onwards logically. But coins have been issued by the "Mongolian People's Republic" since at least 1925. Example: KM#1, 9, 21 and 27 as per Catalogue each of denomination 1 MONGO and KM#2, 10 and 16 of denomination 2 MONGO. "State" (modern) Decimal Coinage seems to start from 1994 with KM#122 of denomination 20 TUGRIK. This seems to correspond with the idea of the new state and its Banks starting off around 1990. Note that I referred to the 2008 catalogue rather than the 2015 linked above. 

The above is quoted from here. Alcoholic beverages have been mentioned in ancient texts. The Ramayana, Mahabharata, Puranas and Vedas mention alcohol. See this for references to texts. An old book written around 1922 also gives descriptions from the Vedic/Puranic literature. In fact, one study by F. R. Allchin suggests that India may be the original home of alcohol distillation. Also take a look at the history of inebriation in India, specifically the section "Intoxicating Drinks and Drunkards in Ancient Indian Art". 

The cause of the Kargil war is deeply entrenched in politics, and a long history of conflict and competition between two countries. The full depth of the rivalry is well outside the scope of an answer here. But what must be categorically stated is that contrary to the claim above, religion has nothing to do with it. Post-Kargil, a research was conducted within the International Security and Defense Policy Center (ISDPC) of RAND’s National Security Research Division (NSRD). NSRD conducts research and analysis for the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Joint Staff, the Unified Commands, the defense agencies, the Department of the Navy, the U.S. intelligence community, allied foreign governments, and foundations. The purpose of the research was specifically to understand how India and Pakistan viewed the significance of the Kargil conflict, what lessons they drew from this conflict, and the implications of those lessons for future stability in South Asia. This was subsequently published as a book: . Their report states: 

The Kingdom of Egypt in Cleopatra's time was not like Ancient Egypt. It was then the Kingdom of Ptolemy - one of a various Hellenistic kingdoms created when when Alexander the Great died. It had a blend of Greek and ancient Egyptian cultures. The dominant elites were Greek. 

Siberia was colonized earlier than the 18/19th centuries. There actually were a few challenges by great powers to Russia's colonial empire as it expanded and later: from China to some extent early on, if one is willing to count the latter as a great power in the 16-18th centuries, and later from Great Britain and Japan in the 19th century. Russia conquered Siberia during a period when the western great powers were busy colonizing more accessible areas of the world, such as America, the Spice Islands, and India - i.e. places with trade goods that were arguably more desirable than fur (and even North America had its fair share of the latter). China was Russia's most direct - and only, really - challenger in the area until the 19th century, resulting in a number of territorial wars as Russia progressed eastwards. By the time Russia had settled its way to the Pacific, challenging its hegemony wasn't so much about the Siberian region itself (which is landlocked for all practical purposes) as it was about containment and settling durable borders. British rivalry with Russia reached its climax in the 19th century, particularly in Central Asia. Russia wanted warm water ports in the India Ocean. Great Britain feared that this might open an invasion route to India. Russia further feared British commercial and military incursions in Central Asia. The whole region was an arena of tension then. The two fought a number of land grab related wars in the area - though not between themselves - until borders settled in the late 19th century. This rivalry had consequences on the far eastern front, too. Russia sold Alaska to the US in the aftermath of the Crimean War. The Russian fear at the time was that they'd lose the territory to the British without compensation should another war break out between the two. Better Alaska in US hands, the thinking went, because the US wasn't much of a British friend then. The eastern frontier then became the main theater of tensions: rivalry with Japan over the two empires' ambitions in Manchuria and Korea started at around the same time as things calmed down in Central Asia. The two empires' relationships went from mostly friendly to hostile when Russia opted to support China in the aftermath of the first Sino-Japanese war. The Russo-Japanese War erupted a decade later, ultimately forcing Russia to abandon its expansionist policies there.