absolutely. The mass of the planet (and it's density) determines the size of it's Roche limit, which defines how far the ring system can extend. As pointed out above, planets can have rings beyond the Roche limit but only faint ones. Dense/Thick rings only form inside the Roche Limit and the more massive the planet, the larger the Roche Limit. 

So, I'd chalk this one up to timing. January-April 2005, life on Titan was a viable theory, which has since been de-theoried, or, whatever the correct term is. 

The speed of the collision changes everything. The formation of comets and asteroids is likely to take place the circumstellar disk of matter, perhaps even before the fist plant's formed. As the disk flattens and elliptical orbits tend to lose eccentricity by collision. Low velocity impacts between objects are more common. Protoplanetary disks are made up of rocks and ices. It's sometimes said that they are made of gas too but that's not very accurate because Gas is high velocity even in low temperature and it doesn't stick around very well. Ice, however, tends to be sticky and sticky is good. These swirling disks are also charged because much in space is charge and there's the solar magnetic field which may play a role in formation. Once a certain size is reached, gravity takes over, but before then, the formation of objects like asteroids isn't well understood. As larger planets form, however, the opposite tends to happen. Large planets can fling material into more eccentric orbits and impact velocity tends to increase again as the disk forms into planets. The collision of two asteroids in space is likely to result in two smaller objects and some scattered debris. A head-on collision can turn both into tiny pieces depending on the velocity. A more common glancing blow would probably still leave two objects intact with some lost material. It's likely that in the solar-system's circumstellar disk, 100 meter and 1 km objects were formed by low velocity collisions, assisted by electrical stickiness. 

As an FYI, Mercury's orbit doesn't neatly follow Newton's orbital laws either due to relativity and that was quite the puzzle to scientists for decades. The non Newtonian gravity accentuates Mercury's Spirograph orbit, pictured above but I used it, cause it gives a good example of a 2 body orbit over multiple orbits compared to our moon's jiggled orbit due to influence of a 3rd body (the sun). The point of all of this, is that elliptical orbits, (for the most part), are just as mathematically stable as theoretically/mathematically circular ones. Elliptical orbits aren't unstable nor are they an example of an orbit becoming unstable, they are stable, or at least, not unstable because they are elliptical. Some orbits are long term stable others are not, but the eccentricity isn't really a measuring stick for instability. The stable region of the hill sphere is a far better measuring stick. Both the orbits below, provided they are inside the stable region of the hill sphere, would be equally stable. 

Explanation (scroll down to giant impact) It's thought that Binary asteroids sometimes called double asteroids or asteroids with a moon are relatively common, and may be the result of impacts, but there in lies one problem. A 2,000 year old impact might just look like a binary asteroid. It wouldn't be possible to discern the date of the impact just by telescope and orbital tracking, but statistically a 2,000 year old impact would be abnormally young. Finally, the largest, highest speed collisions, the two objects would just blow their debris apart - and there would basically be nothing to detect 2,000 years later. Debris from a collision would either coalesce back into an asteroid or binary asteroid by gravity or simply drift apart. In either case, evidence of a collision wouldn't be obvious outside of some hands on analysis of glassy compounds formed by impact or other chemical studies, but we'd actually have to get the debris into a lab to study it that closely. By telescope, there would no evidence of such a collision and debris cloud after 2,000 years. Any debris from the cloud would look just like all the other space dust with nothing distinguishable about it at least by telescope. The other problem with finding a theoretical impact that you're looking for is that you can't limit it to near earth asteroids. Any comet or longer period asteroid that crosses the Earth could have had such an impact and any evidence of that comet being impacted would have left with the comet as it flew past the outer planets long ago, perhaps changing it's trajectory so it's no longer an earth crosser. The number of objects to look for grows enormously when you consider that one of the objects could have come from much further out. A third problem with your theory is that such an impact, close enough to cause visible shade would very likely shower the Earth with debris and that would have been noted in the history books as well as a meteor shower like none before or since. A long or medium period comet being struck by an asteroid might be a better explanation as the icy body being impacted would create a dirty gas cloud of some size while reducing debris impact on Earth as much of the ices would melt into gases and disburse under the sun's rays. That would decrease the showered by meteors problem, but make finding the impacted object even harder. Your space impact idea is a clever attempt to explain crucifixion darkness, but astronomically speaking, hugely improbable. And the answer to your question is that evidence, if such an event did happen, would be very hard to detect, and with current technology, probably impossible. Good question though. Another way to think about evidence is that, when a collision happens on a planet, the planet's surface is relatively static and the record is preserved. Obviously there's some weathering but information can be deduced by impacts that are hundreds of millions of years old. In space, in the solar system, everything moves. Things fly apart from each other while orbiting the sun. A two thousand year old collision in space, even a large one, might leave no detectable record after 2,000 years, or if one object survived it could be virtually anywhere in the solar-system 2,000 years later. Hope that helps. 

Currently Earth is in a relatively flat period in Northern Hemisphere Summer TSI. Over the last 10,000 years or so, the Orbital changes have actually been cooling the Earth and beginning in the next couple thousand there will be a slight warming trend. Orbital changes are not currently warming the Earth, they should, very slightly, have a cooling effect. You can see a nice display of the warming followed by cooling of the Earth in this chart here. While it's got some cartoonist comments, it's actually a very good and science supported chart. And borrowing the chart from the other answer, 

One of the interesting historical facts of life on Earth, at least to me, is how long it took what we might consider advanced life to develop. One celled life in various forms was around for over 3 billion years but the first fossils are about 650 million years old. It took life a very long time on earth to get from too small to see to large enough to leave a footprint . . . but, I digress. I agree 100%, one celled life or Tardegrades could live on a planet with no tilt or 90 degree tilt. Easy. Ocean life in general should be fine cause oceans are more adaptive. Evaporation keeps ocean surfaces colder than land gets during peak heat and while a completely frozen over ocean isn't great for life, cold oceans hold more oxygen and CO2 which can be good for life. Oceans also circulate as an effective means of temperature moderation and fish don't really care how windy it is or how much or little it rains. The tilt question, I think, is really just about life on land. Land life could be more vulnerable to high wind, extreme temperature shifts, droughts or floods, which could be driven by greater axial tilt, but I find it hard to believe that Axial Tilt is the be-all and end all. Day length and year length are key factors too. One point I agree with the article on, is that a close to 90 degree tilt might not be ideal with one part of the planet always facing the sun and the other part never facing it but outside of extreme tilts, I don't see why it would be a big deal. A thick cloud cover, for example, reduces seasonal changes. There's a number of factors. 

Well, I didn't vote you down but it's a strange question in that there are some uncertainties, but it's also not hard to do the math. For example, which Galaxy? - they vary quite a bit, and from what angle? 10,000 light years from the side or from the "top" for lack of a better word, above the brighter galactic core or 10,000 light years from the tip of a spiral arm? Andromeda is 10 times brighter than the Milky way, and galaxies get a good deal larger than Andromeda and a good deal smaller than the Milky way. But, the short answer to your question is, from 10,000 light years, a galaxy wouldn't appear that bright . . . er, mostly but it would appear quite large. We can see the Milky way as kind of a white smudge across the southern hemisphere, but much of that bright smudge that we see is stars that are closer than 10,000 light years, so that's not really apples to apples, as much of that smudge is alot closer to us than your example. Lets take our sun, from 10,000 light years away, lets, just for fun, say you had 10 billion of our suns, each 10,000 light years away. 10 billion suns is a lot, but light decreases by the square of the distance and there's 63,000 AUs in a light year so each sun at that distance would be 1/(397 million billion) less bright than the sun is from the earth. 10 billion of them, it's still 1/40 million times less bright than the sun is form the earth, roughly 1/100th the brightness of the full moon - that's what 10 billion of our suns would look like from that distance. All together, that's still 10 times brighter than Venus, so if they were close together they'd shine clear as day, but spread out, like a galaxy would be at 10,000 light years away - not so much. Now a galaxy is more complicated cause some of the stars light would be blocked by dust and some stars would be much brighter than the sun, others much dimmer and a single supernova can outshine an entire galaxy for a couple of weeks. There's no precise answer, but in general, a galaxy would look very large but not very bright from 10,000 light years away. Another, and perhaps better way to look at this is to take a look at Andromeda, which is about 10 times the brightness of the Milky way and we have a pretty clear view of it, but it's also about 2.5 million light years away from us. If it was, in your scenario, 250 times closer it would be 62,500 times brighter and much larger. It would spread out over most of the sky, though, like the Milky way, we'd see a smudge of brightness, or we might be able to make out the spiral arms depending on the angle. Andromeda's apparent brightness or apparent magnitude is 3.4, and each number in the brightness scale is 2.5 times brighter, so 62,500 times as bright, would be between 12 and 12.1 scales brighter, or -8.6 to -8.7, which for an object in the sky, is fairly bright, (yeah, negative numbers = brighter), but it's still quite a bit less bright than the full moon, and at the same time, spread out over a much larger area - so, if Andromeda was that close, the galactic center would probably be a fair bit more visible than Venus, brighter in total but also more spread out, and much less bright than the full moon. Short answer - the photos are probably brighter by a healthy amount. Here's a very cool and loosely related article. $URL$