Much easier to wear cycling-specific clothing and just carry a change of clothes/shoes with you in a waterproof bag/pannier or leave some at work. Anything more than fenders and flaps is going to be a hassle to deal with. 

There is a lot of variation across models of saddles even if you stay within one genre (eg only consider road or only consider MTB). However, you'll find if you look at popular racing saddles that MTB saddles tend to be shorter. This is because in singletrack you're very frequently moving onto and off-of the saddle. A longer saddle might interfere with the "body-english" that some MTB riders use. That said, if a saddle fits, it fits. That is the most important criteria. Everything else is a distant secondary consideration. 

Aluminum is the worst culprit for fatigue cracks. Aluminum seatposts and steerer tubes also have a tendency to develop aluminum oxide blooms that may permanently jam the seatube/steerer-tube in the frame. Carbon typically won't survive a bad-enough crash. I've heard of long-term delamination issues, but never saw one personally. AFAIK every carbon frame "dies" in a crash or mishap that damages the frame to the point where the owner no longer trusts it. Anyone have stories about what happens to carbon that is not crashed? For a concrete example, below is my own failure from a few years ago. It happened as I was cresting a very steep hill. I heard a loud "pop" and didn't realize what happened until I looked around and saw the chainstay separate from the dropout with each pedal stroke. This is a steel bike and was totally repairable, BTW. I didn't crash as a result (but neither was I going fast). Note the little bit of rust visible at the top of the crack. It indicates that the crack had been there for some time before the total failure. 

If there is an aerodynamic difference, it is so small it is utterly unnoticeable in practice. In a paceline, the resistance experienced by the front rider is overwhelmingly dominated by slicing through the air in front of him. Perhaps you're thinking of a velodrome race? What often happens is that the second rider will pass around the outside by quickly blowing-up all the energy he's saved by being behind the first guy. In the last lap of the race, the only way the front guy can respond is by speeding up and keeping the passer from getting in front before the last turn. This way the front guy can hang the passer "out to dry" on the turn forcing him to not only to keep up the acceleration but to travel a longer distance around the outside of turn. That kind of race situation might lead someone to believe that the front rider gains some kind of an advantage when the second guy jumps. It is an illusion. The front guy has to "work for it" all the way. 

Powder coating, done right, is quite durable. I have had it done on an old steel frame a few years ago and have been happy with the result. The more expensive alternative is regular paint. As far as vehicle owners go, you can't find ones that are more vain than motorcycle riders. These people often get paint or powder coat jobs done. The good news for us is that that means there's always a nearby facility that can handle bike frames. Bicycles are just like motorcycle frames except more simple. So, look for places that handle motorcycles and you then know they can do bikes too. What you need to do first is to take off all parts from the frame including the bearing race on the fork (will require a bike shop or very special tool). The shop will then be able to blast the old paint/coat off your frame, clean it with a solvent and apply a base coat and paint or powder coat. If the shop has done motorcycle frames, they will know what to do with holes and threads and know which areas should be free of paint. 

Your caliper should stay reasonably well-centered. Are you certain that all the nuts and washers are in place to allow you to adjust the position of the brake with a thin brake wrench and then tighten the the other two nuts to keep everything in place? Other than that, a track fork really isn't designed for a brake. Yes, there is a hole in there for that but it is more of an afterthought than a critical design feature. One can't expect any caliper to fit. I would consider the following in this order: 

Also, on a fixed gear, the length of your crank could be important : If you're taking a tight corner, you might lean over far enough that the bottom of the crank scrapes the road as the pedal turns, which can lead to a wreck. You can get a crankset that has shorter arms to avoid this, though if you're not into tight cornering it might not be a problem. It's something to be aware of though, since you never really know when you might need to pull an emergency maneuver. Other stuff Once you've gotten the rear wheel and drivetrain set up, you're technically good to go. You can opt to switch many other things on your bike, but chances are that it already has a seat, headset, fork, handlebars, etc. 

I've noticed that getting repeat punctures can simply be a sign that your tires are past their useful lifespan. I went on a long tour and had no flats for weeks on end, but then once my touring tires passed the 2000 mile mark, I got two flats in two days. I replaced my tires and had no flats again for weeks on end, and again when the tires passed the 2000 mile mark I got a couple flats in as many days. My story is only a couple of data points, but there does seem to be some consensus that tires simply wear out after a fixed distance -- though that distance depends on make, air pressure, rider weight, etc., see here and here. 

Fantastic ! Building a fixed gear conversion is a lot of fun. tommy_o gives a great list of all the parts that go on a conversion, but when I try to imagine what it's like to have an old bike that you want to hack on, I think it's helpful to imagine what you'll have to change about your bike, so I'll give that a shot. As long as the existing bike is in decent shape, you actually have a lot of freedom in deciding whether to get new parts or reuse existing ones. At a minimum, though, you'll need a new rear wheel, and then from there it gets more and more up to you. Wheel You can either buy a wheel, or build one yourself. I've found that buying is actually cheaper, but I think it's a good exercise to build at least one yourself to see how it's done. Either way, like tommy_o mentioned, you'll need to pay attention to the size of the rim that you want to get. If your bike has 27" wheels and you decide to get a 700c rear replacement, then you'll need to be ok with having different size wheels, or you'll also need to get a new front wheel. If you decide to build, you'll need to buy : 

You'll also need a spoke wrench, but that's a good tool to have around anyway. I highly recommend reading a copy of The Bicycle Wheel by Jobst Brandt. The obligatory Sheldon Brown link is also in this section, because his description of wheelbuilding is a great read. Hub For the hub, there are indeed different sizes, both in terms of axle length and flange size. However, for the axle length, there are really only a few different standard sizes, so you should be good to go with a road hub. For the flange (which only matters if you're building a wheel), pretty much anything will do, but the flange will have a significant impact on the length of the spokes that you'll need. I always take my rim and hub to my local bike shop and get the folks there to cut spokes for me, since it seems like some sort of black magic. Drivetrain Once you've got a new rear wheel, you need to connect it to the pedals. At a minimum this means you need a cog on the rear wheel (typically hubs do not come with cogs), but depending on what size you get, and personal preference regarding the chainring, you might also need a new chain and chainring. Cog You'll definitely need a cog, the gear that goes on the rear wheel. You should also get a lockring. Getting the cog is actually a little tricky, because it turns out there are two different widths of bicycle cogs, and they are not interchangeable. (There are actually two different widths of bicycle chain, but the chain, chainring, and cog all need to work together.) The wider setup, usually seen on track bikes, is 1/8", and the narrower one is 3/32". Here you'll need to decide if you want to stick with the 3/32" setup that's already on your bike, or move to the 1/8" ; again, mostly this has to do with personal preference, but be aware that whatever you pick will affect your options for the other items. If you get a flip-flop hub, you should probably get a freewheel cog as well as a standard thread-on one. Typically the freewheel cog has a higher tooth count than the fixed one, since you won't need to pedal like a rabid gopher while you're coasting downhill on your freewheel side. Chain You'll definitely need a new chain if you go with a 1/8" drivetrain. Sometimes it's a good idea just to get a new chain, even if you're sticking with the existing sizes. New chains are really nice. Chainring and crank There'll already be a crankset on your existing bike, which can probably be used just fine for a conversion (provided it works with the chain/cog). There are a couple things to think about it however : 

The first thing you should be looking into is gearing to ensure that an internally geared hub will work for you! The more you pay, the more gear range you get out of a hub, but even the nicest internally geared hubs don't match the spread of standard mountain bike gearing. If you've decided that an Alfine 11 hub is for you then to answer your questions in order: -the axle size shouldn't be an issue. -the hub spacing is 135mm. That's mountain bike spacing typically. Apparently it can be adapted down to 130mm but I'm not going to detail how to do that here -sell it/keep it/ use it as a paperweight -The hub will have a dedicated shifter. I seem to remember that there are both trigger and grip shift options. Should fit without issue, though you'll probably have to take your grips/bar tape off. -Yes, unless you have an incredibly nice rim with the proper drilling that you want to re-use. You will also need a chain tensioner if your bike does not have horizontal/track-style dropouts, which I doubt it does. I believe there's one that goes along with the Alfine that Shimano sells as an accessory, though I don't think you have to have that particular one. 

Yes, it's true that just like most things crankarms will have a fatigue life, but it should be a very, very long life that extends well beyond the factory warranty period. As pointed out by mikes in his comment it is worth checking for recalls on your model and batch of cranks. 

There's a lot more movement of your body on and over the bike on a trail than on the road. The more technical the trail, the more this is true. The "lean the bike, not the body" advice is a good rule of thumb, but it is not a one size fits all solution for mountain biking. There are so many different types of turns in mountain biking- fast, slow, bermed, off-camber, uphill, downhill, steep, flat, loose, rocky hardpacked, etc, and nearly infinite combinations of each. Many categories of turns deserve their own questions for cornering technique. 

Keep riding. It will take a little while to come back, but it will come back. Just don't push yourself too hard, as you will be tense and stiff and those things can lead to another accident. For all practical purposes your skill limit has decreased, so riding at your old limit is riding beyond your limit until you get past the mental block caused by the crash. Try to analyze what happened in the crash and learn from it. Were you riding too fast for the trail or your skill level? Did you pick a bad line? Did you use your front brake at the wrong time? Replay it in slow motion in your head. Pick it apart and learn from the mistake. If you can find what the limiting factor was that caused the crash you can become a better rider because of it. Once again, just take your time and ease your way back into riding at the level you were at prior to the crash. Eventually the fear will dissipate, and if you've learned from the incident you will be a more skillful rider than you were before. 

Short answer is get used to it. The clicking of freehubs/freewheels is like a fine wine- it's an acquired taste. That said, the drier the hub is of lubricant, the louder it will become. You can squirt some grease in there to quieten the freewheel down if it's getting dry. The heavier the grease, the quieter it will make the clicking. Some freehubs actually require a very light grease due to the low spring tension acting against the pawls; too heavy of a grease will actually stop them from catching when you pedal forward. However, I'm not aware of a freewheel with this problem. I'm sure some brands of freewheels are quieter than others, but I can't make any suggestions for you in that department. Finally, it's important to note that freehubs and freewheels are two different creatures, which is why I edited your original question slightly. Explaining the differences is a fairly easy but different conversation.