French artillery was apparently standardized under the De Vallière system since the 1730s, so one can reasonably assume that "small artillery piece" would refer to a 4 pound or 8 pound (weight of the cannonball) gun. Following Wikipedia further this is confirmed in the main article on the storming of the bastille: 

Yes, but this was a rare exception rather than a rule. The Roman aqueduct-bridge of Pont d'Ael (which not only allowed water to cross, but also people) was funded privately by Caius Avillius Caimus. He charged a toll for everyone who wanted to cross the bridge (so admittedly the profit did not come from the aqueduct bit, at least as far as I know). I visited the site some three year ago while it was in the middle of the reconstruction work and the archaeologist supervising the work was kind enough to show us around; she actually claimed that this was the only privately funded aqueduct known. 

Historians interpolate meaning from multiple conflicting textual sources in the documentary record of the past. This is the natural behaviour of the historian. Between a newspaper article on Thursday and one of Friday the historian must simulate the occurrences of the intervening day, and then imagine that totality of "Thursday" and how it would impact on Friday's news. This is true even with the most comprehensive, diverse and complete documentary record. Historians produce an imaginary interior built out of multiple sources and perspectives. When an interpretation is no longer solid "A clown invasion made the Jury declare Guilty." this tends to become obvious, as the interpretation becomes tendentious, rests on fewer text points or more obscure interpretations, and also "just doesn't make sense" from the perspective of other historians simulated imaginary. Historians, therefore, tell rhetorical stories to try to make sense of what they imagine based on what they read. The important thing about history is: they try to make the story true to the past as it was, rather than their desires about what the past ought to have been. This governs the rest of the answer. Historians stitch together diverse but inconsistent series by knowing how different sources will talk about a common thread or process. Courts talk about things in one way with one set of limits, starvation chronicles talk about something in another way. If we have a common point where we can see how starvation chronicles talk about something when people are being tried for hoarding, we can stitch the rest of the story together knowing the limitations on the diverse sources. Where a source is consistent but limited, we go to other instances. For example, if the Courts in Scotland rarely encounter women in the middle ages, and the Courts in England rarely encounter women in the middle ages, but in England we have other sources on the history of women; then we use the difference between the Courts' partial reporting on womens' lives and the fuller story in England to hazard an interpretation of the probable limits of Scottish Court sources. Where a series is partial and inconsistent, we try to produce metaphoric accounts from other societies ("theory"), and then apply the theory with intense and incredible scrutiny of individual sources. By more closely reading the limited series, we push the interpretive capacity to the limit to produce what can be gleaned from the sources. When there is less and worse material to read, we read harder. We also start using non-documentary records of the past, such as archaeological, anthropological, literary, religious records. We start to stop being historians, and become interdisciplinary scholars. Where only a singular textual source exists we can only comment on that source. We probably should stop considering this as history, but, occasionally we can uncover a context (say through linguistics) and then relate this source to other sources. Singular sources are a problem of finding their appropriate context. Where textual sources are unreadable (Linear A) we cannot be historians. We must become, perhaps, historical archaeologists, or archaeologists with a historical interest. Where no documentary record of the past exists history is impossible. Other scholars (anthropologists, archaeologists) can provide information about the past. Similarly, it may be possible to interrogate the past through oral records of the past that are actually a documentary record if you think about it without Western bias. In circumstances without a documentary record, sometimes further work on methodology and theory can uncover that "actually yes, there was a documentary record all along but we were too blind to see it." Also, often, in this case historians may be waiting on information professionals to supply a documentary record. Until the "cabinet" papers open, most political history lacks the substantial basis for its understanding. Post-soviet history of the Soviet Union is a wonderful field, as the archives opened. 

Roughly meaning: "Since former citizens of the GDR retain their citizenship they can be forced, if they travel inside the influence sphere of the SED, to re-affirm their GDR-citizenship." (I'm afraid this is not a very inspired tranlation but it conveys the general meaning of the law). (edited to add) "Republikflucht" (escape from the GDR) was a crime punishable by up to eight years in prison, so I do not not think anybody would have considered travel back to the GDR (unless he had planned to voluntarily become a citizen again, in which case he'd probably received amnesty). Funnily enough at that time the first paragraph in the GDR constitution read "Es gibt nur eine deutsche Staatsangehörigkeit", (legally) "there is only one cizitenship for all germans". 

Hitler at the time was a foreigner (he renounced his Austrian citizenship only in 1925, I got that wrong up in my comment). He was not a state employee (not since he had been discharged from the German army in 1920 - he had fought on the German side during WWI). As far as I can tell his only "job" at the time was that of "agitator" in the (then marginal) NSDAP. "His" milita was actually the party militia of the NSDAP. Paramilitary organizations as armed wing of political parties were not uncommon during the Republic of Weimar - the DNVP (German National PeopleParty) had the "Stahlhelm" (an organisation of WWI veterans who acted as a paramilitary strikeforce), the communists had the Frontkämpferbund, the Social Democrats the "Reichsbanner Schwarz Rot Gold". Also there were the "Freikorps", right-wings veteran groups that roamed the streets and picked fights with leftwingers. The "Sturmabteilung" (SA) that fought in the Beer Hall Putsch were "his" (Hitlers) militias in the sense that he was the leader of the movement, not necessarily in the sense that they were his personal employees (although even then he tried to establish the "Führerprinzip" where the party with all its suborganizations merely exist as extension of the power of the Führer). The NSDAP at the time was financed by contribution of their members, and also to some extent by donations from industrials (altough at that time the donations probably were not major and they stopped after the putsch failed). However the SA was not a full time, paid army, those were people with day jobs (if they were lucky, many people were jobless) who fought in their spare time. The SA was in some sense the "socialist" part of the national socialist party, they wanted to fight the "elites" to achieve redistribution of property and power (what Marx would have called "Lumpenproletariat"). Things turned out differently. "Checks and balances" is probably not an appropriate phrase (the thing that is checked and balanced in the sense of the phrase is usually a branch of government, and the putschists were not government). Organizations like the Sturmabteilung were held in check by the police - notice that the putsch failed, several SA members were killed by the police and the NSDAP was banned for two years. However right wingers were treated with some leniency by the authorities, who often viewed democracy as weak and undesirable. So, how did parties (including Hitlers) have private armies in 1923 ? Because, while the state nominally had a monopoly on the use of force, it sometimes incapable and often unwilling to enforce that monopoly. You seem to wonder how this could have been legal, and the answer is that is wasn't. 

Does the study of history produce unique perceptions? Does the study of history involve unique practices or outputs? From the lay persons perspective: 

During the 1940s states became highly interested in "science" and "engineering" and increased funding and regularised both University and Non-University applied research cultures. 

The Nazi Party destroyed the political apparatus of the working class, broke the trade union movement, and handed the economy over to German capitalist monopolies. "Socialism" in the mind of the NSDAP involved either the SA's street fighting fantasy of a German nation recast in the image of the right wing worker; or, the NSDAP's central apparatus' conception of a pliant breeding nation. "Socialism" was for the NSDAP the forced mobilisation of the ethnic nation. Many Germans at the time, particularly right wing Germans, associated these values with a Bismarkian right wing policy that had been called "Socialism," in the sense of state provided goods and services. To take political advantage of this feeling, the NSDAP named itself "National Socialist." The NSDAP did not hope for the abolition of capitalism, nor for workers' control. In addition to this economic position, the NSDAP wished to reunify their imaginary German nation by force; impose a German order on Europe through war; and to eliminate their imaginary racial "other." These combination of policies are considered "right wing." Ordinary socialism, in the sense of workers' control of production, was considered left wing at the time. 

Source The BBC suggests that scurvy has resurfaced in the UK, but does not say if this is infantile scurvy or if there are affected adults. 

The claim is not referenced (unless you count it as a reference that Yul Brynner in a movie based his usage of the phrase on a novel that features the king of Siam, which as a reference is absurd on a number of levels). 

Adding two things to some good points from the other answers: 1) While the Nazis as an organization did horrible things they did not at all encourage individual cruelty as they understood it (i.e. as a Nazi you were supposed to kill Jews as a "necessity" but not supposed to have fun with it). There was a certain fear that exposing the general population to mass murders executed in the streets would corrupt the (alleged) higher morality of the german "Volk" [a]. So the murder of Jews from the area of the "Reich" was relegated to an elite force (which was lauded by Himmler in one of his "Posen speeches" for "having done that [killing the jews] while still remaining decent people"). Note that outside the area of the Reich the Nazis didn't much bother, at least 1,25 mio Jews were rounded up, shot and buried on the spot in the occuppied eastern terriories, and another ca. 400 000 killed in gas wagons [b]. 2) Another important factor was disposal of the bodys. There did not exist any facilities that could have dealt with additional (to natural deaths) millions of bodys. This lead to the constructions of the notorious "ovens" in the annihilation camps. The engineers at the german company Topf und Söhne constructed a crematory that could completely incinerate a human body with as little as four kilograms of fuel (coke). This worked only as long as the bodys where properly stacked and the oven was not allowed to go cold, so an influx of bodys at a predictable rate was needed. So one of the purposes of concentration camps relating to the holocaust was to have a buffer of future victims that could be funneled into the annihilation process according to available capacities for disposal (certainly there were other goals, especially since not everyone who went into a concentration camp was destined to go to a death camp; e.g. the non-jewish inmates would often be places in forced labour camps. For jewish victims forced labour usually meant "Vernichtung durch Arbeit" (annihilation by labour), i.e. they were given jobs that would most certainly kill them). This applied till end of 1943/ beginning 1944 - when the Nazis realized the war effort wasn't going well they decided to kill as many jews as possible before they lost the war, and the destruction process became a lot more haphazardly (i.e. people were shot and burned in masses under the open sky because victims arrived quicker than they could be disposed in the previously employed manner). -- [a] Individual Motivations probably did not always match the ideological framework - for example Eichmann, who for a long time was portrayed as a bureaucratic figure, was later revealed to hold a visceral hatred against jews. [b] Benz, Graml, Weiß (Editors), "Enzyklopädie des Nationalsozialismus" , München 1997, Page 50ff 

These features were not present in a revolutionary form in the Czechoslovak events of 1968. And the Soviet Union was not in a recession or inner party political crisis in 1968 which threatened the possibility of revolutionary change spreading to the Soviet Union itself. Finally, the opposition to the intervention in Czechoslovakia was far less stridently opposed—armed workers didn't have to be bombarded out of their factories, student militia didn't retake Parliament square on the 3rd day of Czechoslovak operations—leading to a far reduced need to find scapegoats in Czechoslovakia. 

Yes. Yes. You want to go to a "review article" on a topic to discover what debates and consensuses have emerged. Like "science," "historiography" is an ongoing process of the application of a method to a wide variety of potential subjects. It is a process more than an outcome. 

During the industrial enclosures period (1750-1832) meats and dairy dropped out of the diet of working people in Britain. This change was regional (oatmeal regions maintained milk consumption, bread regions didn't, Irish migratory labour didn't). What caused this dietary change? Sources: Hammond & Hammond, Labourers series (Village, Town, Skilled). 

The fact that this is on Wikipedia might indicate that this is trivia by the standards of history SE. 

Re "deception was common in the market place" - both the cities and the guilds fiercely controlled the quality of merchandise offered. Since you mentioned bread, punishments for cheating about the weight of bread included having literally to wade through shit in front of the public, or being locked into a cage and being dunked into water while being mocked by the assembled crowd. This does not sound like cheating was considered acceptable. The TV documentation (German) "Ein Tag im Mittelalter" (a day in the middle ages) explains a bit about guild regulations (starting at 34.55). Punishment for the violation of guild rules (which includes deviating from the quality standards set by the "Zünfte", the guilds) is explicitly referred to as "Ehrenstrafen", i.e. "dishonoring punishment". So apart from tangible consequences (which might very well exclude being barred from your profession and/or exile) public humiliation was intended to be a huge part of your punishment. This might indicate that violations were not that rare, but it certainly means they were not considered acceptable. 

It is probably worth supplementing @TomAu's answer with Marx on Value, first three chapters of Volume 1. Somewhat idealist, but it contrasts different uses of money well. Clearly points out that specie is "fiat". Dave Graeber's Debt: The First Five Thousand Years. A more anthropological account, but again, points out the social construction of currency. A big part of this depends on whether you consider "rarity" (labor input production cost) to be a determinate factor in the viability of currency. The search and selection "costs" to an early agricultural or high intensity protein gathering economy of picking out "shells such as this," is a considerable embodiment of social time spent. But at what point is this fully currency, and at what point destructive display of wealth? Time for Graeber's anthropology probably. 

Stalin lacked adequate forces while maintaining other commitments during his life time to do so. While organisation for an offensive was desultory during the 1947-1950 period, from 1950 the Soviet Union decided to reorganise the surrounding state's militaries on a new basis. In the opinion of Tismaneanu, had the Soviet Union bordered Yugoslavia, intervention would have occurred without reference to the disorganisation of the fraternal state's militaries. Therefore, we can conclude that Stalin's death before the fraternal militaries were sufficiently organised is the chief cause of Stalin's lack of use of military force against Titoist Yugoslavia. Sources 

As per Elizabethan Gleanings, by F. W. Maitland in The English Historical Review - Vol. 15, No. 57 (Jan., 1900), pp. 120-124, the suffix "and so forth" (or "&c" respectively) has been first used by Queen Elizabeth I to circumnavigate the difficult question of religious affiliation (emphasis mine): 

Passagierlisten.de is a register of passenger list from the port in Bremen. While it does not have passenger lists from before 1900 (they were lost in WW2) it does feature a list of towns of origin, which amongst all others also includes Margonin. One you know this exists one can simply look in up the Wikipedia entry for Margonin. 

This is not a "retroactive" collection - the mission to collect all published German works actually started in 1913. Even in Nazi Germany a copy of each dissertation would have to be delivered to the Nationalbibliothek, so they should have a fairly complete set. And they have an online catalogue, so you do not have to travel to Berlin (although our fair city is always worth a visit).