I've seen some managers bat their pitchers 8th. Tony LaRussa was one of the more noticeable ones. Is this move statistically sound? Why or why not? Ignore cases like Dontrelle Willis early in his career or Michah Owings, both of whom are good hitters anyway. I'm talking about run-of-the-mill, bad at hitting, pitchers. 

tl;dr - It's not worth it for the Commissioner's Office to battle the MLBPA over it, especially when some of the "injuries" are things like "arm fatigue" or other conditions that can't be accurately measured by a doctor. 

As far as I am aware, there is no provision in the CBA or official rules that allows for a player to be banned from playing a specific position. It's either they are suspended, or they aren't. 

This happens so much that Grey at razzball even has a term for it. The "Disgraceful List." The problem with regulating this is that the MLB is very concerned about protecting their players. If the office of the commissioner incorrectly rejected a DL stint for someone that was actually hurt and the Player's Union could prove that there was indeed an injury, there would be hell to pay. There is no doubt that the disabled list is abused from time to time, but keep in mind that putting a player on the 15-day DL doesn't add an additional spot to the 40 man roster, it only allows for a player on the 40-man roster to be called up to the active 25-man roster. It adds to that player's arbitration/FA clock and uses an option year if they haven't been called up yet. Basically, it benefits both parties, the MLB and the MLBPA to turn a blind eye to players landing on the Disgraceful List. 

The only way to know is to try it when you get fitted. Since there's no technical category of "driving hybrid", I presume you just mean a lower lofted hybrid, such as a 17-18 degree, which is generally considered a "2-hybrid". Note that the 3-hybrid you purchased is intended to REPLACE the 3-iron. The hybrid will be easier to hit, all other things considered, because the head on it is deeper. The question is why don't you use your 5-wood? Hybrids in many cases come full circle and are equivalent to many higher lofted fairway woods. As far as shaft, there is no objective standard for what is "regular", "stiff", etc. Making blanket statements that only pros should use stiff, and ams use regular is nonsense. It also has more to do than with swing speed. My driver SS is only 97-99 mph, but I'm fitted into a stiff because I have a fast transition and load the shaft. 

ALL shafts kick forward at impact due to the conservation of angular momentum. I see no way to quantify "how much" the clubhead speed will be increased because there are too many factors, most of which are player related. In fact, you could have a shaft which is too flexible for your swing, and it would "kick" too early, and the amount of increase could actually be lower than if using a stiffer shaft. The only way to know for sure is to get on a real launch monitor such as TrackMan or FlightScope and have everything measured with different shafts. That's the whole purpose of club fittings. 

Speaking from personal experience (my body has a fairly typical ectomorphic build, and I do reasonably well at the front crawl) I don't think that would be the main issue. I'd even say that tall, slim people's bodies would be more suited to floating / swimming than short or bulky people's bodies. For instance, the theory behind Total Immersion claims that being able to make your body longer improves your streamline, i.e. allows your body to glide through water with less effort. If you have long, slim arms (as is common for ectomorphs), you will be able to reach further ahead, making your body longer. So having an ectomorphic build can actually give you an advantage. True, if you have slim arms and hands, your "paddles" might be smaller, but... 

Total Immersion also states that if you want to swim faster, your primary goal should not be paddling harder or more effectively; it's much more important to reduce friction / water resistance, because that is what constantly slows you down. If all you do to overcome water resistance is to paddle harder, you're actually fighting yourself, because the faster you go, the more resistance you'll get. If however you manage to create less resistance to begin with (by being in a more streamlined position), you'll automatically slow down less, and you won't have to compensate as much by paddling harder. The less you use your muscles, the less you'll need to breathe. By the way, it's not just your hands that make the paddles; it's also your forearm's surface, at least if you your stroking arm's wrist isn't completely loose. 

A stiffer shaft does NOT necessarily mean "more accurate". The important part is to find a shaft which fits YOUR swing. Get a shaft which is too stiff and you will lose distance and accuracy. The stiffness of the shaft, and where it bends (called the kickpoint) is dependent upon several factors of the player, including swing speed, and transition quickness. Just because a player has a fast swing speed does not automatically mean they should use a stiffer shaft. HOW the transition occurs from back swing to down swing is just as important as the top speed of the swing (if not more important). In addition, "stiffness" is a non-standard spec between manufacturers. There is, in fact, no way to compare shafts just by the "stiffness" label on a shaft. 

A toe strike will cause the face to open (face rotating clockwise) and the ball will spin counter-clockwise. This is called the "gear effect" and is named so because of how the face and the ball "mesh" together like gears. This is mostly noticeable with woods and drivers because their center of gravity is farther behind the face of the club, as compared to irons. This is why wood faces are not flat, so as to counteract the spin of the ball. You'll notice the toe of the club points more to the right (for a righty) than the center of the face, and the heel points more left. This is to encourage the ball to start out to the right (for a toe shot) to counteract the counter-clockwise spin on the ball, and hopefully the ball ends more in the center of the fairway. I note that you question this answer because golfers slice the ball, and my answer is conditioned on the premise that the path of the clubhead is fairly neutral. A bad player who cuts across the ball can certainly spin the ball clockwise with a toe hit, but the ball would spin LESS clockwise than a center hit. Likewise, a player who has the clubface wide open at impact can also counteract this gear effect to a certain degree. After all, the face impact is only one variable in the impact of a golf ball.