While shopping for new tires on my bike, I saw that some dealers had a specific section for e-bike tires, where the various brands production for e-bikes was present. Why do e-bikes need dedicated tires? 

Price considerations apart, would it make sense to install together an internal hub gear and a derailleur? I was thinking of it as a viable way to avoid having the front gears. 

Whenever I am asked for advises like yours, I invariably ask back: "what are you going to do with that bike?". As 90% of the time the answer is "dunno", the obvious suggestions is "go for an economic model that fares decently in most situation, then when you have found what your cup of tea is and you still love biking, go for a more expensive choice". And this advice is based on my own experience: in the times where having a mountain bike was cool, I rode an old 3 speed, steel frame from the '60es, my father's legacy. It was not cool maybe (nowadays we would call it vintage), but served my purpose. Then for my first chosen bike in the early 2K I went for a BSO city bike, sub brand of a major brand. Again, it was not fancy or cool, but I fared about 15 thousands km on it (including an holiday on the central Italy Apennines), discovering that what I like to do with bikes is commuting and touring. Then my first serious bike was, and still is, a touring bike. And I also own a cheap city bike, just because I don't trust leaving my touring model in an unguarded garage for thieves to pick it up. A friend who asked my advice in the past ignored it and went for a cool, expensive, full suspended off road model (where we live the max rise is about 40 m and the only off road, except BMX tracks, is gravel roads in the country side). He admittedly rode it for a bare 40 km and then sold it after 10 years to make room in his garage. 

I am leaving out naive or dumb other parkings which are possible but, well, do not praise your smartness (I have seen people locking their bike to a stranger's one) 

The abrupt change in temperature will help your muscle squeeze out of the cells lactic acid and all the other methabolic residuals. Alternatively, you can soak in a warm bath for some minutes: I did it during my trip in Japan (cycled up to 120 km/day on hilly roads), and the onsen at the end of the day was really a leisure. 

try various paths (so that your body and your mind does not get trapped in the routine) Increase the distance Increase the time Try using your bike during the week, too (can you commute by bike? Can you cycle in the lunch break at work? Can you go buying groceries with the bike? Can you do morning or evening rides?) 

Head wind can only affect the head of the peloton, while the body is not affected. Constant rotation of the position makes the effort bearable and helps keeping high the average speed. See what happens when a single cyclist try to do a solitary run against the peloton with head wind: he will hardly be able to maintain a decent advantage and will be taken back. 

For my next cycling vacation I am evaluating the possibility to locally renting a bike instead of taking mine along: the costs are equivalents and I would save the hassle of carrying the box around. The rental services I am exploring offer either city/touring bikes with flat bars or cyclocross/road bikes with drop down bars, while I normally ride on flat bar. Is it advisable to keep the same bar style on the rental bike, or "muscle memory" and other stuff will not be a problem? I'd gladly avoid settling problems while riding 100+ km/day. Additional info: I am looking to cycling in Japan, Biwa lake and Koyasan. Therefore paved roads but hilly, not really away from civilization, but still with some roads among the mountains. 

In the last year I started using cleats (2 bolts SPD) on my touring bike, which I often use with rear panniers on biking holiday (travelled about 2000 km with this set up). The struggle I have is when cycling on a steep climb: in certain cases, when I am already using the shortest gears, I have to trade off between two opposite necessities: 

though at the beginning I was feeling more relaxed, on the long run it was not that comfortable: keeping a decent pace was a struggle (drag and head wind, feet slipping on pedals), and also the steering was far less precise than I wanted, resulting in slower rides. Maybe see if you can borrow such a (or similar) bike and use it for a week or so, before switching to it. 

Preface: for about 15 years I have used always the same pair of gloves, which worked as a charm. Since they started to show their age and that version is since long time no longer produced, I looked for another pair. I tried one, which had a padding in the palm, and they felt comfortable on my hands. Only after wearing them a few hours on the ride I noticed the padding, pushing on my palms, made my hands numb, so I had no other choice than not wearing them. Is there a way to assess gloves comfort in the few minutes one can try them in a shop? 

Having used with great satisfaction puncture-resistant tires for more than 8 years, and having seen how it can happen than in professional races tires can be punctured, I wonder why are puncture-resistant tires not used from team racing in Giro d'Italia or Tour de France. I am sure it is not for economic reason, but I cannot figure why. 

The little thing you operate with your finger controls a valve, opening the circuit from the compressor to the tire. Once you release the trigger, the valve is closed and the gauge will measure the pressure in the tire and in the little hose connected to the tire (if the connection to the tire valve is tight). The compressor will be isolated by the valve. So, what you have to do is: 

I am planning to do a massive replacement on my city bike: chain, gears (both front and rear) and also bottom bracket, as I noticed the pedals tend to oscillate to the sides when I load them. While I can attempt changing chain and gears on my own, I prefer to let a workshop do the bottom braket. This mean that I will probably have some time inbetween the two replace actions. Since I have read here that it is not a good idea to replace only chain or gear, I wonder if a wore bottom bracket does have a bad influence on newly mounted gears and chaing? 

Take off the tube and run your thumb on the entire surface of the inner tire. If you can, keep track of where the puncture on the tube is with respect to the tire, and start looking there. With your thumb your should be able to feel any spike playing nasty tricks with your tube. Once you have found it, take it out. 

I recently replaced the both tyres on my tourism bycicle, going from a semi slick pair to a threaded pair, but keeping the same size, 700 x 28c. The semi slick I had were these 

I am no doctor, this is just my personal experience I used and still use a somewhat smaller bike. Of course it is not the best choice for performance, but I never had complaints. I recently had discomfort at the back of the left knee when riding that bike, like the tendon was fatigued. I noticed that the bottom bracket was weared and the pedals were no longer rotating in a plane. Changing the bottom bracket took also rid of the discomfort. Is your bike mechanically ok? 

I had the same "motivation" thingy when I tried to keep my wife motivated in joining me during weekend rides. First we did a really short and slow trip around the city (about 4 or 5 km at such a slow pace that my legs were hurting). Then I tried to combine cycling with other activities we both liked. Being both foodies, I tried to find, in every outing, a convenient place for this. So for example once we stopped by to visit some wine makers, some other times we stopped for lunch break to a farm where we bought honey, fresh baked bread and local made cheese and had them for lunch, and so on. These small rewards for going out with the bike helped her in overcoming the struggle of the learning curve. You can try the same with your husband (assuming he has some passion which can be easily squeezed in a bike ride), and always try to balance the push to go a bit further with the awareness of what he can do without overdoing. 

I contacted the dealer, asking the same question: what is so special about steel frames, and can it be used on aluminium frame? The answer I got was: since steel frames are normally heavier than aluminium, the label means that the kickstand has been designed for those heavy loads. Therefore it can be used also on aluminium frames. 

connect the hose to the tire valve pull the trigger for a short time release the trigger read the pressure if the pressure is not enough go back to 2 

Claudio Chiappucci reported that during the World Championship in Colombia in 1995 he had reached 90 kmh. Then you can also visit this page, where you can find this table 

When a metal is bent, it means it has undergone plastic deformation. Even though it might be brought back to the original shape, its mechanical properties with respect to impact absorption are severely degraded. The only way to restore the integrity of a plasticized metal is to use a thermal treatment known as annealing (heat it above a certain temperature, keep it for a certain time, cool it down slowly), which is going to cost more than a new rim. Considering how critical is the wheel for your safety and the fact you say the wheel wobbles, I would replace the rim. 

What you do strongly depends on the road layout: There is a dedicate bike lane Stay on the bike lane and, if it also goes to the left where you want to go, follow it. Avoid cutting corners just to shorten your way and signal in time your intention (also other fellow cyclists prefer to know where you are going in advance). If the lane doesn't turn left where you would, follow next point. You drive in the normal traffic The normal procedure to turn left (assuming you ride on the right) is to get to the center of the lane and then turn as soon as no vehicles are coming from the front. Therefore put your left hand out in advance and make clear you want to move left. Wait some time with the hand out, check that no vehicles are approaching at your left and slowly but steadily move to the left. Complete the turn as soon as possible. Alternatively, cross at a pedestrian crossing (dismounting from your bike if necessary). In all cases: 

When you use the pump to inflate a tire the pump body gets hot. This heating up results in a temporary expansion of the body itself. If the cylinder and the base are made of two different materials (cylinder made of metal, base made of plastic) this thermal cycling can lead, in the long run, to loss of air tightness and less efficient pumping. In the worst case the pump can simply break. So I personally prefer full metal body pumps. Additionally, it is good if it has: 

As private citizen you cannot do much more than reporting it to the police. If it was stolen and the theft reported, the legitimate owner may have it back. If it was thrown away, there is the chance that the police will arrange the removal. (Both points strongly depends on the country where you are located. In some places police officers may simply laugh back at you for reporting a suspected stolen bike, but again, if you take it you are breaking the law, too) 

All other factors being the same (normal carved tires, 28x1.40, paved road with 5-10 cm snow), does reducing the tires pressure provide any improvement for cycling onto snow? My idea is that lowering the pressure increases the contact area and thus the grip. 

How long have you been riding in the new position? It can also be that your back muscles need to get used to the new position and therefore you are temporarily overloading your hands. You can also try to adjust the handlebar height or using gloves. 

I have a pair of leather bike shoes, which I mostly use in summer. Is it a good idea to waterproof them using the available silicone based sprays, or can it damage the shoes? 

The tires have been installed last June, and since then have always been used at the proper pressure (initially at the low end of suggested range, in the last 3 months in the upper end). The bike is stored in a shed or, when I go to work, in an underground garage. Is it normal to have these cracks? I have always seen them on rather old tires. 

your bike won't be linked to something hard to move (a thief can simply load it on a pickup and remove the lock with calm in a quieter place) it might be unlawful or impeding others (pedestrians, drivers) it might not be appreciated (I have seen bikes thrown in the bushes when left in the car space, and 3) understandably really pisses off car drivers)