The simple answer is Yes. For example we do. we have "Lead Developer"s and "Lead Architect"s. Someone with the title "Lead ..." leads a group of people that are of the designated title. A lead architect leads the architects for example. The longer answer is: who cares. Your organisation needs to know what the title means and what it wants the title to mean. As long is that is clear, your title could be "the pink elephant in charge of ..." and it would not change anything. 

Alternatively, even without proper Scrum, you could suggest the use of a ticketing system. I think TFS can be used for this as well. Then those reports could be generated automatically for all people working in your company without the need for manually filled in text documents. 

There's two sides to it. a) The stand-up meeting is open to guests. That's part of the transparency. Anyone could come in and hear your project and your status. b) Holding your stand-up so other teams are basically forced to attend due to limited space is not acceptable. Not because of privacy, but because you are interrupting the other teams. So yes, your meeting should be in a closed room, but it should also be completely open to anyone on other teams. If you have problems with other teams, talk with them, not about them. Except for retrospectives, there is no privacy in agile. Privacy hinders information flow and collaboration. "agile" is no fixed set of rules I could quote, but "Openness" is a core value of Scrum. If you google daily stand-up, in one way or another it will say that the team and scrum master are the active participants and PO, Stakeholders and basically anyone else interested can be a passive participant. The proper thing to do would be to grab the other guy right in that meeting and say "hey, we have been waiting for weeks now, we need to get our task done, can you deliver on date X or do we need to find another solution? It's about talking with people, not talking about people. Even if you do traditional instead of agile: talking about people behind their backs is not solving any problems. Talk to them and find a solution with them. If you do that, it should not be a problem to have people listen to your daily. 

For your need to have a worker right now, that's what temp agencies are for. Call one and ask them for additional manpower. Somebody not keeping to a contract is what insurance companies over here would call "common risk of living". That's just the way it works. He could get hit by a bus or win the lottery. You will have to find a strategy to cope when things don't go as planned because it's rare that things work out the way you planned them. If you have a signed contract (you do have signed a contract, right?) then you can ask a lawyer. Chances are, although you are right, there is nothing to gain from sueing. You won't get a worker from dragging somebody to court. You should have a list of candidates you interviewed that would have gotten the job if this candidate had not been there. Call them. Ask them if they are still interested. As a theoretical, future situation, there are a few things you can do: 

The question pops up again and I have already answered it in comments once, but they got deleted: why is the why none of the clients business? Because they shouldn't care. The only thing you need to know as a customer is whether there is a competitor who can deliver a better package. If you get bad service (for example cold fries) you ask for better service (hot fries) and if that cannot be delivered, you go to a competitor that can. As a customer, I don't care why my fries are cold. There is no explanation that would make me go "oh ok if that's the reason why, I will come back tomorrow and get another bag of cold fries." Asking why only signals that as a customer you will not go with the better package, but with the better salesman/sob story. 

The company is paying all your expenses, including a flight. I don't think there will be an accountant looking how you got to the airport wondering why you did not take public transport. The accountant costs more money wondering than you taking that taxi. So take a taxi. Don't overthink it. It's not a test, it's just travel. 

You mean like googling you, looking at your public Facebook posts or Xing/LinkedIn? Absolutely. Although they might not care enough. 

A job title is not set in stone. It's not even standardized. You are what the company says you are. As everything else, you can negotiate that for your contract. In the end, it's meaningless though. It's just a given title. You could found a company and call your developers "Senior Grandmaster of the Universe". You could still pay them peanuts and treat them badly. Look for a company that treats you well, your title is secondary at best. 

There is no way we can tell you what is best for you. You should not lie. As for the other options, it depends on what job you risk versus what job you may gain as a reward. But using such conditions to apply, the job and company cannot be that great. I mean do you really want to work for a company where all your coworkers came from companies that did not need them? That doesn't sound like a bunch of guys I'd want to work with. So what can you do? 

For my answer I will assume this means you gave him warnings in private and he did not change this behavior prior to firing him. 

If your last day is the 27th, then your last day is the 27th. Period. If they want something from you, they need to make sure this happens before that date. If they are away, that's their problem. Anything you do on top of this is up to you. If you want to do it, fine. If you don't, fine. Just make sure you stick to your word. If you agree to do something, do it. If you decline it, then don't do it. As you did not mention why you left that job, there is little we can help you with. You can decide to still help them for free. Or for money. Or not at all. It's up to you. 

Well, if you are lucky, there is enough guys who see this as a good opportunity to grab more money. Let them have it. Don't volunteer for anything, they might just fill the on-call schedule without you. Don't underestimate greed as motivation. You could request help. Somebody must have been on call before. Ask them how they managed. If you are truly agile and this is going to the teams as devops, ask why the ops aren't integrated into the dev teams then. They aren't going to be fired, are they? So go and learn from them or better win them over as new team members. 

I think you are asking the wrong question. The obvious naive answer is no it's not ok. But why is your boss even in the position to answer either your private or your work cell phone? Your private cell phone is private. It should never be on your desk and it should never make a sound that can be heard by your colleagues. Put it in your pocket, put it in a drawer or leave it at home. Set it to vibrate or silent mode. Don't leave it ringing on your desk. That's very annoying. Your work cell phone should never be unattended at your desk. Well, maybe if you take a break in the restroom, but that's it. If your company had wanted you to have a phone at your desk only, they would have installed such a phone. But they gave you a mobile phone. Leaving it at your desk on purpose is not only annoying all your coworkers when it rings, but probably directly against the intention of giving you a mobile phone in the first place. The point of a mobile phone is to be able to reach you while you are not at your desk. So when it does ring at your desk, you boss can only assume it's a call for work and you forgot your phone. So yes, he has a good reason to answer it, he is covering for you. So the bottom line is: your private phone should be silent somewhere inaccessible to your boss, while your work phone should be on you, where you can answer it. Asking your boss to stop answering either phone will only point out that you fail to handle your cell phones correctly. Instead, take care of your phones from now on.