Has lord Buddha preached not to get angry even if limbs are cut if you are a real follower of me? If so, please quote from the relevant sutta 

The thing is if she keeps on worrying that way, she may end up with not doing at least what is in her control. Tell her the duties of a parent as preached by Lord Buddha in Singalovada Sutta and convince her that she should do or get ready for all of her duties. 1. Not allowing to do evil actions and self destructive actions. 2. Guiding for proper or meritorious and good action. 3. Providing proper education 4. Finding or helping to find a good spouse when the right age comes. 5. Passing on the inheritances. And she can be a good friend to her own son whenever he needs a good friend, someone who helps him when he is in danger or relieving his fears or sorrow etc. Further, you can tell her about impermanance, suffering and non self. Nothing is in full control of anyone, that lack of control brings dissatisfaction and there is no one who does not undergo the the first two phenomena. In fact, all mothers have that worry to an extent, every mother cannot take full control of even themselves, so she is not the only mother who faces the issue. When she slowly understands that every mother feels that in different levels, she will slowly get away from that sorrow and fear. 

I have read a person without senses cannot attain arhatship or even go through the noble eight fold path. But the story of Chakkupala thero confuses me somewhat 

My thought would be to conquer your mind through your action. It is difficult to control the mind whereas it is relatively easier to conquer the action. I will say what you need to DO. The first step is becoming a morning person. May seem to be unrelated, but Lord Buddha has preached that the best way for a person to deteriorate is to get up late. So get up early, a two or three hours before you can see the sun rays. It will make you a way more proactive giving you more control over thoughts and actions. You can get to bed early to get an enough sleep such that your mind is calm when awaken. After getting up early, you can study your domain or you can even read some sutta. For being paranoid about political decisions, do not think much on politics, economics etc. Spend lesser time on them. Spend more time with the circle of friends and relatives, go for news just to have a grip. Politics and economics are having a downward trend although you may see random positive instances, that is what we are having, all of us are having, so do not think much on that. Lord Buddha preached about that deterioration. $URL$ Now as You know such bad politics are inevitable, you need to remove that variable from your life. Socially, spending the time with the girlfriend and your parents can give you a boost. As a leisure activity, maintaining a little garden is fine in many ways, it can give enough physical exercise, can help the mind to stay focused and calm, and can give you tiny financial returns meanwhile. As you are good at photography, it can also be used as a hobby giving happiness and financial returns. Job and personal finance, as it seems you have put enough hours on studying software and hardware. I think you need to get settled as a programmer or so, it can give you fine money. It can give you $URL$ four kinds of happiness a householder can get. I believe as you sound to be valuing personal freedom, independence etc, doing something entrepreneurial or getting self employed on what you know also can be great. And on personal finance, you need to save more!!! "There we find advice to householders on money, friendship, sex, drinking, working, saving, popularity, family responsibilities, and so on. The advice on money boils down to this: One should divide one's wealth or earnings (since the Buddha's audience asking about these things was often often the merchant class) into four equal divisions: With wealth acquired in this [harmless] way, a layperson fit for household life in four portions divides such wealth: thus will one friendship win: The first portion is used for one's wants. The second portion is spent on business needs.* The third portion is also spent on producing more wealth. The fourth portion goes into savings for times of need." Taken from, $URL$ You do not need to be in something special to be happy. The important things are mentioned in this verse. "Health is the greatest gift, contentment is the greatest wealth, a trusted friend is the best relative, Nibbana is the greatest bliss." 

"So is it the same if I did all this in real life from a spiritual perspective?". I did not get that part of the question. There is no way of doing evil deeds from a spiritual perspective if I understood the question. “Discard all that is immoral, what should not be done Take in what is moral by sorting out “san” Do this by controlling one’s own thoughts (mind) This is the doctrine of the Buddhas” Clearing mind is a component of spirituality so "Discarding all that is immoral" is also a part of the teaching of all the Buddhas, no one can reach Nirvana while performing evil deeds. I will give a detailed answer such that you can apply it in many other contexts too. Please first go through the list of ten evil deeds. There are five conditions that must be fulfilled to happen the evil deed of killing. All of these should be fulfilled. 1. Being should be living.(From this point itself you don't do killing karma on the virtual life.) 2. Knowing the being is living 3. Will to kill 4. Planning to kill 5. Living being dying due to the plan And the being should not be self, therefore suicide does not effect killing karma. But depending on the situation and in most of the times suicide comes with delusion. For the evil deed stealing all below should be fulfilled. 1. Owned by someone else 2. Knowing someone else's property 3. Desire to take away 4. Planning to take away 5. Taking away Simply things on games are not owned by someone, owners are not real. So no evil deed happens. The third part, affair with a woman without being married. Actually in Buddhism unlawful sensual/sexual misconduct is not synonymous with marriage and affiliated although they have some in common. Men are not supposed to have sexual relationships with these women. (However rape is sexual misconduct and the strength of the evil deed is often high) 1. She being nurtured by her parents or other close relations(from this point itself no harm because the virtual women have no real owners) 2. She being nurtured and protected by another man. There is only one instance of men where women can get sexual misconduct. If the woman has a protector, she cannot seek for another protector. For a person to fulfill these conditions to have done sexual misconduct evil deed. 1. Man or woman should belong to the groups mentioned above 2. Desire to have sensual pleasures with him/her 3. Trying for pleasure 4. Undergoing and feeling the pleasure. Different variables affect the strength of the karma described above. 

Donating porn/nude arts, women to men for evil purposes, bulls for cows to breed, alcohol and arranging dances(probably sexually arousing) are considered evil charity which are sinful. So clearly porn is not something good but sinful whether or not it falls under physically cheating. 

It's clear right view is the foremost factor as without the right view one would not go for practicing the noble eightfold path at all. But when the rest is considered, is there a real sequence? My physical actions are generally good and my speech is fine but needs to be improved as I'm vulnerable to idle chatter. But controlling speech the action is difficult to me. But when I realize that idle chatter(rather idle communication, not just idle chatter alone) leads to more dukkha I am abstaining from it. It's kind of right concentration. Am I following the noble eight foldpath correctly in that scenario? 

Well there are things which all living beings undergo. Birth, Aging, Illnesses, death, loss of loved ones, company of disliking ones. Well people tend to believe birth is a good thing, but none of the babies smiles just after birth. No one is happy with aging, getting ill or dying. When you are done with all these four and loss of loved ones and company of bad ones, you again undergo this. You are a victim of something. That thing(Greed, aversion and delusion) have made you a servant of them. I explained this assuming a human life or something higher. Let us take a life in one of the four hells. Infinitely long times beings get so much harsh punishment. And what should a human do to have a birth in the hell? He just has to have a thought of greed, aversion or delusion at the moment of death. None of us know what will be our last thought. Although we have a control over it. A being in a hell is very unlikely to have a thought free of greed, aversion or delusion at the moment of death. So he gives a cycle of countless rebirths in a hell, it is an extremely lucky event for such a being to have birth as humans which is a very unlikely event. Some sentences like above cannot convince you why the samsara should be stopped. You have to really think deep on this case. Remember, a birth of a being in a hell is extremely punishing. And having birth in a hell is not a difficult thing at all. So we should all try to stop samsara. On the top of everything, human life is also not a place of happiness, even a heaven or higher is also the same. 

Yes a human can get rebirth(given that has not attained nirvana, or still has greed, aversion and delusion) in one of the four hells, in the human world, in one of the six heavens or in planes of forms or planes of formless. 16 planes of forms and 4 planes of formless. Altogether there are 31 places a human gets rebirth. Actually Asura term is ambiguous, it may mean one of four hells or devas in the tawtisa heaven. You can read in detail about the 31 planes in this book. Ten meritorious actions and avoiding ten evil acts and good thoughts at the moment of death can give a rebirth as a Deva. www.bps.lk/olib/wh/wh462.pdf 

Yes in several places Pali Canon says to help one's relatives such as parents. In the Mangala Sutta in one stanza says to support mother, father and cherish wife and children while in another stanza says to help the relatives. So relatives should include siblings, aunts, uncles, grandparents etc. "To support mother and father, to cherish wife and children, and to be engaged in peaceful occupation — this is the greatest blessing" "To be generous in giving, to be righteous in conduct,[11] to help one's relatives, and to be blameless in action — this is the greatest blessing" $URL$ Although I am unable provide any other exact instances, there can be other instances too. 

For an example when the practitioner wants every being to become free from sorrow, does it actually create a difference? At least when the practitioner concentrates on someone close to himself/herself. All answers are welcome and it's better if references from Pali Canon can be made. 

Yes I have heard this, was taught by a Theravada teacher in Sri Lanka. I am not sure how it works, in fact I cannot explain in neurological terms. However I know serotonin helps to go back to the thing we want to do, to concentrate on. Serotonin can be increased by physical activity, I do not whether pressing tongue does that, but there must be a mechanism behind. According to the sutta, this method is the last resort to be used when a distraction comes to mind when the practitioner attends to a particular or useful theme. 

What are some Buddhist practices which would make someone a better decision maker? Does Sila improve the right view thus enabling better decisions, thoughts? 

It is said that as some of the previous Buddhas did not set the code of discipline, the Dhamma did not last.