With medieval tech, they wouldn't have the concept of space. Their world would be the universe (everything there is). Their world is a cylinder. Everyone can see that. They would likely not have any concept that the cylinder is spinning (no external frame of reference). However, unless the radius is huge, they would know that if you jump high enough, you will land in one direction (anti-spinward). They would likely have a name for that direction. So, there would be no need for a compass. Toss a rock high up in the air and see which direction it falls. Math: Word problem since I don't know mathlab: The forces acting on a person standing on the surface is converted to a velocity vector in a direction tangential to the rotating surface in the direction of rotation. If we assume that the curvature is large enough to be essentially flat relative to the size of the jump, from a non rotating, out side perspective, he appears to jump in a triangle with each side composed of the combination of his jumping vector and the momentum imparted by the station with the top of the triangle being at the peak of the jump. If t is the time it takes him to reach the peak of his jump, 2t is the time for him to reach the ground. We take the hypotenuse of his jump to the peak and double it: Djump = 2( sqrt (Dup + Dforward1). If you compare that to the distance the surface moves: 2 x Dforward2, you see that he travels a longer total distance jumping than the surface moves but, if you solve for Dforward, you will see that his jumping forward distance is shorter than the surface distance forward. the higher the jump, the more pronounced this will be. -- The only way for them to find out is if someone goes below the ground and finds a window in the floor or have someone or something tell them the truth. Look at Gene Wolfe's The Book of the Long Sun series for an example of the type of society you are talking about. 

I'm surprised that no one mentioned nanobots. There's no big boom but if you have nanobots that simply make copies of themselves using available resources, you could end up with a grey goo scenario. the planet is still there but anything that lands on it corrodes into the nanobot swarm. 

It might be possible but it wouldn't be worth it. You would have to import a lot of materials and the Moon's gravity isn't strong enough to hold the atmosphere. You would have to continuously renew the air. It only becomes practical (and I'm using that term very loosely) once you can generate artificial gravity on a large scale. Now if you want to show just how stupidly wealthy you are, you could do it but it still wouldn't be practical. 

Increasing the speed and lowering the cost is what would make it casual just like it did in every form of travel on Earth. For the better part of our history, traveling from one city to another was not considered casual travel. Heck, most people didn't travel more than a day's walk. Then trains and cars made travel both faster and cheaper. Travel across the ocean use to be only for the rich and those desperate enough to be loaded like cattle in the bottom of cruise ships (as my ancestors were). That travel was only casual for the very rich. Increasing ship technology put such travel into the hands of more people. Finally, the airlines made travel around the world fairly casual. It is both fast and relatively cheap. Granted it takes a bit of money for that travel to be casual but only the very poor could not get from one end of the US to the other in less than a day. So, the cost of space travel needs to go down and the speed needs to go up (which will happen as the cost goes down). I think that some kind of reactionless drive would be a good starting point but it isn't necessary. The biggest cost of space travel is getting out of the gravity well. So anything that reduces that will make space travel cheaper. With current tech we could do that with: 

Everything that Palarran said. Your major concern would then be troops crossing the river out of range of your city and then performing a land based assault. If you can put some small forts on the river going upriver to extend the range of your firepower to make them have to travel farther to get to the city. If you are concerned with ships full of people attacking the city through sneak attacks, just put a wall between the docks & warehouses and the city itself. That way ships can offload into the warehouses without affecting trade but travel into the city will be restricted. 

The more of these rows you create on the windward side of the city, more energy you remove from the lowest level of the wind. This will decrease the wind in the city unless you build taller than the trees. 

I think that paper will be a luxury item. Most people will see it as an inefficient information storage medium. It will have more mass and volume that digital storage and mass = money if you have to move it. Extra mass needs extra reaction mass (which, itself needs extra reaction mass, etc.). The mechanical problem of making paper is easily solved since the only part that requires gravity is the separation of the pulp and the water. I see two ways to overcome this. Spin the screen (as has been mentioned elsewhere) or spray at high speed onto a nonstick surface (make a paper "paint" that you peel off. The real kicker that I see is that you need fibers to produce the paper. For efficiency, I think most hydroponic plants will be selected for their consumable to waste ratio. As such, most plants in space will have no or minimal fibrous parts. So, you would have to plan ahead and select non-optimal plants. Another source of fiber is animal hair. I think that wool is best but I don't know how efficient sheep will be to raise in space. I've heard that goats are the most likely for small habitats. This may not be too much of an issue if the clothing is fiber based. In that case, there is already a fiber producing infrastructure and paper can be made out of worn out clothes. If I remember my James Burke correctly, monks raising sheep led to cheap wool underwear. Plentiful worn out underwear, turned into rags, led to cheap paper which led to the spread of literacy. The same mechanic could work in space. You just have to figure out the most efficient way of producing the fiber in the first place. 

Look for every place that has something that would make people settle there. Minimum would be food and water. Any useful features and resources add bonuses. If the land is recently settled, start at one edge. Otherwise figure that people have been over most of the land (except for areas that you don't want them to be). Make circles (use light pencil). Once you have the settlements, judge based on how much food and resources they have, how big their influence will be (a compass or a pencil on a string will work). Since circles are unrealistic, adjust them for the terrain. If travel is hard, pull it in some and if travel is easy let it out some. Also, if there are natural features (river, cliff, forest edge, desert edge, etc.) near the edge, the edge usually conforms to the natural feature. Overlaps are zones of conflict. The border will generally be within that zone of conflict (often following a natural feature). Assimilation. If one settlement is completely or mostly within the area of influence, decide if it has already been assimilated into the larger power or not. If it has been assimilated, extend the powers influence in that direction by the strength of the assimilated power. If it has not been assimilated, pull the border back in that area. On the first pass, most will be assimilated. Decide which borders might be peaceful and which will have conflict. Neighbors with different resources may be more peaceful toward each other and have trading relationships. Neighbors with similar resources are more likely to come into conflict since they gain less through trade. Adjust for trade or conflict. Widen the borders of powers that have trade agreements and narrow the borders of powers that are in conflict. Repeat 4 through 7 as needed. Some powers may be assimilated and some new zones of conflict may occur. If a border shrinks to "free" a smaller settlement, decide if it breaks away (if not, leave a connection to the larger unit). Fine tune as needed or desired. Back Story. Create as much history describing how things got to the present time as you wish. There are likely many great plot hooks in the evolving map. 

As others have stated, your O2 levels should still be OK. Also, you still may get your rain forests. Look at the coastal regions of Oregon or most of Ireland. They have rain forests and they are nowhere near the equator. What you need for bio diversity on land would be swamps in warm areas. So of the areas of land nearest the equator (for brevity, here on out, I'll assume Northern hemisphere and Earth's rotational direction; adjust as needed). Also, the southern lands would still get a lot of rain due to wind currents. With no land in the way, there is nothing to stop the winds along the equator from reaching pretty high speeds. With land masses in the north, the winds there will be slower than the equatorial winds. Streams of air moving at different speeds create eddies in the current where the different streams meet (look at Jupiter's bands for a visible example). I foresee a number of hurricanes being created there. If the southern edge of the land is near that interface zone, it will get a lot of rain. One effect that I can see is that the poles might be deserts instead of snow fields. Look at the interior of the Antarctic and then go more extreme. This can be alleviated by having some decent sized seas that extend up north. This will provide atmospheric moisture and a good heat sink to keep everything flowing. You want air in the north to get cold and sink. This will cause the northern air to head south along the surface and allow the moist equatorial air to rise up and head north. Without a significant source of water up north to stay cold, that circulation cycle might stop in the summers as the northern lands warm up. What happens then is beyond my pay grade. 

The quick answer is: No Nothing is impossible to copy. All you can do is make it harder to copy. If you make it difficult enough, it may cost more to copy the key than you get from using the key. The reason for most locks is mostly to say: this won't be easy, go break into the home/car/etc. of someone who is an easier target. Even if you allow magic for making the key/lock, you have to allow magic for bypassing the lock. 

Promote 1970s style of "free love." If sex is readily available to anyone, they won't need to pay for it. If you could walk up to anyone and ask if they want to have sex and have them say, essentially, [looking at watch]"I don't have anything else to do for the next hour. So, sure." then there wouldn't be as much pent up desire for sex. The idea is to devalue it. Putting government or societal restrictions on it works no better than prohibition or the war on drugs. A prohibition actually raises the value of it since it is something to be sought after and turns people into criminals. It also funds or creates organized crime. Prohibition was great for the Mafia and the war on drugs is great for the Cartels. 

The main issue about a robotic fighting ship is control. If it isn't smart enough to act on it's own, you need to be close enough that the light speed lag won't affect fighting performance. If it is too smart, how do you control it? Not Smart: We had fly by wire missiles and torpedoes. They would be the beginning of this. You had to stay within "wire" distance of the target. then we had radio controlled weapons (missiles, torpedoes, drones). The problem with this tech is distance (signal strength and time delay) and interference. Theoretically, an enemy could intercept communication and/or give false commands to the weapon. To get around this, you need to program in just enough smarts to go after the target once designated. We kind of have this now. We have missiles that, once targeted, follow or even switch targets on their own. You have to either be close enough to set the target or give it enough smarts to be able to select it's own targets. However, this starts to get into the next category. Smart: If the weapon can select its own targets, you better be sure that it selects the correct targets. If it selects a non-enemy target, or worse, gets captured and turned on you, you will not be having a good day. I suggest you read Fred Saberhagen's Berserker series. It is about self replicating AI war machines that outlast their makers and continue their war. The Exterminator movie has a similar take on this theme. There are a lot of stories in which smart weapons go wrong. Some because of buggy software, some with battle damage and others where they were reprogrammed. Unless you want to repeat those stories, you better make sure that you take them into account to show how that didn't happen.