Track down the people causing you trouble and send them a mail with examples why there missed deadlines or buggy code caused you trouble and that they should get their stuff straight instead of blaming others. You want to get your work done properly and on time and for this you need the right base material on time. This will either get you lots of respect or will end in you being fired, in both cases you are better off. All assuming you don't depend on exactly this job and can find a new one. Stop apologizing, it makes you look weak. Tell your boss that you have trouble with the people delivering to you and you are looking into improving the situation. You hope to get it done, otherwise you will need to talk about another system to determine deadlines, for example counting from the time when they deliver the real thing. Show confidence, even if you don't have it, and then go kick some butts. If you get the suppliers working properly and then still cause bugs, start working on these. But prematurely taking all the blame and stressing yourself out to improve will just kill you. If you were a good worker so far, you should be here too under the right conditions. 

Here's what you do - Tell the client that you are not going to lower your rate, they are already getting excellent work at a bargain rate. Tell them you need a formal, written contract for your work that includes the rate, how it gets billed, the accepted timeframe for payment, additional penalties if they don't pay on time, etc. Even if they agree, find another or several other clients. This one stinks. 

This one is actually pretty easy for you. Your internship had a limited term on it. While they wanted to sign you up for another round, this is not the same as leaving a job or position. Your internship was done, and you moved on after it was completed. Quite simply, you list it for what it was on your resume - a six month, one year, whatever internship. No one in the world is going to say "wait, why didn't you stay after your one-year internship was done?" They MIGHT ask "did you have the chance to stay with the company?" To which you honestly reply "Yes, I did" (hence, you were good enough that they wanted you to stay), ".... but I was interested in gaining other experience..." Internships pay like crap compared to full-on hires because the trade-off is valuable real-life work experience. If the intern is in it for the experience, no one even blinks if interns move on to gain more and different experience elsewhere. No red flags will be raised, and you won't be in a position to have to explain tactfully that they were kind of jerks, in your opinion. The internships are there for young professionals to try out experiences and for companies to get relatively cheap labor from people who are talented and ambitious. Your experience (of moving on) will be viewed as completely normal. 

This is an interesting issue, however lets look at it as simply as possible. There are usually a lot of rules around publicly discussing a company that you work for on social media. A lot of companies have fairly robust social media policies that staff must adhere too. Usually they prohibit an employee talking about other company employees and the work that the company produces. Firstly I would advise finding out if your company has any such policy in place. Your PM in a public forum has made an inappropriate comment that no matter their intention reflects negatively on both you, and by extension the company you both work for. It's really not acceptable for any employee of a company to use social media to vent, or discuss company issues unless specifically directed to by the company. Now you could do one of two things, you could discuss the matter with the PM, and respectfully advise them that this is inappropriate and ask that they remove the comment. Or alternatively you could try to arrange a meeting with your direct line manager to discuss the issue formally should you believe it to be a significant issue. If it was me, I would usually try to discuss it with my co-worker first, and if they refused to remove it, or did not apologies then I would likely take it up with my manager. It is beyond unprofessional to use a public setting to cast negative remarks, no matter what the underlying intention. 

There are two terms or phrases that come to mind, that are driving your reluctance to take what sounds like a dream job. They are "cut off your nose to spite your face," and "butt-hurt." Basically, your feelings were hurt last time around. You were a perfectly qualified candidate, and they rejected you (during a time when you really wanted the job and possibly had some other job-search frustrations). They clearly made a mistake, as has been validated by then wanting you, now, but you want some kind of personal satisfaction. You'd like to see them grovel, just a little, perhaps, maybe acknowledge they treated you wrongly, or possibly feel some of the pain that you felt. Certainly, a drawn out search for a position can be one of the most soul-crushing, degrading experiences, and it's hard not to feel put down by the rejections. You need to put that aside. You are talking about your career, and your professional life here. Be coldly objective and, well, "professional" about it. It is NOT a personal slight against you. HR, by definition, is clueless about the nuts and bolts of positions, and it only gets worse the more technical the position is (had an HR colleague send a resume of someone who operated a forklift at a logistics distribution hub to our Data Warehouse manager, because they spotted the word "warehouse" on the resume). HR, sometimes through their own means, and sometimes from arbitrary marching orders from above, come up with many irrelevant ways to try and filter out resumes/candidates for positions ("a gap is a red flag" "we need a credit report for this position that does not handle any financial transactions because it says something about their character" etc). They often simply don't know any better, so they project imaginary professional traits onto things that don't match. It was an error on their part, if you are the worker you feel you are, not a personal attack. An error based on ignorance, not malice. So here's the thing - HR at this company, like many others, is a bit overmatched when it comes to assessing technical candidates, and flailed and missed on you the first time around. They are willing to, if not admit they erred, to admit they may have erred and aren't digging in their heels. Sounds like a great job. The first rejection will sting a lot worse in a few years if you wind up not getting the job twice, the second time by your own choice, over this matter. The only person who gets hurt this time by your desire for some additional satisfaction (beyond getting this great job that you want), is going to be you. I guarantee you that if you don't take it, they're not going to invest a lot of emotion in you rejecting them. It happens, companies are used to it, and they really aren't aware of what they're missing out on if you never get to show them how good you are. It's not a charade, but a reflection on a process that needs fixing. That can only be done from the inside, over time, if IT insists on taking a more active role (not a fun one) in assessing candidates, or is more active in giving HR feedback on where they are falling short. None of that is within your realm of control, now, as a candidate. 

You need to take initiative and start by asking "I want to use technology XY for the new feature Z, is this a good idea?" Train to put it in one short question with all details. Often we derail and take two or three sentences and that's just to much if his mind is focused that much. If he then says no, ask him why. He will probably be right, but it is important you understand the reasons so next time you can come up with a better solution. This can be very frustrating because he will be right a lot, don't take it personally, he just has more expertise and sees the bigger picture, hopefully. Also it sounds like he might have autism/aspergers and is just not realizing that it comes over rude, so try talking to him and explaining that it is in everyones interest if more people understood the complex programs. Surely he wants to retire one day and not leave a big mess for everyone. With many reports his schedule is probably busy and he is trying to minimize disturbance by all of you, but he needs to understand that there would be less if you had deeper understanding and could work autonomous. If you like the job and your coworkers, that's worth a lot and I would try to change his mind before throwing in the towel and ending up somewhere worse. Not sure if escalating to higher management is a good move, it might block any cooperation from him and he will stay because of his importance. But if you try talk to him and then go to management he will know it was you. That's a difficult decission. Best would be if management saw the problem and talked to him about who has the knowledge, what are the backup/disaster strategies. 

Prioritize those lists by what is most important to you. Also identify the "must-haves" that will automatically disqualify opportunities, even if they check all the other boxes. Now apply the top couple criteria to each of the interviews offered. Does it narrow your list at all? If not, apply the next couple of criteria. Applying that criteria will also help you to prioritize the ones that remain standing. There will probably be some criteria where, even asking questions of recruiters and company representatives up front, you can't get answers to. That's fine. Keep those characteristics in mind when you go to interview, evaluate the give and take, and get to the part of the interview where they inevitably ask "is there anything you want to ask us?" Congratulations on being in the enviable and rare position where you have more opportunities than you can manage, before graduating. May the rest of your professional career continue on the same track. Just don't take it for granted. 

If the document isn't public-facing, as you mentioned for some of them, then what is the actual benefit to making these corrections, other than it not bothering you? If you're not changing the functionality of the code, and the improved grammatical presentation does not impact the company's image, at all, then you have added no value to the code. If you spend time "fixing" something that adds no value, you have just wasted your own time and your employer's time and money, which is not the way to go for anyone, but especially the most junior person in the food chain. You're likely to irritate people, who will ask "why did this need fixing?", and you're likely to raise the general question - "Doesn't this person have value-adding work to do? If not, is this person's job necessary for us to have, at all?" Do not even ask if it's okay to make these fixes, because there is no problem to fix, and no improvement offered by making the fix. For messages that do get presented to end-users/customers, definitely ID them for fixing, let someone higher up know that you saw it, and offer to correct it. Certainly, basic errors of that sort do not reflect well on the company, so fixing those does add substantial value. 

I wouldn't necessarily just invite yourself into the meetings, because there could be instances when it genuinely isn't useful to you or your work. I'd start with approching a senior to make sure you get an invite into the first 'impromtu' meeting that occurs after your discussion. Then after that the engineers/architects will likely see the value of your presence. 

This depends entirely on the kind of companies that you're looking to work for. If it's a marketing or media management company, then Reddit is a valuable platform. If it's for an editors position at a well reputed journal, paper etc. Then they may have differing opinions on Reddit as a platform for their content. It really comes down to their opinions on the various media platforms that are out there and which they value. It could also be argued that it could also come down to a cultural issue. As to my own thoughts, I believe that Reddit, although perhaps not considered a "Mainstream" platform by some, is in fact an incredibly valuable social tool. There are hundreds of companies whose primary focus is to get things to go 'viral' for their clients. Reddit as much as any other platform allows the potential for a lot of exposure. Are you 'Articles' hosted elsewhere and linked to in your Reddit posts? This would make a difference as it shows that you're able to route traffic to your content increasing exposure etc. The way that you disclose this to recruiters is the key, and the words you use to frame your achievements. If your articles are simply long posts on Reddit, then it might be argued that you're missing out on a valuable route of traffic that could be better put against increasing exposure of your own blog for example.