Enlightened qualities are ultimate. One's mind is innately ultimate ie. enlightened. A highly achieved buddhist practitioner often likens the enlightened mind with the clear blue sky. Often clouds (defilements) obscure the clear blue sky and the clear sky cannot be seen. In other words, without the clouds, the clear blue sky (the ultimate) can be seen. 

You are right in using physical things to explain karma. But reasoning can only get us this far. Reasoning does little to eliminate sufferings. The main wish of the buddha is to have everyone be free from sufferings and be enlightened. Since buddha has seen karma being responsible for sufferings he teaches us not to create karma. And since there many types of karma, there are many different teachings - 84,000 of them. Thus besides besides explaining karma, we must know that we should not create them. 

The idea of meditation is to focus on your meditation no matter what. To be disgusted simply following your anger, fear, anxiety etc. means you are losing focus on meditation. Every meditator goes through the same. Just bring your thoughts back on meditation again and everything is ok. 

If the mind is ready, the teacher will arise. Fear of suffering or wanting to be free from sufferings are one form of motivation. Wanting to benefit all sentient beings is also a form of motivation. These are good motivation. Worldly motivation includes wanting to lead a good life, to be rich, cure illnesses are possible. 

What if there are infinite explanations and meanings. Can also mean the 4 noble truth as follows:- "emptiness is body" means "what ever results from meditation, habits, learning or karma" is "body" (some prefer to use mind", others prefer to use "form" which is "sufferings"). Body is emptiness means "what ever concrete things we see, touches, hear etc." is "habits, karma, meditation etc." Suggesting there is cause to these sufferings. Further "emptiness is none other than body" and "Body is none other than emptiness". These last 2 verses thus means that liberation is possible and training towards liberation from suffering is possible. Imagine "Emptiness is emptiness, body is body"....means there will no liberation .. if not for the last 2 verses 

Buddhism is a religion. As in any religion one must have faith to advance. Faith is important in any religion. 

Breaking vows. Not to kill is a vow. Taking ones one life amounts to killing. Unless one has good reasons like sacrificing ones life to save the whole world, otherwise not possible to be enlightened this way. 

Killing of a human in Buddhism is justified by the killer going to hell. Unless the killing results in saving the whole earth, not just saving Myanmar alone! 

It depends on whether one follows sutrayana or tantryana. Sutrayana finds peace in understanding there's a cause to everything. Tantrayana finds peace through thought transformations. 

When I walk, I walk, When I eat, I eat. When I sleep, I sleep. Whether one thinks of a self or thinks of a no-self, there is still a self that thinks. There is still a self that doesn't think. In your example, there is extremes. If one is dying, yet one think of survival, that is extreme. If one is dying, one should be thinking of dying. If one is surviving, one should be thinking of surviving. Thus the middle path. 

It is meditation if we can remember the 3 refuge every second, every minute, every hour, or at least every day. 

Yes, something is wrong with your logic. In Buddhism we don't talk about Person A harming Person B harming Person C etc. We talk about karma applying on oneself and whether Person B is harming oneself. Also in Buddhism Person B is a projection of oneself. Person B is harming oneself is the bad Karma of oneself projecting Person B harming oneself. We don't actually know for sure if the real Person B is harming oneself. In fact Person B can just be doing something normal - doing his own day to day work. However, because of our bad karma we see Person B harming oneself. This explains why oneself can be the last person to reach nirvana. - with Person B, Person C Person D etc having all reached Nirvana first. 

Important to have a good heart. Buddhists can be vegetarian, provided the heart is also "vegetarian". One can be a vegetarian but if the heart is not "vegetarian", then being vegetarian is useless. 

Buddhism deals with the mind. "Are you sad?" Or "are you sad not?" These are distractions. Distractions keeps one from progressing - one hears others louder than the practice. 

The eightfold path. It is the path that describes the middle way ie not taking extremes. Taking baby steps to enlightenment. 

When one dies, one goes to heaven or hell or animal realms or ghost or human or higher heaven realm based on present life karma and any past karmas. In Buddhism, if one dies , one goes to any of the 6 realms based on present life karma and any past karmas. In Buddhism, since there is no soul, it is the minds that are punished in hell and it is the mind that enjoys in heaven. If one becomes a buddhist and has learnt the art of detachment, one will not suffer/enjoy in hell/heaven or any other realms. Different realms does exists and we do cycle through them in our countless number of past lives. The aim of Buddhism is to be free from cycling through these 6 realms which are suffering or eventually leads to sufferings. Another example of understanding the 6 realms is through ones' everyday life when our mind goes from happy to sad to neutral to any moods which are beyond one's control. Buddhism teaches one to have control over the mind and become free from these cycles. So that one is prepared when death comes 

Buddhist logic is to acknowledge that there is suffering. Buddhist logic is to acknowledge that there are causes to these suffering. Buddhist logic is to acknowledge that it is possible to be free from all suffering. Buddhist logic is to acknowledge that there are paths that lead one to be free from all suffering. 

If one sees a judge passing death sentence to a criminal, can one stop it? One can only pray that both the judge and the criminal will not go to the lower realms, but one is not sure, and perhaps both judge and criminal can go higher realms- one is never sure of samsara! It really depends on motivations, karma etc which one who is not enlightened will never tell... Thus focus on one's own enlightenment for the benefit of all sentient beings, for now one cant judge activities of mouse and cats, predators and prey. 

Don't waste your time. Money laundering is all about greed and yet you're feeding the greed. When there's not much time left, you'll feel regretful about the time wasted. 

Where is your "consciousness" when you are in a cinema watching the movie? Where is your consciousness when you are having a dream while sleeping? Where is your consciousness when you are on the road and driving? Etc etc etc.. In all cases, one note that the outside world is controlling one's consciousness and there is little control from inside. Buddhism says it is not true one has little control of one's consciousness. In fact by following the Path, one can realise that one can fully controlled ones consciousness and not let the outside world affect it. The path eventually leads to enlightenment which is helping others to reach enlightenment too. 

Fatalism means things cannot be changed. However, Buddhism teaches that everything is impermanent which means everything changes all the time. Thus Buddhism is not fatalism. 

Buddhism has different practices according to one's ability. Such as Theravada practices does not require use of people as object of practice. Just liberating oneself is already a good practice. 

The question illustrates emptiness. Our habits only want us to quantify absolutely, we want to grasp at something concrete, but this habit is futile due to dependent arising. 

It depends on individual. Some starts with small faith ends with big faith. Some starts with big faith ends with little faith. An accomplished Buddhist practitioner has unwavering faith no matter what happens. 

You're right. An effect is never its cause. However, the action that one does due to the effect will create a new cause, and to an untrained mind, it always happens. 

The ability to believe is a function of karma ( in your words - imagination). Conceptualising is the follow on activity based on one's karma. Buddha thought the 12 dependant arisings. Good to understand 12 dependent arisings. 

1) The answer to the first question. Focus on the object, and skillfully reject all your own thoughts. Needs months to years of practice though depending one's ability. Will get it eventually. 2) OCD.... 

Imagine something beautiful in decay old form is good but that is only one part of mind training. The other part of mind training is to tell oneself not to be so naive to believe that it is beautiful to begin with. Both mind training above should be practiced simultaneously for instant liberation. 

Buddha expounded 84000 different teachings to suit the different types of personality and background. So if one starts exploring, one will find the champion teaching. It is like different cultures in different country. In one country people like durians, but in another country, people find eating durians too disgusting. Thus, one need to find the teaching that suits- not necessarily from reading but also from hearing a Sangha. 

If you become enlightened you don't even have to follow the Buddha's view, let alone modify them. But do not modify anything if you're not yet enlightened. Follow closely instead. 

If we have mental illness, we go see a psychiatrist and take medication. It is like when we have a flu, we see a doctor, take medication and rest. 

Actually the teacher has already told us the answer, but due delusions and obscurations, we cannot see the answer. Just like if there are clouds, one can never see the sky. 

There is no right or wrong in Buddhism. As the saying goes "One man meat is another man's poison". That is why Buddha expounded 84,000 paths. All leads to Enlightenment.... Look for a good teacher! 

Buddha himself questions the existence and non-existence of everthing in space. That everything is unborned. Thus to him there is no creation in the first place. 

In buddhism, nothing is permanent. One can be reborn as an animal, reborn as a ghost, reborn in hell, reborn as a god thus cycling through all 6 realms of birth. Therefore, there can't be one soul, otherwise there'll be animal soul when animal dies, human dies there will be human soul, a ghost dies there will be ghost soul, a god dies there will be god soul and thus 6 different souls - and not one soul. Thus there is no soul, just cycle through the 6 realms. 

Practice the Dharma. Whether our father goes first or we go first, ultimately we have to face impermanence one day. If our father goes first, we feel grief naturally, that is because we are attached to something-our father. Yet if we go first, we are presented with a huge fear, because of the unknown of death. Buddhism deals with all these grief and fear- sufferings. Thus one should practice Buddhism diligently and without doubt because we really don't want all these sufferings. 

There will be no Buddha if there are no sentient beings. Everything is relative. The first Buddha began from the first sentient beings. 

You'll only know other's achievement of nirvana if and only if you've achieved nirvana yourself. It is the same as real life, if you've not reached the same level as your opponent in the same field, you'll never tell if your opponent is of the same level as you. 

Buddhists are endowed with the most precious things money can't buy. Buddhists own more precious things than the richest man on earth can. In fact a Buddhist can own the whole Universe and beyond. A billion dollar is nothing compared to the whole Universe. 

Middle Path. Pursuing joy beyond end of sufferings is also a suffering. Cessation of suffering is good enough. 

Buddhism's ultimate truth is emptiness. Christianity's ultimate truth is God. In Buddhism, God is still in cyclic existence - will die and suffer again and again. 

Good to have guidance on fundamentals. A Buddhist teacher will be very beneficial. Individuals vary. Any starting point at any point in life is possible. 

Buddha nature is luminosity of mind seeing perfection in every moment, every phenomena, every living beings i.e. not a single taint of imperfection. Needs a Path to bring Perfection into fruition - 84,000 of them. Choose one (or more) that suits. 

Yashodhara could be seeing manifestation of the Buddha and this is enough to keep Yashodhara satisfied. 

Same as the giver, the act of giving and the given. All three must be present to complete what is called "give". Similarly, if there is no self, the "self" is missing and thus there is no enlightenment. 

Lighting a lamp, you need another lamp. Because during self generation you are the Buddha, and in order to have 100% conviction that you are the Buddha, you must be told(initiated) by the Buddha himself. That is why it is said that seeing/recognising the guru as the Buddha himself is important in Tantra. Further the guru himself must have an unbroken lineage starting from the Buddha himself. 

Ultimately, Buddha's method can take any form. It caters for group practice. It caters for individual practice. Once the truth is realized, it can be applied universally. 

Always understand that everything is dependent on something else. One can be talented but it takes another who is a fool to notice one's talent. Understanding dependency brings us down to earth, otherwise called humility. 

2+3=5 is only a mental construct. In practice, depending on the situation, the numbers are represented by degree of accuracy.eg 2.000001+3.000001 Einstein has also proven in a black hole, time stops. Physics cannot apply. Until it can be disproved. everything is empty.. 

There are many problems associated with a female body, and thus it is possible that nirvana can be reached faster with a female body. Not suggesting that ordination is the only path to nirvana but since monks can disrobe 7 times and be forgiven, but nun can only disrobe once, somehow goes to show that male body is given more chances and therefore can be slower to reach nirvana 

Google for the "12 dependent arisings". All dependent arisings lead to sufferings and craving is one of the dependent arisings. Buddha's teaching is able to cut one of the dependent arisings thus preventing subsequent arisings from taking place, leading to enlightenment.. 

Everyone whether Christians and Muslims, believes everyone has a mind. The Buddha focused on the mind. The Buddha realised that our mind is so powerful, it can "create" anything- our mind can even create God and gods. That power is the nature of the mind. Therefore Buddhist do not believe there is a creator. Buddhists believe in realising the nature of the mind - the same as what the Buddha did.