If data are computed, it usually means that they are of some use to someone. In your case, it might be interesting if you are involved in agricultural products trading, if you want to open a new brand of restaurants in Scandinavia, etc. 

To put everything together, what happens in case of a bankruptcy is that direct creditors are paid first: the government (taxes), the employees, the suppliers, etc. Then, the other creditors are paid, if there is anything less, in order of seniority: either because some debt are embedded with particular seniority level, such as First Lien Debt, or in order of maturity (short term debt first). Some debt have a collateral, which the holders of the debt have a claim on in case of default. For example, ABS and MBS are 'guaranteed' by assets which the lender will get if they aren't paid. The governments can also extend guarantees on private firms lending. This explains why the two types of security have different risk profile. For a firm, the rules/regulations on each type of security have a very deep impact. Namely, it is less costly to raise debt: first, debt costs less (interest rates are typically lower than equity yield), and also because the interest rates are tax-deductible. This can cause problems as it incite firms to take on more debt than they otherwise would, as underlined by this article from The Economist. 

As stated by @Wecon, the demand curve will shift down. It is two different things to determine which curve will shift and who will actually bear the burden of the tax. To answer the later problem, we need to look at price-elasticity of supply and of demand. The most inelastic (that is, the curve the most vertical) will bear the higher weight of the tax. Here is an example with a fairly elastic supply curve, and a rather inelastic demand curve (forgive my drawing skills). 

This will provide you with a GDP in constant prices of the previous year. "Real GDP" only make sense if you mention which is you basis year. It is not an absolute figure. Indeed, it would not make sense (beside research purposes) to display a real GDP in terms of the first year in which GDP was recorded. Accumulating 50 years on inflation in your figure would produce a tremendous discrepancy between your real GDP and your nominal GDP, resulting in confusion. 

As economists, we should be well advised to restrain from making such forecasts. Future is hard, if not impossible, to predict. For example, take the job reports in the US which are published on a monthly basis. Forecasters, most of which financial analysts and economists, consistently fail to produce accurate expectations, sometimes by a large amount. Latest example with the previous report (20% error). Basically all forecasters of economic growth year-on-year constantly fail and have to adjust their forecast as the year passes by. See WTO and IMF, but also private institutions, such as Fitch or Standard and Poor's. If economists fail to predict what's going on month on month, or year on year, I don't see how they could produce any accurate and reliable forecasts @15 years. Furthermore, most models rely on observations of the past and of the present. Such data are a terrible basis to predict the future. Some learned this the hard way, such as LTCM whose risk management and investment policy relied on past observations to predict volatility, leading them to burst in 1998 when unseen volatility did spread. Future is unpredictable and is unlike the past. Notice that a lot of major innovations occurred by pure chance (lasers, internet to some extend, Carambar candies, and so on). Thus, it would be foolish to make guesses on what's going to happen 15 years from now, especially relying on today's data and known facts. Also note that it is always much easier to predict doom than prosperity. It attracts public attention, and you can always say after the fact a nice "I told you". French economist Jean-Marc Daniel regurlarly underlines this fact in his books (for example Ricardo reviens ! ils sont restés keynesiens, though I doubt it was translated in English.) If you want some interesting readings (and more) on the topic, I suggest you take a look at the work of Nassim Nicholas Taleb , in particular his book The Black Swan. I also recommand the podcasts hosted by Russ Roberts, with Harvey Campbell, Nobel laureate Peter Hansen, or James Heckman, which deal with the limitations of economics. TL;DR: nobody has any idea about what's going to happen 15 years from now. 

First of all, the fall in prices does not only concerns oil but most commodities, in particular raw materials such as iron ore, copper, nickel and many other, though it is indeed most noticeable for gas and oil. If you want to see the full extend of this drop in price, you can check out the IMF Primary Commodity Prices and their monthly reports, from which the following chart is extracted: 

The first reason for which volatility is higher is the liquidity of currencies. It has no storage or transportation costs. It can be used to purchase goods or traded again without additional costs. It doesn't age as fast as some commodities (agricultural products don't last forever). Therefore, the volume of trade is very high, and market participants can very easily enter or exit the market. Forex is extremely suitable for speculation: money relates to a lot of political decisions, macroeconomic trends and many other driver that are easily and publicly available. Therefore it might be easier to small private traders to trade currencies than firms, which require deeper knowledge. It is indeed easier to read a standard newspaper than to read an earning call transcript. Moreover, Forex market's design also favor volatility: currencies trade 24/24, not 9 to 5. That means more people have access to it at any point in time. Another critical point is that there is a gigantic quantity of derivatives based on currencies. They can be used both for speculative purposes (thus generating leverage and increase the potential upside of the bet), or to generate protection against currency movements. All these elements contribute to make foreign exchange markets more volatile than commodities'. 

The demand curve, because of the tax $t$; shifts from $D$ to $D'$. The consumers will now pay price $P$, while producers will receive $P' = P - t$. The variation of the surplus of each agents is quite telling : in ugly-rose, we can see that the consumers, who have an inelastic demand, loose a lot, actually most of the total loss of surplus. In the opposite, the purple area represents the producer's loss of surplus, which is smaller than the consumer's. If the supply is inelastic and the demand elastic, than the roles are reverse, the producers ending up bearing a heavier part of the tax. If the tax is imposed on the suppliers, then the prices will be the same: the consumers will still pay $P$ and the suppliers will pay the tax, thus receiving $P'$ In short: no matter to whom you impose the tax, the elasticity allocate its burden to the agents. The economic incidence of the tax and its legal incidence are distinct concepts. 

Bonds and stocks, and in general all securities related to a firm, are regulated by the SEC in the US. Some other financial instruments are regulated by the CFTC (mainly commodities and derivatives, though some of the latter are regulated by the SEC) Stocks Stocks are a share in the firm. Meaning they are actually ownership securities. Hoilding a stock entitle their holder to earn a part of the earnings of the firm - the dividends, and to have a say in the strategy of the firm, through a vote at the Annual General Meeting. Different kinds of stocks can be found: The difference usually lies in the number of votes that each share carries, or in their seniority in case of bankruptcy (preferred shares get paid before common shares) A good example is Alphabet's (Google's) shares: 

So overall, the function of interest rates are to reward investors for the risks that they take, being either opportunity costs, or risks of loss on their investment. From that point of vue, interest rates are a necessity because they help allocating the resources in an effective manner throughout the economy. Without interest rates, every projects would be equaly un-attractive, and investors might simply decide to hold their cash in a stash rather than spread it around. As some already pointed out earlier, some economies claim to refuse interest rates, and seem to still work well. But Shariah-compliant finance seems to be mainly using tricks rather than giving up interests. In particular, some Shariah-compliant funds generate hefty returns investing on fixed income instruments (ie. interest-bearing securities). Note that negative interest rates exist, but they are mainly caused by regulatory measures which force institutional investor to hold particular assets. It drives up the demand for a limited supply, resulting in negative prices. For example, EU banks must purchase EU A-rated bonds / european government bonds to fill capital / reserve ratio requirements. 

Market are fundamentally not short sighted. One of the most basic concept in finance is the NPV, or net present value which is obtained by discounting future cash flow. So yes, investors prefer to see the returns of their investments today rather than tomorrow, just like any rational individual, but they inherently account for future events, both costs and profits 

The idea is that if your tax rate is above $t^*$, then taxpayers try to evade taxes, develop the shadow economy, avoid taxes, or simply reduce the amount of work that they do because their is a lesser incentive to do more when the state takes a bigger share of the reward. So the debate is therefore to know whether we are already beyond this optimal tax rate $t^*$ or below. Emmanuel Saez and Thomas Piketty argue that this optimal tax rate is about 70%. Others, such as Arthur Laffer, believe that it is much lower, and that the government revenue would actually increase if the tax rates were lower. II. The case for growth Lower tax rates can also be adopted in order to increase the attractiveness of the country to foreign investors, and hopefully develop the economic activity. Many countries have been known recently to struck tax deals in order to attract business: The UK with Google, Ireland with everybody, Luxembourg with Amazon and others, etc. Similarly, developing countries tend to create special economic zones where foreign firms can develop their activities and build factories in return for lower taxation. 

I don't really see why you would price an ETF at fair value and not at last market price, given that those funds are very liquid. But in either cases you need to have two distinct securities in your portfolio, as the two classes of shares that you own in the ETF bear different risks, and will yield different performances, due to the xrate.