While the Vietnamese Communist Party had been involved in militant anti-French agitation from the early 1930s, and, while large number of Vientamese workers (including agricultural workers) and peasants had hungered for freedom from the French government—including its fish sauce tax—it was the elimination of the old party leadership by the Japanese in 1940/41 and the refoundation of the VCP (soon to become the Vietnamese Workers' Party) on an explicitly nationalist basis that marks the start of the period of war. This was the foundation of the Viet Minh and the beginning of the period of warfare around national independence and changes to the social order of Vietnam. These events, of course, have their origin in the changing methods of French imperialist extraction in the 1920s. When you exorbitantly tax a nation's primary source of protein and salt, and thoroughly proletarianise its major employing industry (agriculture) you notice rapid social changes and conflict. 

In this context it almost certainly means "health nut." It also has connotations of offensive puritanism in terms of dictating diets to others. Orwell's Road to Wigan Pier on the dietary choices of the 1930s British working class should be illustrative here. 

Peter Adamson's podcast The History of Philosophy Without Any Gaps recently did a summary of medieval thought on economics. I present a brief summary of this podcast episode; I'm not an expert on the subject, so any errors or oversimplifications below are almost assuredly mine and not Prof. Adamson's. He covers two main topics of interest to your question: merchants, and usury. Profit-making via trade As a background, Aristotle (in Politics) was disdainful of the notion of profit for profit's sake; he implicitly believed that all goods had an intrinsic value, and that exchanges that did not result in an exchange of equal intrinsic values were ethically suspect. Money was just a convenient method by which this intrinsic value could be measured, and the building of wealth was unnatural. However, by the medieval era, there was a growing recognition that "market price" was different from an object's intrinsic value. Thomas Aquinas (1225–74) and Henry of Ghent (1217–93) both accepted that a lack of supply of a good could lead a merchant to demand a higher price for that good, and that there was nothing ethically suspect about this. (Though Aquinas says it would be particularly noble if the merchant kept charging the customary price.) Many medieval European thinkers converged on the idea that money measured how "useful" an object was, either to the buyer & seller or to the community at large, rather than measuring its intrinsic worth. A recognition of the concept of "added value" was also present in some medieval thinkers. Duns Scotus (1266?–1308) defended the right of a merchant to buy an object at one place and sell it for more money at a distant place, since the merchant has taken a risk and invested labor in transporting these objects. All in all, medieval thinkers were generally of the opinion that there was nothing inherently unjust about money-making via trade, contrary to what Aristotle might have thought. Usury Usury was a trickier business. Renting objects, the providing of services, and usury also challenged the idea that value could attach only to material goods. In all of these exchanges, one party ends up with some extra money without losing anything of value themselves. For this reason, Aristotle & church doctrine viewed usury as wicked. Medieval thinkers came up with some reasons why this was so. Aquinas echoed Aristotle in the view that it is inherently unjust to demand more back from someone than one has given them. Another view was that the usurer was selling time to the borrower (in some sense), but time does not belong to anyone. Still, having a few money-lenders in your town did seem to be awfully useful, and a few medieval thinkers came up with ideas about money-lending that are closer to the view we have today. Durandus of Saint-Pourçin (1275?–1332) recognized the utility of money-lending but viewed it as an unseemly business, and suggested that the state should do it instead. Gerardus Odonis (1285–1349) recognized that the usurer is giving up more than just money; they are also taking a risk that it won't be repaid, and losing the use of the money for the period of the loan. However, he justified the ban on usury on the grounds that the borrower was in some sense being compelled to pay costs beyond the money that was being lent, and this compulsion was unfair. So in general, while medieval thinkers were beginning to recognize that that usury could make an economy function more smoothly, it was still viewed with distaste at best. 

The coming back part, is, IMHO well covered by Tom Au. But the disappearance is due to modernisation of the armies in the 15th Century as well as the appearance of fire-weapons. In the earlier Middle Age, the nobles were equiped with lances and mounted on horses. This lead to the tactical uses of heavy cavalries, which were, e.g., quite effective in the First Crusade. One should note that the effectiveness of heavy cavalries were only part due to the effectiveness of the lance, and part to a psychological effect. This is quite well illustrated in Braveheart (regardless the inaccuracies that the film may present). The problem was: this unit was highly effective, but costed a lot of money. Nevertheless, through centuries, that was considered the main unit of a feudal army. During the 100 years war, however, three factors came in: the armies became more professional, the fire weapons which countered well cavalries unit (scaring the horses) and it was shown that those expensive units could be countered (slaughtered?) by much less expensive units (Crécy, Agincourt). Professional armies, rarely had the means for heavy cavalries (due to their cost), and nobles slowly retiring from effective battle-combats also reduced slowly their numbers. That coupled with effective means to fight against the once number one unit, lead to a (relative) disappearance of mounted lances on battle field of Western Europe. 

TL;DR: Maine's desire for self-governance arose independently of the Missouri Compromise, and was only tied to the statehood of Missouri due to the politics playing out in Congress at the time. Maine residents had long felt distant and alienated from the government in Boston, and the farmers who settled in the interior of Maine after about 1800 were particularly inclined to such feelings. From Mass Moments: 

The Franklin expedition has been in the news again recently, as the wreck of the HMS Terror was recently located by the Arctic Research Foundation. This follows the discovery of the wreck of the HMS Erebus by the same foundation in 2014. One thing I have never quite understood about the expedition: why didn't the explorers "go native" and live among the Inuit to survive? The Wikipedia article on the expedition notes that 

However, to be admitted to the Union, Congress and the president had to pass a bill allowing Maine's statehood as well. This is where the Missouri compromise came into play; Missouri's statehood had been hotly debated throughout 1819, with abolitionists strongly opposing admission of a new slave state. When Maine's statehood bill came before Congress in 1820, the Senate decided to link the two measures. Since the balance of power between free and slave states would be largely unaffected by one free state and one slave state joining the Union, the opposition to Missouri's statehood lessened and the bill eventually passed. 

It seems to me that the Middle-Ages/Renaissance observed a paradigm shift between the source of political power in Western Europe. Indeed, in the High Middle-Ages, Kings were ruling surrounded by councelors who happened to be military leaders, warriors, or of military fame. For example, that page explains that 

At the end of the 18th Century, Washington was the first president of the USA and if he was of Noble ancestry, he didn't have a title himself. And following the French revolution, all government posts were occupied by non-noble members, most coming from merchant and/or land-owners families. I thus see a trend shifting the political power from people whose primary concern were military to those mostly focusing on economy and finance. I would like to know when did this shift in power paradigm occur? From the Charles VII, Jacques Coeur part, it seems that it really started to happened at the end of the 100 years war, but I think it did not happened just yet. Or am I reducing it to oversimplistic views? 

So the chickens sold in state grocery stores were quite lean, in opposition to the chickens with "proud displays [of] curly yellow fat" mentioned in the NYRB quotes. 

Robert's account of Urban's speech follows. Robert claims that he was personally present at the Council; there is no particular reason to believe or disbelieve this statement. He wrote his chronicle in 1107, twelve years after the events took place, so it is entirely plausible that he was present and was recounting his own memories; it's also possible that he was relying on second-hand accounts. The account of Fulcher of Chartres, who is more generally accepted to have been present, does not mention the precise location of the speech. Guibert de Nogent, who wrote a history of the First Crusade but was not present at the Council of Clermont, provides no further details either. There are three other sources concerning this speech, but I have been unable to locate English translations of their complete texts online. According to Wikipedia, two of them (Urban's letter and the anonymous Gesta Francorum) do not discuss the circumstances or content of the speech in any great detail. It's possible that the account of Baldric of Dol contains some detail about the circumstances of the speech, but like Guibert he was not present at the Council. 

There are trivially googleable results, which if consulted, could allow this question to become a question worth answering: $URL$ 

Stalin lacked adequate forces while maintaining other commitments during his life time to do so. While organisation for an offensive was desultory during the 1947-1950 period, from 1950 the Soviet Union decided to reorganise the surrounding state's militaries on a new basis. In the opinion of Tismaneanu, had the Soviet Union bordered Yugoslavia, intervention would have occurred without reference to the disorganisation of the fraternal state's militaries. Therefore, we can conclude that Stalin's death before the fraternal militaries were sufficiently organised is the chief cause of Stalin's lack of use of military force against Titoist Yugoslavia. Sources 

Australian cultures did not have access to good starter crops. This is explored at depth in an allo-history available here: $URL$ on the topic of what crops could have been good starter crops. Indigenous Australian cultures were highly developed, including development of aquacultural structures and land management through burning and swamp development. These cultures did not support urbanisation, settlement or the development of states. Urbanisation occurred in North America. I'd suggest in both cases the reason for a lack of development of city states would be the comparatively low food productivity of the cultures and thus the lack of population mass supporting a centralised armed urban elite. 

Maine held referendums on statehood in 1792, 1797, and 1807; however, in these instances, Mainers decided not to split from the rest of Massachusetts. The real breaking point was the War of 1812, which saw British forces occupy a large portion of eastern coastal Maine. From the Portland Press-Herald: 

Francisco de Miranda comes close. Born in 1750 in Caracas, Venezuela, he became an officer in the Spanish Army in 1773. In 1779, Spain signed the Treaty of Aranjuez and entered the American Revolutionary War as an ally of France; their ultimate goals were to regain Gibraltar, Florida, and Minorca from the British. As part of the campaign in Florida, Miranda participated in the Siege of Pensacola; his diary is one of the primary sources we now have concerning the siege. The one caveat here is that the Siege of Pensacola did not involve any American units, nor was it fought on land that became part of the United States immediately after the Revolutionary War; so a less charitable interpretation might view this as an opportunistic land-grab by the Spanish & French, designed to stick a thumb in the eye of the British, and not part of the "true" war effort. But then, one could say much the same about the French involvement in the Revolutionary War, and nobody denies that they greatly assisted the cause. Miranda's role in the Latin-American wars of liberation is less in debate. After the end of the Revolutionary War, Miranda was charged with being a spy for the British and went into exile, first in the United States (where he hobnobbed with the American Founding Fathers), then in the UK. In 1806 he returned to the USA and organized a filibustering expedition to try to liberate Venezuela from the Spanish; unfortunately, this first expedition failed and Miranda returned to the UK. When Napoleon invaded Spain, the Spanish colonies gained de facto independence, and some established juntas to govern themselves. The Supreme Junta of Caracas sent a delegation to the UK, met with Miranda, and convinced him to return to Venezuela. Upon his return, he began agitating for independence, and the junta finally declared the First Republic of Venezuela in 1811. However, several provinces of Venezuela remained loyal to the rump Spanish royalist government in Cádiz, and civil war broke out. As the First Republic collapsed, Miranda was given sole command of its armies; but it was too late, and the armies of the First Republic were defeated. Some of the republican officers (including one Simon Bolívar) arrested Miranda and handed him over to the Spanish Royal Army. He died in prison in Cádiz five years later. While Miranda was not involved in the later successful wars of Latin-American Independence, he gained the nickname El Precursor ("The Precursor") for being one of the first to agitate for independence. If nothing else, Bolívar learned a lot from Miranda's failures (see the Cartagena Manifesto.) 

"Event" isn't a common term in historiography. The idea that a constellation of behaviours can be summed up in a neat little bundle and assigned a fixed and undisputed meaning is counter-intuitive for both humanities and social science historians. In particular, "events" appear to be readily assigned "meanings," which most historians view even more suspiciously. (Except, of course, as the historical study of public history meanings themselves). 

The partisan commune (consider Warsaw, twice; or Budapest 1956) / "City Fighting" / "Urban Warfare" / Military Operations in Urban Terrain / Fighting in Built Up Areas One aim of these tactics or operations in defence is to impose a higher cost on the opposing force than defending in non-urban terrain. 

This period didn't end with the death of Stalin, but rather two lines in the Soviet Union on economic development competed in Poland and Hungary. The failures in Poland led to an independent-of-Soviet-policy communist formation seizing control of the state and defying the Soviet Union with the threat of armed warfare. In Hungary the Stalinist faction conducted a coup against the Moscow installed Nagy line. What is perhaps most important to this question from the ensuing revolution is that Hungarians sought socialism, democracy, continued but non-exploitative relations with the Soviet Union and did not wish to be part of the Warsaw Pact. The last point was the trigger for the second Soviet intervention, however, it seems that independent workers councils were equally unacceptable. (See the depiction of social democratic revolutionary workers in the White book series for example). The Soviet Union had established that there were limits to its power: 

So there were definitely Inuit people in the area, and it was certainly conceivable to their contemporaries that the explorers would have joined Inuit society out of self-preservation. The Inuit oral tradition is also quite strong (Inuit stories were quite helpful in locating the two ships), so presumably if a white man had joined an Inuit tribe, such a story would have been preserved; but I haven't been able to find any mention of such a story in my (limited) web research. This may be an impossible question to answer definitively, but are there any plausible reasons why the Franklin crew chose to remain apart from the natives, even though it led to their eventual demise? 

In a referendum in July 1819, the people of Maine voted overwhelmingly (over 70% in favor) to secede from Massachusetts and form a new state. A constitutional convention was held in October, and the Massachusetts state legislature passed a bill granting statehood later that year. The Massachusettsians (?) generally disapproved of this notion, but agreed to abide by the will of the people: