It is the other way around: The Laffer curve is a causal relationship between per capita revenue and sales tax rate. If you want to estimate this causal relationship, you need to identify it. What you instead are identifying is a correlation, but not the causal relationship. Don't be too upset, your issue is the issue of all Macroeconomics. We know too little about many effects just because it is hard to filter out the causal part from the mere correlation. To identify causality, you need either to 

You assume that higher spending causes higher GDP. This is not necessarily true. Saving income will increase GDP through investments (unless you're in a Keynesian trap). Think about the most standard growth model, where the future (and steady state) GDP increases strictly in the savings rate. Hence, whatever increases the savings rate (in your toy model, higher inequality), potentially increases future GDP. This was an argument brought forward in Barro (2000). Version with linear savings rate are in Bertola et al (2006) Of course, this is the neoclassical answer. There are many reasons why high inequality decreases growth/GDP which work through political economy models or similar. I'll list some of them despite you not asking explicitly for them, perhaps it's of use for future visitors: 

Violation of local nonsatiation: Households do not prefer more consumption at their current $(C,l)$ locus, so an income effect will not make them consume more (shut down income effect) Strong and negative elasticity of substitution between $(C, N)$: People that work more, prefer more consumption. Hence, if substitution effect increases $N$, it also decreases $C$ (putting in $C$ into the substitution effect) 

As I understand it, you're trying to estimate a demand system for different goods. Have a look at Aguiar and Bils (forthcoming AER), who use the consumption expenditure survey to do exactly that. The previous link also contains their data and code. From their abstract: 

I see multiple questions in this question (please avoid that in the future), and Ill do my best to answer two of them. Resources Limiting Growth There is no problem what-so-ever with the restriction of resources. Decreasing supply implies higher prices, s.t. technologies which manage these more efficiently will be rewarded. If you look at environmental economics, there are many papers that look at the transition dynamics from fossil to renewable energies, and pivot taxation that optimizes the transition from one to another. Structural Technological Unemployment Assuming that human capital is slow to adjust to the demand, improving technologies will increase unemployment in the short run, as these workers become obsolete. However, in the long run, workers' human capital will be optimized to take new technologies into account, and they will be employable again. Why? Whenever machines replace some jobs because they became more productive than the human which was working there before, they also make other jobs - that depend on this one - more productive. For example, think about writers and the press. The digital age has lead to the layoff of many workers who were working in the printing industries. However, an improvement in the printing industries has lead to a surplus, which partially has been passed over to the writers. Printing is now more affordable, hence being a writer has higher returns. Without being able to prove this in equations, it seems to be a natural counter-force: The more effective technology is at replacing some jobs, the more it is improving the efficiency of that job, and the higher the surplus for other jobs that depend on this one. 

To add a paper with a, in my opinion, better identification than cross-state fixed effects as added by charlotte's answer, here is Dube et al (2010 ReStat; paywall-free) - in my opinion the paper with the best identification and external validity out there. They do first-difference in counties with different minimum wages and 

On total, effects onto leisure are unclear. But, unless you have very specific preferences, consumption should increase. What are the cases in which it doesn't? Let $l$ denote leisure, $1-N$: 

How does the CPS CEPR store employment information for the non-ORG months? I am trying to reproduce Mueller (2012). He says 

I don't believe that Search Unemployment (MP) actually "won" over efficiency wages. The whole discussion of search literature would be too long for this post, so I'll just skim the most important parts. 

We like to think that profits for monopolistic competition have to decrease because of some usually not-modelled interactions, most importantly that households respond to the pricing markup in a way that makes the setup more costly for these firms. In NK models, such a behavior is not modeled. Moreover, we assume there to be no entry/exit, and no other sectors. Hence, there is no way for households to respond to this in the long run, as the intuition dictates. The existence of the Calvo fairy will induce heterogeneity within the firms. Some firms might - sometimes - make zero profits, because they cannot adjust prices. However, the firms that can adjust will take the non-responsiveness of the others into account. All the firms, on aggregate, will always make positive profits. 

Both buyers and sellers have a degree of elasticity to the price - how much they change their demand/supply if the price changes a bit. If you tax the buyer, that is like increasing the price - he will reduce his demand according to his elasticity. Given a shrinking Q, the seller will adjust the price to get the most out of the deal - according to his elasticity. They "split" the tax, if you will, according to their elasticity. Whoever has the higher elasticity - whoever reacts more strongly to price changes, is the "winner" - the other one will try to compensate relatively more for the price change in order to have the total quantity not changed too much. Comparison with Bargaining You and your buddy have a project going, involving a startup cost. You were planning to split it. Then, for some reason, the project cost increases. Whoever is worse at bargaining ("if you don't pay this much of the project cost, I leave"), will have to take the lion share of the costs. Here, there is no bargaining, but whoever "cares less about the price" is the one with the better bargaining power. 

In a competitive equilibrium, you need to clear all the markets, and any quantity that is chosen, needs to be done so optimally, given everything that's happening in your economy. Here, you have two periods which need to be in equilibrium at the same time. If I were grading your homework, I would expect you to write the above for minimum points. You should then show what the conditions/equations are for each of the bullet points. Example: Multi-Period Non-Equilibrium For example, the household will chose savings in period 1, given what he expects to do with those savings in period 2. If you'd expect him to do something stupid with the savings in period 2 (say, throw them away), then it would be optimal to save nothing at all. In this case, you would be at an equilibrium in period 1. However, your choices for period 2 would be non-optimal, hence we do not have a 2-period equilibrium. 

Mechanically, you can always compute elasticities of any two variables w.r.t. each other at an initial point $b$, which is defined as $$\eta_{a, b} = \frac{\partial a(b)}{\partial b}\frac{b}{ a(b)}$$ Simply googling gives you $$\eta_{employment, X}$$ where $X$ is the unknown. What is it, that employment is elastic towards? The article makes clear that indeed, $a$ in this context is the employment rate, while $b$ is the level of the minimum wage. Instead of googling, you could have looked at any of the studies cited in the article. The first sentence in Dube et al (2010) actually states that 

An investment project has expected returns $R$ and expected costs $C$. Investments will happen as long as $R > C$. An increase demand will increase the potential return from projects, $R$. An increase in interest rates will increase the costs $C$. Now all that matters is whether the change in $R$ through increased in demand is larger than the increase in $C$ through the interest rates. I would argue that the demand for money argument that you are bringing has rather second order effects. To conclude, while your channel certainly exists, it's not strong enough to overcome the positive investment effects of increased aggregate demand.