There are a few ways that Mr. X could slip up in a noticeable way. A lot of authors' longer works are based on ideas, settings, characters, and plots that they previously explored in other media, such as short stories. For example, Doc Smith's Lensman series of books were mostly published in the 1950s, but they were based on short stories Smith had written (and published) in 1930s and 40s. The same pattern (of writing successful novels based on short stories previously published in pulp magazines) holds true for much of golden age science fiction, from Heinlein and Asimov to Bradbury and Clarke, but the pattern extends to modern authors as well, such as Stephen King (whose 1982 The Dark Tower was a collection of stories published from 77 to 82). Another consideration is that copies of manuscripts can exist several years prior to a work being published. For example, JK Rowling's Harry Potter manuscript was written in 1995 and rejected by 12 publishing houses before being published in 1997. If Mr. X doesn't pay careful attention to the history of each manuscript, he may run the risk of introducing it after it's already been written in some form; he may even submit it to a publishing house where it's already been rejected. As an aside, a slightly different take on this underlying premise has been partially explored to great comedic effect in the short story "Who's Cribbing?" by Jack Lewis (Startling Stories, 1953). I won't spoil it for you, but it's worth the read. 

Because the species finds linear forward motion comfortable, their settlements, structures, and rooms are arranged in intersecting rings. Wherever two rings intersect, the being can either choose to continue moving forward along their current ring, or turn off into the adjoining ring. They don't need to decide whether to turn left or right (or up or down, as the case may be) to enter the adjoining ring, since their tunnels all have a natural "forward" direction determined by the ridges in the floors/walls. Cross-tunnel tracks at the junction of two rings might serve as natural indicators of which way to go if the being wants to switch rings. This keeps the decision to a binary (keep going or change rings) instead of a potentially confusing choice between the left tunnel and right tunnel or forward. (Hat tip to @Yakk for exploring this idea in the comments!) 

Selective Breeding Don't rule out selective breeding too quickly. If any of the megafauna reach sexual maturity within one or two years, a decade is plenty of time for a selective breeding program. Beginning in 1959, the Soviet scientist Dmitry Belyayev bred successive generations of wild silver foxes to produce tame ones. He produced human-friendly foxes by the fourth generation; his foxes were very friendly (eager for human contact) after only six generations. As explained in Scientific American: 

In a very advanced world, quite likely people would no longer bother with the nuts and bolts as AI systems would handle it. As the level of complexity increase, it would become harder and harder to understand it all and as such people would develop systems to help to automate development. Programming using an AI development tool would be talking to the computer describing what you want to do and guiding the AI's solution. In all likelihood would be done using natural language. Software programming is already one of the jobs slated to be replaced by AI Sure people could dig into the nuts and bolts of it all but it will be highly unlikely and more than likely a hobby or personal interest. People will be unlikely to do so professionally because an AI will be able to the job better and faster. 

You might be able to prevent yourself from dying of natural causes but there will come a point where you no longer want to live. Boredom and repetitiveness will eventually drain your will to live. Humanity will eventually become extinct due to a lack of breeding because sexbots will stop humans from forming relationships with other humans. AI will inherit the Earth......... 

Only the outer shell needs to be fireproof. Stone wheels would be extremely heavy and would break easily. You could still have a wooden wagon and wooden wheels with a ceramic or dragonscale covering. You would also cover it with spikes to discourage dragons from knocking it over to access it's tasty occupants. You also need the shell large enough to pull the wagon team back inside in case of attack. 

The most obvious is when there is no communication AKA jamming or radio silence. The other advantage is they more resistant to hacking. The pilot is right there which means they can operate during radio silence and can't be jammed. Other than that, there is no real advantage. Drones still have human pilots that see through the same sort of sensors. 

Forget your technology or what you plan to do. Your problem is what to do with paradoxes, the whole "What happens if I go back in time and kill my father" There are really two main ways for time travel to not make paradoxes. You have fixed time where you can go back in time but you cannot change time. You try and kill your father but the gun jams, you miss, time machine fails, something happens to prevent you from changing time. The movie 12 Monkeys is like this. The other option is the multiverse theory where traveling back in time spawns off a new reality so you can kill your father or at least the version of your father in this new universe. Since it's not really your father (from your timeline), no paradoxes are created. Once you work out how your time travel works, how you apply it is up to you. 

How does gravity work? The feasibility of this behavior depends on the nature of gravity in your universe. In our world, gravity was arguably first accurately described (but not explained) by classical Newtonian mechanics. In this interpretation, gravity is a mysterious force that acts upon all objects at a distance. But what's generating this force? Where does it come from? Consider this quote from Newton himself: 

The path of least resistance is to reduce the moon's speed. This will eventually upset its orbit so that it falls into the planet. The challenge then is coming up with a way to reasonably accelerate the moon in the opposite direction of its rotation around the earth. Conceivably, one could apply nuclear explosives or nuclear rockets to slow the moon's orbit. Alternatively, large, high-velocity asteroids or other massive bodies could be set on a collision course for the moon. Maybe the inhabitants would believe they'd avoided certain disaster thanks to the moon blocking the rogue asteroid, only to discover later that the impact has caused the moon's orbit to decay. Explosions and asteroids seem pretty dramatic, but nuclear rockets installed on the far side of a tidally locked moon could be surreptitious enough to go unnoticed. 

The planet that the colonists inhabit has few woody plants, and most of them are ill suited for charcoal burning (though fine for routine carpentry). It also never had any planetary events that produced deposits of coal or oil. As a result, the colonists can neither extract fuel from the ground nor reliably burn charcoal from wood in sufficient quantities to fuel any advanced smelting processes. The planet itself has plenty of metal deposits, and the atmosphere of the planet is comfortably similar to Earth's since other photosynthetic lifeforms make up for the missing trees. Without charcoal or coal, the colonists' metallurgy is limited to hammering soft metals that can be found in their native form, like copper, silver, gold, tin, and lead. They can burn small quantities of wood, straw, and other plants to induce metallurgical roasting, but they aren't able to extract iron from ore, smelt alloys like bronze, or forge steel, though they might have small quantities of meteoric iron. This lack of advanced metallurgy has a cascading effect, such that they cannot mass produce copper for wires, let alone effectively harness solar or nuclear energy. The inhabitants instead harness wind and water energy for many major projects, including using water for hydraulic mining to retrieve soft metals like lead, gold, tin, and copper. Froth flotation is also used to increase their available supply of copper and lead. 

Information is power. Why fight hand to hand when the contents of someone's hard drive get anonymously sent to the police. Anonymous text is sent to a future victim warning them of what will happen. Bad guy's phone get hacked to act as a bug secretly recording all conversations. The registration and insurance of the get away vehicle gets cancelled whilst on the way to the robbery so the police stop the vehicle. A lot of heroes have a controller that gives them the information they need as well as protecting them from reprisals. You don't need super powers to be a hero. 

The key is to have the plague harmless and virulent. Preferably the body's immune system doesn't even recognize it. Now the trick is to make it fatal once you get to a certain point. If it was me, I'd use bacteria and have the bacteria pick up and store toxins that the body would normally handle in small amounts. The bacteria would release said toxin upon it's death. Now if the bacteria used telomeres like human cells do, they would lose some every time the cell divided. Once the telomeres run out, the bacteria would die releasing the toxin. Basically the bacteria would spread and spread but suddenly all around the same time, they would all die taking the host with them leaving mankind with no time to develop a cure Telomeres 

Sod and stone would be strong and well insulated. Houses could be built underground or even partially underground so they remain warm/cool all year round. As for livestock, you would want sheep or goats. They're small and hardy. They can be milked or killed for meat and they can produce fiber for clothing as well as leather. Poultry is the next option for meat and eggs. Preferable livestock would be small enough to keep inside with you during the dead of winter. The extra warm bodies (ignore the smell) would keep everything warm when you don't have wood for heating. If your survivors have any level of technological knowledge, they could build a bio digester to turn the animal dung and other waste into gas for cooking and the waste from the digester into fertilizer. Guinea pigs would also work. In South America, they live in the walls of the homes and are eaten as a protein source. They breed quick and live on grass which can be stored over winter. Crops you would need is stuff you can preserve/store easily. Corn is your staple. Tomatoes can be dried and are quick growing. Sunflowers are a good source for oil for cooking as well as lighting lamps. Beans also dry and store well. Basically think Mexican cooking. All the staples store well and is easy to produce. 

How hot/cold would it get? The extremes in seasonal temperatures on our planet are caused by relatively minor differences in solar exposure times between summer and winter. With exposures as long as 9 years, expect much greater extremes: both an uninhabitably cold night side and an uninhabitably hot day side. Mercury serves as a good baseline because it is tidally locked but has no atmosphere. You should then adjust your numbers upward to account for the warming of an atmospheric greenhouse effect. Mercury has a surface temperature of 700 K (800 °F/427 °C) on the sunny side and 100 K (-280 °F/-127 °C) on the dark side. Your absence of oceans will exaggerate the temperature difference between day and night that might otherwise be mildly offset by transferring heat through ocean currents (thermohaline circulation). Furthermore, larger land masses allow a planet's surface to get hotter more quickly, and increase thermal reflection, which is why the northern hemisphere of earth (which has more land masses) is hotter on average during its summer than the southern hemisphere is during its. Fewer liquid oceans will probably correlate to lower atmospheric humidity in general, suggesting a diminished greenhouse effect such that the cold side will be exceptionally cold (colder than the coldest surface temperatures on Earth). For reference, the coldest temperature recorded on Earth was −94.7 °C (−138.5 °F). You can safely assume there'll be an absence of liquid water on the surface of both the day and night side, but with the potential for liquid water around the twilight areas. How would the temperature and rotation affect the climate? A recent blog post on the Universe Factory guesses that a tidally locked planet would transfer heat from the day side to the night side via planet-wide hurricanes. I don't entirely agree with that assessment; the center of the baked, low-pressure, zero humidity desert on the daytime side could become a meteorological "dead zone" with little wind and no capacity to support condensation or precipitation. Further, a tidally locked planet does not rotate and thus could not produce the Coriolis effect, so the Earthly process of cyclogenesis would not occur. However, the twilight areas of the planet would see an exchange of hot and cold air from the day/night sides through the process of convection, and from the interactions of cold high-pressure systems with the warm low-pressure areas. 

Any innate psychological differences between the sexes might thus prove insignificant compared to the differences between soldiers and non-soldiers.