A simple answer is because of the lines of inheritance. In the 16th century, there was a rivalry between two queens, Mary Queen of Scots, and Queen Elizabeth I, who each wanted the throne of the other, and who were cousins. Mary Queen of Scots fled to England after being overthrown in her own country, and was imprisoned for nearly 20 years, before being behead by Elizabeth I for plotting against her (Mary's letters to supporters were intercepted by English spies). But Mary had married Lord Darnley, and had a son, James VI of Scotland, while Elizabeth I, the "Virgin Queen" had no children. As such, Mary's son, James VI of Scotland was next in line for the throne of England, and ruled as King James I of that country. That's because Mary's grandmother was the older sister of Henry VIII, Elizabeth I's father. (None of Henry VIII's other siblings or his children had children of their own.) The ascension of Scotland's King James I to the throne England started the unification process, which was completed over a century later when the Scots claimants to the throne of Scotland were defeated in battle. 

Stalin Khruschev and Brezhnev all participated in the "Great Patriotic War" (otherwise known as World War II). That's why they wore military uniforms, even afterwards. The other Soviet leaders did not (at least not in their role as party leaders). Lenin was PRE World War II, the others were POST World War II. 

Europeans conquered "almost the whole world" (as we know it today), because the technology in use at the time of their ascendency (steamships and artillery), made it physically possible for them to do so. The Mongolians conquered "almost the whole world" as THEY knew it (most of modern Asia), based on the physical limits of their "technology" (mounted warriors). Under Alexander, the Macedonians and Greeks conquered "almost the whole world" of their time, using phalanx infantry, the technology of their time. The (slightly) earlier march of Xenophon and his 10,000 basically defined the limits of Greek phalanx infantry, and Alexander's troops marched only slightly further than Xenophon did. 

In the early days, whites were imported into the colonies as "indentured servants." These were people who had sold themselves to masters, not for life, but for a period of time, usually for seven years, in exchange for passage to the colonies, bail out of jail, or similar considerations. Although such people were "unfree," the difference between this kind of servitude and black slavery was that it was for fixed period of time, not for life. As Mark Wallace pointed out in a comment on another post, such arrangements were regulated by state, not federal law (prior to the 13th Amendment). It was not until the early 19th century that a "rollback" of such arrangements began. 

I remember those days myself, as a child, in the early 1960s, for Pittsburgh Pennsylvania, where I then lived. Long story short, people didn't "abbreviate" a five digit code to two digits. They expanded a two digit code to five. (It has since been expanded to nine.) The (last) two digits first referred to the postal zone codes inside major cities. Then they created the five digit code by adding three digits in front to provide more "granularity." Each digit subdivided a region into ten parts. For instance, the first digit subdivided the whole United States into ten parts, with an "0" in the first digit covering New England and New Jersey, while "9" refers to California and the west coast. The other eight digits divided the country into ten parts. New York state and Pennyslvania might be presented by a "1." Each of these ten parts would then be subdivided into ten parts by the second digit. For instance, "10" in the first two digits might refer to Manhattan, while "11 in the first two digits referred to an "outer" boroughs such as Queens. The third digit would subdivide the zones further, so "100" might refer to "downtown" Manhattan. Finally, the last two digits referred to the existing postal zones in use within each city or suburban area. In most cases, the city and state , e.g. Minneapolis, MN would define the first three digits, and it was just a matter of finding the remaining two-digit zone within each city (or suburban or rural) area. The "fly in the ointment" was that some cities, e.g. NYC, had more than one "third" digit, so the zones were not enough to be clearly identifiable in a situation where NYC could be represented by both "100" (e.g. Manhattan) and "101" (Brooklyn-Queens). So if you wrote "New York, New York 16, the letter could end up in either place (10016 or 10116). That's why, after a brief experiment with two digit zone numbers, people were taught to use the whole five digit zip code. As another poster pointed out, the zip code started in 1963 when the five digit zip code replaced the two digit city zone. I still remember television commercials from the mid to late 1960s explaining the information presented above. 

Short answer: Indonesia is a very concentrated country in terms of the disposition of its population. Jakarta is a port city and capital located on the island of Java, one of the smaller of Indonesia's main (top five or six) islands, but which has over half of Indonesia's population. Add neighboring Sumatra, and you have three quarters of the country's population on less than a third of its land area. Located strategically at the west end of Java next to Sumatra, Jakarta thus serves a population of nearly 200 million, more than any country in the world except China, India, and the United States. While the absolute numbers were different in colonial times, the relative order of magnitude hasn't changed that much. It was a case of "all roads lead to Rome." An Indonesian who wanted to sell to Europe would take his goods to Jakarta and sell it to the VOC. Ditto for a European who wanted to sell to Indonesia. Under the circumstances, controlling the import-export trade of Jakarta was tantamount to controlling the foreign trade of Indonesia, then and now, one of the most populous countries in the world. 

The late Roman Republic was the time when Rome made the transition in food from "self-sufficient" to imports. Earlier on, the Roman food supply had been dependent on the production of "small," yeoman farmers. The Punic Wars (which led to a transition from Republic to empire) changed all that for several reasons. 

No. The attack at Mers-el-Kebir was done by Britain to France, an ALLY. The breaching of the Henan dykes was done by the Chinese to themselves. It was a "scorched earth" policy like that practiced by the Russians against Napoleon (and Hitler). And the goal was to "sacrifice the plum tree to save the peach tree," to save (unsuccessfully) industrialized areas further south. Unless you're trying to make the case that Chiang Kai Shek breached the dykes to hurt the Communists (his nominal "allies"). But that's a bit far-fetched because the bulk of Communist power was further north, centered around Yenan. 

First, the Mexican "Revolution" (of 1917) was more like a civil war. It should not be confused with the Guerra por la Indepedencia (War of Independence) 1810-21, which is what Americans would call the "Revolution." Having been the "gang" that won the (de facto) civil war, the PRI wrapped itself in the "flag" of the "revolution." The acronym refers to the Partido Revolucionario Institucional, which means "Institutional Revolution Party." In effect, the PRI named itself as the "Establishment" Party. This was to distinguish itself from its right-wing predecessor, the PRN, the National Revolutionary Party, and its left wing offshoot, the PRD, the (social) Democratic Revolutionary Party. Put another way, the PRI is the "Bolshevik" ("big" revolutionary) party of Mexico. By thus claiming "legitimacy," it was able to hold onto power for longer than its political merits might have implied. I lived and worked in Mexico in 1994, and attended a number of meetings led by PRI officials who explained the above to me. 

The 1964 speech was arguably a turning point in Khomeini's campaign against the Shah. The speech was against the Shah's giving U.S. servicemen "extraterritorial" privileges, the right to be tried for crimes in Iran in American, rather than Irani courts. It cut pretty close to home and upset the Shah. The Shah didn't try to kill him, but did arrest and imprison him for six months. The final result was exile, and Khomeini stayed abroad for 14 years. He returned to Iran in 1979, and "the rest is history." 

The New Deal of the 1930s created a social safety net. This came in America several decades behind European countries, which had started in the late 19th century. One feature of this was wealth protection measures such as Social Security, or old age pensions for people above the age of 65, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) to protect small savers. Another was "Workman's" (unemployment) compensation for laid off workers. There were a number of "make work" programs, such as the Works Progress Administration, and the Civilian Conservation Corps. These didn't last past World War II, but the idea that the government should manage the economy to fight unemployment lasts to this day. Closely related to the fight against unemployment and poverty were the public works programs such as the Grand Coulee Dam and the Tennessee Valley Authority that lead to the interstate highway system after World War II. 

The original "Axis" was the Berlin-Rome Axis. When Japan was added, it became the "Three Power Pact." Even so, Germany had a higher regard for Japan (although Asian) than for its Italian allies. When Japan bombed Pearl Harbor, Hitler exulted, "We cannot lose this war. We have an ally that has not been defeated in 350 years." At some level, Germany considered Japan part of the Axis (and an "ally") because of shared fascistic and militaristic tendencies. Whether Japan "reciprocated" is a matter of debate. But they considered themselves to have common enemies in Britain and the United States. 

That was Columbia, as in Columbia the Gem of the Ocean. Written in 1843, the song was America's unofficial national anthem, which was a reference to the unofficial name of "America," in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. It was particularly popular in World War I. Both the song and the nickname lost their relative popularity after the adoption of the "Star Spangled Banner" as the national anthem in 1931. The current anthem was a reference to the War of 1812 (against Britain), whereas "Columbia" was an "American" reference shared with Britain (whose Canadian Commonwealth country has a province called British Columbia, which is the northern part of what the Americans used to call the "Oregon" territory). 

One important factor was the warmer weather in most parts of the south. That led to two important effects: 1) the cultivability of cash crops such as cotton and sugar, and 2) relatively short winters. The cash crops were important because that's how slave labor was transformed into profits. Long winters were a liability, because slaves had to be fed while they were not working, and many died in cold weather. In the early days (17th century), the North had some slaves because these advantages were not so pronounced. But as time went on, "specialization" insured that slaves would be profitable in some parts of the country and not others. In another post, I noted that pro-slavery sentiment was predominant in most "hot" areas of the United States (other than California), and anti-slavery sentiment where it was "cold." The dividing point between hot and cold that I used was Richmond, VA, at the edge of "Confederate" territory, and a place where slavery was barely profitable. North of there (and at higher altitude), there would be little economic rationale for slavery, and south from that point, there would be increasing economic incentives for slavery.