So, scientists are still required by Monsanto to comply to some restrictions, but the level of the restrictions has been lowered, and it can no longer be said that Monsanto forbids independent research. What do these agreements actually say? They appear to be confidential, which is disappointing, and fosters some doubts over the scientific integrity of the resulting research - particularly publication bias. However, the same science writer, Emily Waltz, reported this update as a News Brief in the October 2010 issue of the same journal. She quotes anonymous scientists as being happy with the new agreement: 

There are two universities in Cambridge England. (My reference is only Wikipedia, but I trust this isn't a controversial fact.) 

This is a story that is no longer true. Castoreum is expensive. While it is still used in perfume, there are better substitutes now for foods. (That is how the Castor Oil plant got its name; by offering a substitute for castoreum.) The Vegetarian Resource Group were concerned about similar claims and wrote to five companies: 

Meal Frequency - Nibbling versus Gorging Just because you have regular meal times, doesn't mean there aren't a lot of them throughout the day. 

Now, this reviewer clearly didn't find Veggie Wash and FIT Fruit and Vegetable Wash, whose manufacturers have made those claims, but I am using this just to support the idea that produce washes aren't primarily aimed at cleaning pesticides. Further discussion of the alleged dangers/safety of pesticides (at the dosages found on produce) probably deserves its own Skeptics.SE question. Given the problem is broader than merely pesticides, I have included some studies below that don't look at pesticides, but I think are relevant in evaluating fruit washes. Which Specific Case? The question of how much cleaner the produce becomes is difficult to answer because of the diverse set of situations we could measure: 

I looked for literature to bolstered Orac's unreferenced claim that "parents of children who are fully vaccinated are very different in their health-seeking behavior than those whose children are unvaccinated." My findings were mixed. I only found minor support for Orac's position. 

They based this conclusion on a sample of 92 patients, aged 2-12, about half of which were randomly given ice-lollies as treatment, and having nurses do several pain assessments over a period of 4 hours. 

Choice is an Australian consumer watchdog and review magazine. In a 2009 article titled Thread count is marketing spin, they warn that the published thread-counts may be misleading. (This is a slightly different argument to "Thread counts are unimportant.") In particular, they highlight that there is no standard for how thread-counts are measured: 

Summary I found no evidence for honey helping colds. Cochrane found limited evidence for honey helping in acute coughs in children, and no evidence for honey helping chronic coughs in children. Cochrane Meta-Analyses The Cochrane Collaboration do meta-analyses of health studies - they gather all of the published scientific evidence on a topic, and use careful statistical techniques to try to work out which way the evidence points. While they don't have a general purpose study on honey's affect on the common cold, there were two studies of honey's affect on children with coughs - one for acute and one for chronic. 

I thought that we would have evolved with irregular meal-times, and the evidence would demonstrate the desire for regular meal-times was an "old wive's tale". I was surprised by the evidence, which does support the idea of regular meal-times. Energy after Eating 

We don't need the video evidence. Even without the footage from many angles, there is a plethora of eye-witness accounts testifying that a plane hit the South Tower. Here's a small sample. 

I loathe this argument mainly as a non-sequitur factoid, but also because it is often parroted without references in a hypocritical argument to tell people not to believe everything they are told. For example, it is not hard to find (repeated) examples of similar claims with different numbers: 

I worked on VoIP telephones systems, so apologies for limited references - this is from my working knowledge. There are several sources of delay, and the human ear can start detecting it at very small values. (I saw a reference about 7-8 years ago that 20-30 milliseconds delay was enough to be noticeably annoying, although the delays on tools like Skype and mobile phones is typically much greater. Other people seem to have far more tolerance for this than me!) You will probably find that the delays that you find so annoying are generally only several hundred milliseconds - enough to disrupt conversation, as turn-taking cues are missing. Sources for the delay include: 

[I went to add some notable references to the question and was led straight to the answer.] In Washington's Farewell Address, 1796, he warned of obstructions that: 

It goes on to explain that some glazes containing lead are actually safe, as they do not leach lead into food. Summary: 

The conclusion seems to be that honey in the diet is preferable to sucrose in terms of weight gain - perhaps because rats prefer to eat more sucrose-laden foods? Some experiments have also been conducted on humans. 

The question points to Rhutan's source as this page, which has the original diagram, and attributes the numbers to 

There a two questions mixed in together here. The first is whether the mathematical modelling they do is a science. That question can't be answered until we have an agreed definition of science (or at least an approximate one). 

I followed their link, but failed to see where the Uni of Maryland's Medical Center made such a claim. Is there evidence that corn oil (or omega-6 fatty acids in general) may prolong pain and stiffness in arthritis sufferers? 

DMFS (Decayed/Missing/Filled Surface) is a measure of tooth-decay used in dentistry. They found that children who grew up in fluoridated areas had 18% lower DMFS scores than those who never lived in fluoridated areas. If you removed the impact of other sources of fluoride, this jumped to 25%. 

The answer to this question is going to depend on definitions - what is an "Average Retention Rate"? Based on how much teaching? etc. To understand the claim, we need to go back to the source. But the source research behind this diagram has been lost in the past fifty years. 

Obviously, the unreported crime figures are likely to be much higher. These numbers should be compared with the number of prostitutes in the Netherlands - Wikipedia cites a number of different studies that range from 15,000 to 30,000. As for consent, the 2004 version of the report includes figures on how the traffickers gained compliance: 

The study looked at two large longitudinal surveys (one from 1988-2008, the other from 2001-2013). As reported, in more recent one, the 10% male figure is correct (20,616 men of 205,825 Registered Nurses). As reported, the gender pay gap accounted for a little over $5,000 p.a. and hasn't changed over a twenty year period. (Note: that period ended in 2008, not 2013.) 

To be fair, at least one set of scientists didn't get the same result, testing a smaller sample: M. Laska, B. Koch, B. Heid and R. Hudson Failure to Demonstrate Systematic Changes in Olfactory Perception in the Course of Pregnancy: a Longitudinal Study Chem. Senses (1996) 21 (5): 567-571. doi: 10.1093/chemse/21.5.567 

HIV causes AIDS. At this stage, it is dangerous and negligent to suggest otherwise. The claim that there are no "documents" that show HIV causes AIDS is simply mistaken. Here are some documents that do demonstrate that, or that, in turn, list the evidence that HIV causes AIDS. 

When there is doubt about individual studies, the place to go is a meta-study - one that looks at many different experiments, evaluates the quality according to a strict methodology, and pools the results to get stronger statistical findings. Here's one from 2007: 

In their paper, they first talk about the known toxic effects of mosquito coils, including "long-term exposure to mosquito coil smoke can induce asthma and persistent wheeze in children", as well as various symptoms in rat models. They went on study the smoke of six different brands of mosquito coils from two different countries (Malaysia and China). They looked for troublesome components, such as particulate matter < 2.5 μm in diameter (PM2.5), polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, aldehydes, and ketones in "realistic room conditions". They generally found the levels of pollutant to be concerning, and the Malaysian brands were generally more polluting. 

No. To knock the argument down quickly: the generally accepted age of the universe, according to modern cosmology (using the ΛCDM model) is 13.75 +/- 0.11 billion years. This doesn't match the 15.75 billion years claimed. (Not sure what happened to the 7th day? Presumably that is another 125 million years that has been forgotten about?) For further reading: The ordering of the events described in Genesis do not match the ordering of events described by science - certainly not enough to send chills down my spine. 

The Death Penalty Information Centre describes the process (which is no longer used in the United States): 

None of these statistics include the far greater number of Aghan military and civilian deaths, so while the tweet is approximately right, the title of the question is horrendously inaccurate. 

Conclusion Your question basically asked: is there high-quality evidence that long-term self-flossing helps prevent caries and gingivitis? The answer is: No, there are no high-quality studies found by two teams that were systematically searching for them. Meta-analysis of the smaller studies suggests that are not yet of a high-enough quality to draw a firm conclusion. In children, it seems a systematic daily flossing by professionals reduces the risk of caries by 40%, but this is clearly not a cost-effective treatment plan. 

Kyle McDonald wrote a Python script that dumps basic statistics information from GitHub for all the Deep Learning Toolkit projects that are included in this list. This Reddit comment, from November 10, 2015, describes the script, and summarises the results: 

describes their experiment (with 28 students), where they had the subject calibrate the EEG device, and then attempted to detect when a known image was displayed to the subject compared to an unknown image. The subjects were prepped to think about particular subjects (first digit of their (temporary) PIN, where they lived, their month of birth, their bank and the people they knew). They didn't actively "read" the actual information from the brain - they tried to measure whether parts of the brain were active when it was thinking about a certain image. Nor did they deliberately focus on particular signals, but trained on the input during calibration to find whatever signal was best at indicating recognition. 

Yes. The research was performed and published by the Center for Impact Research, which is no longer in operation (Their web-site is empty web-site). The report was titled Sisters Speak Out: The Lives and Needs of Prostituted Women in Chicago: A Research Study, by Jody Raphael and Deborah L. Shapiro. On page 18, in Table 1. Percentage of Women Experiencing Frequent Violence in Prostitution, they document the results of a survey. A total of 28 female escorts were surveyed, and 21.4% (i.e. 6 of 28) reported having experienced "Forced Sex" more than 10 times. Note: It was published in August 2002, not 2001 as reported above. It does not appear to have appeared in a peer-reviewed journal. Surveys are of limited accuracy. Small surveys even more so, and reporting the figure to three significant figures, without error bars, may give the wrong impression about the accuracy of the result. The authors published a similar sounding article in 2004 in Violence Against Women, called Violence in Indoor and Outdoor Prostitution Venues. I haven't been able to confirm if they repeat the claim in that work. 

This doesn't show that the letters would be delivered quickly, just that they were collected and delivered frequently. There may still be a large "lag". A source from 1879 shows: 

They only found two moderately small trials, and neither of them were able draw any strong conclusions about the safety or the effectiveness of the treatment. 

that in turn cited physicist Jearl Walker - probably section 1.45 of his book The Flying Circle of Physics. He then anecdotally describes using this knowledge (and other research) to give it a go, and in his first session was splitting 5 boards. A younger assistant could split 3. As Cecil Adams is not a martial artist, it seems that the skill is more about knowing how than concentration or special strength. 

Dr Cameron tested 100 women in total (pregnant, postpartum, or had never been pregnant) against a standard smell identification test. 

It is not difficult to come up with plausible confounding variables, which make it impossible to soundly make the causation claim. For example, they do not appear to have considered whether the subjects have already been diagnosed with Type II diabetes, and have modified their diets to include aspartame to help manage their sugar levels. Similarly, it seems like that obese people (who are more likely to have greater obesity-related impairments) are more likely to be dieting with aspartame, pushing the causation in the opposite direction. Indeed, given that there is more social pressure on women to reduce weight than men, this passage from the study is suggestive of that: 

However, even having one single value is confusing. Sticking to the glucose scale, this is just some of what the Diabetes care journal includes for potatoes: 

This paper seems inspired by the Arab tradition of using camel urine for alternative treatment. It found that high concentrations of camels urine inhibited the growth of some fungi and bacteria (in vitro - this isn't a result that can be immediately applied to drinking urine). (The author is affiliated with the "Faculty of Science for Girls" in Saudi Arabia University - a stark reminder of the cultural differences compared to the West.) I only found a couple of cites of this paper, one of which was relevant, in that it delved deeper: