The WHERE is impossible to fulfill because default_wall_posts.userid not be 1 and 2 and 3 at the same time. Try these changes 

UPDATE 2012-01-11 12:03 EDT To remove Jobs with no Post or Users, add a WHERE clause to check if either cound is greater than zero: 

It will tell the same numbers I mentioned before. However, if you get 28 that's MySQL 4.1. If you get 17, that's MySQL 4.0. Have fun with that one. Give it a Try !!! 

Notice that one of the options is --extended-insert. This causes mysqldump to set up inserts in chunks of hundreds or thousands of rows at a time. If just one row in a chunk of rows had an issue with being imported and you are using --force, the entire chunk of rows is not inserted. How do you get a hold of all the good parts of a chunk. For a mysqldump created with --extended-insert, there is no simple way. What can you do when this happens ? I have good news and bad news. GOOD NEWS: You have to launch a new mysqldump with . That forces a mysqldump to create an for every row. That way, when using --force during import, an invalid due to whenever circumstance will not affect surrounding rows. BAD NEWS #1 : This makes the resulting mysqldump file much larger. BAD NEWS #2 : Importing the resulting mysqldump file takes much, much larger. This is something I recommended (Backup / Export data from MySQL 5.5 attachments table keeps failing!) SUGGESTION To nullify the size problem this creates, you could do the following gzip the mysqldump while doing mysqldump 

Of course, will be zero(0) since is defined . YOUR ACTUAL QUESTION In order to nail down these counts dynamically, you need INFORMATION_SCHEMA.COLUMNS. Let's start with a query that tells you which columns allow for 

Your only recourse would be to activate the slow log and use it as a MyISAM table. By default, the slow log would normally be a text file. However, a general_log table was provided in newer release of MySQL as a CSV table. 

You would think PROD should be faster. Its internal bus speed may be the bottleneck. I would suspect this because TEST has a higher bus speed and a bus multiplier of 8. What is a bus multiplier ? 

The second function is what you want to give privileges to. In your particular case, my guess is that does not exist and you would need to run one of the following: 

Your problem stems from network. In this instance, it is not the buffer used for data transmission over the network. It is the length of time the network tries to keep alive in so doing. Please note these options: 

Based on this, the wildcard character is applicable for the back of tokens and not for the front. In light of this, the output must be correct because 2 of the 3 punkt's start tokens. Same story with pankt. This at least explains why 2 out of 3 and why less rows. 

This would depend on which one of the repeat you want to keep. For this example, I will dedup the table based on url and title and keeping the first occurrence. First thing to do: run these queries 

CAVEAT You may have to experiment with latin1, change the character set and collation of the individual column in the table, or possibly both. At the very least, use latin1 for display in phpmyadmin. You could tweek and experiment with making the entire database a specific character set and collation using ALTER DATABASE. 

Binary Log Format : I was thinking that since Percona XtraDB Cluster (PXC) required using binlog_format as , all the read-only Slaves should also have that setting. binlog_do_db : It will record every option for a given database only. Notwithstanding, this is an option that is sometimes misunderstood. Please read this blog entry from mysqlperformanceblog on how replication can get confused. Concerning binlog_do_db for ROW based binlogs 

There is really nothing you can do once a shutdown starts. Why ? According to the MySQL Documentation on the Shutdown Process 

The two CSV tables are the slow log and error log, should your change log_output to FILE. The 5 InnoDB tables were introduced to support crash-safe replication (See Documentation on this). It does not stop there. MySQL 5.7 introduced more InnoDB tables. 

Both of these queries return a comma-separated list of categories I would recommend you also add an additional unique index 

Since each of these belong to and not the data, the format of InnoDB is agnostic as far as the mysqldump goes. If you want to shift everything to Barracuda on the fly, there are two ways (TEST WHAT I AM ABOUT TO SUGGEST ON A DEV AND STAGING SERVER, PLEASE) TECHNIQUE #1 : Prepend the Barracuda Option to the mysqldump Suppose the mysqldump file is called . Do this: 

This will move the slow log elsewhere and start with an empty one. This may not be a full answer, but I hope this is useful to you as to some direction to take. 

Perhaps try adding another in the Linux home directory with these options For more information, see the MySQL Options File Documentation 

There are two issues you need to look at ISSUE #1 : Characters Vs Bytes Since UTF-8 uses 3 bytes per characters, you may not have allocated enough for character fields. ISSUE #2 : InnoDB Row Length 

Using an API for updating single variable and doing a compulsory restart of the RDS instance to implement the change? That's quite a painful process to tweek any one option. If you want to scale up MySQL, please use EC2. Then, you can tweek to your liking like you have always done and have been used to. 

At first glance, you would think that Data should have increased from 20.8 GiB to 21.6 GiB. What should have been 4% increase, increasing by 814MB, grew to 37.3 GiB, which is a 79.3% increase in Data. Why Did the Data Grow So Much ? Please be aware that there is an object in the table called gen_clust_index, a.k.a. the table's Clustered Index. This is the table's . You may find this shocking, but the does not reside in the table's index pages. It resides in the table's Data Pages. Question: What is the size of a page in InnoDB ? Answer: 16KB. What is inside the 16KB of a Data Page ? 

Actually, if you place an if then block in every trigger, you could effectively shutdown all triggers. Here is such a code block 

Here is another point: What lives in ibdata1 besides table data, table indexes, table metadata? Objects for MVCC and Transaction_isolation. Here are the things that ibdata1 provides for MVCC 

If you issue , it will happen once the rows in the table have released their locks at the end of the transaction. You could experiment (on a Dev/Staging Server, please) with using transaction isolation level to make the delete logically happen, but only on commit will it become visible and recorded permanently. In the second transaction, basically all bets are off. If you run 

If that does not produce the desired behavior, then there is OPTION 2 OPTION # 2 In terms of SQL synntax, you simply have no other other option 

Perhaps this is being blocked for users that have % in the host column of mysql.user. You may need to create another user with a hard public IP as I suggested earlier 

The best way would be to enable binary logging on the Slave. Why ? With binary logging enabled on the Slave, each recorded in the binary logs comes with the server_id where the SQL statement originated. What if log-slave-updates was enabled ? If you have log-slave-updates enabled on the Slave, every from the Master comes with the Master's server_id. If any writes were executed on the Slave directly, you will have to separate the commands. EXAMPLE: suppose the Master's server_id is 10 and Slave's server_id is 20. Now, let's say you have these binary logs on the Slave: 

This should work just fine for MyISAM. It should also work for InnoDB if there are no constraints. If there are constraints, you may have to disable them for the import session: 

and watch the messages that go by and see it it tells you what mysqld is doing with any storage engine. If you have absolutely no InnoDB tables in use, then you should think about disabling InnoDB with 

The only special circumstance where a being grouped with other keys is an absolute requirement is table partitioning. It says so in the MySQL Documentation (Partitioning Keys, Primary Keys, and Unique Keys). Here is an example from the Documentation 

If you are interested in High Availability and Performance for MySQL, then High Performance MySQL : Optimization, Backups, Replication, and More 

can be found here Since net_store_data is the single point of failure in the stack trace, what is in the SQL that would have triggered such a a failure ? Look back at the SQL 

This number is just the size increase (in bytes) for the column. What about the ? It's not int(10) but int(11). Could you forecast for int(11), Sure, just replace in the query with . What about the primary key and what if a primay key has multiple int columns defined as int(11)? Let's pick a different table called