Many also think that thinking stops when meditating. That is also a missbelieve, only if on high Jhanas such might be the case and will be otherwise always there. And it's not the way to gain inside, to ignore thinking, but here on that level to see how in appears and decays to understand on the source, that thoughts are impermanent, therefore dukkha and without sense. Something that can not be just gained by developing thought to ignore it, but in looking at the right place in the right condition, how it actually is. The skill and the way to come there is to be developed and gone by skillfull thought till the end. And even after the highest gain, you'll be one that thinks: total right and wisely. Anumodana! (Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for any commercial purpose or other wordily gain) 

In the case he fails to enter the path or receives it without such aspiration and effort, you have one in dept and a future servant, slave or supporter. In the case he matches the high value of your gift, you might never fail to have best connection to the Noble Ones and the path. (This is how big and good rulers, leaders, with lot of servants and surounded by wise appear in this world) Of course such a wish has to be honest and from deep in the heart, and not just a win-win strategy. Pure heart always wins, there is no lose in giving at all. On formal citations (note: not required), see: Formal Offerings Doing in three ways While "nobody" can judge your mind, it's most importand. As for being aside of that acceptable and benefical, take on a proper body gesture, like step out of you shoes, give not from below but as a request to be accepted, act humble, careful and not fast... speak out what you wish to do and your dedication with humble words and understandable, so that there is no doubt of what you do outwardly. Just giving could be led or what ever. You might wish that he/she holds it for you later. Rejoice In you deed while preparing, while doing, and afterwards, always remember it, and wish to be able to do it again. NEVER think in ways, what ever reason, "it might have been better to don't give..." and brun your field of fruits of merits with such. Anumodana! (Oh, yes, don't forget to share your merits, invite others to rejoice with it/you and tell about you good deeds, not to higher yourself, but as inspiration and encouragement for others, for the joy of those able to have joy seeing, hearing and doing about good deeds. Invite people near and far, on the street, others next, to help with and join you giving.) A tip in reagard of organised monasteries: Modern or western tendence is make things productive and efficient. That can of course led whole communities astray and if eager people manage places, it can be a joy-killer and develope things like "If you are interested in offering a meal, please submit a donation form or contact the monastery". Aside of the good hint to seek for best empathy and good-will, like understandig, one should not assume that management, monks, single monk is one. Sometimes it's good to seek direct ways to a monk and go around caretakers and managers, who of course might have best intentions. Small places, humble places, places who do not put demants at first place but openly receive and let people best do their merits and can take imperfectness are often more joy and of more fruits. That does again not mean that it is wise to be not very responsible with your freedom for you benefit. (Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant to use for commercial purposes or other wordily gains, but intent for liberation: so to share without bounds to anything else) 

The message of Buddha is similar, althought he did not give a direct advice how a lay person should react on harm to lay people but indirect in gaving given absolute valide precepts: not harming and destroing life (incl. ALL living beings, also not for food), not to take what is not given, not to speak what is not true and not to misbehave in fleshes lust and not to take indoxicants, which easy cause such. As for monks, and people who are intented to liberation, the position is and advice is more direct and clear given, not intended for the world but beyound and most famous is the saw-simily: {patient endurance} MN 21, MN 28 There will follow a good collection of other sayings in this regard and this clear approach in many good answers. Other than Jesus appearing and how he wins people, Buddha does not advice at it is heroic to and on the cross in serving and try to help others, he does not advice to dy for others, but for those who desire real benefit and liberation, even to dy for the training in keeping his discipline and told that his monks would rather like to dy then to break the basic and importand precepts. So there is no evidence of advices for sacrify one self for the world and its purpose, at least to help others in the best possible way one can. One who seeks for revenge will never be at peace, thats of cource the same message in this regard but martyr in this regard has no place and is not praised by the Buddha and his informed followers, also to act for possible display and transport such. Of course people often preach of how many sacrifies the Buddha did, gave his life, to become a Buddha to push on a certain "feel obligated" botton to win followers, but he himself did not. Just to try to point out the differnces, not so easy to trace and would require much more explaining to understand. (Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not mean for commercial purpose or other wordily gains.) 

As for the insulting itself, the ill-will harm, not with words and signs, such may the reason why people are often harmed, most ugly, the outsiders in groups and sociaty. It's good to be reminded mainly to simply avoid such things by one self and good to remind that being insulted has having insulted as cause, when, and where ever it was, to do not fall in certain finily judgement, seeing being hurting each other. That's their ways they seek and think on Comics, what then attracting people by their fighting and insulting each others, do attract Comic fans. One liking to watch and be joyful entertained by watching fighting, insulting, stories of winning and game, will be part of the movie which is in so far different, that the current hero is ever changing, does not stay with oneself. Watching shows, movies, such parades and Events... it all forces either greed, aversion, delusion grow in one. Therefore the abstaining from entertainment and shows is praised by the wise and all Arahats and those following them did, do and will do likewise, Akila. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant to be used for commercial purpose or other wordily gains but intended for Nibbana: so to be given without bounds to things like that) 

And that's why you are lost without admirable friends, assosiating with fools or having just words and books. Because there is nobody watching you, taking benefical care and show you you heedless points, urge you to do good and blame you when tending to Mara and unbenefical. So if whe take heedfullness on the point where it starts is looking and assosiating with admirable friends the prerequisite to learn and do the whole path, to awakening. Don't be conscienceless and assosiate with friends in disguise just because they are similar or even more worth than you and your defilment (greed, aversion, notknowing, fear) rejoice with it, or you share the same preference of food and hobby together. This talk would not find an end and to explain it was all the Buddhas and Noble Ones did since they really knew what they are talking about, so do it, the taught, at least out of gratitude in advanced so that you might say soon: "Awakened. The tasks is done, the heritage of the Buddha fullfilled, nothing further for this world." Appamadena sampadetha! It's urgend also here! Learning is not even the half, but needs to be put in action and you can do it as well when learning, with mind, speech and body. My Person spoke much about it ;-) mind it! A maybe extended or edited answer can be found here [Q&A]Appamāda - What is it? How to practise it? Benefits? where you also be able to discuss the topic or answer in addition. (note: this is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other wordily gains.)