The answer was prefaced with it is the mainstream view. I have no idea what is mainstream, but I disagree with Wikipedia in this instance. 

Finally, there is a short discussion on paleogenetic research (pp. 146-7) but I am not knowledgeable enough to read (nor understand) so I'll leave that for someone who can. 

Logistically, it should be obvious that the coastal land route would also be prohibitively expensive and long (in terms of manpower, resources and time). Finally, although there isn't much written on the Ainu-Mongol wars, there is some info here and this book: The Peoples of Northeast Asia through Time (Brill, 2015), Chapter 2 on the Ainu people. 

First, the answer to this is more convoluted than it seems at first sight. Hence, it does require more elaboration from OP, such as narrowing the question, or at least establishing some terms of reference in the question. Second, unless one is well-versed in not just history, but also economic theory and jurisprudence, the answer will most likely be unsatisfactory. Allow me to illustrate with a few points: 

1213 - Start of Mongol Siege Warfare Sieges were not traditional Mongol warfare strategy since the Mongolian steppe did not have fortifications but it was something they learnt (very effectively), starting from their first siege of 1213 against the Jurchen Jin (North China): 

We do not know what happened in the past, until we learn of it from someone else. This someone is usually a historian. How does the historian know history, say, of the Roman Empire? If we think of Gibbon's Roman Empire, his historiography would have to be based on the work of others because he was not there. Obviously the The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire is revising history when it differs from the then prevailing historiography. It would be pointless otherwise. So, isn't Gibbon revising history by adding his own perspective if it is based on new discoveries (or even new interpretations) of archaeology, historiography, linguistics, etc.? 

Muslim Knights under Christian Kings Not what was asked specifically, but just for context (and perhaps a better understanding of Medieval history) - emphasis mine: 

Example 1: On the earlier question, Who were the Huns and/or Xiongnu?, the question itself makes the assertion that they could be one and the same. But it was not explained why they could be (one and the same). Therefore, I am getting into the rationale, why OP or other readers are assuming the Huns and Xiongnu are related. Example 2: This was an answer to the question which also made an assertion that the Xiongnu and Huns are related but, unfortunately, did not provide any historical documents/reasons, except referring to a blog/website that made an assertion. 

The answer is not so much a specific list of steps (task-list) but more Cosimo's political maneuvering, with family and friends, that propelled him leadership in the Republic of Florence. His political ability resulted in real political power, which propelled their name into history. What he actually did, in most observations, is not explicitly stated -- it was more how he thought (his approach) -- that made it work for the Medici family. 

Thomsen's guidebook for National Museum of Denmark, Ledetraad til Nordisk Oldkyndighed (Guideline to Scandinavian Antiquity) on a method of classifying the museum’s archeological collections was published in 1836 - Google book (also mentioned in Wikipedia article of Thomsen) The date of 1836 in Origins and Revolutions (Cambridge, 2007), p.12 - emphasis mine: 

Clearly the innumerable Latin references to this phrase/motto, which is attributed to St Patrick, cannot all be wrong. More important, given St Patrick's interrupted education (enslavement in Ireland), his style and ability in Latin is, for lack of a better word, suspect. 

Geography Geographically, the Russian Far East of Sakhalin, the Kurile islands, and the Kamchatka peninsula are very different from Inner Asia. Specifically, the high seismic activity and volcanism would be very uncomfortable for the Yuan dyansty. In addition, the coastal meadow-forests and monsoon season of this region would make it highly unsuitable for Mongol warfare. Ainu-Mongol wars Starting in 1264, Kublai did attack the Ainu in Sakhalin (not Kurile islands) but it was not sweepingly successful because it went on intermittently for nearly half a century before the Ainu finally submitted in 1308 (to Temür Khan, Kublai's grandson). Looking at the map below, if Kubilai failed dominate the Ainu in Sakhalin, they would not be leap-frogging them to Kamchatka. Mongol Navy Last year, I had an answer on the Mongol Navy, mainly to show how bad they were at naval warfare -- and if you couple this with the actual distance the Yuan navy had to travel (if they chose the sea route, Sea of Okhotsk), it would be highly unlikely that Kubilai or Temur would want to risk additional resources after the failed naval invasions of Japan (1274 & 1281). 

Because the United States of America is "special". It does not need to (want to?). Why? Presumably because they are special!. First, because they plotted the coup (and also because they have never followed public international law -- commentary of Professor Murphy below). So, because of this: 

Conquering Wales: 1256 - 1283 (there's a map for reference below) Finally, if the above was not a good enough reason, the history of why and how the title of Prince of Wales came to be recognised is also relevant. And the key factor why this title was so coveted is simply because it was extremely hard fought - nearly 30 years: 

Selective raiding and pillaging between tribes is -- within their context -- a practise that seems quite common and accepted. This type of inter-tribe raids does not involve violence (i.e. they steal and run-off). These raids, on the whole, are considered acceptable, because, to them, being opportunistic by using guile, agility, etc is a badge of honour. A "nomadic code of honour & bravery" to show they dare to and am able to do it, if you like. There are even classifications of raiding their neighbours, with specific Turko-Mongol names -- training raids, revenge raids,etc. I cannot remember the Turkic names . Finally, these 'cattle stealing raids' between themselves should be differentiated with the bigger 'tribal conquest' type of raids. For that, death and violence is the norm because they are going all-out -- against sedentary societies and other unfriendly tribes -- what they are really going for is booty (ölgä in Turko-Mongolic) and it is important to do so because the redistribution of booty is one of their form of leadership and gaining reputation/support (let's call them war-band raids). 

In essence, Sneath's argument is, from a perspective of nomadic feudalism, steppe-nomads were highly egalitarian and much depended on alliances that are highly adaptive to changing demands. Hence, the social control (or oppression, depending on which strata you're in) is minimal (did not exist?) but steppe culture/societies still functioned well (i'm over-simplifying the book). NOTE: I should add that this book was not well-accepted, especially with established scholars (specialists in Central Asia) - see reviews from Barfield (anthropologist), Nikolay Kradin (anthropologist and archaeologist) and Peter B. Golden (historian). In defence of Sneath, however, we should note that he has studied under (worked with?) the late Urgugne Onon, who had direct experience of nomadic life as well as translating Genghis Khan's Secret History of the Mongols. 

Combat Tactics of Heavy and Light Cavalry Going through research on Hattin and the additional battles listed above, I believe you would discern a clear pattern in the modus operandi. Instead of just calling it nomadic hit-and-run for their light cavalry, I believe a better description is tactical swarming: 

Aristocrats - Should I use the ranged weapon - even if available (because ritual and convention might not permit) Soft/Hard Martial Arts - Is the ranged weapon the best tool available for the situation?