Most likely because they never had it to start with. There are two big problems with this portion of the book's thesis: 

There are a lot of misattributed quotes floating around. As a protip, in the future when you find a good quote, Wikiquote is a good first place to double-check. I've seen it be wrong too, but the nice thing about it is that wrong things can get fixed there, whereas a lot of places will just leave wrong things up forever. Often it will even go so far as to list misattributed quotes. 

Generally, its only called "treason" when the damage isn't mortal. Of course when it isn't mortal, The State has a whole lot more power to go after you than you have to stay out of its power. This is why Machiavelli observed that if you go after "The Prince" in any way, you have to kill him. Basically, either The State falls, and you are considered a hero by the victors (who get to write history using nicer words for you) or The State doesn't fall, and going after you is its top priority for the rest of your life. So any list of successful treasons is going to have a caveat on either the word "successful" or the word "treason". 

A very interesting question, as it turns out. The coast of Antarctica wasn't definitively sighted until about 1820, so no globe until then would have featured it. I found this pocket globe made by Abel Klinger in I believe 18801 that shows the barest outline of some of the coast of Antarctica. Examining some globes from the same manufacturer in 1855, I can't see any hint of it. One would imagine there must be one earlier than 1880 though2. 1- The text just says "end of the 19th Century". However, I've found other references to his pocket globes dated 1880. So I could be a few years wrong here. 2 - Vastly complicating this search is the fact that people don't like to show pictures of largely blank areas of a globe. 

There are various chronologies floating around for Hammurabi's reign. So that will naturally produce some variation. Wikipedia seems to currently be favoring the middle one, which would indeed put the code at about 1750 BC. However, none of their listed chronologies vary by that much. Even their "Ultra Long" only backs him up to about 1900 BC. One thing I did find is that there's a dating for a previous code, the Code of Ur-Nammu (the oldest known law code), that is dated to 2050 BC. Perhaps your higher source was confusing their codes? Another possibility, as Semaphore mentioned in the comments, is that your ultra-ultra-long source is/was using a chronology that is far beyond what is currently deemed feasible. Tough to say for sure, without knowing the source. 

South Africa's Apartheid system is probably the most famous example, although they were far from the only former colonial possession in Africa that maintained legal advantages for citizens of European origin into the 20th Century. Under this system only those of entirely European heritage were allowed to vote, all public facilities and schools were segregated, and "mixed" marriages were outlawed as well. This continued in South Africa up until 1994. The British hooked a similar scheme of racial preferences up to India's Caste system until the 1920's. 

There are two ways to look at that. The first is to look at the late Classical period, where the Remnants of the Roman Empire in the east lost control of Rome, and thus the papacy. This allowed the Popes the ability to exert their ecclesiastical power without having to worry about any political repercussions. An "all-powerful" emperor is obviously not going to put up with that. So within the remaining (Byzantine) empire, eventually that power got transferred to the pope's former subordinate in Byzantium. This split between "Catholic" and "Greek Orthodox" later got enshrined in doctrinal differences, but this was its actual source. 

Initially the Winter War between the USSR and Finland was an unrelated conflict, as neither of the two belligerents were involved in WWII when the fighting broke out. However, it was still going on when Germany invaded the USSR, at which point Finland found themselves allied with the Nazis. You could make a case that the Second Sino-Japanese war was also unconnected, as it started far before the official start of WWII. However, many (particularly on the American side) will instead argue that this war was the first action of WWII. Outside of those, you will have trouble simply because every other region of the world was dominated by the European Imperial systems, and thus got dragged into WWII when their European masters did. The sole exception is the Americas, where I believe the Ecuador-Peru war you mention was the only other conflict to occur during this period. 

Of course there's a reason purple was so special: It was hideously expensive. The dye used, Tyrian Purple is extracted in a laborious and touchy process from tiny glands in a specific species of coastal sea snail. 

There's a lot of press today about a new DNA study of Cheddar Man, who lived about 9,000 years ago in what's now the English county of Somerset. They concentrated on the genes for hair, skin, and eye pigmentation, and found out that he had rather dark skin, dark hair, and blue eyes. A facial reconstruction with the proper coloring is shown here. 

Every 1000 years or so you can expect a large "1000-year-flood" near large rivers. So it shouldn't shock anybody if the first few millenia of Sumer's history might have included one or two such big flood events. It is a floodplain, after all. Periodic floods were what make agriculture productive enough to create their culture there in the first place. There were some rather larger "flood" events which happened during human prehistory, cheifly due to rising sea levels as the glaciers melted at the end of the last Ice Age. For example, before about 5.3MYA sea levels were below the level needed to connect the Mediterranian Basin and the Atlantic. When they got high enough one fine day, there was what they call The Zanclean Flood. It is speculated that until about 5600BCE a similar situation existed with the Black Sea at the Bosphorous, and then (again, it is speculated) a similar Great Flood happened there. That is not too far away, in either time or distance, from ancient Sumeria. Close enough that a dim memory of such a thing might have persisted in oral traditions (particularly if it happened to be a really good story). Personally, I think it more likely it is just an enhanced memory of a large, but otherwise mundane, river flood. 

Lots. Probably the most well-known example is that the Jews used to take their God (inside the Arc of the Covenant) into battle with them. (Of course in their accounts, the magic often worked). A much more modern version came out of the Ghost Dance of the late 19th Century. Through a combination of native and Mormon theological elements, a group of Lakota Warriors attempted to make themselves some bulletproof shirts. It didn't work out so hot for them. The incident is known today as the Wounded Knee Massacre. Other similar attempts at being made bulletproof featured in the Boxer Rebellion, and of course the number of little superstitions and prayers employed by various people in all the wars of the 20th Century are too numerous to count. Hence the saying that "there are no atheists in foxholes." 

However, the age of the copy itself is not generally useful information for a layman. Modern people are spoiled by their cheap, perfect modern copying devices. For ancient people, copying was a necessity, because originals deteriorate (or suffer mishaps), but it was very expensive and every copy was imperfect. This has a lot of repercussions that we spoiled 21'st Century humans aren't used to having to worry about. Here are some things modern people often don't quite grok about ancient manuscripts. They are usually incomplete The best oldest sources are (by virtue of being the oldest) in the worst states of repair when found. That means typically large parts tend to be missing or illegible. They change over time Every copy messes something up. Sometimes those will get "fixed" in later copies, but often not. Things that are surprising to the guy making the copy are more likely to get fixed, but that means surprising portions are likely to get slowly not fixed, or even "fixed", to be not so surprising. They are inconsistent This follows from the point above. Since every copy is slightly different, over the generations these differences will accumulate, and can actually lead to different copies having noticeable lineages, if you have enough of them to work it out. Material gets added "Copyright" didn't exist, so authorship was not a big deal. If you had some material you wanted spread, the absolute best way to do it was to attribute it to someone famous, and slip it into a copy of their work. We can tell this happened today due to the fact that an author's vocabulary is like a fingerprint, and sections that have different "fingerprints" were clearly from different authors. You can even date vocabularies and themes to a certain extent. This is how we know that somewhere between 4 and 6 of Paul's Epistles were not written by Paul, and Arthashastra had at least 2 different authors (and likely many more). 

So southern blacks were effectively living in a terrorist state. This is of course the essential backdrop to Harper Lee's To Kill a Mockingbird. 

Caring for the old and infirm goes far further back than the historical record. Remains have been found in multiple neanderthal sites of individuals with old injuries that would have made them unable to fend for themselves. The best known example was a neanderthal found at Shanidar Cave I who had evidence of multiple deformaties and old partially healed injuries, leading to partial blindness, an unusable right arm, and a limp. There's no way he could have survived long enough for those injuries to show signs of healing without help. Another skeleton at the same site showed signs of degeneration in one leg that would have had him walking with a severe limp. There's also the Old Man at La-Chappelle-aux-Saints, who was missing enough important teeth that some feel he may have either required a soft diet, or "prechewing" of his food from someone else. This theory appears to be not currently in very good smell, but it still has its proponents. Both finds were of the neanderthal variety of hominid, from more than 60,000 years ago. Neanderthals also were the first hominid known to create representational art, and to exhibit some kind of burial cerimony. So it looks like those things may have developed roughly at the same time. 

The thing is, it was never about the signs. For example, a quick perusal of this Civil Rights Chronology will show you that after the US Supreme Court ruled segregated public schools illegal, it was 3 full years before Little Rock, AR integrated theirs (and then the black schoolkids required armed protection from the US Army to get into the building). Then it was another 23 years later that the courts ruled it was legitimate to effect this by letting kids attend schools outside of their segregated neighborhoods. Housing discrimination, which enforced this neighborhood segregation, was still nominally legal until the Civil Rights act of 1968. However, integrated neighborhoods were still discouraged, both by real-estate agents and by irate neighbors. In Tulsa I lived in an integrated neighborhood in the mid 1970's, but it was the only one. Signage is a similar issue. Originally the signs wouldn't have been much of an issue. Black people were just supposed to know their place. The signs came up after Plessy (1896), when courts basically ruled that facilities could legally be separated, as long as "equal" facilities were available. So the signs were the legal cover for refusing a facility to a black person. After Brown overturned that in 1954, this bit of legal humbuggery no longer was valid. Many people who didn't want to serve blacks at private establishments that qualified as a "public accommodation" (eg: stores and restaurants), instead put up signs that read "We reserve the right to refuse service to anyone for any reason". The 1968 Civil Rights act made it illegal for such places to refuse service based on race, but the signs were still a useful marker (particularly in rural areas) for where blacks are not welcome. But even without the sign, racists will find a way. Many people would for example just ignore a black "customer" in their establishment, until the person gets the idea and leaves. I had this happen to me at a national chain restaurant in rural Indiana in 1983 while traveling with some black friends.