I have installed MOSS2007 along with TFS2010. While browsing through dashboards I found following error- Excel Web Access-An error has occurred. Please contact your system administrator if this problem persists. The eventviewr is flooded with error- Excel Services: Unexpected exception while trying to access Shared Services Database;. Error = Cannot open database "SharedServices1_DB" requested by the login. The login failed. Login failed for user 'Domain\Servername-01$'.. I have installed MOSS2007 on apptier of TFS Setup. Please suggest. Thanks Upfront. 

Want to publish Firefox or Chrome in a XenApp/RDS environment. However, I can't find any central way to disable file browsing (ie. type c:\ in address bar). In fact, I can't find any great way in general to do this at all with these browsers. This leaves me with having to use IE, which I'd really rather not do as the apps they're accessing really recommend using Firefox or Chrome. Does anyone know how this is possible? 

Don't need to much thought or search the technical data - You are out of limits. In general there are very simple sites that after one compile they no need many thinks, but there are also some complex site that have probably database access or other data processing that need some resource from your computer. There are also the case that one site from your 600 have a serious bug, or eat a lot of memory and affect the rest 599. One site from all with a close loop function can crash you any time :) 

Install TFS2010 10.0.30319.1 (RTM) on Windows Server 2008 R2 Enterprise(app tier) SQL 2008 SP1 with Cumulative update 2 on Windows Server 2008 R2 Enterprise(data tier) Reporting Service is installed on app tier. After this installation worked fine we installed SharePoint 2010 on app tier. After installation we followed $URL$ for configuration. We are not able to perform the last step described in the link as following error occured- TF249063: The following Web service is not available: $URL$ This Web service is used for the Team Foundation Server Extensions for SharePoint Products. The underlying error is: The remote server returned an error: (404) Not Found.. Verify that the following URL points to a valid SharePoint Web application and that the application is available: $URL$ If the URL is correct and the Web application is operating normally, verify that a firewall is not blocking access to the Web application. We have also noticed that Document Folder in Team project also have red x. 

Ended up using the OCT and created a fake POP account. Just creating a PST didn't disable the wizard. This ended up solving the issue since no one will have e-mail access, but they do need to be open to open .MSG files. 

Basically, we don't want the Outlook wizard to appear the first time it's opened. We want a blank profile created (no e-mail support) so users can open msg files. I've not found a way to automate this process. Could anyone provide some guidance? 

I am hosting on server4you.net some years now with 2 server and never have serious problems. They are good and have low price. I like them a lot. 

Also the pool have make at least 600 directories on your root disk, where your os lives and this is an issue also... a lot of read/write the compilers, the email that you have give with your sites, the iis log files, the cache file... too many sites... 

We have a terminal server in our environment, where Domain\Domain Users can login through Remote Desktop. We want to force log off these users after half an hour. However Administrators (this includes Domain\Domain Admin also) should not be affected by this. They should be able to connect to terminal server with out any interruption. Can somebody guide us about it. Thanks upfront Kabir 

To get the additional features of dashboard in TFS 2010, we installed SharePoint Server 2007 with Service Pack 2 on the apptier of our TFS setup. After configuring it, we are not able to see the additional dashboards. What needs to be done to enable additional dashboard. Site Action->Site Setting->Site Features->Agile Dashboards with Excel Reporting->Activate does not give any result and do not throw any error. Thanks Upfront. 

I am search to find a program, or a way to block ips that make port scan on the server. The goal is to hide some ports like remote desktop on a different port. So some are search the port with port scanning to locate this port and start the attacks. The server is running Windows Server 2008 64-bit, and its a remote administrate server with iis and mail services mostly. In previus versions of Windows Servers (eg on 2003) I use the comodo firewall that have this ability, but on 2008 comodo just not work and I am searching for something else but still did not found any. Can you please give me some ideas/solutions ? Thank you in advanced. 

As per the link $URL$ , I downloaded the Windows Installer Cleanup Utility. Remove previous installation and reinstalled Office 2003 with SP3. Everything works fine. Thanks. 

i want to change the local computer policy in a windows 2003 terminal server which is part of domain. The policy i want to change is "Sets a time limit for active Terminal services session" to Enabled and Active Sessions limit to 5 minutes, so that all active session can be terminated after time limit. However, I don't want to enforce it on "domain\Domain Admin" who are part of local group Administrators as well local admin users of the server. Mostly I would like to enforce this policy on Domain\domain users who are member of Remote Desktop Users of this terminal server. can somebody please help . Thanks 

I have a four node cluster setup which I need to migrate from subnet A to subnet B. The cluster has roughly 12 instances running on it. I've found articles to update the SQL Cluster IP, but I've got more problems or need more information regarding the logistics of the migration. My initial plan was to do this: 

Until all of the instances are moved, there will be a period when only one NIC has a default gateway, which may be an issue it would seem to be. Other than scheduling a complete downtime and just doing it all at once and getting rid of subnet A immediately, what's the best route to accomplish this migration? 

For TFS 2010 application tier. data tier and build server, What should be the best practice for IP address. Shall we give static IP available or we should use DHCP forthis. 

Central Administration > Operations > Enable Features on existing sites after going to this place , check Enable Features . Click Ok. Then go to- Site Action > Site Settings > Site Features > Click Activate Agile Dashboard with excel reporting. You will see all the Dashboard list like Bug, Build, Test etc on the left side.