Weapons are simply a means of delivering large amounts of energy to a small space, causing havoc and destruction. Given the vastness of deep space, it would not seem improbable that a major way for species to meet would be for both species to develop FTL travel. But, developing FTL travel means that you have developed a way to direct energy. You have the means to deliver almost limitless energy to anywhere you want. In turn, that means that you have pretty much reached or come within spitting distance of the limits for weapons development. This is sort of like where the Soviet Union and the U.S. stand now. Sure, we can refine our nuclear weapons so that they are 20% more efficient, or 15% more destructive, or have 35% greater range. But what's the point. Whether we do or not, we have MAD, Mutually Assured Destruction. So, back to the vastness of space... At the same time you develop FTL, and you have built-in access to FTL level weapons. You have also the technology for that level of energy control, which means that you can also develop defensive technology to match those weapons. Again, you are within spitting distance of each other. At that stage, then conflict is a lot more about tactics than it is about being stronger than the other. You can see this in high level physical battles (UFC or boxing). Strength and speed are a big factor, but among the very top competitors, skills and strategy can and often do determine the outcome. Another example of this is coach Tom Herman leading Houston to a victory over Florida State on Dec 31, 2015. Florida State had a team made up of higher recruited players, supposedly stronger and faster. But, at that level, given the right leader, even a team like Houston can challenge (and defeat) a team like Florida State, or number three ranked Oklahome in 2016. The point is, there are technological plateaus, as there are plateaus in any kind of development. Areas reached where a hard technological or developmental or scientific limit keeps the players within a range close enough for leadership and tactics to be a greater deciding factor. That is, until some alien race hits some paradigm shift, a technological breakthrough that takes them to a whole other level. At that level, of course, they can locate and destroy every other race at will, or they can rise above such needs or desires. We are just lucky to be in the galaxy where those races, so far, have chosen the latter. I think that is a pretty good explanation. And I also think it is all BS. But then again, that's the point. Isn't it? 

Leather, treated properly, can be very water tight. I would make a bell out of leather, large and with open bottom attached to a basket like contraption with stones tied to it to weigh it down. Sort of like the balloons we use to fly around with hot air, but this would go down into the water. The "basket" part of this would be attached closer to the balloon/bell part of it. I could then dive from the balloon/bell, or work directly from it once i'd set it down on the floor. I'd keep a rope or line attached to my dock or boat. Once done working or run out of air, release the weight stones and come back up to the dock or boat for more air and stones. If I ever saw the water level rising inside of my balloon/bell, while under water, i could swim outside it and look for air leaks (bubble streams). Say I consume 30 liters of air per minute. And say a cowhide gives me 30 sq ft or leather (2.8 m2). That would make a sphere with a radius of about .5m. Which would give me about .44 m3 of air (440 liters), so almost 15 minutes of air. But because volume grows with the cube of the radius, while area only takes the square, it would only take about 10 to 11 cowhides to give me a balloon big enough to hold 8 hours worth of air. The bell would sort of collapse some at different depths, kind of like an atmospheric balloon expands as it goes up and shrivels up when it comes down. The bell would have to be flexible to allow this, so the leather would have to be thinned down just right. But, this is a good thing. It means the air in your bells is getting pressurized by the water around it. You want that air to get pressurized, otherwise breathing would become impossible very quickly. At depths of even 10 meters, you'd have to worry about compression sickness. The most you could spend down would be about 2 hours, without the need for a decompression chamber. So to stay that max, you'd need about 6 to 7 cowhides to make for 4 hours worth of air, compressed down to half volume - 2 hours. But different pressure affects how you absorb oxygen in your lungs so it would affect how much volume of air you would need per hour, and I don't know exactly what that would mean. A problem you would run into is that a leather bag containing even just .44m3 of air, submerged in water, would have a strain similar to the same bag holding that much volume of water, hanging from a roof. The internal pressure would be trying to tear the seams apart. Even if you glued and super-stitched the seams, you would be likely to come apart at the seams, and all the more as the bell got bigger. This would be a bigger problem near the surface, where the bell is in full volume without as much external pressure to balance the pressure from the buoyancy of the air inside it. One partial solution would be that you would need to reinforce the bell with a netting of thick ropes that will be the ones that end up carrying the weights at the bottom. The leather bell sits inside the netting. Another partial solution would be to create a network of multiple bells, rather than one bigger bell. This will require more material but it may prove an absolute necessity. Another possible solution is to make a double or even triple layered bell, with the layers glued to each other, so that the seams of one bell never run too close to the seams of the other. It would be ok for them to intersect, but not run alongside. The bottom line is, imagine you were building a bag that you could hung from the roof and fill with water. Mind you, a cubic meter of water weighs a ton, literally a metric ton, 1000 kg or nearly 2200 pounds. The strains on the bag and its moorings would be pretty much the same. If you can build such a bag, you can use it as a bell, turned upside down, with air inside and water outside. An interesting aside here would be that the people in the world doing this, would have learned the hard way about compression sickness, and would constantly have to deal with it. People being tempted to stay longer, jut to get a little more precious metal, and then ending up with the "bends" (compression sickness makes a person double up and bend their joins in pain). This sounds so doable and fun (building the bell, not getting the bends), I might have to try it just for the heck of it. The balloon thing, without the compression sickness part. So maybe just the 15 minute version to start with. 

If this person truly stopped time, and somehow not stopped time for themselves, then you are right, they would not be able to see. What you see in movies and stories where "time stops", is more of a pausing of all momentum. So things with mass stop moving, but things like photons (massless) continue to work. However, even there, you have inconsistencies, since photons are generated by things like electrons (which have mass) oscillating between energy levels in the atom. Of course, that does not necessarily mean they are moving, but rather gaining and losing energy, which is hard/impossible to picture happening without movement. Still, I think the inconsistencies at that level would be the sort of thing you can hand-wave away. I think a story that explained that rather than "stopping time" that what the device did was "pause momentum" would be more accurate, to the point of being far more interesting on that score. 

To question 4 - a dyson sphere would encompass a star, so you are talking something with a diameter equivalent to the orbit of a planet. Take Mars, with a distance to the sun of just under 150 million miles. If you make a Dyson sphere around the sun, at Mars' orbit, the distance from its Equator to one of its poles would be around 230 million miles. The earth's arctic circle is at 66 degrees North. So this Dyson sphere's arctic circle, if it was defined to be at the same latitude, would be about 172 million miles from its equator. I estimate that at the speed of sound it would take you around 25 years to go from the equator to the arctic, or just over 300 years to circumnavigate the sphere. 

I do not think that we will ever develop an artificial AI that can rival human thought in its most important facet. Mind you, we already have systems that can surpass humans in many areas such as have been mentioned by other posts here - solving integral equations, computation, applying game theory, etc. But these are all applications of deductive or even inductive reasoning. There is another type of thinking that the human mind can do which is beyond computational ability and which I think will be forever beyond the ability of computers. This is abductive reasoning, or creative thinking. Think for example of Max Planck. Faced with the ultra-violet catastrophe, a problem that was baffling the physicists of his time, he came to a point where he said he was ready to forsake every previously held conviction about physics. It was only then that he came up with the equation that would give birth to quantum physics (E=hfc). This equation breaks with everything we knew to that point about physics. Its implication, as would later be worked out, is that energy naturally occurs not in a smooth gradient, but in chunks - quanta. That is, energy has particle properties. That sort of leap that denies past knowledge and gives birth to a paradigm shift, it is the same sort of "thinking" or creating that goes on when an artist composes a strikingly beautiful piece of music or astounding painting. A conceptual entity was not there, and then it was, in the mind of its creator. This is where our mind goes beyond our brain. It is not a matter of being able to do more computations per second, or store more bits of information - it is not a quantitative difference. It is a qualitative difference between the human mind and the computer brain. Think of it like this.... Consider an average human composer who has studied music theory and is able to consistently and mechanically produce acceptable music. Now consider Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart who composes page after page of flawless music, music that broke with tradition and yet is still admired centuries later. What is the difference? Will we ever be able to teach a machine to be a Mozart? We can't even teach a human to be a Mozart or a Max Planck; what would make us think we can build a machine capable of competing, much less surpassing them? How do we impart the ability to create, to make an unwarranted logical leap, to create something out of nothing? This is the thing that will forever be beyond our ability to build into an automaton.