Just ask yourself who would be interested in reading your reply. Then edit the list of email addresses to delete the names that won't have an interest. A lot of this depends on the nature of the email you're replying to and the nature of your reply. 

This probably seems somewhat obvious, but consider declaring your autism up-front - before or at the interview stage. Companies are gradually getting better at inclusion, and autism in the technology industry really isn't a rare thing any more. Some companies seem to prefer autistic employees for certain roles because they have a high technical aptitude, and can remain focused on tasks that would be difficult for others. You know this already, I'm sure. So, take autism to your interview and discuss it. See how your prospective employer can accommodate your behaviour and use it in a positive way for both your career growth and the company. Discuss how this can enhance your role within this company and what roles/responsibilities could be affected by your autism and agree to find ways of mitigating those problems. Those mitigations could be as simple as letting your team-mates how to interact and what body language to look out for. 

Yes, it's acceptable to "reserve" your lunch slot with a recurring appointment. I see this a fair amount in my colleagues calendars, and it doesn't cause any problems at all. It's a good thing to do if you regularly have lunch at the same time. 

Don’t panic Clean your desk. Optionally, complain to people in general about how messy people are. Get it set up the way you like it. Carry on working. This kind of thing can happen when you leave your desk for a while. It's not terribly professional of your co-workers to leave your desk like this, but spending a few minutes giving it a clean and setting things up shouldn't be a huge task. If the same thing happened to me, it would probably be a good excuse for me to give it a good clean. I am assuming here that the ash isn't a health risk to you (as you're a smoker yourself, right?) 

Two weeks isn't that long. Here in the UK, notice period can be months long. You're leaving anyway, so any negativity you're going through now just won't matter after you've gone. I'd just keep my head down and work through the remaining days. Failing this, confront your manager: 

It's your computer, you should be the only one driving it You're letting your co-worker use your computer while you're otherwise engaged. The behaviour should really cease. What happens if he inadvertently does something wrong and something gets deleted or trashed and only discovered later - you're the one taking responsibility for that because it happened through your computer using your login. In my office (and most other places I've worked at), it's policy to lock your screen whenever you leave your computer unattended. If you need to share information with your colleague, email it, share it, configure your chat program to put it's logs in a shared folder. Don't let your computer be abused by other people - anything that happens on it is your responsibility. 

Yes, you can certainly follow up. Make sure that it's in a positive manner and highlight the fact that you're excited about working for this company, not that you're simply chasing them up. Something like 

It's pretty clear that developers have different set-ups on their machines, and the world is perfect if the solution builds on their own machine. Obviously, this is hogwash and relies on at least one person to build and deploy the solution in their own view of the world. The answer is to standardise by using a Jenkins build server or something similar to that. We have one for our major solutions. Every few minutes, it grabs the latest code files from the source code manager (TFS in our case) and then attempts to build the solution. If the build fails, everyone in the team gets automatically emailed and whoever broke the build is implicitly named and shamed. Obviously, the compiler options and environment on the Jenkins server is vanilla and is geared toward a completely valid/true build. This removes any ambiguity caused by people referencing local copies of source/dlls out in the wild and you won't deploy a solution that references a piece of code that lives on someone's development machine. Using a build server like this levels and standardises the playing field and ensures complete consistency in the end result. 

It's doubtful that enough shares will be available to any individual employee to take any kind of contributing influence above what you have in your day job. The larger the company, the more shares it will have, and the less control shareholders will have. For many companies, especially larger ones, it's purely an investment opportunity. 

Unless you're an actor, or in the InfoSec sector, or a YouTube star, then using a pseudonym in a professional setting is pretty unprofessional. As Joe mentioned in a comment, using a pseudonym on a CV can make you look silly/weird, and this lessens your credibility. There's no need for a pseudonym on a CV unless the said name is applicable to the role you're applying for. It's ok to use your pseudonym on your LinkedIn profile if you don't want to use your profile for business networking or sharing with potential employers. Using a pseudonym in business-facing profiles will most likely paint you as being overly paranoid. It's ok to be protective of your internet security, but many social networks give you tools to do this. 

Yes, your boss is treating you like trash, because he believes you have a trash job that he can get anyone else to do. It's a power trip for him. You're doing what you can to keep to the schedules and ensure that you get the requisite amount of people in each session and the requisite amount of sessions per working day. The more people you have in those seats, the more the company earns. Slowing things down affects this revenue. However, it's a service industry and the customer is always right. Even if they (the customer) screw things up, they take the reputation of your company away with them. So if you treat them well, they tell other people. But, you need to do your job. Try to move forwards by learning up front who the preferred customers are (like a special symbol on the ticket for example) and be prepared to hold up the session a little longer to get these people in, even if they're late. You also need to find out how long you can hold a session up for these special guests. Agree this delay time with your manager, he then can't hold you to account for bumping people who are late. 

Ignore it. Carry on speaking as normal and ask for a confirmation of understanding when you normally would do. Or you can pause in a meaningful manner and allow him to finish his humming. 

Just do one of two things: 1) Put a flyer in the letter-box 2) Hand a flyer into reception if there's no letter-box People are very used to agency staff being used to distribute flyers so there won't be any expectation of you attempting to sell your business. You don't actually have to interact with people unless explicitly told to by your boss. Don't worry about it, just enjoy the day out of the office. 

You just have to accept it in good humour, there's not much else you can do really. If you take this well without taking too much offense, things will be easier. It's an English thing to be self-deprecating anyway, so it's ok to include yourself in the joke if it's kept light-hearted. 

Analysing these aspects should help in building a decent facsimile of how she constructs letters herself. 

You need to be up-front with your VP regarding the times that you need to attend classes/tuition. Say pretty clearly what the time periods are and try to get a verbal agreement that it's ok. This makes it difficult for your VP to back down from. Also, put these classes into your calendar as "Out of Office" or something that indicates that you're not available for work in these time periods. 

Divert with basic time management At the start of the meetings just outline a brief agenda and how long the meeting will take. This should negate entirely the need for a timer and you just carry on as normal. If the timer is placed on the table during ad-hoc meetings, then this could result in a small pause, a pointed look, and you carry on as normal. Ten to thirty minute meetings should not be any cause for concern at all from management. If anything, they add to productivity because everyone gets a bit clearer on where the project is and their place within the timeline. 

Apply for both jobs, but customise your CV/resume to highlight your skills in A and C, but don't discard referencing any B/D skills and experience that you might have. Hopefully the hiring manager will see that you have a particular AC skill set and may entertain the idea of changing the roles around if you end up being a worthwhile proposition for them. It's unlikely that they'll reassign the roles based on an general inquiry from you. If you get one of the roles, but they don't overtly change the roles to suit you, you might be able to work on that on the inside rather than forcing the issue before you start. 

The answer is in your contract of employment. If working on national/region holidays aren't explicitly covered, then you're bound by local employment law. But your contract most probably has the answer here. 

Take whatever papers that these guys signed on departure and go buy some lawyer time. This is all you can do at this stage. If you didn't adequately protect your v2 IP, then you're kind of stuck. If you have protection, you have something to fight them with. 

And work from there. There's various websites around for this kind of thing. Or if everyone is using Outlook, just create a meeting - all recipients will see the time/date in their own time-zone. 

Copy people into your Lead generation emails. Or prepare and send a regular email report detailing the leads you generated and which generated business and which were lost/not developed (and for what reason). 

This isn't really an issue. You had one co-worker who didn't feel confident enough to bring up this point with you in the normal face-to-face manner (as many of us would). You can't assume that the rest of your co-workers share the same behaviour. I suspect that when approached, HR asked why this person couldn't ask you directly; maybe this hint as sunk in for anything else this person might not like. You might want to separately ask HR why this guy felt that he couldn't approach you directly. This might point to an underlying issue or misunderstanding somewhere (perhaps he feels that complaining to a lady directly may be seen as being sexist). 

Accidents happen. Even though we can put processes in place, there's always going to be room for human error. To answer the question here, you should speak with the guy who made the changes and say what's happened. If he asks you why you didn't retain a backup of your last script, you're perfectly entitled to ask the same question in return. Looks like you both assumed the other had a backup and didn't ask. The fault ultimately lies with both of you. Obviously, if this creates more than a small delay to the project, you'll need to raise this with the PM (if applicable). Covering up for problems (yours or others) can create more problems than they solve. 

Assume not. Your work-provided laptop is a connection to your corporation. If the laptop gets stolen while on holiday and your password is compromised, then the thief has a direct route to your corporate network and has your credentials to authenticate themselves with. This becomes your responsibility, regardless of whether you claim it's stolen. If it's stolen, your have to pay (your company's insurance won't cover you using the laptop for personal reasons). You also can't trust the WiFi while on holiday (it's easy enough to hack, and again, the thief has access to your company's internal network). In short, don't do it, and don't embarrass your boss by asking. Buy a cheap laptop/tablet for your own personal use, and take that with you instead. 

You Still Have a Job I wrote that in big bold letters because this situation puts you in a far better position than all the other job-seekers who don't currently have one. 

You can't perform magic. That's something that you and your management need to agree on. What you can do, however, is pick up this challenge, understand the risks, and run with it. You first need to perform some gap analysis to identify the feasibility of project success - this would include (but not be limited to): 

Start looking for another job right now, but adhere to the terms of your PIP plan in the meantime. It does sounds as though things have gone sour in your current workplace, so you really need to start from fresh someplace else.