There are no true "rules" when it comes to jobs and job hunting. I left my first job out of school almost exactly 6 months after starting. I felt the same as you. My position was very unfulfilling, involved managing the maintenance of equipment built before I was born. If felt that if I stayed, it would impact my future career prospects. I ended up changing jobs and my career has not suffered at all. I even left the company I moved too after only 2 1/2 years, which led to a series of company/title changes due to my company constantly getting bought and sold (2 sales in 5+ years I was there). After 5 years in the same role though, I interviewed with a massive corporation that has very strict hiring policies, and I got the position. So despite the job/companies changes after 8 years of my career, I have not had any issues, nor have I ever been asked "why did you leave you first job after 6 months". In short, frequently changing jobs can be a red flag, it usually will not be an issue if you show that you do not make a habit of it. Leaving 1 job (even if it is your first) after 18 months is not a significant problem, but if you change every job after 18 months, it could be an issue later in your career. 

Walk away an accepted offer is an contract and if the company wont stand behind the offer then well that is a company to avoid. How did you accept if its in writing rather than verbaly then the company is breaking their contract with you. As you accepted an offer I would demand payment for the breach of contract on pain of legal action - say 3 months salary. 

Up to a point but for Elite schools (Both University and High school) going to Oxbridge, ENA, Harvard or to say the Oratory or King Edward VII (or the equivalent in your country) is going to open doors that going to a lesser institution is not. 

"Is this job with Company B, both in the short term and in the long term, worth ruining my reputation with Company A"*. Will I ever need Company A in the future for a job, or a client". 

This depends greatly on the hiring processes of the company involved. In cases where your application is emailed to HR or hiring manager or internal recruiter, then CC'ing your contact would be the best decision. This allows him/her to see your complete application (resume/cover letter) and provide specific details to the hiring manager about your application. However, in many larger companies the process won't involve much email initially. When you apply, it is usually via an online form of some kind. When this happens, it usually won't be possible to CC'd your contact at all. In those cases, it is best to apply, and then directly email or call your contact and provide the details of your submission (such as an application number or job posting number or some other name/number to identify the specific opening and applicant). Your contact would then be able to contact HR and the hiring manager to provide his/her feedback to your application. I've done both methods in the past depending on the size of the company, and at my current (Fortune 100) company, I can confirm the 2nd suggestion is the only way to get an internal contact to provide a recommendations unless the specifically referred you to the position (which is a 3rd option if the company provides the option for employees to refer external candidates). 

You can always ask, but if there is a non-disclosure agreement between the agent and the company you are unlikely to receive a reply. The job agent is likely more concerned in keeping a good relation with his employer than with potential employees. If you work in a specialized field you can ask what the company produces, size etc. and try to figure out which company it is. The more general the company the harder it is to pinpoint though. There is a risk that you apply to a bad reputation company in that case you can still use the time to fine tune your CV, presentation etc. 

You need to work out what tasks need to be done as a result of the maternity leave and ask you boss which ones he doesn't want you to do. Make him or her make the Decision 

Yes it doesn't give a very professional impression especially for a senior employee. For a senior Employee in the UK 3 months is not unusual and as going from 1 months to 3 months you wouldn't stand a very good chance in court. If you need to leave most employees will offer pay in lieu any how so what is the main issue here. 

When working for a producing company it is often seen as detrimental to favour a competitor's product while on the job even if you only wish for some variety. What you prefer in your freetime is something entirely different, that is and should be of no concern to the company. That being said, appearance is important in the corporate game and outside of it. Imagine what effect it would have on the company if the manager/CEO openly favoured the competitors product in front of employees or customers. It could be interpreted as if there was no faith in the product with loss of morale in employees and customers openly questioning the quality of the product. 

I've never had this specific benefit, but my wife has. She's worked at the same company as long as I've known her, and the privilege seems to have been slightly modified every summer, but the general concept is that Fridays in the summer have modified hours. Some years have meant that every other Friday is a half-day. Other years meant that they can leave an hour or 2 early every Friday. And some years, the benefit was not offered. The only way to know what the specific benefit means is to ask. 

I would not recommend putting on your cover letter that money is not important for you. We all need to cover our basic expenses and we do that through monetary means, thus money sadly becomes important. Instead focus on the positive sides that the company provide. Search their webpage to find out what kinds of benefits they provide: learning, flex-time etc. and make your pitch towards that instead. 

In light of some of the comments that have been coming in I believe some clarifications are in order. The product will be a cast product, any errors introduced today will stick with the product for at least 5 to 10 years before any revisions can be made. That means that I will be held responsible for any and all errors in the cast that pop up during these 5-10 years without having a reasonable chance of correcting them. It is ludicrously expensive to change cast molds. 

I would go and see the Citizens Advice Bureau or preferably your trade union if you are member and suggest that they get a lawyer to set up a compromise agreement. You have written evidence of libel and threats of giving a bad reference which you could use as leverage. You could also risk going to work if they do strike or threaten do not retaliate call 999 (911) and report an assault - note any break in the skin makes it GBH 

As this is a question that in part regards Indian law I recommend contacting a lawyer or someone that is specialized in indian law. That being said, withholding salary and not paying it until 2 months later sounds sketchy and you could probably argue a breach of contract. Given that they are not paying you and threatening you with the labour contract I wouldn't be overly concerned about leaving smoothly, they do not appear to be serious in their dealings. I would hand in a resignation stating the last day you will be working and explicitly stating the reason you are leaving, the withholding of your payment. If you have any outstanding salary with the company you might have to drag it through court if they do not settle.