War produces an incentive for technological progress: Inventing a new and better weapon may mean that your society survives instead of being annihilated or enslaved. On the other hand, war also destroys huge amounts of resources. There was certainly great technological progress during World War 2. It would be hard to argue that the war did not CAUSE progress. But there was also a lot of technological progress in the 19th century, a time of relative peace. And of course there's been a lot of technological progress since World War 2, little of which really seems to be attributable to any wars. Well the threat of being killed or enslaved is certainly a powerful incentive, there are many other reasons why people might want to devote energy to technological progress. The desire to live a more comfortable life, for example. The desire for novelty, excitement, and adventure. Pure curiosity. 

I think in real life, though, there is no such thing as "imperious to small arms fire". Does it literally have no vulnerable spots? Could not someone with a slingshot or a bow and arrow take out its eyes? Or fire down its throat? If someone shoots at its scales with a musket, does the bullet bounce off doing no harm at all? Or could repeated hits on the same spot eventually break through? What if someone managed to drop a very heavy object on it, like from a catapult, or dropping a boulder off a cliff as it flies by? Wouldn't the shear momentum bring it down? Or is the dragon immune to the laws of physics? A bullet-proof vest can protect you from bullets, but it won't save you if a truck hits you at 90 miles per hour. Start fires and fill the sky with smoke. Now the dragon can't see. At the least it is unable to attack targets it can't see; at best it might fly into the ground or the side of a mountain. Poison darts. Well okay, there's that invincible armor again. But again, what if we shoot him in the eye, or in his ears, or down his throat? The dragon you describe sounds so awesome that it must be at least semi-magical. If so, then magic exists in this universe. Can we find some magic to counter the dragon? Is there some acid or other chemical that will destroy or weaken the scales? Can the dragon be confused and disoriented by bright lights, loud noises, or overpowering smells? You say it can scale down its senses. Hmm, that sounds like you're just trying to give the dragon all the benefits of something and none of the drawbacks. But if the defenders shine a blinding light in its eyes, can it somehow scale down its sensitivity to light so that it is not blinded, but at the same time still be able to see to attack the enemy? If so, then we're close to "the dragon is invincible and no weapon can defeat it", in which case by definition the dragon is invincible and no weapon can defeat it. 

Several have said that humans have more than five senses, but based on your statement that you consider echolocation just very good hearing, you could say that really we have only 3 senses: electromagnetic radiation (sight, temperature), chemical reaction (taste and smell, acidity), and kinetic energy (touch, hearing). One could imagine extending any of those, such as: Sensing radio waves or other parts of the EM spectrum. Sensing heat in a way that allows you to "see" a picture of the heat sources around you, like night-vision goggles. Perceiving other sorts of chemicals, like being able to "see" or "smell" chemicals produced by other living creatures, and so literally "smell fear", etc. Or being able to look at the ground and see where there are metal ores or oil. Feeling other forms of motion or vibration, like sensing subtle air movements, e.g. know what weather is coming, subtle ground movements, e.g. know an earthquake is coming. Or know when things are moving near you by changes in air pressure. Directly sense magnetism. What senses could one have that go in a totally different direction? Someone mentioned sensing gravity. (Whether there is such a thing as gravity waves or not, one could still discuss sensing a gravitational field.) This could tell you your altitude if fine enough, which might be useful. Not sure what else it would do for a creature living on a planet. If the creature can travel in space, either naturally or in a spaceship, this becomes more useful. Directly sense nuclear strong and weak forces? I'm not sure how that would work or be useful to a macroscopic creature. You mentioned you're not looking for telepathy and such. That reminds me of a story I read years ago by Murray Leinster, I forget the title, where humans meet aliens, and they learn that the aliens communicate by broadcasting microwave signals between their brains. And one person says, "They have telepathy?" And another replies, "Sort of. But from their point of view, we have telepathy, because they've never thought of sound as a means of communicating." Which I thought was an excellent point. To aliens who do not have ears, the idea of communicating by generating and receiving sound waves might seem like a mysterious psychic phenomenon. 

For a fiction story, one could, of course, postulate a lone genius or a small group of geniuses, living in some isolated or segregated community, and keeping all their inventions secret. Some technologies are not useful on a small scale. There'd be little point in building a railroad network, for example, if your secret cabal all live in one building. Where will the trains go? An assembly line to produce one car per week isn't really an assembly line. Etc. Some technologies are hard to hide. If you invented the airplane 50 years before anyone else and you are flying it around, wouldn't someone see you sooner or later? Maybe you hide behind stories of UFOs or some such, but some things are hard to really use in hiding. But the big catch in practice is that advanced technology often requires a large and complex infrastructure. Suppose someone in the mid-1800s -- let's call him "Charles" -- got a stroke of genius and figured out how to design a computer. How could he really build one? It's awfully tough to build a factory to make integrated circuits in your garage using a crowbar and a sledgehammer. He could try to build a mechanical computer using the tools and materials available, but even this would be very difficult. The supporting technology just isn't there, and it would be very hard to build it all from scratch. A lot of modern technology requires bringing together materials and expertise from many people. The economist Milton Friedman once said that no one in the world can even make something as simple as a pencil. It takes many people. The wood may come from the Pacific Northwest. The lead may come from West Virginia. The metal may come from Minnesota. The rubber for the eraser probably comes from India. And then other people have to cut and plane the wood, smelt the melt, etc. People have to ship all these materials around. There are probably ultimately hundreds of people involved in making a simple pencil. You could do it if you had some huge organization that can draw resources from a large number of places and people, and then operate in secret without having to account to all these people for what they're doing. Like a government. 

It would surely be very difficult. But would it be impossible? Probably not. How smart are they? Deciphering an unknown language is very hard. Giter mentioned ancient Egyptian and the Rosetta Stone. The Rosetta Stone had writing in three languages: two versions of Egyptian and Greek. Archaeologists guessed, correctly it turned out, that it was the same message written in all three different languages. As they knew Greek, they knew what the Egyptian said. Even at that, it took over 30 years from the discovery of the Rosetta Stone before significant progress had been made in learning to read the Egyptian language. If the dictionary has pictures, that could give a jump start. Like if I found a Zobling dictionary and there was a picture of a frog next to the word "drabnatz", I might guess that "drabnatz" means "frog". Then I could look for other entries that use the word drabnatz and speculate that those words might be related to frogs in some way. Life if I identified many words for different types of amphibians, and then an entry that mentioned several of these, I might guess that is the word for "amphibian". But wow, that would be hard and slow. I wonder now: Has anyone ever deciphered a dead language without having any translations of text from that language into a known language? I don't know of any but it's not my area of expertise. 

My simple solution is: Assume that the time machine is affected by gravity. Why is it that when you walk across the room you don't suddenly find yourself floating in space because the Earth has moved along its orbit around the Sun? It's because you move with it, dragged along by gravity. Assume that the time machine doesn't literally disappear and reappear at another time, but that it moves through time, still on the Earth the whole time and affected by gravity. Would it really work like this? I have no idea. To the best of my knowledge no one has any idea how a time machine could actually work. So for an SF story, you can make up anything that makes the story work. (Actually you can throw things in an SF story that totally contradict all known science, like saying that a starship can travel faster than light, or that a politician might live up to his campaign promises, if it helps to make the story work.) 

There are already a bunch of answers with good information. I won't repeat them, but let me add some additional points. One: Your idea of a good life and someone else's idea of a good life are not necessarily the same. In at least two ways: One-A: For people living in 21st century Western countries, clean water and heat in the winter and available medical care and so forth all seem like basic necessities. But to people two hundred years ago, these were almost luxuries. Heck, lots of Westerners think of broadband internet access and good cell phone coverage as human rights. These things didn't even exist when I was a boy, and we didn't consider ourselves to be enduring horrible suffering because of their absence. One-B: People have different tastes. Like you say that you wouldn't want to live in even a "nice" American city because you don't like crowds and all. Me either. I grew up in New York and I moved away once I became an adult because I didn't like the crowds, the dirt, the crime, etc. I now live in a town of 20,000 or so, and I know there are people who consider this also way too crowded, and who would prefer to live in Wyoming where it's 100 miles to your nearest neighbor. But on the other hand, there are people who love to live in big cities, who love crowds and noise and think of them as exciting. Don't fall into the trap of assuming that everyone else thinks just like you. On this very subject: When I was in college I took a psychology 101 class. The textbook had a chapter on decision-making, in which the author gave as an example that if one of your friends got a job that paid a lot of money and that was in a small town in the southern US, that you would know that obviously he was taking the job for the money; but if he got a job that paid a lot of money and that was in a big city like New York or Los Angeles, you wouldn't know why he took the job because there would be many good reasons for taking it. I laughed at this example. The writer not only just took it for granted that it was better to live in NYC or LA than in a small town in the south, but he assumed that everyone else in the world would agree with that preference. What made it doubly absurd was that this came from a psychologist, supposedly an expert on how people think, in a section of a book discussing how people make decisions. And it just absolutely never even occurred to him that other people might have different tastes than he did! My point being: I look back at New York City and think, "Ugh! Crowded, dirty, noisy, crime-ridden, uncomfortable place. I'm so glad to be out." But others look at New York city and think, "Wow! Crowds! Noise! Excitement! I'm so glad to live here." Two: People may not have practical options, or at least not see them. It's easy to say, "Hey, why don't you move away from that terrible place?" But if the person has a home and a job, they are at least making do. If they moved someplace else, could they get a job there? Where would they live? To me and I guess to you, working in a Victorian-era factory sounds horrifying: hard work, dangerous, etc. But to people at the time, it was often a step up from their alternatives. We have this romantic view of life on the farm, picturing farmers sitting under a tree enjoying the fresh country air. But in real life, for most of history being a farmer was being one bad growing season away from starvation. Sure, work in a factory was hard. But work on the farm was hard too. In practice, in the 1700s and 1800s a lot more people left the farm to go work in the city, then left the city to work on the farm. Maybe some of them were fools who didn't know what they were getting into, but at some point they must have know the relative merits, and decided the city was better.