Just another viewpoint on this. It's worth consulting your company procedures/managers. If the tag you're using is just to let you access certain areas, etc. then that's fine, but if it's also got identification on it, it may be that the tag needs to be visible around your neck for security checks and the like. A number of compliance schemes require employees to be easily distinguishable, and that's usually done by distinctive lanyards and badges. It may be that you get into trouble for wearing it on your trousers rather than around your neck. 

By far and away the easiest solution to this would be to adopt a shortened version of your name which is easier for people to grasp, in the same way that Richard would be shortened to Rich, or William to Bill/Will. If it works, I'd take the first syllable of your name, although there may be other options, depending on the name and the culture. There would be no problem with you having a shortened "Goes By", and using the full name in any more formal communications. 

The only time I could see this being done would be if the first round was a recruiter screening, and then they ask you to refine your resume before passing it to the company (your applications should be different on a per-application basis anyway). Worth pointing out that I would avoid changing my given details mid-application, as that may indicate that you're trying to hide something, or are being less-than-truthful about some aspects. 

Schedule a weekly one-on-one with your manager. Each week, show him what you've done, what you've learned. Ask for feedback. Then, show what you plan to do next week. That way he gets a chance to change the course, should he feel the need to. If you can, come up with a "roadmap" of what big areas you'll be learning when. The shorter by, the more detail: stuff that you plan to do next month can be one line ("databases"), stuff you'll do next week needs to be more detailed. Update the roadmap each week. Send it to your manager the day before your one-on-one, and maybe the day after if he proposed changes. Ask your manager how you can check if you're doing OK: should you start making small changes, helping your coworker, picking up minor bugs and fix them? Or do they only want you to learn the theory without checking if you're actually getting it right? 

If they challenge you that you asked for less before, remain calm, polite and friendly, but explain that you are convinced you are worth the salary you are asking for, and that you can deliver a lot of value to their company - and believe you should be compensated accordingly. 

As always in a negotiation, it helps if you have arguments backing your demands. If you have another job offer, you can safely try raising your salary. Explain them: 

I'll admit that a 4-hour technical question is a little long, but is probably something to do with the seniority of the role. You appear to have missed the point of the exercise and are making excuses not to do it. Job hunting requires a sacrifice of personal time to do (the hunting, interviewing and testing), and companies expect you to be able to make those sacrifices. 

Worth pointing out that many employers have rules about cell pones and personal calls, so reasonable recruiters/potential employers shouldn't require an immediate response to all calls. That being said, there will be some that will think less of you for letting your phone go to voicemail. Two points that I would make would be, as said above, ensure that your voicemail functions, and you either get notified of messages, or check regularly. Second, I would avoid putting your new number on any broadcasted application. If you make an application to a role, then that's fine, but if you're posting your CV on a job board/site, then I'd avoid it. I've found recruiters to be somewhat persistent and obstinate as a general rule (not all, but enough to get to me), and tend to call you repeatedly about opportunities which are not suitable, or not desired. 

This depends heavily on how busy the support is. If there needs to be 24/7 support "just in case", then this is likely to be done in the form of an on-call rota, whereby the person "on-call" is free to do their own thing, but may be required to respond to incoming calls if they occur. Typically, there's an "on-call bonus", combined with a rate for out-of-hours work. If the requirement is more fixed (i.e. there needs to be someone actively doing something 24/7), then it gets more complicated. Typically, a person works 8-hours per day, 5 days per week. 2 people can cover 2/3 of the requirement during the week, but nothing at weekends. 3 people can give you full coverage during the week, and nothing on weekends. Technically, a second person can fill in the weekend, but in most places, working for 48 hours straight is not something you can compel. At this point, a 4-man rota would usually switch to a 12-hour 4-day-on/4-day-off schedule. This would give you full coverage, and mean that you don't take all of a certain person's weekends, but with a 4-man rota, it doesn't leave a lot of leeway for absences. 

Wait (or create) a better moment to ask their manager. Maybe after a succesful meeting or project delivery, where you're debriefing and celebrating. Ask him casually (not by email, not in writing) what would benefit his company most, what's keeping him from doing just that, what role you or your company could take on here. 

Do be careful: often people fresh out of school carry a lot of assumptions on how the real world works, and will find they are wrong. A lot of companies focus on quantity/speed over quality, delivering 10 projects on 90% quality just brings in more money than delivering 9 projects with 95% quality. Don't make yourself "unhirable" by requiring the world works the way you want, instead of you working the way the world wants. Be positive, show that you're willing to change if it needs to be. 

Then it's probably a good idea to assume this is part of his job description. Showing a willingness to help him from your side is not a bad thing. Use the first one on one to get acquainted, explain your role in the team/company and mention you've contacted management before about problems you identified, and that you'd be more than willing to discuss these with him should he wish so. You will come off as cooperative, problem-solving person. 

They may be able to see what you've done, but, as @Moo said, that's only evidence of the output. It's not something that they can verify independently, or easily. This is a spec issue. If they've got a problem that they think will take 4 hours, they expect it to take 4 hours. If you think it's going to take more, tell them, discuss your reasoning. They're obviously going to give you deadlines in the future, and you're going to need to adhere to them. This is, frankly, irrelevant. What they're asking you to do isn't learning it's demonstrating. It doesn't matter that it holds little educational value to you, because that's not the point of the exercise. 

As said, there's a difference between informing someone of an opening, and endorsing them as a candidate. For the former, let people in the hiring process know about any relationship. For the latter, you need to be aware that what you're doing is gambling. You are betting a portion of your current standing on the success of your acquaintance. If they do well, then people will view you as someone with good judgement, you are the one that got them to hire this glowing beacon of productivity. If they mess up, then they'll distrust your judgement in the future. Why should they trust your estimates/work/opinion, you got them to hire that colossal nitwit! You need to be aware of what you're laying on the table, what you stand to gain, and what you stand to lose.