Such marriages may also be the part of formal treaties between countries. And at the very least, just the fact of marriage effectively cancels out any previous casus belli. 

Finally under no. 40 on 4th August 1914 we have letter by Belgian Minister for Foreign Affairs Davignon to British, French, and Russian Ministers: 

The information on this subject is scarce. We positively know that Tsarist army during WWI had all the sorts of contemporary cryptography, but the Red Army got only a small part of it. First special cryptographic service in Soviet Union (or Soviet Russia back then) was created only on 5th May, 1921. And it definitely took a few years for the new service to develop into a truly serious organization. So, albeit the story of using some sort of Caesar cipher seems doubtful, but anyway we should suppose that Polish cryptographers in 1920 were able to decipher the Red Army's secret messages. Also it's worth to note that any incompetent usage of "one-time pad" kind of cipher (the only proveable unbreakable cipher, which is also quite obvious to implement, and thus being really popular among special services) may lead to downgrading it into breakable Viginere cipher, which one may easily confuse with Caesar cipher. 

King Albert asked King George by telegram (no. 25) to make "diplomatic intervention... to safeguard the integrity of Belgium". United Kingdom issued a diplomatic note (no. 28) stating that: 

As I remember, the biggest problems of phalanx were slow pace and inability to operate on a rough terrain (consider the length of their spears). In the battle of Pydna the macedonians had early success yet the romans were able to regroup and won the battle in the later counter-attack. So the phalanx was pretty good for one-time onslaught but in an advanced maneuver fighting it totally lacked the skills of the roman legion. 

People's opinion had a little impact on political life. The biggest loss for USSR was Gorbachev himself. He did nothing to prevent a breakup. And pro-USSR party couldn't just have thrown him out. On a mentioned coup of 1991, they tried to make a deal with Gorbachev first, not just to arrest him or such. They expected to put him under their influence and use his position to defeat the opposition. But that plan was quite foolish and, of course, didn't work. That was the reason why not all pro-USSR politics even supported them. And after the attempt had failed, the USSR was doomed. Yeltsin and others simply blew it up without paying any attention to the previous referendum. 

AFAIR, Paul had Roman citizenship, because all people of Tarsus got it after the wars of the 2nd Triumvirate, when they showed their loyalty to the triumvirs against Brutus and Cassius. As the legend says, Mark Antonius was trying to proclaim their new high status, just when they all ran to the port to look at the Cleopatra's scarlet sail - Egypt, and the major part of the eastern provinces, were loyal to the republicans, so the queen went to see Mark Antonius and to ask for his mercy. And that's how they met each other for the first time. But people of Judea didn't get the citizenship, until Caracalla's edict. So Jesus hadn't got it too. 

Are we sure that neither Marius, nor Scipio, nor Ceasar practised the decimation? Well, it was stiil an exceptional measure, and Roman historians should have mentioned it, if it really had taken the place. Besides, the decimation was intended to punish the whole cohort (500 men), so it wasn't about just looting, disobeying orders or such. It was about cowardice in big battles only. And the sources seem to be quite scrupulous when talking about measures taken by Roman commanders after any of big defeats. 

Sparta always was a closed society, and the exact numbers of citizens (i.e. warriors) were an absolutely secret information all the time, no doubt. After all, what do we know for sure? In the Battle of Platea there were 5000 spartiates, 5000 perioikoi, and 35000 helots. Also let's add that Plutarch in "Lycurgus" mentions 39000 shares in Laconia: 9000 spartiates families, and 30000 perioikoi. Thus no one really doubts that there were several times more helots and perioikoi than spartiates. And the situation was only getting worse. So Brasidas even had to recruit helots-hoplites. Moreover, there is a point of view that only helots of Laconia were ever recruited. But the helots of Messenia - never. Probably even Spartans themselves never knew how many helots of Messenia are there. So we don't know what percentage of population of Sparta were spartiates, but compared to the full population of Laconia and Messenia they were a negligible part, for sure. Those 15%, you've mentioned, may be reached only after later manumissions of neodamodes and such. 

So in 1920s in Moscow there were many people who still had no access to public utilities. And it took much time for the government to improve the situation. 

Livia Drusilla was formally adopted by Augustus' testament, so she got the name of Augusta in AD 14. 

This site claims that "Сафронов" is actually Сафронов Юрий Николаевич, graduate of Eisk Air Force School (aka EVVAUL) in 1968. This name actually presents in the alumni list on EVVAUL alumni site, but there's no further information available. 

Another point is that it may be not about numbers at all. For example, in 2 Chronicles, 9, 13 is written: 

In 1941 barges went only until 10th November, but some ships continued routing until 4th December. On 20-21 November they sent the first wagon-train (horses and sledges, about 63 tons). First trucks went on route on 22nd November (only about 100 tons per day in the beginning). The first ice road was closed on 21st April 1942. But navigation could start only on 21st May because of ice. 

In the 80s, certainly, yes. But it's a known fact that the number and sum of personal accounts in USSR was constantly rising (faster than both inflation and population growth). So your assumption may not hold for the whole history of USSR. I tried to do my own (very) rough estimates based on data provided by sberbank-history.ru, which suggests that it holds only for the 1960s and later. 

Well, if you mean cheque books, then Soviet people didn't use them. So there were call deposits (along with usual deposit accounts, of course), rather than checking accounts. (That book showed in @Anixx's answer is really a passbook, not a cheque book). Also there were no credit accounts for persons, but loans for purpose were available. But it should be noted that Soviet state always was both lender and employer, so all credit payments were taken directly from your salary, just like income tax. 

Pro-USSR party wanted to strengthen their position. The future breakup was almost imminent but they had a hope to stop this. 

According to Khorenatsi 3, 37, that was a field of Dzirav which now is in Turkey, il Agri, in the upper reaches of Eastern Euphrates (aka Murat River). Both Khorenatsi and Buzand mention the mountain of Npat nearby. Unfortunately, I was (still) unable to find out where exactly this mountain (Npat, or Npatakan, or Nifagis, or Tapa-Sheid) is located. This page (without mentioning any source) points at 39°36'30"N 43°28'37"E which is between the villages of Bayramyazi, Kumluca and Kumlubucak in Agri il. Sources: 

This text so far is not the evidence that the temple of Cronus and Rhea really existed in times of Deucalion. Pausanias only says that it is situated near the cleft (as comments suggest, the latter does not exist anymore) which appeared in those old times. 

Before this only men may inherit the throne. As all sons of Peter I already died, then his grandson Peter (son of executed Alexey; after Catherine I death in 1727 finally became the Emperor Peter II) should become the new emperor. So by crowning Catherine I Peter I actually changed the tradition. The fact is that all Russian queens (and also the first Empress Catherine I) never had a crown before (except for Marina Mniszech). So this first crown was made in 1723-1724 specially for this ceremony. BTW. Peter I was crowned only as Russian Tsar in 1682 using Monomakh's Cap, so in 1721 (when Russian Empire was created) there was no crown at all. 

The modern comments to Herodotus also state that Herodotus, II, 106 actually mentioned Hittite inscriptions in Sipylus and Kara-bel. 

In the time of late Republic the decimation was not practised anymore, except the well-known incident on Spartacus uprising: 

Absolutely nothing except the cited fragment. Sometimes even thought to be a fake. See this discussion, for example. 

Omitting diplomatical politesses, it's a direct accusation of betrayal on the reason of not fighting against common enemy. 

In Russian translation of Plutarch this sentence contains the word "swords" not "spears". And the comments especially insist on rhomphaia being mentioned here. 

The problem is we don't have reliable information about Red Army's strength even now. So how to say whether German intelligence's estimates were right or wrong? Though I have to admit that considering intensity of Soviet mobilization in 1941-42 such possibility cannot be ruled out. So, well, the answer is "maybe yes, maybe no". 

That is Kong Rong didn't talk to Sun Quan's emissary, but strongly objected against Cao Cao's new war campaign against Liu Bei, Liu Biao and Sun Quan. Though the quoting is surely just a fiction. 

Roman soldier might leave a will as any other citizen. What makes it special, there were no formal requirements for such a will, i.e. the witnesses were OK too. As far as I remember, usually Contubernales took care of this. You may find more searching for the proper term Testamentum militis. 

In addition to aforementioned Count Potemkin, Count Alexei Razumovsky was a lover (or even a morganatic spouse) of the Empress Elizaveta and also a Field Marshal (1756). In fact, Razumovsky is no lesser known than Potemkin. 

Translating into English this roughly means: that was not hat but some "rim with feathers" cost about 5 pounds; that happened during the match of SU vs. UK, two years after the incident with Kuts (probably she made mistake here, as car accident with Kuts took place in Melbourne - later she mentions that all happened a little before Melbourne Olympics 1956); she also says that she paid but didn't take cheque and returned to find her friend; that was provocation etc.etc. She also says that her coming to court was prohibited by Khrushev himself. But later that was resettled, so she finally appeared before the court and was absolved. 

Historically, name of a land is typically just a name of people (tribe) who reside there. Like, France is the land of Franks, or Germany is the land of Germans. So Taurica is the land of "Ταύροι" - some tribe known to ancient Greeks under this name (notably they were mentioned by Herodotus in his "Histories"). But they probably occupied only a (western) part of the peninsula, so there is yet another name - "Cimmeria", though the latter probably applies to both eastern Crimea and to the Taman peninsula. You see, those names belonged to "a political map", rather than to "a geographic one". But as time goes, the "ancient classical" name of Taurica seem to persist (unlike the tribe), along with later name of "Gothia" (due to Goths, of course). In 1200s after Mongol invasion Crimean peninsula was divided between several states/tribes: Byzantine Empire, Genoese colonies, Goths, Cumans, Tatar-Mongols. The word "Crimea" (or Qirim) in Tatar means "a moat". It gradually became the name of the peninsula in XV century after local Tatars (and, most likely, assimilated Cumans) declared independence from the Golden Horde, established own Khanate, and finally conquered the whole peninsula. In XVIII century Russia conquered Crimean Khanate and made it a part of Russian Empire. Then many Tatar names were forcefully changed into their "classical" Greek counterparts, including "Taurica" itself (see Taurida Governorate). Yet "Crimea" persists as (the only) geographical name of peninsula. Also in 1920s "Crimea" appeared on administrative maps too as part of Soviet Union. 

Though I'm not sure, but you may be trying to remember the story of Peregrinus, who committed the act of self-immolation at the Olympic Games 165 A.D. His story is well-known due to Lucian's "The Death of Peregrine". 

Stalin in his letter to Roosevelt on 7th April 1945 cited yet another reason to doubt the loyalty of USA: 

Also numerous (more than 15) taking hostages and plane hijackings, mostly non-politically motivated, including 1973 Tu-104 plane crash due to terrorist's bomb detonation (all 81 died). 

In Russia the biggest part of corporal punishments (including, say, branding) was abolished only in 1863 as part of reforms by Alexander II. Yet flogging still existed until XX century as punishment for prisoners, soldiers, peasants and vagabonds. The latter was abolished in 1904 by the last Russian emperor Nikolai II (except the punishment for prisoners). And even then, in the time of WWI the flogging was revived again in Russian army. So the full abolishment of flogging in Russia is only after October Revolution 1917. Wiki: Телесные наказания в России 

The obligation of using safety belts (if a car is equipped with them) was introduced in the Amendments to Traffic Regulation Orders which came into force on 1st April 1975. Here is March 1975 issue of Soviet magazine "За рулём" (At the wheel) which discusses new regulations. BTW. Driving an old car without safety belts equipped is legal even nowadays. 

But Fulvia Bambula was both young, ambitious, and one of the richest women in Rome (after inheriting her mother's property). That makes hard to believe she looked for a rich yet boring lover. After all, the name "Fulvia" was not so uncommon. Sallust mentioned two persons named Fulvius who supported Catiline, so that woman could be the relative of one of them. 

In Europe last name was an attribute of noble origin. It could be either personal "award", or name of noble progenitor. Ordinary people didn't have last name at all (only first name and father's name). That means that last names existed nearly always, but only few had them. As to when last names became common, it depends upon country. As far as I remember, say, Icelanders still don't have "last names". Anyway, "common last names" seem to be a relatively "new addition" for Europe. And, yes, those "Smiths" and "Millers" got their last names because of job, but in many cases etimology is uncertain. Say, Russian scientist Mikhail Lomonosov's last name certainly means "break nose". But no one knows whether some of his fathers was such a bully, or that was due to Russian vernacular name of Clematis, or something else. There is no easy answer here. 

First of all, at the time Sallust had written his book, Fulvia Bambula was a quite famous person. I believe, it would be strange if he would have said "Fulvia" yet had omitted "Bambula". Moreover, his words give the impression that she had no personal political value (cf. his passage about Sempronia Tuditania), and yet had much financial difficulties: