That depends... I usually carry inflaters AND a pump. I've had problems with both. The CO2 cartridges aren't too crazy expensive, but my most recent flat I used 2 of them and still ended up finishing with the pump. It's really easy to blow the CO2 out without getting it in the tire, and if that happens, you'd better have another cartridge to try, or a pump on standby for backup. The inflaters seem like a good idea and worked fine at home, but in practice when stuck on the side of the road, I'm unimpressed. The small handpumps I've also found difficult to work with. They just don't latch on as well as a regular pump. I'm still looking for a good reliable solution (which I need 'cause I get a LOT of flats). 

I've not had any luck consistently finding used parts online. For used commuter/entry-level stuff the best source I've found is local garage sales. For used nicer stuff try your local racing clubs. They tend to discard nice stuff, for cheap, on a regular basis as they always need the latest greatest to go the fastest. Surprisingly the local touring bike clubs have not been a great source as those people seem to hold onto stuff forever. :-) 

As others have mentioned, there's ways to do it. I'd just recommend not doing it. I have more pressure loss problems with my Presta bikes than I do the Schrader equipped ones. Strikes me as a downgrade rather than an upgrade. The only advantage I find to the Presta is the size, which will let you run narrower wheels/tires. 

A bicycle wheel is a complicated structure. Take a spoke in a wheel for example. The spoke is statically indeterminate because it's not mounted to the rim with some sort of bearing; instead it's mounted to the rim with a nipple, which can and does induce a bending moment in the spoke. The rim is similarly statically indeterminate because it's connected to several spokes. One could argue that the hub is connected to each spoke in a way that is free to swivel, but because the hub is connected to several spokes in tension, and because the spokes must stretch in order to allow the hub to swivel relative to the rim, the moment the hub starts to swivel we must consider the material properties of the spokes to determine how much it swivels in response to a torque. Similarly we must refer to the material properties of the rim and spokes, and estimate deformations, if we are to consider how the wheel responds to the weight of the frame and the rider. Almost all real-world structures are statically indeterminate, and a bicycle wheel is no exception. 

The worst mass to have on your bicycle is rotating mass, because you must overcome both rotational inertia and "regular" inertia to get the bicycle moving forward. Of course you don't mount the locks on the wheels, so that's not a factor. If your bicycle had a suspension system, then the next worst kind of mass would be unsprung mass, that being mass that has to bounce up and down on bumps. You have to provide the energy to move the mass up and down, of course. Your bicycle doesn't seem to have a suspension other than the pneumatic tires, so that's also not much of a factor. If you ride very steadily without bouncing up and down on the saddle, then there might be a slight performance gain from keeping the lock in your backpack. However, if you get off the saddle to stand and pump the pedals, then you might lose performance. Personally I think that any small performance gains you might see from keeping the lock in your backpack would be dwarfed by the discomfort of having a weight in the pack that you might otherwise more comfortably mount on your bicycle frame, so if it were me I would probably elect to keep the locks on the frame. You could always experiment: try a week or two with the locks on the frame and measure your times on your usual commute, and then try another week or two in the pack. If you do experiment, please report your findings as an answer to your own question. (It's fine to answer your own question, and even accept your own answer if you think that it's the best answer.) 

I always carry good walking shoes with me. If the bike fails on me for any reason, I can walk it the rest of the way. 

A common problem. I ran into 180lb weight limits on both wheels AND pedals when putting together my last bike. That seems to be the typical number, so those of us that are bigger than that need to be careful and just expect more frequent failures. Seems like everything bike related is designed for short skinny people. :-) 

It's something that should be experienced. Go grab an old school beater bike (like my old MTB that weighs 35lbs), ride it for awhile. Then, stop by a bike shope and see if they'll let you test drive a nice lightweight bike (usually on the order of 16-20lbs). You'll be astonished at how much more FUN it is to ride the light bike due to the responsiveness (handling, accel, braking)! 

I double bag them (with heavy plastic bags) and then stick them in my supposedly (but not very) waterproof backpack. As long as I don't go swimming like that, they stay dry. :-) 

I've got the Pro3s and I average a flat about every 100 miles. They're not cheap either. After I finish off my current supply of them, I'll be trying something a bit more puncture resistant... 

I'd imagine that there's no point in greasing it. You're not going to have any issue with it wanting to bond itself to the frame tube due to corrosion or dissimilar metals. 

I would think that the height of the bottom bracket is completely up to the frame designer. However, there must be practical constraints: most cranks are about the same length for adults, 172.5 mm for road bikes or 175 mm for mountain bikes, although other sizes are available (130 mm–220 mm according to this source). The higher the bottom bracket the taller the bike, other things being equal, so I'd think that raising the bottom bracket reduces the stability of the bike and increases the aerodynamic drag. As @Batman says, mountain bikes need higher clearance than road bikes to avoid obstacles. If the bottom bracket is too low, then riders risk striking the pedals if they pedal through a moderate turn. Because designers nearly universally want to maximize stability, minimize drag, and avoid pedal strikes through moderate turns, and because the vast majority of cranks are nearly the same length, I'd think that the heights of bottom brackets of popular bikes for average-sized adults are all fairly similar, for the same class of bike (road, mountain, etc.). (Of course I'd think that many bikes for children and small people that come with smaller-than-average cranks would have lower-than-average bottom brackets, and that many bikes designed for tall people would have higher-than-average bottom brackets.) 

Some bent rims can be fixed, and some can't. It's hard to say how dangerous your rim is without knowing more, but at least a bent rear wheel is better than a bent front wheel, because if the front wheel failed suddenly then you would probably go over the handlebars. The bends that I'm used to are bends that make the rim wobble from side to side a little, and those usually aren't very dangerous with an aluminum alloy rim as long as there are no cracks and the rim doesn't have any dents or bulges. The late great Sheldon Brown's web site has a page about emergency wheel repairs and another page about trueing wheels that should answer most of your questions about possibly repairing your rim. If the bend isn't too bad that's often the kind of problem that a beginner mechanic can fix, and the tools are cheap. If the rim has to be replaced, then it can get expensive if you have to buy a wheel from a bike shop, or have a shop build you a new wheel. Sometimes you can find a cheap used bike with a wheel that will work, or a used wheel. If the bike has a freewheel or a freehub then a special tool would be needed to get the freewheel or cassette off, but the tool isn't too expensive. Of course if you have a wheel built with a new rim and your old hub, then you wouldn't have to transfer the freewheel or cassette. Good luck. 

Looks pretty typical for a non-WAAS GPS. Height measurement is somewhat erratic for non-WAAS (or WAAS in RAIM failure mode) GPS devices. 

Graphite is best, but is preventative. Once it starts to jam up, you're not going to have much luck getting the graphite in there. LPS Greaseless lubricant works well once you're at that point. Avoid silicone lubes, they make a gooey sticky mess out of locks! 

I believe it's unnecessary except for rare circumstances (some racers may find it necessary). Front and rear do not wear at the same rate, getting a similar performing (or even the same exact model tire) is easy. It's become a best practice for cars because by the time you need new tires, they don't make the same model anymore. Mismatched tread patterns and grip levels (different rubber compound or even aged vs. new rubber) can make rain/snow handling a little squirrelly, so it's just safer to replace them all. Also, if you rotate them, they should wear at about the same rate anyways. 

Whatever it is I do I guess. I've never had one break. I don't even worry about stretch. If it's dry, I oil it, but otherwise I leave well enough alone. I don't even bother to clean my chains. 

I carry a lot of stuff with me on my road bike. Enough tools to nearly completely strip and rebuild the bike plus spare tubes, usually 1 tire, CO2 inflator, AND a hand pump. Repairs are plan A. My plan B involves the cell phone I also carry. I consider it more important than all the tools. Plan C is the pair of comfortable walking shoes that are also stuffed into my backpack. Since that's my last chance, I consider it the MOST important. Yes, I've been all the way down to plan C once in my riding... Luckily it was only a couple miles I had to walk, but even that short distance would have been horrible in the cycling shoes! 

As long as you have decent visibility, turning across a road with fast-moving traffic shouldn't be too terrible once you get used to the idea. If you can safely move into the turn lane, great. If you can't cross lanes to get to the turn lane safely, then just stop on the shoulder and wait for a pause in traffic. As you will soon learn if you do commute on your bike, safety is mostly about being visible to motorists, being aware of what's coming behind you, and taking the safest route. I highly recommend investing in a good helmet and a mirror, always wearing highly-visible clothes, and scouting out the best route beforehand. 

You're doing the right thing by generally staying to the right. Nobody should pass you on the right, which is a bit dangerous because you don't expect it and because there isn't as much room. (I'm speaking for countries where people drive on the right side of the road. In countries where people drive on the left, then bicyclists should pass on the right, of course. Also, as @g.rocket points out, if the bike lane is on the 'left' side of a one-way street as is common in New York City, that is to say on the other side from where it would be if the road were two-way, then one should ride on the 'left' and pass on the 'right'.) The correct way to pass is to first announce your intent, either by ringing a bell or saying "passing on your left" or something similar. Then pass on the left. I think the best way to make it easier for others to pass is to be aware of your surroundings (a mirror helps), to stay to the right, and to ride predictably. As @JoshCaswell notes, when you are being passed, resist the urge to move further to the right and just keep going in a straight line. Point before you turn! 

Consider switching to SpeedPlay pedals? I'm told they're not as tolerant of dirt/mud, so probably not an ideal option. However, they stay perfectly secure for all my road cycling (I use platforms for mountain biking, no clipping in for me there), unclip easily as designed, but in emergency situations I was able to pull my foot off the pedal (with the kind of force you can do during an emergency) without doing the unclip motions. 

Large dogs don't seem to be much of a problem, they usually don't seem to care about me when I'm cycling. It's the little yippy dogs that like to chase. They're pretty easy to outrun, so I just go ahead and do that. They tend to give up real quick. Large dogs I've always just slowed down to a walking pace and they've always lost interest at that point. The plan has been to dismount and keep the bike between myself and them to fend them off while hopefully waiting for an owner to appear. The plan of last resort is my handgun. Unfortunately due to the laws in the area that I cycle, spray strong enough to affect animals (such as bear spray) and tasers are not legal (considered "weapons" of a type that there is no license available to carry them). If you choose to carry anything, be sure to check your local laws, you may be surprised at what's prohibited! 

I have a Giant road bike from the late nineties, which hung unused in the garage for ten years. When I started riding it again seriously a few years ago I snapped quite a few spokes, perhaps a spoke or two a month. The broken spokes were on the drive side of the rear wheel of course; the spokes on that side necessarily have higher tension because of the offset of the hub flanges. The owner of the LBS said that my problem was "cheap Taiwanese spokes". (It was kind of him not to say anything about my being a heavier rider at 210 lbs / 95 kg.) He predicted that eventually I would have replaced all the drive-side spokes (with replacement spokes from his shop naturally) and then I would no longer have the problem, and that's exactly what happened. I wish I'd changed them all at once, instead of one at a time. So for those with similar problems, it's possible that the manufacturer built the wheels with inferior spokes to save a little bit of money, and that all you need to do is change the spokes. 

I second @SteveLoughran's advice to try skinnier tires (tyres), but maybe you also need more training. Personally I'm either older, fatter, or both compared to the people in my weekly riding group, and I've always just been plain slow; I already have a road bike with skinny tires, so my only remedy is to put in the kilometers. If I read your post correctly you're riding distances of 30 km, which isn't all that far. If you do some longer training rides, of say 50 km, then 30 km will seem considerably easier. Also consider interval training, which is a great way to get faster. The basic idea is to go flat-out for short intervals during a normal training ride, with easy effort intervals in between to recover. Perhaps three periods of maximum effort for three minutes each, with three-minute recovery intervals in between. Articles about interval training abound on the web. Intervals hurt, but they work. Lastly, if you're lugging a few extra kilograms, it can't hurt to lose some. 

My trainer came with the appropriate front stand. However, I occasionally forget to use it and it really doesn't seem to matter either way. Since I have it, I try to remember to use it, but if I didn't have it, I wouldn't bother to buy one. 

Interesting problem on the only triple chainring bike I've ever owned (I've never run into this problem on a double chainring ever). It has a 9-speed cassette. In the middle chainring, the middle 3 rear gears hunt around. Example, when in 5th sometimes it'll randomly jump up or down a gear. 6th, sometimes it'll jump down 1. 4th, sometimes it'll jump up 1. It'll stay in the gear you put it for the majority of riding, but occasionally it'll suddenly just hunt around a little within that specific subset of gears and then settle down again. It's been like that since brand new (2006, Cannondale with Shimano components, most notably the Flightdeck shifters). My wife just lived with it (it was her bike originally). When she crashed it (and gave up cycling), I inherited it and I also just lived with it for awhile. Finally the last couple of years I've re-calibrated the shifting a few times in an attempt to solve this issue. I can get everything spot on except for that pesky hunting right in the middle gears! Tips/tricks specifically for adjusting shifting on these triple chainring bikes?