One approach is to use a GPS device that has a map database and an electronic compass. You can sight on the distant mountain, and the device will draw a line on the map along that bearing. Then you just have to look at the map and see where the line crosses a prominent mountain. 

Another brand is Platypus. I have their "Hoser" line, which has some differences from the models you show: 

Have you considered the Finger Lakes Trail? It's certainly long enough, and has lean-tos along most of its length. There aren't a lot of loops, but you may be able to arrange a one-way with return by car or public transport. (In particular, the section around Ithaca crosses county bus routes at several places.) 

(And with any of these systems there is the finer question of which Earth ellipsoid or datum my map or GPS is based on, which could make a difference of a few tens or hundreds of meters in the position; in dense forest this could make it considerably harder for rescuers to find me.) Obviously I want to avoid any confusion; if I give my position in (say) degrees / minutes / seconds, and a helicopter pilot blindly types it in their GPS which is set to decimal degrees, they'll go to the wrong place (perhaps many kilometers away). UTM is less ambiguous, but will they even know what that is? I may be speaking to a dispatcher in an urban office, perhaps over a noisy and unreliable phone or radio connection, and that's hardly the time for a technical discussion of the fine points of geodesy. So in short: 

The easiest way is to tie a fixed loop in the middle of the rope (figure 8, alpine butterfly, bowline on a bight, etc) and then clip the climber in to that loop using two locking carabiners. Two carabiners are used here in order to avoid the scenario of a single carabiner rotating into a cross-loaded orientation during a fall and failing as a result. However, my preferred method is to tie in directly to the rope, with no additional carabiners, using a bowline on a bight. This can be achieved by tied the knot using a long bight that can be passed over the climber's entire body instead of just being passed over the rest of the knot. This gives you a bowline on a bight tie-in with a very large loop, which you can feed back through the knot to reduce the size of the loop before climbing. You then need to expand the loop afterwards before untying. Those who don't know how to tie or visually inspect and verify a bowline on a bight should not attempt this, as incorrectly tying the knot can easily result in a knot (or lack thereof) that is of inadequate security or even completely insecure. Another method for those more familiar with the figure-8 is to tie a figure 8 loop in a bight, just in the rope, not yet attached to the climber, making the loop large enough to fit over the climber's entire body. Then tie this into the climber's harness using a cow hitch (AKA lark's foot or girth hitch), by passing the figure-8 loop though the tie-in loops and then over the climber's whole body. This gives you a cow hitch tie in (which alone is insecure) backed up with a figure-8. The backup 8 will initially be way to far down the rope, due to its loop initially having been tied large enough to fit over the climber's body, but you can easily feed rope through to snug the figure 8 down against the cow hitch. As with the bowline version, you need to feed rope back through the knot to expand it before you can untie. Edit: Images, as requested. Bowline on a bight: Incorrectly tying this knot can result in a knot that is inadequate or even completely insecure. Do not attempt this if you do not already know how to verify a complete bowline on a bight. 

I suppose the answers may differ between different countries or regions (I'm in the US) or between land and sea emergencies (I'm usually on land). 

I didn't know this, but in fact, the ability to send text messages to 911 is being developed and could be ready within a year or two. $URL$ The four major US wireless carriers expect to be ready to route text messages to 911 by May 15, 2014. However, it may take longer for local emergency dispatch centers to be able to handle them. The system will be rolled out gradually; starting September 30, 2013 (June 30, 2013 for the major carriers), you will at least get a bounce-back if the system isn't available in your area. 

Suppose I am out in the wilderness and an emergency arises. I have an accurate fix on my location (from GPS, map and compass, astronomical observation, etc...). I manage to get in touch with emergency services and need to tell them where I am. But there are many different formats I could use to report my position. 

First of all, check the label for directions. I have a synthetic bag. I take it to the laundromat and wash it in a sufficiently large front-load machine, using cold water and somewhat less detergent than a normal load. I put it in a large dryer set to low or no heat until it seems mostly dry. Then I hang it up indoors for a day or two to finish drying. This seems to be pretty effective. 

I have used hexamine fuel in sub-freezing temperatures before, and my experience is that it works reasonably well if you keep your stove protected from the wind. In cold weather it will take several cubes to get your water boiling. You really need to keep the stove protected from wind, though, even in warm weather, the flame gets blown off pretty easily. 

Krakow is amazingly beautiful and interesting town, so you may end up spending all your time in the town itself, but there are some great opportunities for hiking nearby. There are several websites about Krakow that you can look at. This one lists some ideas for day trips. The Ojcow national park is just north of Krakow, apparently it is possible to get there by bus. If you are willing to travel a bit further, about 70km south of Krakow are the Beskidy mountains, with Gorczanski and Babigorski national parks. All of those are definitely worth seeing, and offer plenty of hiking opportunities. It takes about hour and 30 minutes to get from Krakow Main station to Sucha Beskidzka, which is sort of a gateway into that part of Beskidy mountains. There is a very nice brochure(pdf) describing some hiking opportunities in the region.