I don't know about "physicalism" as far as its metaphysical denotations/connotations go, but as far as physics goes the answer is "no", i.e., not everything can be defined. That's erroneously contradicted by $URL$ where Peres states his "G* Strong superposition principle. Any orthogonal basis represents a realizable maximal test." It's realizable that's the key word here. There are an uncountably infinite number of possible orthogonal bases (an elementary fact from functional analysis), but only a countably infinite number of constructible test apparatus (there are several references about that, but I'm not offhand finding them). And that boils down to the existence of states that can neither be prepared nor tested for (contrary to Peres). And, like I parenthetically mentioned, I know I've read several such references, and will edit this to cite them if I come across them. I'd typically leave it at that, but since this is philosophy rather than physics, I like to more (much more) broadly (and entertainingly) think of the above idea along the lines (perhaps in the spirit) suggested by Jean Giraudoux in The Madwoman of Chaillot (the first sentence is what's directly relevant, the rest icing on the cake), 

If you are a scout, you will be repeatedly told to "report what you see, not what you think you see." In other words, be mindful of the differences between facts and inferences. 

This is a "what is" question about the origin of a concept. There are many ways to define 2, but the Formalist who defines 2 by means of its use in arithmetical operations has missed the point: humans are not the only animals who can sense 2, neither do all the animals who can sense 2 know arithmetic. And there is good reason to believe that early humans conceived the notion of 2 before they knew arithmetic. The meaning of 2 is abstracted from sensations. Two is what all two-things have in common: a pair shoes, a pair of socks, two knocks on the door, two smells, two ears, two eyes, two hands, two swans, two otters, etc; they all have the common quality which we call two. It is easy to imagine two-things (e.g., a pair of shoes), but no one can sense or imagine 2 detached from things; 2 is actually a universal; it is what all the sensations of sensing two things have in common, i.e. 2 is a common property of all couples. The logical extension of the above sensible experiences is this: 2 is the set of all couples because a set represents a property that defines its extension. Red is a what all red sensations have in common, thus an instance of seeing a red dog is an instance of red. Red is a colour, but "an instance of seeing a red dog is a colour" is not true, thus the hierarchy of universals is like this: colour is the class of particular colours; a particular colour is a class of sensations each of which has this colour. It follows that colour is a universal just like 2 is a universal: both are class of classes. * The rest of the story is told in Whitehead & Russell's Principia Mathematica, where using class of classes to represent a number is shown to be sufficient to deduce ordinary mathematics. *Note: A class in PM is simply a collection of things of the same type. There is no such notion as "proper class" in PM. 

Your profile mentions an interest in math, which you seem to be pursuing in the formulation of your question. So let me suggest how physics approaches this same kind of question. Terminology-wise, your "object" is a "system", and its "properties" are the system's "observables". Then the collection of all possible states a system can assume is modelled by (the unit vectors of) a Hilbert space H corresponding to that system. And then the collection of bounded Hermitian operators B(H) on H represent all the system's observables, and this B(H) comprises what's called a C*-Algebra. Now, if you have two systems, A and B represented by H_A and H_B, then the composite system is represented by H_A x H_B, and the C*-Algebra of observables B(H_A x H_B) of that composite system is way more complicated than B(H_A) and B(H_B) alone (and way more complicated than their simple set-theoretic union). Now, regarding the comments, a property like "wetness" wouldn't really be a formal observable in the above sense (at least I'm pretty sure -- make that almost absolutely positive -- not). But if you're looking for a rigorous mathematical treatment of your question, it couldn't hurt (except for the mental time and effort) to google some of the above stuff and start with that kind of approach, which has been carefully developed by many people during the last ~75 years (I'm dating it since Irving Segal's 1947 seminal paper). 

Yes, they are different. A successor is an individual; the posterity of an individual is a class. Take the relation father-to-son for example, Conrad Russell is a successor to Bertrand Russell but is not a successor to Lord John Russell because Lord John Russell is not the father of Conrad Russell; both Bertrand Russell and Conrad Russell are members of Lord John Russell's posterity. 1.1 With respect to the relation "immediate predecessor," 0 is the immediate predecessor of 1; 1 is the immediate successor of 0, whereas the posterity of 0 are all the natural numbers, including 0. Given a relation R, we write xRy to denote "x has to y the relation R." we say a is an ancestor of z with respect to R if there is a certain number of intermediate terms b, c, d, ...y such that aRb, bRc, cRd, ... yRz. Different relations generate different hereditary classes over the same field. When speaking of posterity, it is necessary to point out the relation to which the posterity is with respect. For example, Theodore Roosevelt is one of George Washington's descendants with respect to the relation of successor-of POTUS, but not with respect to the relation father-to-son. 2.1 When xRy, we say "x precedes y" or "y succeeds x" with respect to R. Notice that "succeeds" does not imply "immediate succeeds." For example, with respect to "less than," 2.5 is less than 3, but 3 does not immediately succeeds 2.5; actually 2.5 has no immediate successor with respect to "less than" over the field of rationals. 1's immediate successor is 2 with respect to the relation "-1." 2.1.1 In virtue of ✳38.101 ⊢: u (♀y) x .≡. u = x♀y x (-2) y is equivalent to x = y - 2. Thus, with respect to the relation "-2", the posterity of 0 includes 2, 4, 6 but not 5, which is a descendant of 3. With respect to the relation "-5", the posterity of 0 includes 5, 10, 15, ... but not 6, which is a descendant of 1. Notice that, strictly speaking, the relation "-2" in W&R's language is defined as x̂ŷ(x=y-2); the relation of "-1" is defined as âb̂(a=b-1) or âb̂(b=a+1), thus if b is a descendant of 0, b can be reached by repeatedly adding 1 to 0. 2.2 Plain English often gives people the impression of "going the wrong way" because xRy, in plain English, becomes "y succeeds x" with respect to R, where the typographic order is reversed. "Every" implies intersection. Students who are members of every club constitute the intersection of these clubs. 0 does not belong to p5 of which 5 is a member, thus 0 is ruled out; the same can said about 1, 2, 3 and 4. 

Regarding your "100%" one way or the other (and disregarding your particular issue of abortion), I'd think the first thing you'd have to decide is whether to formulate your law either as (a) "it's always legal except for the following exceptions when it isn't...", or conversely as (b) "it's never legal except for the following exceptions when it is...". There's kind of a law-of-the-excluded-middle exception here, though I'm not sure what it's formally called or how it's discussed, whereby the universe of all possible situations is too large and too fuzzy (both informally and in a Zadeh-like sense) to unambiguously decompose universe=is_legal U not_legal situations. Or in other words, formulations (a) and (b) aren't orthocomplements. If they were, then your question (be it about abortion or about any issue where the preceding discussion applies) would be much more straightforward. As it stands, first consider one formulation and then consider the other, as follows. For (a), can you clearly define the exceptions where it's not legal? And then for (b), can you clearly define the exceptions where it is legal? After considering both, choose the formulation with the more clearly defined exceptions. So that's just an elaboration of your "100%". And I'd bet there are formal textbook treatments of this kind of thing (i.e., pretty much anything you think up has already been thought up and fully developed), but I'm not familiar with the precise topic to google. 

Mistaking inductive reasoning for deductive reasoning. If an argument is deduced from axioms, then, yes, one point of failure implies the failure of the entire argument. For example, all men are not equal - this is an empirical fact - therefore any government whose constitution is built on the axiom "all men are equal" is bound to collapse sooner or later. On the other hand, if an argument is based on facts, it can indeed tolerate factual errors or even logical inconsistencies because, if there are such errors, the argument can still be partially true. Most conclusions based on empirical facts use inductive reasoning, in which both true or false needs supporting evidence; when evidence is lacking, one suspends judgement instead of concluding false. To illustrate the point, the following is a comparison made by Bertrand Russell: 

...I'm referring to $URL$ where Searle (who's basically a "raving materialist":) makes the following (paraphrased here) remark, which uncharacteristically moderates his materialist position: Even if a computer could be "perfectly programmed" to simulate the brain, it wouldn't actually possess consciousness; no more than a simulation of the weather can actually get you wet. Okay, so that sounds really reasonable, at least in some formal argument way. But I (also a materialist) just don't quite buy it. What I instead buy is another analogy, whose source I don't recall, to the effect that: the brain is like a lightbulb, whereas mind/consciousness is like the light. In this case, any "lightbulb" -- either wetware brain or "perfectly programmed" hardware computer -- would generate equivalent "visible light". So both arguments/analogies seem pretty reasonable to me, at least as far as reason can take you in these kinds of discussions. But each seems to invalidate the other. So what's wrong with which? Or how do you reconcile them? (And what, if any, conclusions can you draw?, although I assume those would be pretty tenuous, at best.) 

I must not be understanding what you're saying, because this makes no sense at all. Is World War II too limited in time to be true? Is Vatican City too limited in space to be true? Of course not. Historical events take place in time and space in exactly how much time and space they take. The central claim of Christianity is a historical one: that a man, Jesus of Nazareth, was God incarnate, who lived in Judea, died, and rose again. It is inherent to this belief, that God became a true human person, that Jesus is limited to that time and place. That claim can be evaluated for its historicity (at least to the extent of whether such a man existed and died). 

As of now, I can only say, art belongs to the realm of emotions, and emotions do not submit to the command of will. I'd appreciate it if you can share your insight with us. 

Just because tigers do not speak English, it does not mean that tiger's pains and joys have no value. Humans are primates; primates are animals. What makes you think one animal's pain and joy have more value than another? Just because the other one cannot speak English? Is it ethical to take the bread out of a child's mouth to feed your own simply because that child is a tiger cub? Historically, the tiger's silence has been abundantly taken advantage of by some famished English-speaking hominids. 

You're conflating a random sample with some measured characteristic of that sample. Suppose you're studying peoples' heights. And suppose you have some procedure that really, really selects a random sample of people from the total population. Then, despite your people sample being really random, the collection of numbers representing their measured heights are likely normally (or thereabouts) distributed. The randomly selected people themselves have no "distribution", per se. Only the measured observable, height. So suppose instead you had a hat full of one million slips of paper, numbered (you guessed it) one to a million. Then, if you truly randomly select a sample of slips from the hat, you'd indeed expect a uniform distribution of numbers. If you found a normal (or anything but uniform) distribution, then guess what -- your sampling procedure's not so random after all. 

People actually fear a lot things more than their own deaths. A soldier who has lost appetite for war nevertheless goes to war for fear of facing military justice can't be said courageous. A military justice that makes soldiers choose between hazardous duty and legal consequence is basically assuming that soldiers are bigger cowards who fear jail time more than their own death. On the other hand, a general who clearly foresees his military defeat then abandons the city he is supposed to defend can not be said to be a coward; on the contrary, there is courage in his flight. Kutuzov was such a character; he was called a traitor and a coward till his last day; it took a Tolstoy to restore his name half a century later. In Tolstoy's view, Kutuzov was the only person in Russia who clearly foresaw the course of events. A general, who foresees defeat but has nowhere to escape then decides to surrender on favourable terms, can't be said to be a coward; he is actually an unsung hero who prevented a massacre of his city. There are countless unsung heroes like this in Chinese history.