Climbing steps will raise the heart rate more than walking. Generally, that is a good thing; you get more of a workout, burn more calories, and improve your aerobic fitness. If you are generally good help, the more stairs the better. 

This is a pretty complex topic, but I'll share some of what I learned from long-distance (> 10 hour, > 150 mile) bike rides. Though many people talk about electrolytes in general, the major concern is sodium. This is because the electrolyte that is most prevalent in sweat is sodium, and because the reserves of sodium in the body aren't very big. Whether you become hyponatremic depends on two factors: 

What are you eating after you long/hard workouts? It's really important to replace the glycogen that you burned; if you do not, your body will tear down your muscle to help build back your glycogen stores. The earlier after the long/hard workouts, the better. Chocolate milk is a good choice if you tolerate dairy products well. I like a recovery drink called "Endurox". Or you can eat small snack/meal that is mostly carbs but with some protein as well. Give that a try and see if it helps... 

Yes, it's possible to get faster. Initially, all you have to do is just keep riding, and you will improve, and that is what I recommend to start. Also make sure that you know how to use your gears effectively. Many beginners ride in a gear that is very hard to push and get tired easily. Generally, you want to be turning your feet at 80-90 RPM. 

If you had to do one,the normal shoulder width or a sumo stance or something else, which one would you do for general strength training?I have noticed that glutes activation is more in the wide stance but overall I can life more weight in the conventional way. 

At this point I'd suggest the very basic exercises like push-ups, pull-ups,body weight squats and dips.These can be performed at any place like home or park.These workout can help to build a very basic but sold foundation for strength training in the future years. Also make sure he's having a healthy diet consisting of enough protein,carbs and fats.Whole foods like rice,fruits,milk, eggs, chicken/fish,and lots of veggies are best for a growing child. 

Whenever we see a muscular back,we think of the lats, middle back and the lower.But there are many smaller muscles which make an asthetic back.Any exercise to isolate those smaller muscle groups? 

I have noticed that I tend to fall back when squatting deep(without weights) and if I widen my stance a bit more than my shoulder width I can maintain that squat position with more stability. Now coming back to barbell back squat,will keeping a wide stance be a sort of cheating as glutes are also involved and thus hinder with my leg strength development? I am a 168cm guy,61 kg BW,with max of 90kg and my working set is 80kg x 5,with my current short-term goals as doing 100 kg of 5 reps.Long term goal is to do 2*BW back squat X5 reps.(Also I need to mention that 8 weeks ago I have had an inguinal hernia surgery so I wanna keep my progress slow,steady and safe. 

First, a bit about physiology. Just like some people have big feet and some people have small feet, some people have big hearts and some people have small hearts. Those that have smaller hearts have higher heart rates in general; their resting rates won't be as low and their maximum rates may be higher. That's just natural variability. It's also generally true that, as you get older, your maximum HR will decrease. So, resting HR and maximum aren't very useful to compare between people. Resting HR can be a useful thing to track over time as a reasonable indication of your current fitness state; as you train your heart's stroke volume increases and therefore your resting HR goes down. 

You could try goblet squats, where you hold a single weight in front of you. Or you could just to bodyweight squats, and work on getting low (ideally, you want to have your upper legs parallel to the ground or slightly lower. ) 

I'm in the middle of dealing with my lordosis (also known as "anterior pelvic tilt" - you can find some good references if you search on that). For exercises, dead bug variations and hip raises have been good. You need to be very good to make sure your back is flat during all of them. Oh, and the standing exercise where you have a band at your feet and step back and forth - that is a great glute exercise. But for me, the big winners have been the deadlift and suitcase carry. You need to be very careful to start with light weight and to be very careful with your form, especially on deadlift. I have also found that it's hard to tell the difference between exercises that aggravate my back and those that are just making the muscles tired. You will probably have to play around with things a bit.