Bouncing a little bit off of jstewart's answer, and the potential of attraction being gender neutral in this setting for that reason, I think one potential consequence might be the more frequent or more acceptable formation of triads and foursquares or negotiated arrangements about childbearing. Courtship is likely to be a long and delicate process, given the gender taboo - and it isn't impossible, or honestly even unlikely, that people might fall in love irregardless of gender compatibility, maybe even before knowing. If people are encouraged to have kids, or want them, or have better lives with them (for social reasons, or economic ones, or whatever) - then a couple who are not compatible in that way might break up to try to find a compatible gender... or they might stay together and go looking for an arrangement. So, they might, very quietly, let a mention that they are looking for reproductive assistance loose among their closest friends and family (who might already know their gender, or not). Such and admittance doesn't even have to admit that they are the same gender, since fertility or even sexual issues might be fixed in the same manner. In this way, through safe and private social networks, those looking for such assistance in reproductive matters might meet, gently feel each other out, and come to an agreement - to check gender compatibility (or whatever), and try for children - with said children being split between the individuals directly involved (so two couples, or one couple and one single parent each get one or more kids), or possibly raised in the three- or four- group communally. Again, the only thing that might get out is the couple's potential need for a third - not what gender each is, not if gender or other factors were the original issue, they would only be revealing what gender they are looking for to a few more people, who would be equally exposed. With a fifty percent chance of finding someone the right gender the first time (well, second time per individual, first time per couple) and maybe fifty percent of the population already having found a mixed gender pairing the first time - three quarters of the population with relationships viable for reproducing with just one or two tries is much more sustainable, especially since those really interested can keep trying until someone is found. Not really violating the taboo this way, I would think - especially since telling what gender they're looking for (especially as a couple) doesn't precisely disclose both their genders, only that one of the two is the (probably fertile) opposite - a mixed couple with fertility issues would be seeking the same way. Though future kids are more likely to get created through the already formed negotiation, since that would be easier than negotiating to check gender all over again - so stable relationships and semi=relationships are more likely to form. Threesomes and moresomes are not common in sex- or gender- conservative societies, true - but this kind of only-for-children extra relationship isn't unheard of, especially among those favoring their own gender or who had fertility issues, who might go looking for someone to reproduce with without sacrificing their other relationships - some cultures allowed surrogacy or official alternates (like mistresses) for just that reason. And in this society, with no social pressure driving them apart (because no one knows their genders), but a social pressure to reproduce that about half to population can't meet any other way - I expect such relationships will be kept discreetly quiet, but pop up commonly enough to not be remarkable. And knowing that one male and one female must exist in a group of three or four is much harder to figure out specific people's genders than a group of two. The only other possible alternative is for certain classes of people (perhaps those of certain ages) to be relatively indiscriminate in their partners for a while (equivalent to dating, okay), so that people would find those of both genders over several relationships, and would already be "in the know" about a number of people when it came time to consider reproduction. The downside to this is that it will strain, and eventually break, your taboo - roughly equating gender-reveal to sex, this is the difference between a less repressed culture where premarital sex or multiple sequential marriages are expected (knowing the genders of all the people dated) and a much stricter culture where it is strictly forbidden (only knowing the gender of the person married), which seems to be what you were going for. 

Thinking about regrowing a head and brain... no, not at all possible. The brain (brain stem) controls all those picky little things like breathing and heartbeats, lose that and they won't survive enough to be regenerated... new personality is the least of their worries, it might be months for them to develop enough and re-learn enough to even breathe. But, but - they're not human. A different species, even. So...why do their brains have to be in their heads? I'm thinking the brain, or even just the brainstem, could be located in the trunk (for better protection) - maybe in the neck, or spine, or between organs in the torso, anywhere well-protected. Neck would be close by for migration, but still vulnerable to decapitation damage, while lower in the spine might be workable (and spinal column is fairly well protected). On the other hand, it might be hidden - under the curve of the hunched over spine, or even at the other end of the spinal cord form the neck. Few would be looking for a brain in the pelvis (or ass) and also, think of all the jokes. it has to be hidden or protected or both, since damage to this brainstem is still very, very bad - but if nerve or brain injuries can heal over time, minor-ish accidental injuries to it might be survivable (with many aftereffects). The "head", then, is just a limb wired with sensory capabilities, and perhaps extra brain matter for processing capability and memory storage (essentially, an external hard-drive) - especially if you want memory loss and so on for story-purposes. It will take a lot of energy to regrow the head, with the added bonus of needing to energy (which means food) while healing and headless - perhaps if they're more social, they can expect a friend to be pouring (or poking) food down their belly while they're incapacitated - a simple valve system (either quickly produced at cut point, or at regular intervals anyway) would let the throat breathe and possibly swallow without the mouth. On the other hand, if they need to be more self-sufficient - they might draw on bodily resources for the most urgent repairs (fat plus muscle consumption might be enough to regrow just the head), while other healing can wait for more resources. Or, more direct self-cannibalism might be used - pulling bone and muscle from elsewhere in the body whole to rebuild the head with, instead of just consuming tissue for energy/re-budding from scratch. I'm thinking tall and hunched means there's some "extra" spine and back that can be utilized - after all, what will it matter if they're 'straighter' or shorter until they can eat enough to bulk up again. Or they might have a bodily storage on top of their shoulders (rather than all of it being extra curved spine) - something like a camel's hump, and containing fat stores for energy, or raw materials for healing head injuries. I'm also imagining the head being crudely "re-purposed" from the shoulder or hunched-over bits of spine (folding up and over like an inchworm, and leaving the original much shorter), since that will be 'cheaper' than budding off a new head, and those kinds of repairs (height, or arm) can wait for extra resources. Or maybe this mechanism isn't limited to just the head, but in general - a kind of low-level instinctive ability to repurpose their (adjacent!) tissues for patchwork closing wounds when resources or time for proper healing is scarce, could help explain the super-regeneration. They would slowly get shorter or smaller as they lost mass, and "re-purpose" what's left as best they can into a smaller whole body instead of a bigger one missing parts, and restore the mass (and height) with food energy as available. A few hundred leaps in evolution and some serious training down the road might get you limited cosmetic-level shape-shifting, but at this point it's an automatic instinctive healing process, and also possibly buggy as heck. Ok and moving on, what about, 'can only be killed by cutting out the heart' - I'm thinking also no. Not only are there too many ways to be injured, healing itself is expensive as anything. I would expect starvation to kill off a troll relatively quickly, since it needs resources to heal and maintain itself. Significant levels of trauma will also kill a troll, since they would have to keep healing - stuff like being dismembered or continual pile-up of littler injuries until they kinda starve to death expending energy to heal. I expect vulnerability to temp shifts, since their metabolism has to be tailored to the regeneration - extra work from heating or cooling could be very bad. Getting the brain (well, brain stem) will also be fatal - though it might be hidden, or armored, or the attacker doesn't know to target it specifically (and minor incidental injuries can be healed). So cutting out the heart can be the most practical method for killing one in combat, even if it isn't the only way. What else... Your regeneration is kinda insane, but you already knew that. Between the immediate clotting, reasonable patchwork, and the longer-term regenerative behavior, this is a biologically expensive system. There should be lots of drawbacks - especially if they're also big, tough and resilient (to resist injuries), and also powerful and dangerous (to prevent injuries from existing), as usually those big, powerful, dangerous use those traits to avoid being injured so much. Usually those kind of traits trade off for the dealing with the same problem (most creatures specialize rather than pay for all costs), so they need a reason to still need all that regenerating. Like maybe a really powerful predator, or dangerous environment, which they cannot match with force of arms or innovation alone. Doesn't matter what it is, just think of a reason nothing's come along with a better trade-off to the problems this regeneration system is gonna fix. As for your catapult-orcs, this is a nasty business. Injuries will be frequent, huge, and crippling, and quick-regen doesn't cut it as a primary method of compensating for that (though it works excellently as an all purpose backup for everything that could go wrong). Does it help if the catapults have slightly better aim, or the internal layout of the cities crowded enough, that most orcs could expect to land on roofs and jump down separately? The shorter fall, and/or having their falls broken by thatched roofs collapsing under them, could reduce injuries quite a bit. Could they figure out (or the stolen plans include) some kind of catapult-capsule for traveling in? Probably originally for catapulting supplies or messages, or maybe just to make firing irregularly shaped orcs easier, that just happens to also absorb impact by crumpling to let them remain in useful condition. Just lashing them to a crude wooden or wicker framework and firing would help - the wood can snap and shatter apart when it hits, slowing the falling orc enough to survive (it can hack out of the remaining framework afterwards), and the regeneration deals with any non-prevented wounds. Luxury models might be stuffed with straw for actual cushioning. Note - you've got them hunched over quite a bit, and I've leaned on that as well, but there's no reason for my adaptions to be as recent as being driven underground. Is there a reason they couldn't be hunched before (and use the hunch for extra storage, misdirection, and/or regeneration reasons)? That might be why they stayed tall instead of shrinking down to size, since they already had a coping method in place. Also the above ground peoples might not have remembered the hunch, or mixed up "height while extended" and "height while usually walking" while the orcs were out of sight, or just assumed the hunch was from living underground instead of a pre-existing trait. Ok, I can't think of anything else. I hope this helps. 

Hurt them. So they can't be killed, or they respawn. So they will heal of injuries when they respawn. So they can't be trapped, because they can escape while respawning. Do not let them respawn. Keep them alive. You do not need be so merciful. Cause, well, there's nothing at all, at all, in the rules that say it doesn't hurt to be injured, to be trapped, to die. Nothing that says injuries to the heart or mind or soul heal like injuries to the body. Practically, you don't fight them head on, you ambush scattered groups in any way possible, at overwhelming odds and with any trap available, take prisoners, and move on to capture the next lot. And you take them prisoner, trap them living, strap them down, and hurt them. Can you induce PTSD? Can your traumatize them? Break their morale, their courage, their confidence? Can you do your level best that, if and when they slip out of your hands and respawn far away, they will look at their leaders exhorting them back into battle with you and despair? Or maybeso hate those leaders driving them back to that duty, that risk? Or fear falling back into your hands? You can't permanently take them off the field, but you can do much to make them want to take themselves off. Make them reluctant to go back to war, hesitant (or at best, incapable due to trauma) of going back to the battlefield. They revive whole, so they wouldn't "need" that much of a reprieve before being sent back within reach of their torturers. To be fair, this is going to also make them hate you, and want to hurt you back. They will have no mercy, not after this. But if it's the only chance you've got, if you know how to hate and how to fear, maybe you can persuade them you're not a palatable target, you can make yourselves more trouble than you're worth. Maybe. As a bonus, give them a way out... maybe if they surrender instead of fight, they get time at a decent POW camp, instead of the torturers. Maybe if you find deserters of theirs, you treat them decently or offer shelter. Let their foot soldiers wonder, at every ambush, if they should lay down their arms and be treated well, or stand their ground and, if loosing, suffer for it. And maybe do something extra about higher-ups... maybe lighter treatment, or automatically sent to the decent POW camps, so their foot soldiers resent those ordering them about, safe and risking little while their own suffer. Maybe, if you're lucky, convince the officers that you don't treat them all that bad, maybe those foot soldiers who reported otherwise were malingering. Or maybe very carefully separating them from their soldiers, never talking about what happens to them or admitting that you have them at all, and gently and with all healing skill crippling them or sending them into comas, so their officers once taken just disappear and are not heard from again. Teach them fear, when they don't know what's happening, when they don't know why their officers never return or if you found some way around the magic respawning. 

Maybe use superstition. There's a long history of superstition, luck-offerings, and other attempted bargains with the supernatural. None of these were sanctioned by the wealthy and powerful (especially not if there's a church who would not like competing with these superstitions), but they persisted even in the face of concerted opposition. Most such offerings are small - a bowl of milk for the fae, salt over the shoulder to ward off bad luck, ribbons tied to a tree, sweet herbs offered to a fire, coins in wishing wells. The point is, though, the offerings would already be in the culture, a jumping-off point for the assassins to spread a...certain story. After all, given the idea of small offerings for luck, why not big offerings for assisted luck - especially if or when words gets around that this offering, this story, seems to work. So, now to make it work. Someone might, if they were looking for a little extra luck, give an offering to a wishing-well (or cursing-pond, who wants to dive into a well) and speak their wish aloud. The "water spirit" won't take a direct hand unless the coins one is offering are gold, though. Or One heard that there's a little old shrine in the woods, there. If a person had an obstacle in their path, one would go to the flat topped stone, bury an offering of coins there and lay a token closely representing their target on the flat stone, and the obstacle will meet an unfortunate end. Or There's a wishing tree down that trail, old and gnarled, and folk will tie offerings on the branches with their written request, and coins, tucked inside the pouch. If one offers a generous handful of silver, the tree sprites may offer the very worst luck to one's foes. Or, well, any small tale like that. The assassins would keep a watch - maybe even use it as a training exercise, or punishment, since it might be boring - and so they would see who is offering, and who they want removed, and can immediately grab the offering and make sure it's enough. Additionally, if there's some confusion about what was requested for some reason, there's the fact they will likely know the local gossip, and therefore can figure out who they are being asked to target, or else the use of a written request (rich enough to hire an assassin can mans can leave a name in a note) or a token absolutely identifying the target. And if all else fails, or if the payment isn't enough, or anything else, they can slip a person in to negotiate with the one asking personally. After all, they know this person is interested already, don't they? The story will need to be carefully written, when first started, so they don't get too many requests for, um, services not offered. Maybe make it known it's a cursing-place instead of a wishing-one or the spirits involved are dark and deadly, to keep the requests to death and mayhem instead of healing or other miracles. Also, they should have an idea of what to do if someone does offer a payment for something they can't or won't do, in mistaking the process for a genuine spirit offering - maybe returning it, unseen, to the one asking would be both an impressive proof that someone was listening, and underlining that not all bargains will be accepted. But after a while, it will become a set routine. People will know what they're asking for, and what they're getting, and what the price is. Customers found by other methods can be told this is how to get in touch for repeat business. There will be plenty of people attesting that this offering really works. Maybe people will realize it's just a contact point, a dead drop, or maybe they will genuinely believe it's a spirit-thing - but either way this guild has got a contact point that does not lead back to them (since they can watch any potential customers and approach at their leisure).