No. Unless this is directly related to the job you are seeking, it shouldn't be on the CV. In my experience as a hiring manager, I'm not interested in applicants' life goals when I quickly scan through their CV/resume. If it's impressive, resourceful, and ambitious, you could probe for interest during the interview itself. But as AdamV points out in his comment, be careful. A hiring manager might well wonder if your attention will be distracted by your personal goals (buy-to-let homes), and thus you would not be able to focus fully on the job being offered. 

Talk to management. Explain in a professional manner your thoughtful reasoning for why the policy change should be reversed. Try to present it from the overall point of view, not just from a personal viewpoint (i.e., why reversing the policy change would be good for the entire company, not why the current policy is bad for you). Then hope for the best. 

While he could tell others what you did, I strongly suspect he won't. This is almost certainly an idle threat. If he carried things through he could damage his reputation as much or more than he could damage yours. Just stop taking calls from him, ignore his emails, and he'll go away eventually. 

As always, when there are differing expectations between you and your project manager - you talk. Find a time to talk this through with the project manager. 

Probably not. You can find out by applying for and landing a job offer within your industry. Don't bother trying to apply to this company, any of it's subsidiaries or affiliated companies. Depending on your industry, that may or may not leave plenty of other potential employers. Some folks who have difficulties with large companies choose to apply to small companies. 

I would expect the employer to warn employees to keep their valuables locked up when not at their desks. I would expect the employer to talk to their janitorial vendors about the situation (not accuse, just notify). I would expect the employer to beef up the supervision of external construction vendors. If you are really asking "must the employer reimburse employees for their losses?" I would say "No, unless the personal belongings (valuable electronics) were required for work by the employer, or there was some blatant negligence on the part of the employer". At the same time if the value of the losses is significant, I would expect the employer to talk to their insurers and see if the losses are covered. And some employers would step up and reimburse some or all of the losses anyway, just in the name of being a good employer. Others wouldn't. Note: I am not a lawyer, and this is not a legal advice site. If you feel that your employer is legally liable for these losses, consult an attorney in your locale. 

The obvious solution is to clearly communicate your visa status in your cover letter. Additionally, be sure to indicate what you expect a potential employer to do for you regarding your visa, if anything. 

It's understandable that he is upset. Going back on your word is not a nice thing to do. Your verbal acceptance almost certainly set the wheels in motion for this recruiter, and your retraction likely caused him a lot of extra work. But threatening to damage someone's reputation is far worse. 

If you are required to submit a full 1-month notice in writing, submitting during your 3-day leave isn't going to have much impact. You could just go ahead and submit it now. That said, I always believe it's nice to tell your immediate boss about your planned departure first, and to do it in person. To me that's part of acting professionally. As a manager, I would personally be disappointed to learn of a resignation in writing without first hearing it directly. If there's any way you can pop into work for a quick chat with your boss, I think that would be best for everyone. Bring your written resignation letter with you to expedite that part of the process. 

Yes. It's only a matter of time. (You are actually asking if it's legal to be monitored while you are trying to steal "more hours"?) 

Personally, I wouldn't attach these to a resume. Many companies have automated systems in which your information is filed. These additional documents may not fit their system well. Since your resume and cover letter will likely be passed around within the hiring company, they don't want to include other documents that may get lost or shuffled around. Just go with the resume and cover letter initially. Additionally, the initial screeners of your resume and cover letter spend very little time on your documents. You probably want them to focus on your overall fit for the position rather than spending their scarce time looking at your tutorial and trying to decide if it makes sense for their position or not. Do bring copies of this tutorial (and any other materials you have developed that aren't owned by another company) as part of your "portfolio". When the topic of developing tutorials comes up, offer to show them the one you have developed. Then the interviewer can ask you questions about how you developed them, the thought behind them, and how you might do the same for the job at hand - all while looking at your real-world example. 

As a salaried worker for a consulting firm, you need to get used to working in less-than-desirable spaces at client locations. That's the way it goes for short-term consultants. In companies where I have worked, consultants got whatever happened to be available. Employees obviously got the best locations and workspaces. Unless there happened to be empty spaces (as you had for your first 7 months), they were often clustered in a conference room and shared space. Certainly it wouldn't make sense to give you a good desk and put an employee at a shared table. You should learn to make the best of it. Try to become comfortable in whatever space you are given. And don't decide on your own to work from home. You'll typically need permission from two sources - your client manager, and your consulting company manager. And don't expect that to be granted often. At least in my experience, consultants don't have a chance to gain the trust of the client company such that they could work from home. You may get lucky in your next client engagement. Or you may not. In my experience, what you saw in working conditions was typical. 

I suspect you will be able to find a situation where you can be honest about your situation, yet still get an interview and a job. I suspect you will either find a job application that doesn't ask the tough question, a job application that let's you expand beyond just a Yes/No answer, or a situation where the company is willing to interview you and hear your side of the story. If you were my sister, I would advise you to keep your integrity and not demean yourself by lying. That said, the choice is clearly yours to make. 

If your employer has never hired anyone who worked in the US then you could go over the details of the impact on your take home salary. Calculate your expected after-tax salary if you were to stay in the US and compare it to your after-tax salary you would get in Shanghai. But I'm not sure why you feel compelled to do all of this. Instead, if you feel that their offer is too low just tell them that you cannot accept their offer and ask for more. 

It's a huge assumption, but let's assume for now that this is all legal and go with that. And we'll assume you are willing to live with any adverse consequences that may follow from your actions. You simply prepare a presentation for the client indicating how much you will save them, how working with you will speed up the communications and how this new arrangement will provide better service for them. You can also remind them how much they have liked your work before, and how they will get huge benefits by cutting out the middleman. Be prepared to explain how you are a competent business that they can trust will be around for the long run, and presumably has the proper bonding/insurance/etc already in place. Be prepared to answer their questions about why they should trust you now even though you are willing to do an end-around past the agency - an act that some would consider less than trustworthy. Be prepared to explain how, even though they already have a long relationship with the agency and even though the agency provides other services they need, it will still be in their best interest to split this one service off from their agency agreement. Also be prepared in the event they decide not to work with you any more because doing so would conflict with their normal business practices, and immediately have the agency remove you from their project. 

You haven't mentioned your locale, and "rights" vary accordingly. But in the US at least, you always have the right to say "You know, something here at work changed, and consequently I'd like to renegotiate a new salary and benefits." And your employer always has the right to say "No thanks. We no longer need your services. Goodbye." Customarily, being transferred to a new department but performing the same role doesn't imply a raise. But you can always ask and find out what will happen in your company. 

I can't see how "stressing" over the quality of your references helps you now. Try not to worry about it until something actually happens. The fact that you were even asked for references is a good sign that you are close to getting an offer. 

We all get to decide what we think is reasonable and what is unreasonable. Employers get to decide that as well. What you describe about having to work core hours is pretty common in IT. That makes coverage and scheduling meetings more practical. What you describe about feeling that you are asked to cover other situations after hours is pretty common as well. There are often tasks that simply must be handled during "off-peak hours" and often only a few people can perform those tasks. I always wanted my team to get the work done. If that meant working a Sunday night for a release event for example, then that was expected. But I also made it clear that they each had the flexibility to take off early if their home schedule required it, or come in late to miss the morning rush hour. That only seemed fair to me. The work was far more important than the schedule. They were adults and were almost always able to figure it out themselves. The only thing I asked is that they let me know if they weren't going to be around the "usual" hours, so I wouldn't worry about them and could schedule appropriately. I personally like it that way. I appreciate being treated like a professional and being relied on to find a way to get the work done while being given the flexibility to manage my own schedule within the needs of the business. And I think my team liked that as well (of course I specifically hired people who like that kind of culture, so it wasn't a surprise). You've now learned something new about your company's expectations regarding hours. You could feel hurt and attempt to retaliate by "working to the clock" and only doing what was required. But I suspect you know that won't be good for your career there in the long run. Try to take a step back and decide how much effort you want to put into this job. Decide if the extra effort of a few nights and weekends is worthwhile or not. Learn what you have to do in order to take care of personal business (maybe if you had asked ahead of time to leave at 3:30 it would have been okay, maybe you will have to handle your personal business at other times). If it were me, I'd want to talk to my boss about it during a one-on-one session before I decided to chat my work habits. Every shop is different. Some shops are very flexible and leave scheduling mostly up to the individuals, some are not. Some shops only expect people to work a fixed schedule of 40 hours, others have more varied expectations and opportunities. You should try not to "expect" your workplace to be a particular way. Instead learn their norms and try to work within them. If their norms don't fit your needs, then you may need to find a different company with a better fit.