My fiance always recommends that I try to make friends with difficult people like this. Take your whole team out for a beer and spend some time with them. Maybe he'll see you less as a rival and more of a friend. You don't have to be BFFs with him: just know him well enough that the two of you have better mutual trust. It's not the only possible solution, but it's worth trying. 

If you're talking to anyone on the phone about a job, assume it's an interview. Your chat with the account manager was an interview, and you failed it. I know it sucks, and i agree they were being unreasonable in not offering to reschedule. But always know the game you're playing, in which you appear to be the bright, hardworking, professional and accommodating applicant, and they play the role of important interviewer. They may be shady or not - who knows. But don't worry about it too much. There are plenty of recruiting agencies out there, abd they should allow for at least two weeks' notice. 

I think you're overthinking it. They might have been having a bad day (it doesn't necessarily mean the company is in trouble) and wanted to take their frustration out on someone. Also, some people just don't apologize. They never admit fault and just move on, even if they know they're in the wrong. However, it is a sign that you might need to make some effort to repair your relationship with the boss in question, or at least feel things out further. Maybe have a sit down and ask if you've been living up to expectations, and how you can grow in your position. 

Remote work is great, but until you learn some management skills (no offense) it might be better to all work in the same place. It makes communication much easier. Please don't try to nickle and dime your potential new employees. Doing a startup is hard enough already, and if you're cutting back on obvious essentials it can easily send the signal that "management doesn't care about you." Starting a company with no work or management experience is hard enough as it is. Since you're just starting out, don't mess with the tried-and-true strategy. 

Be polite and friendly with Bob. Don't talk badly about him with others, and don't try to make management more aware of the problem -- because Bob could find out and retaliate, or managers might wonder if you're part of the problem too. Given that he's missed major deadlines, I'm sure they already know he's not a great engineer. Try to have as little interaction with him as possible, as long as it seems like you're not shirking your duties and it doesn't impact your career (e.g., don't pass on an important responsibility to avoid Bob, unless you really really can't stand him). Honestly, in most cases when dealing with difficult or unproductive people in the workplace, if you're not their manager, the best you can do is avoid them. 

I don't like those things either, and I've questioned if a programming career is for me, but overall the enjoyment of building things and the decent pay compensates for the boring and annoying parts of it. Personally, programming is 40% writing code (which is great) and 60% doing the kind of boring/tedious/frustrating stuff you describe (which is lame). But for me that beats other jobs, which are 100% meetings and tedium. And after a while I've started to take pride in my own professional development, so there's a kind of reward in being better at the boring parts of my job. I've come to gain satisfaction from learning how to chew through dense MS documentation on Azure nonsense. So what it comes down to, I guess, is how adaptable you feel you are, what you want out of life, and what your alternative would be. If you think you're like me and can come to live with the BS, and don't really know what else you'd be doing, then maybe it's for you. If you're more set in your ways, maybe not. 

Don't worry about offending your old company. If they think they can keep someone without giving them raises, they're morons. Don't tell your current job about your new offer. Why would you do that? To get a counter offer a place that won't even keep your salary current with inflation? Why do you want to keep working there, or accommodate them? Your job is about to lose a valuable employee and be in a tight spot because they're idiots. That's not your problem. Just hold onto your current job, tell them nothing, take a job making far more and leave your old employer in the dust. Laugh about how bad they were later. Repeat after me: you owe them nothing. You owe them nothing. 

I might first try approaching a few key people in the org who would be receptive to it, gain buy in from influential people, and go from there. Maybe you could just sidestep the issue of secrecy entirely. If someone who's not your boss asks why they didn't know about it, just give some vague answer like, "Yeah, I've been working on it myself under X boss. Anyway..." Notice how you didn't actually answer their question? People probably won't press you for answers, especially if you evade them once or twice. I mean, if someone with power over you (like your boss or your boss's boss) really wants to know, be honest. The secrecy isn't really your fault - you were following orders. But no one else really needs to know. The key though is selling it to people. 

Yes, unfortunately. I've worked remotely before, and there's a real risk of growing invisible and having people wonder what you do for the company. If they start questioning your necessity, your job isn't safe. So you need to be hyper available. I made the mistake of asserting my need to work within my own timezone, and what I described above happened at my job. I would be careful. At the very least, talk to your boss about it and see what they think. Only leave early if they're completely on board with the idea. 

It sounds like the problem is you want to travel but don't want your new company to know you're travelling, because then they might want you to work earlier. I would be upfront, telling them, "I thought the earliest month I could leave my company X, but since we talked it turns out I can leave in month X-2. Ideally, I'd like to have those two months to travel, but if you really need me earlier I can start earlier." Maybe you argue a little time off now would make you more productive later. They could easily say, "no, we need you now" and ruin your travel plans, which is unfortunate. But I wouldn't try to deal with all the complications of deceiving them, and you don't want to risk starting the relationship off on the wrong foot. 

Keep in mind if you don't offer at least a 2% raise, you're actually paying him less due to inflation. Are they doing less valuable work now than they were 12 months ago? Plus, a programmer early in their career quickly becomes more valuable, so their worth increases more quickly. Don't think about this in a moral sense (i.e., does this person "deserve" more?). If you don't pay someone in a manner that keeps up with the market rate, they're going to go somewhere else. You're going to have to spend resources finding a new person, and months bringing them up to speed. If you're okay with that risk, go ahead and lowball him. If not, give him a raise. Be careful, though. Failing to give him a raise might crush his motivation to do any good work for you. In my own experience, I've worked for a company where I've done great work and all I got in return from management was nitpicking and criticism. On top of that, I wasn't paid what I deserved. So, my response was that from that point on, I gave up and I coasted. I delayed projects. I did half-hearted work. I possibly caused more problems than I solved. It was a 180 change in my behavior, but I did it because management were being jerks and I was biding my time before finding a new job. I'm not proud of my behavior, but they completely crushed my motivation, and even though a part of me wanted to be better, making upset made me feel good. It felt like every fiber in my being was rejecting productivity, because I felt I was treated unfairly. If this person really did do great work and you don't give them a raise, what incentive will they have to do great work again? You send the strong signal that "good work will not be rewarded here," not necessarily your intended signal of "you need to do more." Personally, if I were in your employee's shoes, I'd either coast for a year or two, or start hunting for a new job. If they start doing that, how much will that cost you?