What's the reason for wearing biking clothes made of Spandex (Lycra)? They sure look pretty strange. 

I couple of years ago I switched from using a normal pedal to using a clipless pedal. It takes a little while to get used to. Now, to be able to use it optimally I need to learn how to pedal in circles instead of in squares, eg applying the same force during the whole rotation "orbit". What do I need to think of to be able to pedal properly? 

I got a flat/puncture on my bike tube, how can I fix it myself without going to the nearest bike shop? What kind of equipment would I need? 

Ice wax definitely helps. I switched to a bottle of Pedro's Ice Wax 2.0 this winter, and haven't had a freeze-up yet. I hadn't tried peeing on the cassette. My ride may be a little too public for that... 

Try some wax-based lube. I picked up a bottle of Pedro's Ice Wax 2.0, and it's amazing. Nothing sticks to it. I did a (very quick) writeup on my experience with it yesterday. 

I always wash off the degreaser, lube the chain, and then run it through all gears to get a bit of lube worked into everything. Don't need to lube the gears specifically. I think the key is to be sure to wash off all traces of the degreaser. Last thing you need is residual cleaner gunking stuff up. 

I've been riding road bikes for a couple of years, but with mountain bike pedals, I've been thinking about switching over to a road bike pedal, but what's the reason? Is the performance improved or is it more about conform? 

What kind of valve is the best one, a Presta valve (6mm) or a Schrader valve (8mm). Which has the best reliability, which one is easiest to fix a flat on? 

Which kind of mountain bike pedal is most suitable for racing? It needs to be pretty light, but also durable to be able to resist a tough race. 

I broke a couple of spokes on my wheel, now it's all bent, how can I align it back again? What kind of tools do I need to do a good job? 

The Planet X EC-130 'Rivet Rider' was extremely well reviewed by Cycling Weekly last year and you can get them new from Planet X at around that kind of money. Other than that, direct to consumer brands such as Canyon, Ribble and Rose may offer a few different options for around the 1k mark. If you're happy to look used you can get a lot of bike for 1k, up to Dura-Ace/Super Record/Red groupsets on high end frames, just make sure you do your research and you should be fine. 

I own a Surly Steamroller, and although I haven't done it myself, many other Steamroller riders put a Surly Disk Trucker fork into the Steamroller frame. With the exception of the fork altering the geometry ever so slightly, it's a pretty like-for-like switch. It's also a fairly inexpensive option. You can pick the frames up for sub £200 and the forks for a good way under £100 in the UK. Then build up with whatever parts you fancy. 

I haven't adjusted mine in 2 years (?) - all I do is wipe a bit of lube on the pedal cleat clip thingy when I oil my chain. Keeps my foot from freezing into the clip. 

Not sure it'll fit your needs, but I absolutely swear by my Kona Dew FS. (although I've removed the suspension fork and locked the seat post, so it's not really FS anymore...) I've put over 17,000km on it in all-weather commuting, and done a couple of 200km rides as well. Great bike, for well under $1000. 

I'm a Calgary rider, too (15km each way). The best thing I can recommend is to get a set of Armadillo Crossroads - they've got some traction, and I use them year round (until the ice builds up and I get out the studded tires). And they have kevlar threads so are pretty rugged and puncture resistant. They're slick enough to not provide much rolling resisitance. Makes a HUGE difference while riding. 

Although I'm unfamiliar with Tektro Lyra's, I have been bedding in a new Shimano SLX disc brake on my commuter so have a little recent experience on this. Given you are only 20 miles in I'd give it a little more time as this 'grinding' noise may just be the very top layer of the new pad wearing in. If it's still 'grinding' after 100 or so miles I'd take it back to the bike shop and ask them to check it over. Brake shudder may indicate the pads or calipers are every so slightly mis-aligned. There are loads of tutorials online about how to align them: $URL$ My SLX has taken about 120-130 miles (or 2-3 weeks' daily use) to bed in properly. Hope that helps! 

I've used a (clean) drywall putty knife. The blade is wider than a screwdriver, so there's less chance of gouging the pads. Slide the knife in between the pads, twist and pry a bit, and they open right up. 

stick it inside the pannier bag, protruding if needed. I've carried 4' long tubes of prints that way just fine. 

I did that with my Kona Dew FS (now no longer FS). The fork didn't like winters, and the gaskets or something blew. I just had the guys at the local bike shop dig around and see if they could find a rigid fork that would fit. They did. It did. Works great. (Bow Cycle in Calgary is fracking awesome, by the way). 

You could also avoid using tubes and switch over to a tubeless system, which some of my friends have had great successes of using, in terms of reducing punctures. 

I'm living in Brazil where top-end mountain bikes are very expensive, due to high import tariffs. I'd like to know which country has the cheapest top-end mountain bikes? top-end would mean a bike which can handle a race and is light, not necessarily carbon-fiber. 

Probably obvious, but don't leave it unattended outdoors, make sure it's properly locked and put somewhere where it's really hard to steal it. 

Yes, you can remove the adapter and put it on the rear tire. The reason for putting on an adapter is so that you can use air-compression equipment which is available at gas stations etc. You don't actually need it if you have a good pump at home which is two fit (presta and schrader). 

Zinc coated chains apparently work well. I've never used one (yet) but they come highly recommended. 

aside from the warmth and padding, I also wear them to protect my hands in case of wipeout. grinding gravel into my palms doesn't sound like a fun thing to do. 

I got a Feedback stand from MEC. VERY sturdy and adjustable. Folds up so I can hang it from a hook on my garage wall, too. 

the pads are likely trash, but you can use isopropyl alcohol to clean the disk rotors (say, to remove grease BEFORE it gets into the pads). 

get a good pair of padded bike shorts. I resisted for years, but after I got my first pair, it made a huge difference in comfort. You want the padding on your butt, not the saddle. 

I agree with Kibbee. Would also recommend going fixed for the ultimate in simplicity and weather-proofing as I don't suppose they'll be any shelter for it parking on the street. 

I'd suggest thinking less about 'locking your legs', and instead think more about pressing down hard with your trailing leg. I find that if I put too much effort into pulling up my leading leg I end up pulling the muscles in my groin. You'll still need to pull up a little and lean over the front to initiate the skid, but focus on the push to make it easier on your legs. Also, practicing in the wet makes it much easier to get the rear wheel to slide. Anyway, install a front brake for when someone pulls out on you or jumps out from the pavement so you can stop it quickly, and practice skid stops in more controlled environments first :)