Traditional grammarians going all the way back to Donatus are accused of classifying as adverb any word they couldn't make fit anywhere else in the canonical parts of speech. It's a very old criticism. The Stoic grammarians are suspected of having their tongues skewed into their cheeks when they employed the word pandektes ('all-receiver') for adverb. John Horne Tooke, The Diversions of Purley, 1786, called the adverb “The common sink and repository of all heterogeneous and unknown corruptions”, citing the 4th- to 5th-century grammarian Maurus Servius Honoratus: 

I take it that 'OBL' is read 'oblique' in some sense; but I am puzzled to understand exactly what sense, since it seems to embrace both preposition phrases and adjective phrases (e.g. 'OBLPP/AP'), standing in for what I would categorize as adjectival and locative predicate complements. I have found no instance where 'OBL' is realized as a nominal, and it's not the object of a preposition, so it doesn't appear to be an oblique object in either of the senses I'm familiar with. Can anyone provide a name and definition for this symbol? And for lagniappe, can anyone tell me how folks who use this symbol represent a nominal predicate complement? 

An entailment is a necessary implication: an inference from an utterance which must be true if the utterance is true. An implicature is a cancellable implication: an inference from an utterance which we take the utterance to imply on its face, by 'default', but which may in the context of other information nonetheless not be true even if the utterance is true. Take for instance the utterance 

Some folks treat this as ‘reduced relative clause’, but that strikes me as an unnecessary complication, particularly in light of the contrasting construction of the same constituents in German which fdb cites. To my mind, the difference is that German places more importance on keeping the subject and the verb next to each other than English does, whereas English places more importance on maintaining left modification inside the determiner-to-noun chain. It is also possible to shift such phrases to other locations—but there they tend to be understood as bearing at least some degree of sentential modification as well: 

What's confusing you is Gibbon's following this with a protasis (if or condition clause), which you (quite reasonably) expect to be associated with a corresponding apodosis (then or consequence clause). Gibbon, however, intends for you to read that protasis as a supplement to what precedes it, contradicting the asserted salvation. A contemporary author would probably point it with a dash (and maybe a screamer, too!) rather than a comma: 

In present-day English ought may behave like a 'modal' verb, taking an unmarked infinitive, only in negatives and questions, not in ordinary declaratives: 

BE like is not an integrated collocation meaning SAY. Rather, like is a “discourse marker” which signals that what follows is worthy of particular emphasis or peculiar interpretation. 

This utterance entails the inference that John was in Paris at some point in the past: if John has never been in Paris, then the utterance itself is false. The utterance implicates the inference that John is still in Paris at the time of utterance: under ordinary circumstances an ordinary English hearer will understand this to be a continuative perfect. But that inference is not necessarily true; under some circumstances it may be that the utterance should be understood as an existential or resultative perfect: 

And this tolerates what looks like lexicalization but is probably better understood as modal stacking: 

Your 'rules' mix traditional and contemporary grammars. It's true in both traditional and contemporary grammars that a preposition phrase [PP] consists of a preposition and an object; but in contemporary grammars PPs 'establish relations' between constituents, not as in traditional grammar 'words'. Your third rule acknowledges this in defining the object of a prepositional phrase as a 'noun phrase', but it is incorrect in implying that the object is always an NP. The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language points out that "It is not only 'nouns or pronouns' (NPs in our terms) that occur after prepositions:", and it gives examples—one of which is actually the one in your question: 

In English, at least, the ordinary simple present is imperfective; but there are genres in which a perfective use is common. 

MISS is one of those verbs Yellow Sky alludes to which changes its sense in the progressive: in other casts it ordinarily means regret the absence of, but in the progressive it takes the sense lack (or in the intransitive be lacking). The progressive might better be understood as copular BE + adjective missing. But there are a number of tests for stativity. Some have been questioned as really involving agency, not stativity, but here are a couple of fairly robust ones: 

I'm reading Goldberg's Constructions and find her employing the symbol 'OBL' to represent a category of syntactic constituent. 

When you front that wh- you're asking it to do double duty, in both an external interrogative and the embedded interrogative: in effect it's standing for itself rather than for the trace! ADDED: It's the interrogative role of the wh- complement which prohibits this movement. Note that this pair sustains the movement, because the original wh- clause is deployed not as an interrogative but as a pronominal: 

Heim's expression is ambiguous, but I think the sense is, if not exactly clear, at least readily recoverable. What Heim means is that the it piece of its is a pronoun standing for a "definite" NP, yet has no specific referent—it refers to no particular cat. I see three strategies for rescuing the expression: 

With English verbs the notion of lexical aspect is only useful up to a point. It's a handy device for explaining things like why some verbs are rarely cast in the progressive construction, or why some verbs imply temporal embedding while others imply temporal envelopment. But the awkward fact is that many verbs have evolved senses which recategorize their 'core' lexical aspects, and in theory any verb may do so. BE, for instance, is a paradigmatic stative verb, yet it may be cast in the progressive with the sense "behave like": John is being a jerk about this. So the answer is that there is no "clear-cut distinction between dynamic, stative and mixed verbs in English"; there are only distinctions between eventive and dynamic uses. Stativity, dynamicity, activity and the like may be constrained by the lexical sense of verbs, but in the end they are properties not of verbs but of specific utterances. 

In any case, this is a question of declining importance: use of ought has decreased markedly in the last couple of generations. 

In the ‘quotative’ version, like indicates that what follows is an imitation and demonstration of what John ‘was’. So the Wh-cleft should be: 

But even in negatives and questions the unmarked infinitive is not always required; for many speakers a marked infinitive is acceptable, too: 

Saying that temporal expressions modify verbs is characteristic of the traditional grammar, adapted from the work of the Greeks and Romans, which has dominated English pedagogy since the 18th century. One of the hallmarks of traditional grammar is a "dependency" approach which grounds itself in part-of-speech and tends to describe syntax as chains of word-to-word links. In that context the most convenient word in a sentence to attach a temporal expression to is the verb. Contemporary grammar is oriented more toward grouping words into chunks which can move around together called "constituents"; and contemporary constituency grammarians will say that what temporal expressions modify is not the verb but either the "VP" (or "predicate"), the group of words headed by the verb, or the entire clause. But it's often difficult to pin down just what, if anything, a temporal "modifies" (and the grammarians I have read mostly acknowledge that difficulty). I myself am currently playing around with a dramatistic analysis (based on the work of Kenneth Burke) which categorizes the gnarlier temporals and locatives as "scenic" components of the clause; but so far that approach has its own difficulties.