TCAT117 suggests a pulsed fission engine, but these are horribly contaminating and therefore have never been tested. $URL$ gives another alternative. This consists of a nuclear reactor as a source of heat, through which liquid hydrogen is heated and used as a propellant in a nozzle similar to a conventional rocket nozzle. This design was actually given some consideration and some engine tests carried out. It's much less hazarous than a pulsed fission engine, but chemical rockets are less hazardous than any of the nuclear options, so in the real world they won out. Hydrogen is the preferred propellant as its light molecules give the highest exhaust velocity at any given temperature. The following are highlights from the comparison in the Wikipedia article, which I have copied in here as requested: Specific impulse 850-1000 seconds, more than double that typical for a oxygen/hydrogen powered engine. Specific impulse is the number of seconds a stage can produce a thrust equal to its initial fuel weight before fuel runs out. It is proportional to exhaust velocity. Thus the simple solid core nuclear thermal rocket is capable of double the efficiency of a chemical one. Thrust - weight ratio achieved in apollo era (about 5:1 on a 1.5g planet.) This is much less than a chemical rocket, and means that nuclear thermal rockets are more suited to being used in upper stages where burn times are longer. The first stage (only) of a rocket needs high thrust-weight ratio as vertical takeoff means initially a lot of fuel is used fighting gravity. The sooner you can build some speed and get into a near-horizontal trajectory the better. Once this is achieved longer burn times at lower acceleration is not such a disadvantage. SNTP era (separate article) reached 30:1, a thrust-weight ratio at which engine mass ceases to be any real issue. $URL$ NASA actually considered replacing the 3rd stage of Saturn V (known as Saturn IV-B) with a nuclear thermal rocket for enhanced performance. The wikipedia article has a worked example based on the Saturn IV-B and I present a summary below. Delta V is the standard measure of efficiency of rocket in space, equal to the speed difference it is able to depart before it is depleted. The author seems to have neglected the mass of the upper stages. If factored in, this will further favour the Nuclear Thermal Rocket on the mass/mass comparison, as the engine mass will be less significant. Standard Saturn VI-B Hydrogen-Oxygen fueled Fueled Mass 119800kg, dry mass 13400kg, specific impulse 475s. Delta V (414 s × 9.81) ln(119,900/13,311), = 8900m/s Nuclear thermal rocket, drop-in replacement matching volume/volume Fueled Mass 38600kg, dry mass (due to increased engine mass) 17300kg, specific impulse 850s Delta V (850×9.81) ln(38,600/17,300) = 6,700 m/s. While the Delta V is lower, the mass of the stage is much lighter due to the hydrogen propellant being lighter than the hydrogen/oxygen bipropellant of the original stage, so the stages below will compensate. Nuclear thermal rocket, replacement matching mass/mass Fueled Mass 19000kg, dry mass (due to increased tankage) 38300kg, specific impulse 850s (850 s×9.81) ln(119,900/38,300), or 9,500m/s NASA considered an even smaller stage due to constraints of the Vehicle Assembly Building : 10,429 kg empty and 53,694 kg fueled. This would improve the payload capacity of the Saturn Vf from 127,000 kg delivered to low earth orbit (LEO) to 155,000 kg. This is a moderate improvement on chemical rockets, based on Apollo era technology and far from optimised. An example based on project Timberwind would be a much greater improvment, 1.5 to 4 times payload increase. $URL$ Note that the Space Shuttle's second stage (the main engines) fired from liftoff, though most of the initial thrust was provided by the first stage boosters. I would foresee a similar arrangement with chemical boosters around a nuclear thermal rocket core, to keep the heavy nuclear thermal rocket engine burning for the longest possible time. An issue mentioned is that the specific impulse of nuclear thermal rockets is limited by the maximum temperature the reactor can withstand. I think a hybrid engine with a nuclear thermal core followed by oxygen injection into the hydrogen stream in an afterburner for liftoff could improve this issue to give even higher specific impulse, and would have great potential as a first stage. 

The best way to answer the skeletal issues is to look at the effects of morbid obesity. There are many obese adults who are triple their ideal body weight. It's certainly possible to get around at that weight, though it does limit what they can do. Some of them manage to lose weight and have few lasting effects apart from loose skin, though there is considerable strain on the joints, which may or may not result in irreversible damage. As far as childhood obesity goes: googling Jessica Leonard (400lbs at age 7) or Lu hao shows that both have bow legs as a result of childhood obesity, so a child raised in 3-4G would have the same issues. I don't think breathing would be a huge issue, it seems possible for morbidly obese patients, though the comparison is not a direct one. In addition to the weight on their diaphragms, it is known that the abdominal cavity fills with fat, putting pressure on the lungs, which wouldn't be an issue for someone of normal mass raised under high G. The other issue suffered by morbidly obese patients is sleep apnea, caused by obstruction of the windpipe by excess fat in the neck area. Again this should not be directly applicable to normal mass persons under high G. 

You check their garbage. You go round their house with a warrant and demand to see what they have in the kitchen. 

Sulphur made in this way contains short chain like molecules of the form . As it cools, these decompose to form ordered stable rings with the release of gas. Vessels containing molten sulphur made by this process must be properly vented to ensure they do not overpressure and explode as the sulphur cools. Ihe (hydrogen sulphide, rotten egg gas) presents additional hazards as it is smelly and highly toxic. A quick google search found this document discussing the handling of this type of sulphur, see pages 4-5. $URL$ EDIT: a better reference $URL$ The other source of sulphur on Earth is via mining, including surface deposits in the craters of semi active volcanoes. I think it quite plausible that sulphur mined on a planet with a high atmospheric pressure such as Venus would contain these molecules. As an aside, note that the best place in the solar system for mining sulphur is probably be $URL$ though it has only a trace atmosphere so I would expect the sulphur there to be fully degassed. 

I find it unbelievable that no-one has mentioned the single most efficient weapon for destroying civilization, at very low energy and economic cost. $URL$ a couple of quotes from the above wikipedia: 

To create a freshwater lake you need outflow as well as inflow Rivers dissolve salt as they pass over the land. This ends up in the sea. As a result lakes that do not flow to the sea are salty. Take for example the River Jordan, forming the border between Israel and Jordan. The Jordan flows through the sea of Galilee, which is fresh water, and ends up in the Dead sea. All the salt carried by the river ends up in the Dead Sea, which as a result is as salty as it can possibly be (the excess salt ends up precipitating out as solid.) In general, the salinity of a lake depends on the relationship of outflow to inflow. For example if a lake loses 80% of its inflow by evaporation and only 20% by outflow, it will be 5 times saltier than the rivers that feed it. Reflooding the Dead Sea Increased human water use on the River Jordan is causing serious environmental issues at the Dead sea, whose depth is receding at about a metre a year. Separate rojects running over Jordanian and Israeli territories been proposed reverse this, by bringing water from the sea, as Dead Sea lies below sea level. The former proposal has been elevated to "planned" on Wikipedia so seems the closest to implementation. It involves pumping water uphill from the red sea, which would then flow by gravity to the dead sea, where at least some (possibly all, wikipedia is not clear) of the pumping energy would be recovered by a hydroelectric station. The latter project, from the Mediterranean sea is still listed as "proposed." It is a shorter route over higher ground, so would require the construction of a tunnel, but there would be no pumping station, just a hydroelectric power station at the Dead Sea end. An Australian proposal: a Lake Torrens - Lake Eyre project Central Australia has many salt flats, which are essentially lakes that have become completely filled with salt, as they do not flow out to the sea. One of them is the aptly named Lake Disappointment, discovered by explorers who believed that if they followed a river they had found downstream they would eventually reach the sea. Lake Eyre (elevation -15m below sea level) is 300km from the sea at Port Augusta. Much of the distance is along the bed of Lake Torrens (elevation +30m). Both of these "lakes" are rarely filled with water. The Lake Torrens bed was brackish 35000 years ago which is very a very short time on a geological scale. In order to reduce the salinity of the area, a canal could be dug from Lake Torrens allowing it to drain either into the sea or Lake Eyre. However as Lake Torrens is rarely flooded (the last time was 1989) it is only a partial answer. To provide an economic reason, I suggest digging a canal from Port Augusta to Lake Torrens, and a tunnel from Lake Torrens to Lake Eyre. This would comprise a pumping station lifting seawater into Lake Torrens, and a hydroelectric station releasing water into lake Eyre. The canal could be navigable, enabling salt to be mined and exported. Flooding of Lake Eyre might have some effect on rainfall in the area, but only if the installation was massive. Over a period of decades, probably centuries, Lake Eyre would fill with seawater (to be clear, a lake with no outflow will always be salty) but the Lake Torrens basin, draining into Lake Eyre via the tunnel (or perhaps backwashing to the sea via a suitable arrangement) would become less and less salty. Flooding Lake Eyre would lead to an increase in the local water table, which might make retaining some water in the rivers that feed it (via damming etc) more practical. On the downside, the character of both lakes would be changed, and depending on your opinion not necessarily for the better. The proposal of flooding Lake Eyre (and its effect on rainfall )is mentioned briefly in the wikipedia article on the lake but it has thus far been considered impractical. Topography can be reviewed at $URL$