You will want to look for a sun cream that is designed for swimming - don't bother looking for specific ingredients, look for the bottles that say they are for sun and swim. Usually in addition to the SPF they will have a rating or guide as to how often you need to reapply (eg every swim, or every two swims) @ShemSeger's comment is the recommended way to protect children, and those who burn easily - get a Rash Vest or Sun Top. Typically these have an SPF over 50 and this doesn't need topping up through the day. 

One reason (and I don't know enough to suggest this is the main reason) is for identification. When putting a tent up you may have a bundle of fabric that you need to set down on an uneven surface, sort and erect. Having it in black distinguishes it from the varied colours of the tent walls so you can always place your tent floor down, without having to check all the sections. The floor is the strongest, most heavily waterproofed part of the tent skin, so this also means you are less likely to end up with a damp tent from placing it upside-down on damp ground, or tears from catching branches or roots on a thin piece of tent fabric. Found another reason: Because the floor is manufactured using a different process to the rest of the tent, making floors that matched the tops would require more complicated processes and cost more. A constant black means any floor can be fixed to a top of the correct size. 

Higher-end compasses have a north arrow that can be rotated relative to the baseplate - usually with a screw adjuster somewhere around the edge. The grid lines on the baseplate remain in a fixed position, so that the arrow can point to magnetic north when the lines point to grid north. On your picture, the thin red line at about 183° shows that your compass is adjusted for 3° East declination (reading the yellow scale). It's a shame you only have two grid lines (at the far left and right of the window) for lining up with your map. Use the yellow scale (marked "West Declination" and "East Declination") to set the declination to match your region and map projection. 

A version of crawl is your best bet - a bit like that used by triathlon swimmers when they come to close quarters swimming - but with breast stroke or sidestroke legs. Don't have the head in as you would for proper crawl stroke, but keep your face up. Use a low crawl arm stroke and a breast stroke or side stroke kick. This way you get the power of the crawl arms and the control of breast stroke legs. 

In Europe we have a few systems depending on the country, so in the UK we have two grading systems, adjectival and technical and they work as follows: 

Breathing is the largest single source of moisture in a tent, followed by cooking. A common mistake is to close the tent completely, without providing ventilation to (sufficiently) carry your moist air out, and allow drier air from outside to enter. I've found that when I've had condensation problems, it can generally be improved by adjusting the ventilation. It may take some experimentation to find the optimum balance between keeping warmth in and letting moisture out, but at +15°C, you're unlikely to feel cold, so I'd start by opening up quite a bit. 

It doesn't include figures for intentional, genuine alerts, but does list some cause descriptions that mostly indicate accidental, rather than frivolous, activation. A report by the US FCC in 1995 states that around 10% of activations were genuine - this may indicate an increase in false alerts over that period (this one is interesting reading, with some notable examples in the text - start at page 10, labelled "18"). An undated presentation from US Coast Guard and NOAA says 

For search party purposes, bigger is almost always better, both from the perspective of the lost individual - he/she may be able to see the light from a distance and make themselves more visible or move towards the light, and from the searcher trying to see their target, perhaps an unconscious individual - spotting clothing or non-natural material is much easier with a very bright light. For this reason pretty much all search teams carry high intensity floodlights. This is a portable, high intensity torch rated at 1100 lumens: 

So what you want to do is look at the range of expected temperatures in the area you plan to camp, compare those with temperatures you are comfortable with and buy accordingly. Myself- I would want a very light sleeping bag, or some blankets unless I was up in the mountains. 

As always with such general questions, "It depends". In a lightning storm, you should always get well clear of any trees. The reason for this isn't that trees are necessarily the most likely place for lighting to strike but because, when they are hit, the water inside tends to boil, exploding the tree. Being hit by burning fragments of timber will likely Ruin Your Day. Having pitched your tent clear of trees, the most likely risk is from ground path current; the hammock has a slight advantage here, as the current must go up and down the poles to go through you, and everything between the poles is dry (if your tarp is working). In a tent, you're lying directly on the damp ground with just a thin groundsheet in between. Ground path currents tend to be much lower than the main strike current (if it was to dissipate evenly across the ground surface, then the current would be inversely proportional to the distance from the strike). Depending on what kind of poles you use for your hammock, you may be increasing the likelihood of a direct strike, but the good news is that such a strike should go straight through that pole to ground. It might melt the pole as it does so, which wouldn't be fun. Perhaps pole caps made of old tennis balls may help protect against that. A really bad position to pitch a hammock would be across a rock cleft - if the two lumps of rock are at different potentials, then the lowest-resistance path may well be through you. Never stretch your hammock across a gap that doesn't have an obviously better electrical bypass very close by. 

A magnifying glass will not light it, and I don't think a flint and steel will directly - you need a flame rather than a spark - but that is easily solved through using a piece of newspaper with kindling, or taper. Just use your magnifying glass or flint to light the paper, then use that to light the lamp. Slightly messy, and you need to be careful where you put your taper, but pretty simple. 

This is very different to predators, whose vision is generally for accuracy in targeting - hence binocular, front facing eyes, allowing very accurate distance perception. See this contrasting diagram of an owl's vision from owlpages.com: 

If you are overdue, and the search party know you have a PLB, the fact that they have not received an alert from it suggests either 

In that year, the "beacon false alert rate" is listed at 0.4% for PLBs, compared to 0.9% for other EPIRBs and 4.9% for the old 121.5 MHz ELTs (i.e. one in 250 PLBs in the world transmitted a false alert; we can estimate that one in 5000 beacons was used in a real emergency in that year). 

Note that many of the above incidents measured above relate to automatically-activated beacons carried on boats, rather than PLBs, so it may be invalid to suggest that the PLB false-activation rate is the same as for EPIRBs in general. For example, the last document above says that 

What ages a rope most is use, so if you have stored it for a couple of years it should not have degraded measurably. Have a look at the UIAA's document on ageing of climbing ropes for some guidance from the experts (the UIAA is the International Mountaineering and Climbing Association) I wouldn't worry about a couple of year's lack of use. 

A full keel is very stable and gives you better tracking through seas - you don't need to adjust your helm much as you crest waves. A fin keel loses some of this stability, but you gain manoeuvrability - the shorter keel lets you turn much more sharply. 

If you get a pair, you can choose whether to actually use one or both for a particular day. I recommend that you buy a pair well before your expedition, and use them enough to you learn your preference. If you never want to use both, you still have one you can retain as a spare. Personally, I found that when I started using poles, I got very frustrated with a pair, because I no longer had a free hand to hold map and compass, or camera. After a few months of weekend trips with the poles, I developed techniques for managing with both hands occupied. Do be aware that it's easy to have too much faith in poles when you really require an ice-axe. Don't get overconfident on snowy slopes where the poles help you maintain your footing, but don't give you the ability to arrest a fall. You'll also have to learn to hold onto your poles when they are not required - remember to strap them onto your back and not throw them "back" into the woods! 

Picture from the RSPB website. If you get to hear one, they have a call that can be piercing or melancholy - and which gives them their common name, Peewit. 

Update on the sleeping side of things: I would use a relatively light sleeping bag, at most a two seasons one. It doesn't get that cold in Scotland, as the north Atlantic drift keeps our climate pretty mild all year. In terms of tents the key is to get one which can cope with winds as they can get pretty high. I wouldn't expect much over a force 4 for that week though, the forecasts seem reasonable. I have camped out west in everything from a cheap tent from Asda up to proper tents. Just take normal guy rope precautions, ensure there is a good groundsheet, and you aren't going to get water pouring in, and you should be fine.