For the first, I'm not so sure that you do. You won't have junior developers to delegate minor tasks to. You won't have active testers in the business side, since they don't even know you're doing it. You don't have the latest specs and refinements and wish-lists, because again no one knows you're doing it. You don't have the tracking tools you need (although you could set up your own Bugzilla or something.) Now, each of these can be mitigated, especially if you can find a business user your management trusts to help you, but they do need to be mitigated somehow. For the second, it sounds like you will. After all, they desperately need this new version. Your management definitely seems like the "throw money at the problem type" and you're the target they're throwing money at. That being said, do keep documentation of all the work you do, because being under the radar and not using the approved ticketing system will mean you need to dot all your T's and cross all your I's when it comes time to proving you did the work you agreed to. For the third, this might be tricky. Maybe once you release they can admit that you exist and be like "Mik has been instrumental in cleaning up the bugs and releasing this shiny new... interface ... wink" and then you can get references. But they might just as easily shove you out the door and say "thanks for cleaning up after us, we're gonna get back to #^@%^ing things up again! Tata!" Now, as for ethics, I can't help you there. If they want to run their business shady, they can. I'm contracted to do a job under certain constraints, I do the job under those constraints as long as I'm set up for present and future success. The ethical side you'll have to reach on your own. 

If the bookshelf-moving happens at work, it is a reasonable favor to ask: the task is probably not in his job description, but neither too complicated or time consuming. The rest is assuming that it is a personal favor (outside of work in terms of place and hours). Simple question to ask yourself: do you have this type of personal relationship with your colleague, on occasions where you don't need a favor? The real question behind that is, do you have a relationship where you are not his boss? 

Transferring the in-game frustration in a professional context is pretty childish... With childish people, I find that the best solution is often to wait for them to calm down (let's be honest, he's probably waiting for you to apologize and beg him to come back to the guild with his huge skill and all, and there's no way you should do that). If you don't have to actually work with him, just keep being being friendly as you would with any other coworker, and he'll come around at some point - maybe as people will notice he's ignoring you, and start asking why, he'll realize the futility of it all. If you have to work together and his behaviour is having a negative effect, you might consider saying something neutral like "Look, I know it didn't end well with the guild, we probably both overreacted, but can we please get over it and just work together?". (Note: in my opinion, he overreacted, not you, but it often helps to take part of the blame, and your end goal there is to get him to talk to you). 

You might be overthinking this. Both people with the power to act have delegated that power to you. They trust you and your judgement, so leverage that. Let's suppose for a moment that you had the power to enact the things you don't feel you can. If you did that, you surely would go into the meeting with this employee with a plan and a few very likely outcomes. Continue to draw up that basic workflow and have a review meeting with both of managers in question. If they agree with the workflow, and you receive (in writing) authority to implement your plan to get the employee back on track, have your meeting with her and present it. If they don't both agree to it, there it's on them to find the solution going forward. They dumped the problem on you to solve and you solved it. If they don't hold up their end of the bargain when they dumped it on you, they need to clean up their mess. They are the managers after all. That's their job. 

There is a good business reason for it. Companies that engage in illegal activities do so because it makes them money. People who whistleblow threaten to stop those activities and thus cost the company money. Also, complaints leave paper trails for auditors to find, which is dangerous. Employees who cost the company money in any capacity need to be identified and removed. It is possible this firm in the past had a bunch of malicious reporting that was completely bogus. Obviously investigations cost money and if you're investigating over nothing just for political points, that's costly. But this seems unlikely. The most likely reason is they're an unethical company trying to cover up unethical behaviors with more unethical behaviors. 

I am in a number crunching role. I have invested time after hours to gain knowledge about the business. I want to move to Sales. What should be my next step be? Should I be having a discussion with my boss and express interest or should I approach the Sales hiring manager directly? 

I would be vocal in those team meetings and challenge his claims. If he is not getting any work done, that should be made visible. 

I am a few weeks into a new job. I was hired in one department but have been receiving signals from other manager and my immediate boss that the other manager is under-resourced and needs more help than he (my boss) does. I personally would also agree and I also feel that my background is better suited to work under the other manager. How should I approach this situation? Should I be direct about it? 

I see myself being able to help others on many key initiatives at work, however I am constantly at odds on if me jumping into help would undermine the person's capability. On the flip side however, am I losing out on the opportunity to learn, build relationships that I really need to do, and shine? 

Do you ever have a team meeting where you all share on projects you are working on and whah help you need? If you don't, this would be a great tool to have others including your manager gain visibility on his underutilization. 

Obviously, for real contract law you need to talk to a lawyer. We can't help you with that. That being said, if the contract specifically states that what you pay is for training fees, and you can actively demonstrate that they didn't pay those fees, then you shouldn't have anything to repay. If they did provide a few training sessions, you'll definitely have to pay those. That's what happens when you sign a contract, even a contract with dishonest people. If you're looking for a loophole, we can't help you without the full text of the contract, and if we had it even then we wouldn't because that's not what we do here. You need a laywer. Or you can suck it up until the contract ends. Or get a side job to cover the cost of breaking the contract. Just make sure you are more careful about what you sign to in the future. 

First of all, this is not something that should involve you. In my view, a manager's primary job is to be "umbrella for the rain" (and you know what's raining, it's not water...) to ensure their team members are able to work productively and focus on their tasks, not on intraoffice politics. So keep that in mind. Secondly, you have a responsibility to the company to work to the best of your ability. If this meeting is because the GM values your opinion, be honest about what options you think would make the company most productive. Often times, that means matching people with good working relationships. Other times that means taking leaders (and I don't mean managers, I mean lead-by-example leaders) and spreading them around to different teams. Thirdly, whether the GM wants your input or not, make it clear that you want to know to whom you report, and that you want to know that they both accept the GM's decision. This is true regardless whether you have a say in the matter. Everyone needs to be on the same page because when you're busy fighting about who gets you on their team, you're not busy doing the work the GM is paying you to do. Lastly, don't burn any bridges. Don't say bad things about manager B, don't lay it on too thick about manager A, and certainly don't piss off the GM. Be truthful and polite. (That last bit applies pretty much forever. Sure there are times to not be truthful, and not be polite, and sometimes even not both at the same time, but your life will be much more fulfilling if you're both as much as possible!) With regards specifically to showing partiality, manager A should have been keeping the best interests of the company in mind. If he was giving you promotions for the express purpose of having a pawn, he was doing it wrong and you shouldn't reward that behavior. And if he had the company's best interests in mind the whole time, he won't have a problem with you doing the same. 

(Feel free to work on the phrasing, english is not my first language.) The point is, as you said: no-one has ever heard of a portfolio for science jobs, and you can't guess what they want. 

I can't comment on @Bojje 's good answer, so here's a tip: the problem is that this habit of sharing is already established, and getting back from there is proving to be quite complicated if you don't want to seem agressive towards your coworkers. Since it has become "normal" for them that you share, it would most likely be hard for them to understand why you would start saying no all of a sudden. (Did they do something wrong?) One solution might be to create two different types of snacking: 

I would say that the question is not whether you know the name of the person handling the cover letters, but rather if you are sending your application to a specific person (if the contact information provided in the offer is that of a specific person, and not jobs@company.com). In that case, yes, address the letter to them. (As you would address the e-mail containing your application to them directly, right?) In all other circumstances, it doesn't matter. What you should research and mention in your letter, is the company (and the team/service, if it's a big company), why you would like to work there and be a great addition to the team. Mention the company/team by name and name specific examples that prove you took the time to address your letter to them, and that it's not a template sent to a hundred other HR services. The name of the person has no importance whatsoever, and as you said, the letter is bound to be read by several recruiters and team member. They know the application is going around, and they will not care if the name on the top is theirs or someone else's or a generic greeting. What they will care about is the content. As for the name, do whatever you are comfortable with! 

Most employers are not legally allowed to pay you for that much work on a consistent basis. If they were, they would bully their employees into burnout mode. If you really are able to keep that kind of productivity up for sustained periods, and you love it, there's really only one option. Consider what you're saying in your question - you put in all these hours, but it's the company that benefits, no you. The only option that lets you reap those benefits is if you are the company. Channel that productivity into something you truly love. Work your 8-5 like everyone else, and instead of putting those extra 20, 30, or 40 hours into a company that doesn't pay you, start your own. Build an app, make some websites, something to get the revenue flowing. When it's big enough, work on it full time and reap the true benefits of your productivity. Alternative, work 8-5 like everyone else and sit on a boat for a few hours at night. There's some good books and a mai-tai that would love to say hi. 

This is a clear violation of harassment rights. You should have a meeting with your manager and HR about the problem. If you don't feel physically threatened by the person, when it happens next respond calmly with "your comments are harassment and must stop." If you do feel physically threatened do not engage. It's not worth getting broken bones over. Sticks and stones, et al. 

I have been performing well in my current role close to a year. There are a few new positions that my employer is looking to fill. My boss keeps hinting about one of these positions to me. It makes sense for me to pursue this opportunity but why is my boss not being direct/approaching me for it? The only reason that I can think of is that he may think that I am not ready yet. Any thoughts appreciated. 

I've been hired in a number-crunching support role for less than 1 year but really want to be customer front facing as the type of work that I thought I would be doing, is not required. I am interested in staying with my current company and they are a ton of sales roles being hired for and really the focus for us as a company. How do I have the chat with my manager without making it look like any of the below: 1. I don't want to spend time in what I was hired to do and prove myself. 2. I am trying to shy away from responsibility and am not a team player. I also want to have a dialogue that lets me try sales go back to my original job if I am not good at it, as I have never tried it before. 

I had the same condition on employment once. I completed my course work and even walked in the ceremony but there was some paperwork that needed to be done somewhere. Not on my end, but still it meant when I walked I got a blank diploma in the folio. To this day, I have still never actually received my degree. It's been 7 years. And no one has ever been like "hey corsiKa, you don't have a piece of paper on your wall. Did you really get your degree?!" Yes, of course I did. And the paper is really meaningless anyway - if someone truly wants to hold your feet to the fire, they'll send for an authorized transcript with your current status. As professionals, we tend to take people at their word for common things like that unless and until it becomes apparent that it might not actually be true. 

Many large companies have generic postings for different teams. For example there might be a web team, a mobile team, an internal apps team and a dev ops team. For entry level positions they're mostly going to be the same. Some coding, some scripting, CS degree helpful, etc. Also, many shops have hundreds of developers. So, even with low turnover rates they're always looking for new candidates. And some are always willing to pay to keep the door open to rockstars when they come through. It's unlikely that they've been holding out for 10 months trying to find the right person to fill their team. They're most likely casting a large, wide net.