This is a classic supply and demand chart. The horizontal axis (x axis) is quantity, and the vertical axis (y axis) is price. In a labor market, the vertical unit price would be wages, and the quantity would be quantity of labor. Quantity is function of Price, but economists like representing price vertically. (Veblen described curves where the same quantity could trade at more than one price.) The D curve is demand. As price goes up, there is less demand (disregarding Veblen). That is, as the price rises, there are still buys who will buy at that price, but some will not, so there is a lower quantity that can be traded. The S1 and S2 curves are supply. As the price goes down, some suppliers will not what to supply the commodity. This is a little bit of a question in the labor market. Do fewer people want a job if wages are low? The price and quantity that is actually traded tends to be the equilibrium at the intersection of supply and demand. If the price is higher or lower, it will tend toward the equilibrium. I won't explain here, but we will see an example with the shift from the S1 to S2 curves. The arrow showing a shift from the S1 to the S2 curve represents a change in supply. There is now a greater quantity of supply at the same price, or the same quantity at a much lower price. Suppose when the supply curve was S1 trading happened at the equilibrium. Now at that price, there are more suppliers willing to supply the commodity. They are also willing to supply at a lower price. There are some buyers who would not buy at the old price, but will buy if the price were lower. The extra suppliers are willing to take the lower price. So the price decreases as a greater amount is supplied. This continues until the price lowers so much that there are no additional suppliers, which happens at the intersection of D and S2. 

If a man has a small business where he is the only employee or if he is self employed, that makes him a capitalist? For example a freelance writer. Or a subsistence farmer that only produces enough to feed himself and his family. Or a subsistence farmer that makes a little income on top of feeding himself and his family. Is there an income threshold that makes them capitalist? 

If I, or my cousin or my uncle create monopolies or cartels and speculate and fix prices, artificially inflating the cost of the goods/services we provide, the government will put punish us for that, because we harm the consumers. That's why most countries have a Competition Council. But if my aunt creates a monopoly or cartel and buys large amounts of currency (becoming a speculator instead of being a trader) artificially increasing the price of the US dollar for the EU based consumers, reducing their buying power and therefore harming them, shouldn't the government react in the same manner? Now, the currency speculators do not produce any good or service that consumers actually need or desire. Not even the international traders need to buy currency from speculators—they can buy the currency from the international traders based in the targeted country, or from the currency traders. So, nobody actually need the speculators "services". By the contrary, their actions will make the target currency to be weaker (so the working people can buy less with their money - they have less buying power), and they will make profit from this. At the end of the day, me, my cousin, my uncle and my aunt will be able to buy less food or clothes or computers with our income, even though we keep producing goods and services the consumer need, helping them to get what they need. And in the same time, the speculators can buy a lot of food or clothes or computers even though they produced nothing that the consumers needed, all that at the expense of the consumers, harming them. So we have a situation where money do not measure work anymore. Your money do not measure your capacity to produce some needed goods or services. Now the money measure your capacity to speculate and to harm other people by reducing their buying power, driving them poorer. A very basic logic says that the money were created in order to help the people who produce goods and services to trade those goods and services. So the reason for using money (currency) is because it's supposed that the use of money will help them, instead of harming them. If using money hurts me more than helps me, I will think very seriously about not using money anymore. It can't be hard at all for a government to detect if Brian Jones buys currency in order to actually buy goods with it or to simply speculate the currency value. They simply have to look at what Brian Jones is buying with the currency once it has it. The government can put a penalty (a fine) for speculating the currency so the consumers and the working people do not have to suffer from the speculation. And then it won't be profitable anymore to speculate a currency. And then, what would be a government's arguments for allowing the speculation with it's own currency? I provided all the data above in order to avoid superficial answers like "currency speculators help the people to buy foreign currency" - there are currency traders for that. 

As I had hoped to learn enough macroeconomic theory to get some research ideas, my goal at the beginning of this summer was to read through and complete the problems in an introductory advanced macroeconomics text (my first-year PhD macro courses left me more stunned than enlightened). I started with The McCandless's ABCs of RBCs, and quickly found that it was above my ability level when I reached problems I didn't even know how to set up, so now I'm trying Romer's Advanced Macroeconomics. I've gotta say that after having to consult the solutions manual several times through Chapter 2 out of 12, I'm feeling rather discouraged as the solutions involve methods that are not intuitive to me and not discussed in the text. Is there even any point in someone with my skill level tackling such a task? I can't really see myself being a macroeconomic theorist after this, and it seems that the vast majority of empirical macroeconomic studies use reduced-form linear models backed by hand-waving arguments based on principles or intermediate theory, so I'm starting to doubt the utility of studying advanced theory at all. I understand this may be an an "illegal" question here on Stack Exchange, so I won't protest if it's closed. But if not, does anyone have any tips for how to proceed? 

Short answer: Yes, the SRAS curve will shift after the LRAS shifts to return the short-run equilibrium (SRAS/AD) back in line with the long-run equilibrium (LRAS/AD). The reason the SRAS curve doesn't shift immediately with LRAS is that there are so-called "frictions" or "nominal rigidities" such as contracts and information gaps that prevent firms from adjusting supply plans instantly. Long answer: There are two simple "stories" we can tell to explain the dynamics of the elementary AS/AD model: the "inflation gap" story and the "output gap" story. Both of these stories are compatible with each other, so they're usually taught as both occurring at the same time. Inflation gap story: SRAS is modeled as shifting upward when expected price levels increase. We can consider the long-run (expected) equilibrium to occur at the intersection of LRAS and AD, and the short-run (actual) equilibrium to occur at the intersection of SRAS and AD. If you start in a long-run equilibrium where all three curves intersect, but then impose an LRAS shock on the model and shift the curve, then the expected price level and actual short-run price level will differ. This is what we call an inflation gap. As firm owners come to the realization that the supply shock is here to stay, they adjust their production processes to match and the SRAS curve shifts to bring the short-run equilibrium in line with the long-run equilibrium. Output gap story: SRAS is also modeled as shifting whenever prices of factors of production change. Thus the output gap generated by the supply shock becomes relevant, with actual short-run output out of line with the long-run sustainable level marked by the LRAS curve. For example, after a positive LRAS shock, the short-run equilibrium will have less output than the long-run sustainable level. The result is an abundance of resources, and the prices of factors of production will fall, causing firms to increase production and shift the SRAS to the right until actual output matches the long-run sustainable level. An opposite story can be told to explain why SRAS shifts left after a negative LRAS shock. 

If the working hours would be reduced from 40 hours / week to 32 hours / week (4 days x 8 hours instead of 5 days x 8 hours), but maintaining the wages at the same levels, then I guess that the price of the commodities would increase. I've seen various claims that working hours can be reduced (Carlos Slim Helu 2014, Google 2014) and I wonder about the negative effects of such a change. If, for example, I am producing clothes with 10 workers, each producing 100 shirts per week (20 per day) and I sell the shirts for \$1 each, then I make \$1,000 per week, covering the production costs. Reducing the working hours from 40 to 32 / week means I can produce only 800 shirts per week (200 shirts per day x 4 days) but since I need \$1,000 per week in order to cover the costs, that means I have to sell the shirts for \$1.25 (that comes from dividing $1,000 to 800 shirts) Therefore, at a first sight, it looks like reducing the working week to four days implies a 25% increase for the prices of the commodities. Am I right? 

Recently I've learned that Inditex (owner of Zara brand) is the biggest fashion group in the world and it's using almost no advertising at all. I would like to know more examples of such big companies that use no advertising and why might a large company not invest directly in advertising? 

Is there a term for not being able to pay your mortgage(s)? Like "personal bankruptcy", "consumer default" or something like that? 

A Greek ship owner transports mouse traps from Albania to Japan, making every year ten million Euro in revenue and one million Euro in profits. The total value of the mouse traps he transports every year is one hundred million Euro. So Albania is exporting one hundred million Euro every year. The ship owner charges 10% of the value of the goods, making a revenue of 10 million Euro (Albanians are paying him that money for transporting the goods to Japan). After paying his expenses: fuel, food, ship repair, taxes, etc., he gets one million Euro in profits. The question is: does his revenue count as a Greek export? One can argue that Greece is exporting a transporting service so it should count as Greek export. Also the revenue should count as Albanian imports since they pay an external company for the service. 

You generally set the price of "all other goods" to \$1, as "all other goods" is usually measured as "dollars worth of all other goods." Then the maximum quantity of all other goods is just the available income. Then to find the quantity of other goods Hulk buys, just find out how much money is available after he vists the gym 20 times. 

This would represent an extreme increase in long-run aggregate supply. In the AS/AD framework, this would result in a long-run increase in production growth and a decrease in the inflation rate. How "badly" it will disrupt today's global market? You've built an assumption that it's bad into your question, but sure, it will be bad for anyone who has invested in current energy sources. It will be fantastic, however, for anyone involved in literally any other entrepreneurial activity. The only disruption in such a sudden and unexpected technology improvement would be that some financial institutions would find themselves overinvested in the energy sector. Insofar as they cannot handle the financial capital losses, there may be a private debt crisis that pushes politicians to bail them out again (ideally using the increases in tax revenues caused by increased productivity), or to simply declare their debt null and void. This would cause some consternation, but given that people tolerated financial bailouts after the housing crisis (where financial assets were wasted without any obvious social benefits at all), it's unlikely that there would be overwhelming protest in such a scenario. The negative impacts of such a productivity shock would only be temporary, however. Energy is one of the limiting factors of production, so free energy would cause production to grow as fast as entrepreneurs can find a use for it, which would be very quickly. 

There was a time when they did, but it's a less common tool of monetary policy now. At any rate, altering the minimum reserve ratio at this point would be pointless due to the huge quantities of excess reserves banks have been holding since the 2008 bailouts and subsequent rounds of quantitative easing. The reserve ratio is a relevant tool of monetary policy only if banks are actually at or near that ratio, which few are at this time.