Water is irrelevant What drives volcanic formation is the activity of the planets core and tectonics. Olympus Mons on Mars is 21.9 km I think the crust would need to be well formed but something needs to keep the planetary core active. So maybe a gas giant moon that has its own moon which its tidally locked with. Would also be a great explainer for the volcanos size. 

Summary, sweet potatoes and Quinoa are super foods however in terms of nutrition Quinoa is superior. It provides most the rare nutrition lacked by most other vegetarian sources. It also provides all essential amino acids and proteins which sweet potatoes do not, this is contained in the above links. Quinoa is also a water efficient plant hailing from arid Andes biome which makes it suitable for space travel and colonization of water poor environments like Mars. The DOWN side: Quinoa requires a lot of water to process and prepare. Quinoa normally contains a toxic coating that must be washed away (the toxin does serve well as a antiseptic for cuts). Quinoa strains have been GE to not produce this toxin thus reducing processing cost. Quinoa must still be boiled in water like rice in order to be edible. Aside from that it appears you are going to have to get B12 from somewhere else. Since its a grain plant it produce LOTS of seeds requiring fewer seeds (weight) and generations to scale up production (IE the first generation, 1 plant can produce enough seeds to start a small field). Which is not something potatoes or tomatoes can accomplish as easily. 

So sure presence of the power can be hereditary but the weapon acts as an amplifier increasing their strength. It could be that those who inherited the power descend from those who either created or were able to master the weapon. As for: 

SMH, this isn't Photosynthesis Photosynthesis is the process by which an organism takes in sunlight as an energy source. A plant is an organism capable of performing photosynthesis. An organism powered from lava isn't a plant let alone performing photosynthesis. After that clarification: An organism needs access to an energy source and nutrients. In plants they take in sunlight and nutrients and create sugars which can later be reacted with oxygen anywhere in its body to provide on demand energy to fulfill some biological role. Similarly, animals eats plants and turn them directly into energy and save the rest as fats which they can burn later on demand. All your creature needs to do is absorb certain chemical compounds from its environment and use the volcanic heat to transform them into larger compounds that can be easily reacted to with a freely available external compound to produce energy. Where it stores this energy is purely your preference however depending on how in-depth you get with the chemistry you may wish to centralize it in thermally protected pockets. 

Not yet. In 2008 I wrote an overview/roadmap of what we knew back then about whole brain emulation, the scanning and computational reconstruction of brains. The main scheme I assumed was a slice-and-dice scanning method where the tissue is mapped on the sub-cellular level. In Apprendix E I gave the reasons for why I did not explore non-destructive scanning methods in detail. However, I had a long debate with Robert Freitas Jr. about using nanofibers, manufactured using mature nanotechnology, to connect every neuron more or less to external read-out devices. The details of the sensing can be read in section 4.8.6 and subsequent pages, and the fiber network is described in section 7.3.1 of his book Nanomedicine Vol I. I think there is nothing physically impossible about this scheme. However, I think the medical engineering challenges are worse than he thought: beside needing fairly advanced nanomachinery it also needs to interact with a dynamic, soft environment that is pretty sensitive and responds. Robert argued back; basically, see Nanomedicine Vol IIA for his assessment, especially section 15.3.6.5. My view is that we will use destructive methods long before we can do the actual read-out using electrodes. That requires a lot of technology development, both of nanotechnology but also handling a messy biological environment. But I do not think it is impossible, just hard and slow. As a further twist, the synthetic biology people are getting involved in the game by thinking about "molecular tickertape", where signals are recorded on DNA inside cells, and "DNA bar codes" where the cell connectivity is recorded. Of course, the current vision they have for reading this involves putting the brain in a blender and then sequencing the DNA pieces... 

Most obviously, you have a fairly expendable body. Perfect for dangerous tasks like firefighting, exploration... or assassination. Or being an army. A temporary army, but potentially very well coordinated. Also, since the body is somebody else's originally, it is perfect for espionage and cons. 

There are some sources of uncertainty that mess up this technology. The prime one is the Heisenberg uncertainty relations in quantum mechanics: the product of the uncertainties about the position and momentum of a particle will always be larger than a certain (small) value. This is not just a lack of instrumentation or even that the measurement will jostle the particle, but seems to be a deep part of how quantum mechanics works. Hence your measurement of the state of the world will by necessity have some small uncertainties. These would not be a huge problem except for chaos (and perhaps quantum randomness). When backtracking the particles the uncertainty in location will grow linearly with time due to the momentum uncertainty as long as they do not interact with each other. But of course they do, and that produces a much faster growth of uncertainty. On one hand nonlinear interactions amplify uncertainties exponentially, and on the other hand individual particle reactions look random on the quantum scale. So go back far enough and you will have little clue where all those particles were. (This is really annoying since quantum mechanics and all the other laws of physics appear to be time-reversible in the small: in a sense the information is there, it is just spread out to such a degree that you cannot reconstruct it) To add to the annoyance, your measurements need to be stored somewhere. Each particle needs 6 values to denote their position and velocity (plus a few more for other particle states). There are about $10^{27}$ molecules in a body, each with about 30 particles (most are water). So if you want to simulate just a body you need $1.8\times 10^{29}$ numbers (each with a certain number of bits). Note that this is an annoyance, not a showstopper. I recently estimated that using all silicon and carbon in the solar system you could get up to $10^{46}$ bits - more than enough for that data. Now, there is another approach to the problem. Instead of trying to scoop up all atoms and accurately predict where they truly were, make a lot of plausible scenarios instead. Not every past is likely: a cloud of air molecules could have been a toy that spontaneously dissolved into nearly nothing, but it is not as likely as past air. A being who wrote an email in English probably had a brain that understood English, and so on. This will not guarantee finding the one true past state. In fact, it might find a near endless number of plausible pasts that could have happened. No problem, just resurrect copies of all of them. 

Sure.... Yes you could technically do this The Himalayan mountains contain rock from ancient seabeds so its certainly possible. Just like in Star Trek use the tractor beam. Here's reality: Messing with the techtonic plate will result in Earthquakes, tidal waves, and volcanoes. The intensity of these is multiplied by distance of the moved land mass (and we are talking centimeters). Basically, the plate is cooled rock sitting on top of an ocean of lava called the mantle. In your case, where 2 plates get pushed together rock gets pushed up raising sea beds and creating mountains. However, in its wake volcanoes are formed creating new land on the other side. The faster the plate moves, the more volcanoes get created behind it. More realistically, they could just dump dirt in the sea and fill it up pushing the water elsewhere or into an underground system. Or they could drill a hole to the mantle and create volcano to fill in that area. All of which would be all around cheaper and less destructive than messing with the plate. 

Here would be my Strategies dependent upon conditions As with any war, the most effective decisions and strats take into account immediate and developing conditions. But here are some defensive options: CLIMB! Take your city to 29,000 ft (the height of Everest). Develop your city with pressure chambers (places where your people could take refuge during sieges that can maintain 1 atm). At this altitude the human body is dying from cold and asphyxiation. Good luck invading a city when you cant breath and defenders can pop out (from siege rooms) fully rested. Note: Altitude sickness would likely plague both sides however the defenders having both lived in an aerial city (which would acclimate them) and access to siege chambers would leave them infinitely more able bodied than their attackers. (in other words they would invite them in at this point and decimate them) A single defender could easily take 10-20 attackers if not more under these conditions. And if defenders alternate combat shifts the could easily quadruple that ratio. Also at 29K ft the air is below freezing, another defensive option is to spray water at attacking ships. This would obviously freeze causing lots of additional weight on the ships. Enough ice weight could be packed on to cause the air ship to go plummeting to the ground. This happens to fishing vessels in the bearing straight causing them to sink. Note: The Sherpa people have evolved a natural resilience to altitude sickness because of the altitude of their settlement. Descend! I don't know presume to know the normal altitude of your city but I assume they avoid violent storms by ascending. In this case if there is a storm present they should descend into it. A big massive city would be hard for a storm to push around however light airships buzzing around it would have difficulty maneuvering let alone avoiding crashing into the concrete siding. These conditions would certainly reduce enemy numbers. Note: Of course all of this is in addition to obvious conventional countermeasures like archers and ballista. Finally, I want to re-iterate my opening point. A truly successful defense comes down to the commanders ability to act and react to the conditions of battle. Simple defensive strategies are never enough and this can be best described by summarizing Patton : ' Man has torn down mountains and tamed oceans, of course he can overcome a fixed position'. 

The further galaxies are the colder each planet will become ending to be cold enough to kill every possible life form apart from bacteria and viruses. if they are close enough the gravity of the universe will cause a new big bang. If none of those happen and the universe lives long enough then total entropy will end everything forever, unless one day after the death of the universe something completely random happens(mathematically possible) and causes the birth of a new universe. 

No , The wizards could simply create a virus that will wipe cavemen out of the face of earth in few days Even if there were 10^100 cavemen for every single wizard they would still have no chance to survive against a powerful biologic weapon. To give a small chance to cavemen you have to make wizards completely ignorant in bio engineering and medicine. Ok since they can't use biological weapons Then if cavemen have enough knowledge of their environment they can easily take down wizards , the fastest way would be to steal technologies or attack in guerrilla or with kamikaze terrorists. If wizards have a good enough defenses to avoid being destroyed from the inside then the war would be incredibly long and exhausting but eventually wizards will win since their civilians are safe. Between the numbers are not in favor of anyone they are balanced for both sides since only a little portion of the population will become soldiers 

Yes it is breathable , but with 61% of Argon people would have always Demonic-Like voices , this gas is the opposite of Helium. plus the solid arsenic powder in the air could cause damage over time to human lungs , but it might take as much as 30 years for anything relevant. 

Technically we have the same Sapience of most animals on earth , +13 on the SQ scale, no more and no less ,self awareness is already the same across all mammals,reptiles and even some fish. If you mean human-intelligence then I'd bet Rats as suggested previously. rats mate with 500 different partners per year leaving a minimum of 2000 descendants , this number could grow up to x5 times as much if they learn to use medicines to prevent infantile deaths. They need no training or weapons just a great determination to exterminate humans and they could take over the world before we even notice. If you wanted to count also insects and non vertebrates then Bees could exterminate 90%-95% of life on earth in a few months because they decide if nature has to live or not. 

(By coincidence I was finishing a section of my book dealing with mining black hole energy today) Harvesting energy from stars is easy. But it turns out that the tech (Dyson spheres) you need for it allows harvesting energy from black hole accretion in a stationary way, and this can be very efficient. No, the Penrose process is not the best real or theoretical method of energy harvesting. More detail, and a suggestion for a theoretical but science-based cool way of tapping black holes: The Penrose process extracts angular momentum from a rotating black hole. It is not an easy trick to pull off, but one can do it in various ways (particles, superradiance, matter-antimatter reactions producing pairs of gamma ray beams where one is sacrificed and the other picked up outside...). However, eventually the angular momentum will run out. It is not a renewable source, even though it is big. The most efficient way we know can extract energy from matter and a black hole is accretion disks and jets, since we have observed them. Matter falling into an accretion disk is losing its potential energy as it spirals in, radiating it away. We have good reason to think that the mass-energy conversion efficiency is up to 5.72% for stationary black holes and up to 42.3% (!) for rotating black holes (neutron stars give about 23%). By comparison, fusion is just 0.075%, and stars worse. That energy can be collected using a Dyson sphere (a fairly standard one, if high temperature, for a stellar mass black hole; a very big 1000 AU one for galactic black holes - as you get close to the Eddington luminosity I recommend carbon-tungsten statites or the alloys related to Ta$_4$HfC$_5$). But there is more! The accretion process produces jets that can be about as luminous as the the disk itself thanks to complex electromagnetic effects in the swirling plasma. This is basically a Penrose process but electromagnetic (the Blandford–Znajek process), and possible to replenish by adding matter with angular momentum to the disk. That energy can also be collected using suitable megascale engineering (think giant coils). Catching gravitational radiation looks very hard (weak coupling to matter), even though up to 1/8 of the masses of merging black holes are emitted in one burst. Here is the thing that might make the story/worldbuilding fun: Hawking radiation is a mere trickle, and mostly of interest for far, far future civilisations when the universe becomes cold enough. However, it can be boosted! In this paper, Frolov and Fursaev show that if you dangle cosmic strings nearly onto the event horizon of a black hole each string will emit about the same amount of Hawking radiation as the entire hole. For the right kind of thin strings this can boost the hole output by $10^{31}$ - enough to make a solar mass black hole produce 900 Watt, and smaller ones far more. Of course, solar-mass black holes are about the lightest that can form today, so you need to seek out the rarer primordial black holes that formed during the Big Bang. So my suggestion is that a recent discovery of a way of making cosmic strings (cool objects on their own) enables tapping primordial black holes, triggering a rush.