I'm 29 years old, 5'10", 165 pound, 12% body fat percentage man. I have so small Gluteus Maximus size and I want to gain some size there. I do hip thrusts, glute bridges, squats, deadlifts, hyper extensions and any variation of lower body exercises for gluteus, I consume 2.2 times kg of LBM protein from highly bioavailable sources, enough macro and micro foods but still not enough result. I don't believe about genetic limit if you are not IFBB level. So i need some tips and advices about gluteus development techniques(not about how to do a good diet). 

I think logging your food is probably going to be your best bet. Forget all the noise about what you should eat, when you should eat it, etc... That’s way more advanced than you really need to worry about at this point in time. Besides, sustainability is a major factor with permanent change. Anyone can stick to some fad diet for a little while, but very few do for life. The benefit to logging food is not just so you know how much you overate in a single day, but as you become consistent with it, it can do the following: 

The topic you talk about is Synergist(something such as a chemical or a muscle that enhances the effectiveness of an active agent) and Antagonist(a muscle that contracts with and limits the action of an agonist with which it is paired) muscles. The action of deltoid is shoulder abduction, flexion and extension so synergists of deltoid are Supraspinatus, Infraspinatus, Teres major and minor, Subscapularis and antagonists of deltoid are Pectoralis major and minor, Subclavius, Serratus anterior, Trapezius, Latissimus dorsi, Rhomboid major and minor, and Levator scapulae. 

I'm basing a lot of this on my own personal experience so, by all means, take it as anecdotal if you'd like. I started exercising the week of my 34th birthday (about 8 months ago) after having smoked for 15-16 years and living a sedentary lifestyle. I discovered the heart rate zones early on, just like you, and I got my heart rate monitor (FitBit Charge HR) as well. Some people will say that if you want an accurate heart rate, VO2 measurement, etc., you'll need to go see a medical professional, have a bunch of gear hooked up, and so on and so forth. They're right. That being said, I have measured my FitBit heart rate against probably 20-30 different types of cardio machines (treadmills, bikes, stair stepper, etc...) from different manufacturers, and my heart rate on the Fitbit almost always matches the heart rate on the machine within 1-2 beats. Considering that the FitBit uses a different methodology than ordinary cardio equipment, I feel like it's a decent enough approximation. Might I see a difference between my FitBit and a professional medical device? Sure. Is it going to be significant enough to where one day you find out you've never even hit zone 5? I highly doubt it. Furthermore, the FitBit uses my heart rate to determine total caloric burn. Again... not a medical device, but considering that I've lost 35 pounds by studiously trying to keep to a -500 calorie daily deficit, and been successful with it, my guess is the FitBit is accurate enough to be useful. So, that being said, the question is whether or not exercising at that heart rate is dangerous. Obviously, each individual is different, so it's not a one-size-fits-all answer. That being said, I imagine if you told your doctor you were doing this, they'd probably jump for joy. The first few weeks/months of exercise for me, as soon as I took a step, I was virtually in zone 5. Now... I have to push it very hard to get there. So, I somewhat suspect that the reason you're always in this zone is because you're once again challenging your body. So, my guess is that, over time, and especially if you don't vary your routine, your heart and the rest of your cardiovascular system will learn to very quickly adapt to this exercise routine. As a result, you'll probably struggle to get into that range as time goes on. For normal people, I haven't read that this is overly problematic. That being said, if you have an underlying or undiagnosed condition, I suppose it could be dangerous. One thing I noticed early on was that if I overtrained, the next day I might have a very mild heart flutter. It may have only happened for 2-3 seconds out of the entire day. It didn't happen all the time, and it was usually when I was at rest, but I knew that it was time for me to take an extra day off, and then I'd be fine. Obviously, you know how you feel more than any of us do. I'd say that if you're feeling great, then you're doing fine. The more you do it, the better you'll feel. I'm at a point now where missing my gym days puts me in a bad mood. I look forward to it. I love it. I like the heart rate monitor. I have learned its intricacies, it allows me to gauge my current performance against past performance, and although I can say that I am responsible for my weight loss and lifestyle change, the FitBit was an excellent enabler. 

I'm using preworkouts for years too. I tried many brands and there is no magic in that stuff. Now im doing my own preworkout with my way. I like tingling feeling and i put arround 2gr of beta-alanine, cold brew coffee that contains 150mg caffeine, 5gr of creatine, 5 gr of arginine, 5 gr of bcaa, 5gr of citrulline ...etc in my shaker and voila. That's way cheaper compared with ready product and I can manipulate it as I want. But the most important thing about preworkouts, body get used to the stimulants like caffeine so i don't consume coffee in workout days and i do caffeine diet to give body a rest. If you dont mind about taste thats a great method but if you care my favorites are C4 and PRE-JYM as preworkout. 

Simply put, you’re not burning enough calories to match your intake (however little you might feel that is). Vegetarian doesn’t necessarily equal low calorie either. Although, generally speaking, it is much lower in calories than what a “normal” American eats in one sitting. For example: One large avocado, two handfuls of walnuts and some beans could easily be a 1000 calorie meal. Furthermore, there is this “high fat” thing running around health communities - including vegetarian. I’m not here to extol or disparage the virtues of such an approach, only to mention that foods high in fat are generally calorie dense so be careful. 

There is no way to keep muscle mass without working out but if u keep your diet clean as u do while work out, u can minimize your loss and as they said before its easy to regain when u start back. So only tip I can give is taking care about your diet. Keep your protein intake as much as before and keep your daily caloric intake in maintenance (no weight loss and gain). 

There are heart rates zones that specific for each person depends on the VO2 max value. As they mention most treadmill boards there are aerobic, anaerobic, cardio, etc... The zone you should analyze is the maximum heart rate(effort) zone that you don't allow lactic acid to decrease your muscle activity. In that zone you can cycle for hours. 

Make you more aware of how much exercise erases from what you ate. Hint: It’s not nearly as much as most of us would like. You’ll begin to recognize different foods for their caloric content. Go out to eat with friends? You can look at a menu and get a great idea of the “damage” you’re about to do. This can help keep things to a minimum, especially with limited healthy options available. Perhaps most important is that you’ll start to find where calories are adding up. Sometimes there are healthy, albeit calorie dense foods in one’s diet that significantly rack up the calorie count. That doesn’t mean you should stay away from them, but rather may need to cut back a little. Nuts and avocados are offenders of this - great for you, but watch how much you eat! 

Progressive overload is one of the basic principle of building muscle mass so not be able to reach the rep count you mention is not so important. Always start with a weight you can do and increase the volume in each session. Never jump so much be patient and that weight will be your warm up set if u keep doing and taking care of your diet. 

Don't worry about mixing, just make sure flavors match. Creatine supplements are mostly have no flavor so you can mix any but most bcaa has fruit based flavors so maybe its not a good idea to mix it with whey unless they have flavor.