When obligated to act there is no creative, joyful purpose in one's actions. Are we not just slaves to some master (internal or external)? We are bound and thrust into our action, and as it is our duty, we will die defending it. The people who followed Hitler's dictates often thought they were in the right. They believed in the cruelty suggested by their master, and believed they had a duty to follow that master. It is easy to blindly obey under the guise of loyalty. 

I'm not sure what you mean when you say, . Much of how I would respond would be determined by the context in which your question is asked, but as a stand alone argument, "How can death matter to the dead person?" is solid; it just depends upon what it is being used to argue for. We can assume that this paper doesn't expect the post-death states (hell/heaven) to exist - or at least that they are not relevant for his argument. So we can cross those out - or at least we should cross them out if we are going to find a logical place to stand in defining a response. It is not wrong to consider hell or heaven as a counterpoint, but they are only useful in poking holes in the argument - the existence of heaven or hell is not known and therefore shouldn't be the backbone of any refutation. Aside from that, there are several points to consider: Does it matter if all plant and animal life dies out? The answer is less obvious than the author of the essay suggests. On one hand, if we all die simultaneously without any pain or suffering, then to every human being it should matter exactly none. Why? "How can death matter to a dead person?" There is no one left to suffer the loss of anyone else, and thus there is no one left to suffer; no resounding pain; no sense of loss; just silence. I have often thought to myself that the thought of my own death seems sad - if only for the mental image I have of people suffering after I'm gone. But if I die AND so does everyone else; there is no sadness. It just is. That said; the author's definition of mattering is unclear. Upon inspection, the 'not mattering' argument can be used anywhere. If human life seems to matter - does that lack consequences apart from those felt by other humans? If so, then it doesn't matter if I suffer - since my suffering will surely cease when I die - and so forth. If we elevate as the pinnacle of all , then we can argue that live or die, nothing matters at all, since we are inherently insignificant - so much so that as soon as our species disappears, goes with it. In other words; if the only thing that matters is what matters to humans; then what matters doesn't matter that much at all. If, however, we allow for the possibility that while human is important to humans, there maybe greater than those we can observe from our constrained human viewpoint, then perhaps the death of all life on earth matters a great deal. We can't know this either way; and the author knows this. What we can know is that one's being and existence can be given by the perspective that they subscribe to. The being and existence of one who believes that all life dying would be superior to somebody dying is going to be different than the being and existence of one who considers that there is some greater that gives human existence value. I don't know which way of being would be preferable, or whether either view provides an obvious state of existence that accompanies said view; I can only infer that one's existence would differ depending where they stood. 

From Axiom 2, every entity whose existence is not paradoxical exists, and every event whose existence is not paradoxical occurs.   Is the Halting Oracle paradoxical? Does its existence violate the principles of formal logic? I get that the halting problem cannot be solved in any Turing Machine, but is the existence any other computational paradigm (Halting Oracle) inconsistent?   In case you're wondering, the multiverse axioms (3 in total) are a set of axioms I came up with to answer the question: 

NOTE: This post contains LaTeX; it is recommended that you install “TeX the World” (for chromium users), “TeX All the Things” or other TeX/LaTeX extensions to view the post properly.   Destroying the Utility Monster—An Alternative Formation of Utility I am a rational egoist, but that is only because there is no existing political system/social construct I identify with. If there was one I identified with, I would be strongly utilitarian. In all moral thought experiments, I err on the side of utilitarianism, and I’m faithful in my devotion to its tenets. There are some criticisms against utilitarianism, and one of the most common—and most powerful—is the utility monster which allegedly proves “utilitarianism is not egalitarian’’. [1]   For those who may not understand the terms, I shall define them below: 

You have to be a bit careful in philosophy when tossing around the word necessary. Philosophers, like kleptomaniacs, take things literally. :) However, in context, "That which is necessary is legal", or Quod est necessarium est licitum is actually a tenet of what's called the necessity defense that is recognized as common law and is in most states' statutory law. And what it means is: 

Sneaky, factually stated, circular reasoning - completely inaccurate. Fallacies in philosophy are wolves in sheep's clothing. If we're too liberal with the term's usage we run the risk of conversationally pedantic. Hope this helps. Happy hunting. 

Well. We don't. We never know that. And we can't ever know that. But, does that matter? The question becomes whether that's a function of our language, understanding of the world around us, or something completely different. Russell provides a number of avenues to this end that sort of bridge the gap between math, language, knowledge, etc. And, he writes well. David Lewis is sort of a hallmark (for me anyway) in these discussions. You could summarize "degrees of truth" through the notion of "possible worlds" in which a statement like "I believe the moon is made of green cheese" means that you're committing to the actual existence of moon made of green cheese, just in another time and space. Something like a "square'd circle," couldnt possibly exist. 

  Glossary Individual: This refers to any sapient entity; generally, this is restricted to humans, but if another conscious life-form (being aware of their own awareness, and capable of conceiving “dubito, ergo cogito, ergo sum—res cogitans”) decided to adopt this system, then it applies to them as well. Event: Any well-defined outcome from which an individual can derive utility—positive or negative. Negation: The negation of an event refers to the event not occurring. If event $A$ is the event that I die, then $\neg A$ is the event that I don’t die (i.e. live). If $B$ is the event that I win the lottery, then $\neg B$ is the event that I don’t win the lottery. Utility Space: The set containing all events from which an individual can possibly derive utility from. This set is finite. Utility Preferences: The mapping of each event in an individual’s utility space to the fractional utility they derive from the event, and the implicit ordering of events according to it.   Assumptions: Each individual’s utility preferences are unique. No two individuals have the same utility space with the same values for all events therein.   We deal only with the utility space of an individual at a given point in time. For example, an immortal who values their continued existence does not value their existence for eternity with ~1.0 utility, but their existence for the next time period, and as such the immortal and mortal may derive same utility from their continued existence. Once an individual receives units of a resource, their utility space is re-evaluated in light of that. After each event, the utility space is re-evaluated.   The capacity to derive utility (CDU) of any individual is finite. No one is allowed to have infinite CDU. (It may be possible that an individual’s capacity to derive utility is vastly greater than several other individuals (utility monster) but the utility is normalised to deal specifically with such existences). No one has the right to have a greater capacity to derive utility than other individuals. We normalise the utility of every individuals, such that the maximum utility any individual can derive is 1. This makes the system egalitarian as every individual is given equal maximum (and minimum) utility regardless of their CDU.   The Utility space of an individual is finite. There are only so many events that you can possibly derive utility from. The death of an individual you do not know about is not an event you can derive utility from (assuming you don’t also find out about their death). Individuals can only be affected (positively or negatively) by a finite number of events.   Some Inferences: A change in an individual’s CDU does not produce a change in normalised utility, unless there’s also a change in their utility preferences. A change in an individual’s utility preferences is necessary and sufficient to produce a change in their normalised utility.   Conclusion Any Utility system that conforms to these 5 axioms destroys the utility monster. I think the main problems of traditional utility systems, was unbounded utility, and as such they were indeed not egalitarian. My system destroys the concept of unbounded utility by considering the utility of an event to an individual as the fraction of their total utility from their utility space. This means no individual can have their total (positive or negative) utility space sum to more than any other. The sum total of the utility space for all individuals is equal. I believe this makes a utility system in which every individual is equally represented and is truly egalitarian. This is a concept still in its infancy, so do critique, comment and make suggestions. I will listen to all feedback and use it to develop the system. This only intends to provide a different paradigm for reasoning about utility, especially in the context of egalitarianism. I did not attempt to formalise a mathematical system for calculating utility, and did not accept to do so due to lacking the mathematical acumen to do. I would especially welcome suggestions for calculating utility of dependent events, and other scenarios. This is not a system of utilitarianism and does not pretend to be such; this is only a paradigm for reasoning about utility. This system can however be applied to existing utilitarian systems.   References [1] $URL$ [2] $URL$ 

That is an awesome quote. Here are some thoughts: If I go looking for a chair, I can find one using at least two of my five senses. If I go looking for my knowledge of something, it can't be found. The tendency then is to lump it together with in the stew pot of our mental states. But mental states are ethereal; always morphing; never really a thing one has complete consciousness or control over. Knowledge implies a sort of permanence. When I know something, I expect it to remain true as long as I know it. I expect that it has a consistency not afforded to a mental state. If water freezes at 32 deg Fahrenheit (0 Celcius), I expect this to be true until it is proven untrue (I will then know that truth in the same way). Where I know it is not in my mind as such. I know it (how do I know my name?) in a more deeply integrated chamber of my Self. It is part of me in a more permanent way than some conditional, temporary, mental state. To know something is not the same as it is to be something. However, I assert that for most things we know - and I mean really know (like my Name, my gender) - we know in a way that we think is the same as being. If you were to convince me my name is Bob (it's not), it would really only be an affront to my knowledge, but it would occur as an affront to my being. Things we know deeply have an inflexible quality and are more solid than mental states. Think an iceberg vs floating ice chunks. I can know things this deeply that have the quality of being untrue. At one point man knew that the earth, then the sun, was the center of the universe. This knowledge had a static and deeply entrenched quality. I did not believe it to be true; I knew it to be true. When I know things, I am that knowledge. It does not rest upon anything other than the fact in question having risen to a particular point on my available information hierarchy. It stops living in my daily mental processes and begins to live somewhere deeper and more permanent. I realize I could write for hours and not get close to a full dissection of this quote, and I'm on my mobile right now. So for now - those are my thoughts - definitely not something I know. 

In philosophy, these are concepts of "modality" and still hotly disputed. You've provided a very nice example of how epistemology and metaphysics can lead to greater degrees of questioning... then (maybe) have applications in real life mathematics or scientific deduction. If you're looking for an amazing - yet wildly inaccessible to most readers - discussion about this look at Quinne. To summarize / bastardize: 

Or, using the example of self-defense, "that which is necessary, is legal/moral" could be restated as: 

Something we all commonly encounter on the news without really considering it too often. An example - killing in self defense. In most examples of the necessity defense, an argument based on common good, or significant, unavoidable harm is given as the basis for necessity. So, your question essentially boils down to this (if I understand you correctly): Do any theories of morality have a similar clause: At times, doing the most moral thing requires acting immorally? The answer is, yes, though there might be some wiggle room in terms of what's defined as moral, immoral or amoral on a case-by-case basis. The necessity defense would fall under the umbrella of utilitarianism in terms of ethical theory. An oversimplification of utilitarianism might be stated as: 

The problem with that statement is two-fold. First - and I think this is a nice illustration of the importance of semantics - the word is misleading. For instance, I depend on my legs to walk, and walking (ignoring artificial means here) depends on legs, but neither walking or legs depend on the fact that long ago something created them (ignoring here that existence of legs depend on the creator or origin - that is not the point). So depends is a tricky word. But I think you are intending to have depends mean something like exists within the confines and context created by the creator. That's an acceptable use of the word depends for the purposes of the question. But that assumption has a problem. It implies that it is known that humans (for that matter anything) are limited by barriers that exist within them from their creation. That is to say; it implies that nothing can be created that can itself create; and can create beyond the bounds of the limitations imposed by their creator. (I won't debate now whether or not anything can - I'm just pointing out here that the implication is neither proven nor generally accepted). 

Is the Halting Oracle inconsistent? Basically, the axiom of consistency says that paradoxes can never emerge in any universe. The laws governing all universes are such that no paradox can occur. Axiom of Inclusivity (Axiom 2 of the Multiverse Axioms): 

The same system for appropriating utility is applied to all individuals. This is for the purposes of consistency and to be more egalitarian. The Utility an individual can get from an event is between $-1$ and $1$. To derive the Utility an individual gains from any event $E_i$, let the utility of $E_i$ under more traditional systems be $W_i$. $U_i = \frac{W_i}{\sum_{k = 1}\^n} \forall E_i: W_i > 0$. In English: 

All individuals have the same utility system. $U: -1 <= U <= 1$. The sum of the utility of an event and its negation is $0$. At any given time, the sum total of an individual's potential utility space is $0$. If two events are independent then the utility of both events occurring is the sum of their individual utilities. 

There have been many answers to this question, and I suppose at this point, mine will be just another body on the pile, but I think there is something fundamental that hasn't been addressed (unless I missed it). That is: Who is this God you're talking about? Is he an old white man with a long beard who looks suspiciously like the archetypal authoritarian father we all have learned to love and fear? Or is it just the notion that there was a being who could be considered the first cause? Is it really just the notion that some people accept a literal notion of the bible (who I suspect are actually fewer than we've been led to believe)? Is it the traditional notion of God as the judge - he who controls our fate and promises to decide are afterlife after death? I'm neither religious nor positional about this issue. There are so many things that we can't fathom that it seems just as silly to argue that the absolute truth is empirically graspable (and only so) as it does to argue the alternative. Even our own thoughts are something we are helplessly unfamiliar with - I'm reminded of a Woody Allen quote: 

[1]   I first found out about the utility monster a few months ago, and pondered on it for a while, before filing it away. Today, I formalised a system for reasoning about utility that would not only defeat the utility monster, but make utilitarianism more egalitarian. I shall state my system, and then explain each of the points in more detail below.   Dragon’s System: > 1. All individuals have the same utility system. 2. $U: -1 <= U <= 1$. 3. The sum of the utility of an event and its negation is $0$. 4. Specifically, the sum total of all positive utilities an individual can derive (for unique events without double counting) is $1$. 5. Specifically, the sum total of all negative utilities an individual can derive (for unique events without double counting) is $-1$. 6. At any given time, the sum total of an individual's potential utility space is $0$. 7. To increase the utility of an event, you have to decrease the utility of its negation. 8. To decrease the utility of an event you have to increase the utility of its negation. 9. An event and its negation cannot have the same utility unless both are $0$. 10. If two events are independent then the utility of both events occurring is the sum of their individual utilities. Explanation: