That's why The Last Battle doesn't bring it up. Re Lewis: presumably, Susan grieved for her family. She may even have turned to religion in her grief, which would bring her back towards the path to Aslan's country, though Lewis said would be a longer journey for her. However, that doesn't change the fact that the reason she's still alive is that she's, erm, a teenager who likes nylons and lipsticks rather than Aslan--that's what makes her "silly" according to Lewis, that state of mind; not her reaction to a specific event. 

(Please note: I'm not a expert in Christian/Lewis in particular's theology; this is my impression primarily from the text of the book.) Peter, Edmund, Lucy and the rest don't know they're dead until the very end of The Last Battle. At the time the discussion of Susan occurs, everyone--including the reader--thinks they simply were pulled through another portal to Narnia, right before, during, or instead of the crash. Peter thinks that Susan didn't come with them because she's no longer a friend of Narnia and didn't come on the train + through the portal with them, not because she's still alive. (The real reason is both, of course.) 

Strictly speaking, it is not possible to determine whether Shakespeare invented the words that had not been recorded before they appeared in his works. It is possible that at least some of these words circulated in spoken language before Shakespeare picked them up. Of course, I am not claiming that Shakespeare invented none of the words that were first recorded in his works. Typesetting errors may be a hint, but these could also result from bad handwriting. (Sidenote: Typesetters did not necessarily work from a manuscript by Shakespeare. They might work from the author's foul papers, a fair copy, a prompt book, or in some cases, especially many plays in the First Folio, from an earlier printed version.) According to The Shakespeare Miscellany (Penguin, 2005) by David Crystal (a linguist) and his son Ben Crystal (an actor), 

Saint Christopher is or was the patron saint of travellers, but why is this and what made the medal recognisable? There are several legends related to Saint Christopher; one of them is part of the Golden Legend, compiled by Jacobus de Voragine. See especially the following passage: 

Clay was trying to economize (suggested by Thomas L. Stix). Clay was trying to establish how superior he was to Wilson by letting him go. (suggested by Greg Darak, in "But why dissolve the League?"). Clay thought so little of Wilson that it never occurred to him that Wilson would go to Holmes. (unattributed) 

If there was any inspiration, it was likely very minor. The only thing this ring seem to have in common with the One Ring is the curse, and that Tolkien could easily have gotten from elsewhere. The most obvious inspiration for the rings of power is Andvaranaut from the Völsung cycle: a magical ring which gave great riches to the owner, but at the ultimate cost of their destruction. It was first owned by the dwarf Andvari and taken from him by Loki to give to Hreidmar, king of the dwarfs, as part of a ransom; Andvari cursed the ring. This fits well with the seven rings given by Sauron to the kings of the dwarves, as well as the One ring. Andavaranut is responsible for Fafnir's transformation into a dragon, and, likely, for the continued misfortunes of Sigurd and the Nibelungen. Considering Tolkien's general approach to creating his legends, my opinion is that this is a likely point from where the general concept of the rings of power was developed. Some would instead argue that Tolkien was primarily inspired by Wagner's ring cycle (e.g. here), but that does not seem strictly necessary. Some influence is likely, but not to the point that LoTR should be seen as a variation on Wagner rather than the original. Let's not forget that the War of the Ring is a small ripple in the aftermath of more cataclysmic events; the One Ring was originally not the major focal point it would be when LoTR was published. There is also the Ring of Gyges, a story told by Plato in The Republic of a ring that can turn it's wearer invisible, which destroys the original owner's morality, but not through any inherent corruption but by removing the restraints placed on him by other's observation. Even if Tolkien appears to never have alluded to this in any text, it is not an unlikely influence. In my opinion, The Lord of the Rings could very well have been written exactly as it was even if the Ring of Silvanus had never been unearthed. 

After some more research, I found the answer to my question. According to The Growth Of English Drama by Arnold Wynne (p. 176), 

In 1998, Shambhala Publications published a translation of the Tao Te Ching (in pinyin: Daodejing and Dao De Jing) by Ursula Le Guin. The Dao De Jing was written in Classical Chinese, so it takes much more than just "knowing Chinese" to undertake a translation task like this. According to the publisher, Le Guin had studied the Dao De Jing for more than forty years and 

When Aristotle says that wicked people passing from bad fortune to good does not satisfy our feelings, he is most likely referring to our sense of poetic justice. In order to understand his rejection of tragedies about "worthy men passing from good fortune to bad", I think one should read on since Aristotle writes (emphasis added): 

Niccolò Machiavelli's Discourses on Livy, written between 1513 and 1519, are not as famous as The Prince, but possibly his best work. Its Italian title, Discorsi sopra la prima deca di Tito Livio, literally means "Discourses on the first decade/ten books of Titus Livius", i.e. the first ten books of Livy's history work Ab Urbe Condita Libri. Does this mean that one should read at least these first ten books of Livy's history of Rome? Or, if it is not absolutely necessary, what would be the specific benefits of doing this? After glancing over the introduction to an English translation of the Discourses I was none the wiser. 

Remember chapter 17, when Elinor and Marianne discussed what money they hoped for after their marriages? Marianne thought 2000 pounds a year would be sufficient. Elinor thought that 1000 pounds would be "wealth". Well, she didn't quite reach that, but she did get almost there. Sources The answer owes a lot to John Mullan's What matters in Jane Austen?, which reminded me of details and gave some useful comparisons. 

Let us first remember how a Sherlock Holmes story is often constructed: a client appears, talks to Sherlock, and he then moves into action and begins gathering clues. At some point, Sherlock forms a theory about, while everything still seems very mysterious to Watson and the reader. Perhaps Sherlock himself starts to act in a strange way. After some crisis, everything is explained and is usually seen to have been very logical all along, and Holmes strange acting turns out to have either been a way to gain confirmation or a way to position himself so as to better be able to catch the crook. With this in mid, it is easy to see why Holmes thinks that the stories are told backwards. To him, the events usually goes: problem, gathering clues, deduction, seeking confirmation and conclusion, but the stories are instead told in an order so that the deduction is placed at the end. Considering the how highly he values his methods, and in particular the deductive parts, this is to him an unnecessary distortion. 

There have been (elite) guard units throughout history, such as the cohortes praetoriae and the numerus Batavorum during the Roman Empire, the Pushtigban and the Gond-i Shahanshah of the Sassanid Empire, etc. However, due to the celibacy, the first organisation that comes to mind is the Pontifical Swiss Guard: 

Ursula Le Guin wrote both fantasy novels (especially the Earthsea cycle) and science fiction (e.g. the Haynish cycle). The Wikipedia articles about these two cycles don't say whether a specific reading order makes sense (except that one story is said to be about Ged's last days). In addition, there are a number of novels and stories that aren't part of any series. For a reader who wants to gain an understanding of the development of Le Guin's ideas (e.g. ideas about socio-political organisation, the environment, taoism and feminism), is there a recommended reading order for her work? Simply chronological? First one cycle, then another cycle? 

In the Inferno in Dante's Divine Comedy, sinners are punished by a process that either resembles or contrast with the major sin they committed. For example, the violent are submerged in a river of boiling blood: true tyrants are fully submerged; those who were less violent aren't completely submerged. Usurers crouch on the sand with heavy bags of money around their necks. Those who cause discord are punished by being cut asunder with a great sword, and the process is repeated when they are healed. Gluttons get attacked by a three-headed dog that tears off and parts of their body. In A Song of Ice and Fire, Bran Stark loves climbing but becomes paralysed after being pushed out of a high window, so he can never climb again. Ned Stark greatly values honour and loyalty but ends up getting executed on a charge to treason. Jaime Lannister self-identifies with his sword-fighting skills; after Locke chops off Jaime's "sword hand", one of Jaime's later comments is that he was that hand. At the Game of Thrones 2017 conference, Matteo Barbagello presented a paper which 

Expanding from my comment. Warning for disturbing themes and also a lot of links to fairy tales. "Seasons of Glass and Iron" pulls from several fairy tales. It looks to me that variations on The Princess on the Glass Hill, The Enchanted Pig, and The Black Bull of Norroway are most prominent--however, there are references to many others scattered throughout. Tabitha thinks of her brother with winged sandals, and of women forced to wear "shoes of glass; ... shoes of iron heated red–hot." Amira references "words of desire [that] tumbled from men’s lips like diamonds and toads," and "a story about nettle shirts thrown up to swans." Therefore, I think it's reasonable to look at other fairy tales for inspiration as to what the king and Amira could have meant. Here's what we know his requirements are: 

So, it's reasonable for no one to say "here's how Susan is reacting to the death of her whole family", given that, well, her family doesn't know they all died. They expect to go back to our world. The last time they saw Susan, they were all alive and Susan was "silly." (Note: Lewis's opinion, not mine, etc.) The omnicient narrator doesn't bring it up at the time because at that point, the reader is also not supposed to know this. The revelation that they're in Heaven doesn't happen until the very, very end of the novel (literally the second to last paragraph), at which point there's enough grand-scale wrapping up to do, and enough on the characters' mind, that the narration doesn't return to Susan. 

One should read this quote with the preceding lines in mind, for example, when Beatrice says to Benedick: 

We previously had a question asking Were all of Shakespeare's plays fully in iambic pentameter?, but of course, it wasn't just Shakespeare who used iambic pentameter; it became the prevalent metre in English poetry and drama around the middle of the sixteenth century. In French poetry and verse drama, the French alexandrine was the dominant metre from the 17th through the 19th century. Is there any linguistic or other verifiable reason for this difference in preferred metre? Note: I don't believe it has anything to do with heartbeat. 

He adds that he he "tried to adjust" some of the narrative techiques that American readers (and presumably readers in the West in general) would be more familiar with, but he does not go into any details. This leads me to the question what narrative techiques and literary devices in the Chinese original would justify this type of adaptation. Note that this is not about primarily about the very obvious change of moving the three chapters set during the Cultural Moving to the beginning of the book, since this was Liu Cixin's preferred order anyway. 

according to Wikipedia, in the second Quarto, the last line read "hunch-back'd", but it is retained as above in the texts I've found. Also, in Henry VI, part 3, act III, scene 2, lines 1648-1650, Richard (here still called Gloucester), laments his looks: 

Yes, there is, at least in one context. If you are talking about most kind of poetry, alliteration is a rhetoric effect. It does not need an exact definition, because what you are interested in is how effective it is in making the poem achieve something. You can set up rules for yourself, but others might follow different rules, while still thinking that they are using alliteration. However, if you are talking about the old Norse and Anglosaxon poetry, then alliteration do have a definition, since it is part of the metre. Apart from the structure with stressed and unstressed syllables, lines are held together with alliterations. The rules for this are fairly simple: 

Background First, it should be noted that almost everyone in Sweden was at least sympathetic Finland in Winter war of 1939-1940 against the Soviet union, and also to a lesser extent in the Continuation war of 1941-1944 (but by then, Lagerlöf was dead). The general idea was expressed as "Finland's cause is ours". This was for: 

Unfortunately, I have not been able to find Barbagello's paper "The One we are Living in: Westeros and the Dantesque Interpretation of Death". However, finding such relationships is one thing; it is something else to claim that George R. R. Martin drew inspiration for this from Dante's Divine Comedy. So my question is, is there any evidence, e.g. from interviews, that the contrapasso from the Divine Comedy inspired George R. R. Martin in this way? 

I'm adding my own answer to complement Peter Shor's. In an interview, the Shakespeare scholar Kenneth Muir talks, among other things, about his translations of Racine and Corneille. When asked how he translated the alexandrines, Muir responds that he translated them into pentamers: 

When Richard Jones compared four English translations of Racine's Phèdre—by Richard Wilbur, R.C. Knight, Robert Lowell and Margaret Rawlings—he found that they all used pentameters. This corresponds with what Kenneth Muir said. Whereas French counts the number of syllables per line, English counts the number of feet per line. Gretchen McCulloch points out in her article "The Language of Poetry" that the importance of stressed syllables in English is illustrated by limericks. In a limerick, the number of stressed syllables per line is 3, 3, 2, 2, 3, respectively, but the number of syllables can vary. The above does not imply that English verse drama couldn't use anything else than iambic pentameter or that French verse drama couldn't use anything else then alexandrines, but it shows that the both languages' "affordances" (Gretchen McCulloch's term) make the opposite less likely. 

I will start with question 3, as it is the most straightforward. Gaiman has done a whole lot of elaboration on a passage that is in fact rather short. I will quote the relevant passages from the primary sources, as they are rather short. First Völuspá: 

One example is August Strindberg, who translated some of his works into French, and even wrote some original works directly in French. One of the works he translated is The Father, in his transaltion called Le Père, and in a more recent translation Père (at least if I interpret French Wikipedia correctly). From what I understand from secondary sources, Strindberg's French was passable, but it was hardly of the quality that his translation was as readable as they would have been if someone more capable had done them. Normal translations usually age, so that a work needs a new translation every fifty years or so, even if the original might only need small adjustments in spelling. Whether this is also true for self-translations is doubtful, but this might also be an issue. 

Holofernes is a character in the biblical Book of Judith (which is considered canonical in Catholic and Orthodox tradition, but not in Protestant). He was a Assyrian general under king Nebuchadnezzar, who invaded nations and destroyed their temples in order that they should instead worship the king. When laying siege to a Hebrew town, the widow Judith seduced him and cut off his head. Holofernes was later (in e.g. Dante) considered as an example of pride. Bramarbas seems to be the German title of a play by Holberg, where the title character is a soldier who brags about his (imaginary) exploits; "bramabasieren" seems to have become a German word for this sort of bragging. I believe Bierce tries to use the two names to characterize the people as proud, strident and combatative, but not necessarily very effective fighters.