While an electrical attack could in fact be doable, you shouldn't forget about the practical considerations. Once you have a working system, the primary concern would be weight. A modern lithium-ion or lithium-polymer battery is quite light, and has a high energy density. However, they are surprisingly high-tech devices; without complicated chemistry, precise automated manufacturing, superb quality control, and a dose of computer tech for the protection circuitry they're actually impossibly unstable. They can catch on fire when they short-circuit, when you discharge them quickly, when you charge them quickly, when you discharge them too much, when you charge them too much, when they get hot, when they get compressed, etc. That leaves you with much simpler lead-acid batteries, or silver oxide, or some other low-tech process. These are stable and safe, but very heavy. You can fight in full plate mail because the weight is distributed over your body. Strap a car battery to your back and you'll be a very poor fighter. 

Expanded the Atlantic ocean by 1,350 miles Contracted the Pacific ocean by 1,350 miles (by #1 and #2) Blocked all or most interactions from the Arctic and Pacific oceans Been in this state for 250,000,000 years 

Here's the thing though: the Loon is much more related to the Heron (by DNA) than the Mallard. Mallards belong to a species that breaks with Heron's at the first demarcation point within the Aves class, while Loons share two claves within the Aves class with Herons (Ardeae & Aequornithes). So maybe all we need to do is move the Heron from the Order Pelecaniformes to the Order Gaviiformes, which both share two claves within the Class "Aves" to meet your need? That's probably easy enough to accomplish. Herons share many physical traits with loons, and it is entirely conceivable that with the right environmental pressures a Heron could arise from that group. But there is a Catch It seems likely to me that if Herons were evolving in the Gaviiformes order they would be competing with early Storks if they share the same environment. That means that either you would need to put Herons somewhere physically well separated from Storks and their descendants, or accept that the Ciconiiformes (Storks), Suliformes, and Pelecaniformes are going to lose species (eg. Ibis's may cease to exist). 

In Orson Scott Card's Ender's Game, the Formics never invented the concept of spoken or written communication. They were telepathic, and so it never occurred to them to use anything else to communicate, or to listen for other people communicating via radio. Presumably they did use the "radio" portions of the EM spectrum for astronomy just as we do, but they didn't have radios as we would call them. 

Wizard's Bane by Rich Cook goes in to this in some detail. He's doubly useless because he can't even weed a vegetable garden or chop wood properly; he's never had to do that sort of manual labor before. 

One of the short stories in Larry Niven's Draco's Tavern covers this, or at least one variation of it. They have a second male stick a turkey in the female's mouth right at the end. Naturally they had to invent herding to supply the turkeys, then agriculture to feed the turkeys, etc, etc and now they're travelling to the stars; all for a perversion of nature. 

Tails that drag behind you are unlikely to be tripped over while chasing something. If that thing gets behind you, causing you to turn around, it has already demonstrated that it is faster or more agile than you are and is going to get away anyway. Yes, there are probably events where the predator needs that maneuverability, but they should be edge cases. You could offset the lost prey percentage by heightening one of their senses vs. a regular fox. With that said... I think it is interesting that I cannot think of another mammal with a hairy tail that allows its tail to drag on the ground. Cats (big and small), dogs (big and small), horses (and related animals), etc. all have hairy tails, but those tails are either short enough to avoid the ground or are held aloft as the animal moves. This suggests that having 9 tails as described would create a host of other issues that are not in your animal's best interest. Dragging your tail on the ground while walking would get it COVERED in crud all the time. Dirt, mud, algae, moss, fecal matter, bugs, parasites, and any amoeba etc. This would make it highly susceptible to infection and substantially increase its mortality rate; so much so that I would be surprised if a number of parasites DIDN'T adapt specifically to inflict themselves onto this particular animal. If the tails were cleaned regularly in the typical animal fashion (licking), from a hygiene perspective your fox might as well run with its tongue out licking the ground for all the crud it's going to ingest. If not cleaned, the tails would quickly take on a LOT more weight and add considerably more drag to your animal - slowing it down and making it less capable as a predator. 

The word refers to any member of the kingdom Plantae, which are sessile photosynthesising dendriform replicators from the planet Earth. There's no reason to suppose that replicators from other planets would be divided into the same categories, or even that the same names would be used in the scientific community if they are. Thus, if you find replicators elsewhere then the answer is yes, but trivially so. Aside from that, there's nothing in the laws of physics that require the basis of an ecosystem be sessile photosynthesising dendriform replicators. The only things we can say with certainty are that the basis of the ecosystem will be replicators that depend on the largest source of available energy. On Earth, that's photosynthesis. Given the way that stars and planets are formed it does seem likely that ambient light from a star will be that source on the majority of planets, but that doesn't rule anything else out. Just keep in mind that the likelihood for life is going to be proportional to the overall amount of energy available, so whatever your alternate source is it'll have to be highly available. 

While men are, generally, stronger than women, that is not likely to be your primary concern when talking about societal evolution. Murphy hit the nail on the head with his sentence that stated "many tribal cultures didn't have great population growth and males are thus a little more expendable since losing a few doesn't impact future generations as much". Especially in a treehouse society, mortality rates are going to be high* and that is going to pressure the collective to place a higher value on the people that can give birth to new life. So question becomes: with the heightened preference to maintain female lives, why would men stay in the village near the children and elders (the most vulnerable groups, who would generally be in the least vulnerable position possible)? I think we can come up with a number of requirements and reasons. 1. Hunting is Not Particularly Dangerous I understand that you stated this world was populated with dinosaurs. Overall that is fine, but I would avoid the trope that the dinosaurs are all basically T-Rex's or raptors as depicted in Jurassic Park. If even a reasonable portion of them are, leaving the village to hunt is going to be exceptionally dangerous. If the females of breeding age were all out in a jungle full of raptors as their primary activity (effectively living the human side of the movie "Predator" every day), the society is going to die off fast. Stick with tiny dinosaurs that might cause injury but probably not death. Large, predatory dinosaurs jungles work better on TV than in reality anyway. As kingledion suggested in his comment, I would have the hunting parties mainly go after animals like monkeys and fish. 2. Inter-Tribal Warfare is Not Uncommon Resources are generally hard to come by in a jungle and everyone wants them. Men stay at home to protect the village and scout the area around it. Note that when a village wants to go to war it does send its men out because they are both stronger and more expendable. This is a very risky move however, as anything less than a sweeping victory may not leave enough males to defend their own village. Additionally, although women are not typically involved in aggressive action they are reasonable defenders, given that they hunt for much of the day. If you want to play on the dinosaur theme, perhaps the "bad natural enemy" dinosaurs generally stay out of the forest but will come in and attack groups of people. They might not see an advantage in chasing around 1 or 2 hunters who are just going to escape, but when they see a cluster of people they hear dinner bells. Men must fend off or destroy these large beasts until everyone else can get to safety. 3. You Live in Trees - Things Need Lifting and Building No reason to waste the extra muscle that hangs around the village. Goods and people that cannot climb well themselves frequently need to be moved between treehouse levels and the ground, and men supply the muscle that gets it done. They also perform jobs that involve construction while climbing trees, which is surely quite physically demanding.