Analysis I am sorry this answer is mostly theoretical, however I was unable to find any practical material in this area so far. The question contains a significant misconception, and that is that a heating radiator transfers energy mostly by radiation. As Wikipedia articles describe, in a typical case it does not work this way: 

If, as it seems, no one was able to reproduce it since then, it most likely means the theory is wrong. 

Note: it is not clear what aircraft types were involved in this report. Given how rarely airliner ditches happen, most likely no airliner ditch was recorded during that period. Still, while vast majority of the ditches concerns small (single engine) airplanes, the analysis specifically mentions "15 percent are multi-engine airplanes". Another list can be found at Wikipedia (and in the Ask the Pilot article linked below), which, while not guaranteed to be complete and unbiased, at least shows there happened multiple airliner ditches before, some of them with no fatalities at all. 

The claim is weaker here, only only they were quicker at learning, not learning everything. Wikipedia on James V. McConnell says: 

Chi Running style of running is said to significantly reduce number of injuries experienced while running: 

In Ditching Myths Torpedoed! you can find analysis of 179 ditches from NTSB Records, years 1985-1990 and 1994-1996: 

A proverb says: "The treated cold lasts seven days and the untreated cold lasts a week". A pharmaceutical company however claims in a PR article that its product containing Oxymetazoline will reduce average duration of a runny nose to four days, and that oxymetazoline has a proven antiviral effects: 

As one can see in the Black-body spectrum for temperatures between 300 K and 1000 K, even if the radiator was 227 °C (500 K) hot, its radiation would be well beyond visible spectrum. This can be easily verified by observing radiators in the dark. If there was any emission in the visible spectrum, the radiators would glow. Moreover, the question does not define radiator efficiency at all. While the term may seem clear and intuitive, in fact it is not. One could say in principle each radiator is 100 % effective, as there is no thermal loss possible (thermal "loss" is the desired property here). It would be possible to define radiator efficiency to be related to the output power, or by the difference between input and output water temperature. In practice it is necessary to consider efficiency of the whole heating system, including the control devices. See also quite old Painting Radiators article (dated July 19, 1935, I did not attempt to verify it the dating is genuine): 

And last, which is perhaps not what you would expect from a skeptics site, but given the sensitivity of the subject, I think would be a shame to miss it (from Women's Health Misconceptions About Miscarriage): 

Both this and another article from "Ask the Pilot", make very interesting reading, it is very insightful. I will only quote a few related parts about media coverage from it: 

In the light of such facts this particular ditch does not seem to be that exceptional, unless there are some other factors which would show the conditions were worse compared to other ditches. I think what the crew done was heroic, but pilots are expected to be able to do heroic things, this is why they get such high social status (reputation, paycheck). Media are prone to exaggerating events like this. Furthermore, sometimes media write extraordinary things (often said by "experts"), like the Help! There's nobody in the cockpit Economist article: 

TLDR: No, it is not more than 100 % efficient, the test performed was probably invalidated by using a heat meter assuming water as a heat transfer fluid, while propylene glycol/water mixture was actually used. 

Einstein online mentions Einstein had some problems passing an exam so that he can start Polytechnical Institute studies at earlier age then normally allowed, but his problems were limited to linguistic and historical subjects: 

It is not possible to find a simple contraction like this, because the statement is mostly not marked as "infallible" when made, its infallibility is only derived from context. There are only two statements made by a pope which are not disputed regarding their "ex cathedra" status, and those are two recent dogmas of the Immaculate Conception (1854) and the Assumption (1950). See Instances of papal infallibility in Wikipedia. With any other statement which you may think that it was made ex-cathedra in its time and can be shown as not held any more, or not true, the proponents of the papal infallibility faith will claim it was not made "ex cathedra" at all. I will try to search for some particular case which could could be used to demonstrate this, but as it is time consuming, I have no idea now when I will be able to do it. What is ex-cathedra The currently used definition comes from First Vatican Council (1869-1870): 

No, they cannot. They were experiments done which indicated the possibility, but the results were never reproduced, therefore it is most likely their setup was somehow wrong. Moreover, no mechanism which could cause such effect is known. 

Some people I know would never eat anything cold during tonsillitis, because they think ice cream can worsen it (some others are afraid ice cream could cause it, when ice cream is eaten with a cold outside temperature, and some others - Get Rid of Summer Tonsillitis - are afraid ice cream could cause it when eaten during a very warm weather, but both of this is probably out of the scope of this question). Some other claim eating cold food like ice cream can relieve symptoms and some other claim it can even help curing the tonsillitis. Does ice cream help relieving tonsillitis symptoms or even help curing the tonsillitis (reducing the tonsillitis duration)? 

Details about how those pieces were connected are not described, but most likely it was more or less what can be seen in the YouTube video at 0:07. When checking for individual pieces of equipment used, one thing looks very suspicious, and that is Danfoss Sonometer 1100 is intended to be used with water as a circulation medium. In this test a different liquid was almost certainly used, as the liquid required by the boiler to operate is heat carrier STATERM EKO E40, which is "made on the basis of propylene". By "propylene" the propylene glycol is most likely meant here (melting point -59°C), which is commonly used as a Heat-Transfer Fluid (it could hardly be a propene, which is highly flammable gas with boiling point of -47.6°C.). As the ultrasonic heat meters compute the energy by measuring flow and temperature and multiplying measured volume with specific heat capacity, by assuming water properties on Propylene Glycol water solution an error is made. Propylene Glycol based Heat-Transfer Fluid with boiling point 120°C is approx. 85 % Propylene Glycol (see Boiling Point of Aqueous Propylene Glycol Solutions), with specific heat capacity 2.51*0.85+4.18*(1-0.85) J/(gK) = 2.76 J/(gK) (see propylene glycol specific heat capacity and water specific heat capacity), which is 1.51 x lower than water heat capacity, therefore apparent heat transfer is approx. 1.51 x higher than it really is. Given Propylene Glycol concentration is not given, I only estimate it, I found the result close enough to be likely explanation of the 1,57 COP result. 

Given the radiator temperature, most of the radiation happens out of the visible spectrum, therefore visible characteristics of the radiator have almost no effect. See Black-body radiation Wikipedia article: 

Several experts are quoted which find this unlikely, often because of how hard would it be to implement: 

It is also mentioned by C. Sagan in The Demon-Haunted World, ISBN: 978-0345409461, p. 221 as a known example of pseudoscience: 

Compared to this, probability of later miscarriage (12-20 weeks) is 3 % and probability of stillbirth (after 20 weeks) is 1 %, see Buzzle Miscarriage Statistics: 

Short answer: We do not know for sure, but it is likely for most products some DRM is better than none. Long answer: There were no controlled experiments done which would reliably answer this. The experiments which were done (like DRM-free product sales of old games) are not representative enough, as the product sold is different from a typical new game and even the target audience is likely to be different. There are few things to consider. What is DRM Anything which tries to prevent obtaining unauthorized copies of a digital product is a DRM. It may be something very simple (like a serial number) or complicated (like StarForce or SecuROM copy protection schemes). No protection - plenty of copying When price is high and there is nothing preventing copying, it is very likely there will be many people copying the product. The exact number varies with platform, genre and location. It is estimated around 70 % of the users for most new PC games did not buy the game (see e.g. Why Aren’t Console Piracy Rates Higher?). What is not established (and it is hard to establish) is how many of those people would buy the product if copying would not be possible. Still I think we can formulate a following assumption: (i) by making DRM more efficient in preventing copying there will be more people who will buy the game instead of copying it. Too much protection - reduced sales When DRM is perceived to be too restrictive (like it was in case of EA Spore, or many StarForce protected games), it harms sales. Note: in the end it does not matter if the DRM is really restrictive or not, it is enough it is percieved as such and receives a bad publicity. This leads to another assumption: (ii) by making DRM too restrictive there will be less people bying the game, as more of them will decide to copy it instead, or not to have it at all. Thought experiment - finding optimum DRM There are plenty of DRM forms, with varying efficiency and varying adverse effects for legitimate users. Generally the more successful is DRM to prevent copying, the more it is restrictive as well. If there would be a DRM which would reliably prevent making illegal copies but would present no restrictions to a legitimate user, it is likely to be very effective in increasing sales (even this is not 100 % sure, as sometimes illegal copies may actually increase sales by serving as a means to try before you buy). However let us assume now that as DRM increases efficiency, it also increases adverse effects (and often also cost of implementing DRM increases). If publisher is interesting in maximizing his profits, he needs to find optimum of the function: