Static IPs are normally outside the pool range as you do not want static IPs assigned to other hosts. As long as the static IPs are in an IP range local (or relayed) to the DCHP server they can be served. The leases file records which addresses from the pool have been assigned to a host and when that assignment expires. This is used to ensure that multiple hosts don't get assigned the same IP address. The presence of an active lease does not indicate that host is currently connected to the network. As static IP assignments are know by their definition, they do not need to be recorded in the lease file. If the lease time is too long and clients frequently change, it is possible to run out of addresses while only a few hosts are currently connected. This is more likely in a hot-spot or guest network than a typical office network. 

It looks like you are setting the gateway in your configuration. It is being moved from your ppp connection to eth0. Don't set the gateway for either the wireless or ethernet adapter. 

Most likely someone brought their router from home and connected the wrong port to your switches. Most home routers provide DHCP and will happily give out addresses in the wrong range. From what I have seen this is fairly common in dorm situations. Try posting a notice that anyone with their own router should connect only the WAN port to your network. The procedures above will help you find the IP address they are using. The traffic lights on the routers may also help for a visual indication. If you don't have a handle on where all the wires go it may be difficult to trace. If you can pin down the port or ports that have th routers, consider disconnecting them at the switch. 

If you are running process accounting, you may be able to find the call(s) to rm in the processs accounting log. Shell history may have been removed, or may be configured for session private history. Concurrent sessions can also cause problems with shell history. 

You will need to publish the public key in all the domains you are signing for, or the recipients won't be able to verify the signature. I've written an article on Implementing DKIM with Exim. 

You may want to look at the hier man page. This kind of flag is often found in /var/run. You should use a marker file for both processes to prevent multiple processing scripts from running. 

As already noted is not a fully qualified name. It appears the mail server is not configured to correctly fixup the names submitted by your PHP code. You need to configure the domain for sendmail to a fully qualified domain. See my article on Running and Email Server for some things to consider. I see far to much email from automated systems that looks like spam because of improper server configuration. 

The email headers do not directly record the MX record. At best you can infer one or more hosts that were listed in the MX records. In most cases, you will only be able to infer the primary (highest priority) mail server. Some servers do a bad job of reporting their identification, so you may get misleading information. For incoming mail, the host that received the email from the Internet should be the host listed in the highest priority MX record. The incoming mail logs can also be used for incoming messages. The mail server log for a host which frequently send email to a domain should have similar information. The log should record the host to which the mail was delivered. This host should be the host for the highest priority MX records. Some organizations have many hosts acting as primary (highest priority) MXs. In this case you will likely get a partial response. DNS results are cached and it is common for changes to take a while to propagate. As a result it is likely you will only be able to specify the day(s) when the change was made. The server logs for the primary DNS server may be a better source for this information. They may indicate when the DNS zone was last reloaded. If your DNS zone files used the recommended date based serial numbers they may help as well. 

OpenWRT supports IPv6, so any router which will run it will be IPV6 capable. The current cable routers are not yet capable of IPv6, so you need to use a tunnel to connect to the IPv6 Internet. The companies who provide the cable boxes are working on ways to implement IPv6, but they have limited memory and will need to provide dual stack capability for a while. 

Connecting from a PC via mapping a drive definitely counts. Terminal services connections and such also count. Windows should be counting accesses using Windows security services. Web services, and MySql connections should not count. 

However, if you only need to do this for few addresses within the domain, you could handle this with an alias for the relevant addresses which expands to two different unique addresses. If you are doing this for all the addresses in a domain you could consider a wildcard alias. Exim will allow you to have a transport which delivers email, but does not do the final delivery. For the addresses that need to be handled by the sendgrind servers, it could deliver to them. Then normal delivery could be used to process delivery to Google apps. I would expect other servers to have similar capability. 

should have an entry for that includes the 2 or more NS records. It also needs to know the address(es) of any nameservers within the subdomain. Querying a nameserver for should return the nameservers. Running in command mode with the following command should give you an idea what is happening. 

rDNS does not need to relate to the the reply-to or return-path. Both these addresses should be valid addresses. Correct rDNS for mail.example.com with address 192.0.2.5 would have: 

Networking can be a bottleneck with or without a tunneling protocol. On some point, the backplane transfer rate cannot keep up with the network transfer rate. Normally all traffic is routed over a single network interface, which aggregates multiple connections. It should be possible for the encryption/decryption of individual flows to be done in parallel. Other than the additional backplane traffic, using an encrypted tunnel should not limit the network thoughput significantly with multiple network flows. Hardware encryption accelerators can help if the encryption overhead is an issue. However, it appears you do have sufficient CPU that should not be an issue. If your application is saturating the network link, it may be possible to bond multiple interfaces to increase throughput. The switch your server is connected to will need to support channel bonding. Using a faster network card can help, but eventually you will reach a speed that your backplane can not keep up with. Network devices also have capacity limits, and your requirements exceed that capacity. In this case your network infrastructure becomes the bottleneck. Due to memory caching, it may not make sense to evenly balance the load across multiple CPUs. An application will often run faster if it continues to run on a single CPU, than if it is frequently scheduled on different CPUs. 

The System restart required is likely a result of a kernel patch being applied. A restart to use the new kernel is required. This is unrelated to the java process problem, but will likely resolve the problem temporarily. As the PPID (parent PID) is 1 for the Java process, they are not threads. It is possible you have a command in your profile to start this application, although as it runs a user padmin, this may not be likely. A search for linux padmin java, gives a number of different possible application which may be running. The lsof command can be used to try to find out where these were started from. Then you can try to configure out what application is running.