I'm afraid the short answer is that's it's probably impossible to tell unless you set up your new solar system and actually do N-body orbit integrations to see what happens over time. Things like eccentricity, obliquity (tilt), and precession variations can be chaotic (or not) depending on the orbits and masses of the planets. It's unlikely you'll have the same Milankovitch cycles we do now, because you've changed the interactions of the planets by changing their masses and orbits (changing their diameters makes no difference). For example, changes in the Earth's eccentricity currently depend primarily on the gravity of Jupiter and Saturn. Since you haven't changed the masses of those planets and have barely changed their orbits, their influence would be roughly the same... except that you've made both Venus and Mars several times as massive as the Earth, and since their orbits are much closer to Earth's than is Jupiter's, this probably would have an effect. (E.g., the gravitational force of Venus on Earth at closest approach is about half that of Jupiter's; in your new system, it's about three times stronger than Jupiter's.) It's a little hard to tell what you've done with the Moon: "has only 14% of Earth's gravity" -- does that mean its surface gravity is 14% of the Earth's (as compared with the current lunar surface gravity, which is 16.5% of the Earth's)? Assuming that plus the change in the Moon's size, your new Moon is actually almost twice as massive as the old one. Since it's further away, the change in the gravitational influence of the Moon almost cancels out. However, the tidal effects will be a little different: crudely speaking, the new Moon's tidal effects will be about 75% as strong, making the Sun's influence relatively stronger. You could guess that the periods for the obliquity (tilt) and precession variations would be a little longer than they are now (since the general history over the past several hundred million years is for the periods to get longer as the Moon moves further out in its orbit) -- if everything else in the solar system were unchanged. 

For a being that desires to help humanity grow and not subject us to trickery, it has a very funny way of going about it. Growth and development are inevitable assuming we survive, so the offer of the wish with all it's ensuing disruption and conflict is counter productive. 

Personally, I would simply wait out my initial 30 days. I have absolutely no desire for immortality, I'm a gay man, and I've survived sexual assault and am therefore rather touchy about sex under duress. Death seems very much preferable to living in this scenario. 

The reaction would be panic, chaos, and confusion. To the extent that the wish would quite possibly never be wished because there would be no consensus on what it should be or who should wish it. As for the wish, I would suggest something like 

First question is jurisdiction. Is this an independent colony, under it's own sovereignty, or is it a colony of an Earth based nation? If the former, then it's really a question about international human rights conventions, if the latter then it depends on the nation. Either way, the defence is basically quod est necessarium est licitum, that which is necessary is lawful, and for the premeditated killing of hundreds of people ... well, no amount of rationalisation, no matter how foolproof, is going to get you off completely. It's politics as much as justice. Let's face it, we in the developed world like our killing to happen in small, regular, impersonal batches. There's a lot of other factors which will affect the outcome, but I doubt things look good for our poor governor. He better hope that he's tried in EU jurisdiction where there's no capital punishment, because he will be tried and it could easily go either way. 

The classic "original affluent society" argument made by at least some anthropologists is that people in hunter-gatherer societies spend an average of about three hours a day hunting and/or gathering food (and probably another three hours in food preparation, tool-making, maintenance, etc.). See this Wikipedia page and references therein. Edited to add: the anthropological studies are based on people with advanced stone-age technology (e.g., the San of the Kalahari), which means bows but not guns. So you might be able to make the time a little shorter with guns (and they would probably help make up for not having a group of hunters, who can do more searching and coordinate with each other). On the other hand, guns won't help you gather plants faster, and some studies suggest that most of the calories that hunter-gatherers consume come from the gathering (and trapping small animals); big game is prestigious, but not as important to actual survival. 

Let's look at the energetics of removing material from a white dwarf. Very, very approximately, the energy required to remove 1 kg of material from the surface of a massive object out into space is of order its potential energy: $-G M / R$, where $M$ is the mass (in kg) of the object and $R$ is its diameter in meters. To remove 1 kg from the surface of the Earth requires about 60 megajoules. To remove 1 kg from the surface of a 1-solar-mass white dwarf (radius about 0.01 times that of the Sun) requires about two hundred terajoules. That's about 50 kilotons TNT equivalent. So on one level, it's feasible. (Leaving aside the engineering problems.) It's also an insanely expensive way to gather relatively common elements. Now, there is a way of letting nature do it for you. Classical novae are binary systems with a white dwarf and a low-mass main sequence star which is orbiting so close to the WD that it overfills its Roche lobe, leading to accretion of material from the outer part of the main sequence star onto the surface of the WD. Over time, this material builds up until a runaway thermonuclear reaction takes place, which blasts a mixture of accreted material and original WD material out into space with velocities of several thousands of kilometers per second. (This may prove somewhat inconvenient to collect.) So, provided you're willing to wait several thousand or tens of thousands of years between classical nova outbursts, you can extract material from a white dwarf this way, although it will be mixed with accreted material from the companion star and fresh thermonuclear byproducts (probably mostly helium) from the runaway burning of the nova outburst. If you really want to collect "stellar-mass" quantities of matter, it would be much better to scoop them out of the surface of a giant or supergiant star, where you don't have to fight gravity so damn much. 

I have some aliens. They look a bit like giant land-squid, and they have two very interesting characteristics. First off, their central nervous system never stops growing, so intelligence and age are well correlated, although in extreme old age when the brain has grown beyond the body's ability to support it dementia and death are inevitable. Second is their reproductive cycle. Beneath their mantles they have three "bud sites". If left vacant a new bud containing the individual's haploid genetic material will form. A bud kept in a bud site will stay viable for years, but without a host they only survive a few hours. They swap buds with each other, and when they're ready they close up their mantles and the three buds, as well as the gestational parent's own contribution, merge together and a baby thing is formed. So there are no distinct sexes, and everyone has four parents. As I imagine it, this makes reproduction like a gigantic trading card game. Individuals are constantly swapping buds (not necessarily even their own) to get desirable combinations of characteristics for their offspring. Offspring are raised by their gestational parent and may not even know who the other parents are. As an extension of all this I've imagined that their culture is based primarily around games and strategy, and historically their societies tend to be gerontocracies (although the age-intelligence correlation makes the distinction between gerontocracy and meritocracy rather fuzzy). My question is what happens to their society when their technology advances to provide for life-extension, intelligence augmentation, and the ability to store and preserve viable buds outside the body? More specifically, I'm thinking that their biology has given them a fairly natural social setup, but what sort of society might they end up with once those biological factors are mitigated by technological progress. If they're anything like us different groups will seize the opportunity to push for greater rights and equality, but on the other hand even though any natural reasons have gone certain things will be deeply embedded in identity and culture. I have some ideas, for example that success in games will become a more important factor than age in power structures, but I'm going all over the place and struggling to get much that's coherent so I wanted some fresh perspectives.