I'd thoroughly read your employee handbook. It should indicate if it is a "drug-free" company and the different types of drug tests administered (random, company-wide, injury, etc.) and what the repercussions are if you fail a test. Your coworkers are your best resource. It really should come up in conversation and you can ask them. My brother works at a software company in CA that does federal contracts and certain jobs at drug-free companies. To go on those company's sites, you must pass a drug test. At his company, you can "refuse" a job because you don't want to or can't pass a drug test. The company has no problem with it. Most places that do drug test will usually require the passing of one to start (they want to make sure you're clean to begin with). Since you weren't tested in the first place, I'd say it is unlikely the failing of a test (for THC) would automatically terminate you if were to be randomly tested, especially if it has not been made clear to you that it is a drug-free workplace. Marijuana is a very widely used and common drug in CA and employers are aware of this. 

This answer offers specific wording if you are directly asked why this particular grade is so much lower than the others. Like others have mentioned, don't bring it up yourself. 

I've used coworkers and friends as references. I have friends who still continue to use me as a reference over past managers. These are friends whom I've worked with in a professional or classroom setting. In both situations, I'm able to speak to their ability to act professionally and/or work in a team. Honestly, none of my references have ever been contacted and I've never been contacted so I can't say if this has had a positive outcome in a job search or not. As for asking a teacher, this will depend on high school vs college. Many college professors/teachers work summer hours (teaching is not the sole responsibility of professors). You can definitely try calling and leaving a voicemail or email them! (if you don't have their emails, your college website might have it available) For high school, this is a bit trickier. You could always drop by the school and see if anyone is around, honestly, even in HS, teachers are there sometimes during the summer. Or you could call the school, either a receptionist will answer and you can ask if so-and-so will be in any time soon and if not how to contact them if it's okay or a prerecorded message should play telling you the summer hours of the school. 

I've always had a public resume and private resume. My public resume includes city and state (in the US) and private resume includes my full address. The public resume I use on generic job sites, LinkedIn, etc. My private resume is what I submit to actual companies when applying. I've never gone through a recruiter so I'm not sure which one I'd use for that one. The address itself provides context for the company and it can either be a benefit or work against you, as you've seen. In your situation where they rejected you automatically does not seem fair, it seems a discussion would have been better suited to give you the chance to at least think about the commute and other options (such as relocation). The benefit of adding it can be that you show you live locally so relocation is not necessary or you show you live either out of state, country, region, etc. so the company understands that you may need to travel for an interview and plan accordingly. If you're concerned providing your FULL address works against you, I believe city and state/country is sufficient enough to provide enough information and context of where you are in respect to the company. 

This implies you tried to find a solution (i.e. take ALL exams) but you were not able to make that happen, so you found the best course of action with the situation you were given. You cannot always find a perfect solution but if you can assess, prioritize, and compromise then you can find the optimal solution. 

Now it is on the other department to officially assign the task to you through your manager, who will then be made aware you're working on other stuff. If they aren't willing to take these steps they either wait for you to "get to it" or the person who should be completing it does it. 

Yes, you are required to go as HR has stated you are required to do so. Although this is about a specific incident that caused conflict, look at it as an opportunity to fix the negative view this employee (and more than likely others as well) have about IT "not doing their job". If you say this is "totally unfounded" then you may be able to clear the air as to why she thinks things were not getting done and what was actually happening on your end. Having HR there to moderate helps keep emotion out of it from both sides. Instead of looking at this as being forced into more conflict, think of it as a way to prevent conflict in the future. 

Having multiple jobs in the restaurant industry is very common and employers are used to these types of conflicts. Be upfront, honest, and willing to be a team player the best you can. 

Like you, if I need to talk to manager real quick and her door is open (has an open door policy), I pop in, lightly knock twice on the door to let her know I'm there (her view is not in line with her door), wait a second as you do to let her complete her thought and if she does not turn to me or verbally acknowledge me after a brief moment, I say, "Hey, do you have a quick moment, I'd like you to look over xyz" or whatever I needed her for. This allows the person to either begin the conversation while completing their thought, give you their full attention, or if they don't have a moment, they can simply reply, "Now is actually not a good time. Come back at 1." 

As @JasonJ states, run it by your boss but I wouldn't mention that a specific person had issue with it. Rather, I'd start by saying how it led to a nice discussion but there was a concern about the post divulging too much information about the company and ask if there are any guidelines your boss wants you to follow when posting and sharing links on the #random channel. If so, those should be written up and distributed throughout the office so everyone (including the coworker who raised concerns) is on the same page. Then, if this coworker complains again, you can refer to the guidelines and he/she can take it up with the boss if they so choose. 

I don't think the amount of facial hair necessarily matters, rather how well kept it is. As long as it looks clean and well maintained I can't imagine it being a reason to not hire you. The fashion trend for many men nowadays are full grown "lumberjack" beards so your five o'clock shadow should be fine, even if a little patchy. If in a customer or client facing position, however, this may not be the case as appearance is very important in these roles and an interviewer will judge you more on your appearance than in an analyst job interview where they just want you to be be on the profession looking side unless the company culture dictates otherwise. 

First, if you have a consistent work day for your first job, be upfront to your other employer(s) that you cannot work Mondays (or whatever day) due to your other job. If you are asked to cover a shift on that particular day you can reply: 

Since you are scheduling interviews you are being contacted to setup a time, right? This could be the opportune time to disclose that you do have a negative reputation online due to an incident in the past. In response to accepting the interview, maybe include a statement along these lines: 

Actually, it does. Just because prior work experience isn't directly in the field you're applying within does not make it any less important or evident that you have experience working, taking direction, handling important product/information, interacting with coworkers, etc. Companies understand you won't have direct experience working with the material you will be working with, but they do want to know that you will be willing to LEARN the material, show up to work, actually do your work, etc. Your past "basic" jobs prove you are experienced, which is always relevant. Now as time goes on and you have a couple jobs/internships that are more relevant and take up space on your resume, then you can start leaving off the irrelevant jobs as they probably won't add much value and will take up unnecessary space. 

Since you have a close relationship with your boss/friend, having an honest conversation with them is the best solution here. Plan a location to meet and discuss. Maybe somewhere casual like a coffee shop or more formal like an office or the store. This depends on the type of atmosphere you want around while having this conversation. Clearly define the desired outcome that you want before the meeting to yourself. For you, this would be that you no longer want to work at the store. If you keep this in mind at all times you can steer the conversation back to this end goal if it gets off track. Any point you make is a reason why this needs to be the outcome. Offer a plan as to how you think going about reaching the desired goal. If you're willing to do so, offer to be a part of the hiring process to find your replacement, this includes training. Or maybe even training current employees or creating documentation before you go. During this discussion, I'd suggest emphasizing how appreciative you are of the opportunity to work at this store but it is time for you to officially move on and focus on your career. Since your boss/friend works with you in your skilled trade, it should not be a shocker that you want to put your primary focus on it. Also, do not ask for permission to leave the store. You are there to tell your boss that you will no longer continue working at the store in order to shift your focus entirely to growing the career you just invested serious time and, I assume, money in. This second job is extra stress without much benefit and could, if not already, have a negative affect on your other job that you do for this person. Your friend should be understanding to your circumstances and since it is her business, it is her responsibility. If the store really cannot operate without you, then she needs to reevaluate the business operations and structure to determine what needs to change to make it run more effectively or if it is time to cut her losses. 

You're not telling them no but you're also making it clear their tasks are not your priority and your role is. If they give you push back, use your manager, 

If you don't want to explicitly state that you no longer perform these tasks in order to save face or stick to cultural norms, when asked to do a task or if the other manager asks where your progress is, tell them: 

Get a spreadsheet started that lists all the projects you're working on. On mine, I keep track of who requested the project and when, involved parties, a priority level, current status (if you're reworking a project or waiting on something from someone, put it here or create a notes section), and an expected completion date (or # of hrs required to finish if that's easier to track). This can be tedious to keep up but set aside 5/10 minutes a day to go through and update it. Now you have a nice running list of everything you're working on for everyone at any given time. With that list, you can set up a meeting with your manager and go over the projects you're working on and show him/her the varying tasks you have from everyone on top of what (s)he is assigning you. This should hopefully open your manager's eyes to the fact that you're being spread too thin. Or, the next time your manager assigns a task to you, pull up the sheet, add it, and give a time estimate making it clear your plate is full and you will need some time to finish it. When they ask why it will take that long, show your list of projects and offer to meet with them to discuss how to cut back your never ending list of demands. Visual representations can make quite an impact. There is difference between saying, "I'm already working on 10 other projects" and showing the 10 projects you're working on very matter-of-factly.