... My person doubts, even outwardly there is nothing not changing, not different, now it's even more of value to look at the frames of references for mindfulness. When walking, look where you put the next step, step by step, know, lifting, pushing, setting down, take care not to step on someone, get slowly a "An All-Around Eye". Giving way, while walking (dana, generosity), not to step on someone, no short cuts, no violation of rules (sila, virtue), walking straight, aware of body posture, like a king/queen, straight, not like a cowboy or a pig, awareness of the body and correct it. When willing to look on the side, stop, turn, then look and watch out the greed that normaly drives one to try to do all at one time. One of the frame of references (meditation), then watch out thoughts, feelings, arising, moods, if the first is already managed good. Put the sense under control, not letting the eye, ear, nose... follow contact of objects. One practicing, one being mindful, is never bored and later gifted with right gained ease and re(a)l-ease. And, as a side effect of step by step, one reaches his place faster as any vehicle could provide it. Start be simply train your body posture, putting your steps straight | not / or \ one after another, not bending more then the head, not walking like a duck or a rooster. Don't swing your arms, don't twist the body while walking. One movement consciously after the other. Simply that training will be maybe very hard for a good time, but give one real good results. Direct relations are found also in your parallel questions in this answer [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

Now what's the questioners answer why not simply train Dana, Sila, Bhavana but busy in lightening fires and "safe" bugs? It's good to increase samvega seeing on self as possible next bug and the misery of being bond to the sense and the world, then seeking for real light and put much effort into it. 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

It always recommended to give to those with virtues, those free of fetters and those stiving for freedom of the fetters (greed, aversion and delution) first, at least for the long time benefit of all beings. Other might use ones gifts at least not for the benefit of many. So a good amout of wisdom is required to make one a skilled person of giving. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

To take what is not given, is a break of the precept. Just prove that, possible ask the owner (giver), which is not wrong for householder to do and should be usual. For more and details, one is welcom to look: [Q&A] Breach of second precept (copyrights, Dhamma books) [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

It's the sphere of a-rupa, where mind get's only entertained by mind. No touch, better attention, to the five "material" sense, that mind nurishes on minds objects. Yet, such as objects are still subtile present, like if throwing out the water of a glass, one might say that it is empty of water. Now still, taking a towel, one would see it's still wet. So it should not be mixed with the "consciousness without surface", or the seventh one. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

It's a possible sign of progress, yes. If such would not arise, there would not have been much progress. How ever, it can be that such is based on eternally intelectuall reasoning, which could be possible even based on wrong view. Such might be even more worse than no progress or effect by vipassana. It's good to assosiate much with people of right view, not tending to what ever extreme but see and teach cause and effect in proper ways. It's usuall that those would tend to cross-question you often and of course people just knower of the Pitakas and even those who have mastered Jhanas might be not sufficent enought to be supporter. If there have been progress, one would not have that much difficult to figure out of whom might be a helpfull noble one. Another sign of having made unchangeable progress is that one has no more doubt and has grown "independent" in regard of the Dhamma and way of practice. Of course useful merely literary knowledge he/she might still be able to nurish well in addition, but mosty just as good livelihood/ good entertaining of the mind. A useful guide for further undertakings is this collection of Suttas: Into the Stream - A Study Guide on the First Stage of Awakening Much success and mudita! 

It since ever merely unlikely that many find lineage and liberation, but not impossible, having the "luck" coming in contact. asked/suggested: The Buddha said that to those having already changed to the "lineage" of the Noble Ones, not at all and never to wordilings. In fact (the act of) the Buddha did not uphold something more importand outwardly as the teacher/admirable friend and pointed strongly on the ancestorship of the lineage: 

It's probably worthy to note here again that suññata has "levels" and someone dwelling in suññata it is not anicca, still produced, in the sphere of more or lesser conductive bhava for release. Sutta and note might be of help: Maha-suññata Sutta: The Greater Discourse on Emptiness. Also "First things first has good advices to go not astray in wrong practice and to get the link right: 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

There are many ways how recluses of other sects might dwell isolated, how ever, the Buddha did not want his disciples to do such, and such rules not to cook, not to store food, not to pick up fruits from trees, not to damage plant live, not to live in improper dependency of some... do not allow such a kind of dwelling: isolated. The poem does btw. not indicate such, since the teller used obiviously an alms bowl. Une finds very similar poems in the Theragatha. Being better, currently doing, such a dweller, as well as suggestions in the records: one should not stay much more fare then 2 or 3 km from settlements, longer distances for alms round are neither conductive for the practice nor for health. There are people, recluses, even Monks ordained proper, who live isolated, have either relation to certain lay supporter, or store food, cook for themselves, even walk for gathering fruits, roots, mushrooms... but all that (mostly even accept money and use it, to manage their needs) is neither Buddhas wish nor in accordiance with the Dhamma-Vinaya, often connected with heavy offences. From the view of personal benefit, one is reminded that one depends on others, every day and one is independent at the same time, not engaging in any kind of trade or unskilfull actions. Furthermore, if monks would live isolated "independend" people would not come in touch, never be reminded on the fourth heavenly messenger, hardly ever hear teachings. Furthermore the tradition would be very fast extinguished. Not to speak that the world would be void to the great field of merits. So if one seeks for the Dhamma and way of the Buddha, really no need to seach for remote recluses. From experience, recluse on montains, living other the rightly, certain "independend, are for the most brahmanic colored, often seek to develop iddhis (special) powers, or simply make themselves more interesting for certain gains, and yes, there are also the angry ones, those who bear aversion torward other people an sociaty in an unhealthy way. For all this cases, at least one, not secure, is always very in need of correcting admirable friends, the Buddha did not encouraged to dwell in forests and isolated. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

Generally spoken, taxation and it's exceptions are very different by country, matter and many other factors. It is there done proper, where ever is an exchange "this for that", where gains are accumulated and where flow of "power" needs to be controlled. If something is given perfect (without factors of greed, aversion and delusion) to worthy, perfect Ones, it does, would not, fall under any of the above factored categories. Since such is tendencialy merely seldom, most Dana, is probably rightous taxed or improper not taxed. Generally a to vague question and if global answered, Dana is most and ever taxed, sometimes officially, sometimes inoffically, again, sometimes proper, sometimes improper for each case, and the ways are very different. Where ever is "wealth", something to trade, others try to gain and get a share. Look here, with this answer there is propably gain in traffic, income for the owner of the page, and propably a share on tax. Or take the tax on internet-access, given through donors. Endless nurishment, where ever trade for the worlds sake is involved. Yet it is ones own matter being obligated, demanting that for this. Yet, try to tax one who does not really own anything useable to trade, one giving without any demand for a world. The question is on the other side a good one. Remembering, when my person was once a successful business man, thinking eager of how to possible benefit poor and needed without the need to make again a share where my person thought it's not needed or how to make the most benefical out of ones rightous gains for those not so gifted. The question and investigation around it, on a truthful level, at least brought my person step by step on the lane of lasting benefit without causing loses on other sides, for all others and one self. What one gives, one gains. Thought that always joyful payed tax, like as if generosity and proper share. Generally, never try to avoid paying your obligations. Seeing it as giving, one becomes rich, how ever poor, but... What about Trading Candy for Gold and letting go of thought in regard of more or lesser proper stinginess in regard of tax? Free and "unprotected" like a bird, traveling there where no tax is/can be demanded, to escape of Maras bounds.