Would you need an expensive driver? Nope. Could you use a cheap handler? Maybe.... If you're dealing with a mature autonomous driving technology then (with the possible exception of repair diagnostics) you would never need a driver. Why would you? The machine can coordinate with routing much faster and much more predictably than a human could. It would never be distracted by the babe/hunk on the side of the road, would never need to stop for coffee breaks, and could be depended on to drive as quickly and efficiently as possible (vs. humans who tend to time streetlights to get all the reds they can because they're paid by the hour). But a handler. You should have seen the stairs to my house before we remodeled. Raw rock, uneven, set poorly, unpredictable step heights (and widths), loose stones, bad after decades of use... when it comes to dealing with the far more unpredicitable situation of actually unloading the vehicle and making the delivery at a home, nothing beats the versatility of a human being. (Not to mention that winning smile when you deliver a nice elderly woman her package!) And since it's unskilled labor, it's minimum wage. Home delivery might not be the only human-useful delivery issue. Navigating crowds of people in a busy business district to deliver to some start-up on the fourth floor of a renovated slumlord building... narrow halls, steep stairs, people with robophobics who have no compunction against swinging an aluminium baseball bat at the 'bot... all would give way to the sharply-dressed minimum-wage worker (mostly). And, lest we forget, humans are cheap to fix. Robots aren't. Never send a multi-million dollar robot when a disposable human can do the job. The economics of today the future are ruthless. Pretty much any other kind of delivery would be better off using an automated skidsteer. As for would you need a cab? No. But you would need access to very basic controls in the cargo cabin in case of accident where the automation is lost and somebody needs to move the vehicle. But a handful of pushbuttons for "move forward" and "turn left" for such adjustments is nothing more than a panel. 

However, after my admittedly brief foray into the Internet, I'm going to go out on a limb and suggest that there won't be a difinitive answer to your question. However, that's a blessing. With public knowledge of a planet's metal makeup would come other publically available information about that planet which is more than likely to make it utterly uninhabitable. In other words, the data you want to make your story "real" would actually kill your story. 

1 Have you ever had to do anything after breaking a big chunk of nail off? It hurts. It hurts a lot. Hitting it with a feather duster hurts even more. And our earstwhile survivalist just ripped all 20 off to the root. And the next thing you're going to do is pick up a rock and hit it against another rock to powder everything. And you're not going to slip and hit a finger or toe even once. Not even once. 2 Unless you're like Max Klinger from M*A*S*H, the odds are your body hair won't add substantially to your supply of Keratin. It's worth noting that there's a huge variation in hair weight. I've seen women with so much hair I wondered how they could hold their hair up. I've also seen Patrick Stewart. It's a good thing hair's worthless or we'd have to figure out the average weight of hair on a person's head. 

The simple answer to your question is a power bar or any one of the dozens of nutrition-oriented "all-in-one" bars you find in grocery stores today. Tasty(ish), filled with nutrition, can be stored almost forever, easy to ship (if you can, see below), the only other thing you need is water. If that doesn't work, the next best thing is an MRE. "Meal ready-to-eat" (MRE) meals are self-contained, designed for long-term storage, etc. However: While this is a clever idea, the politics are far more important than the tech. As mentioned by @ths and @ckersch, we have enough food to feed the world today, so "printing" food doesn't solve the problem. A benefit might be had if you ship the machine and the raw materials because raw materials are usually cheaper and easier to ship than finished products. But that's an efficiency issue. We could solve the problem today. Except.... Whether you print-first-ship-second or ship-first-print-second, the problem isn't technology — it's politics and economics. Politics: One reason we can't solve the problem today is (e.g.) the local warlord keeps the food for himself and sells it for a profit. Worse, I can easily imagine (if not prove it on the spot) that some countries control distribution to control their people. A hungry person may be desperate, but they're often too weak to do anything about it. Your machine doesn't solve this problem at all. Economics: The reason we can't solve hunger in (e.g.) the United States is because poor people can't afford food and few are willing to just give it to them. Once again, The U.S. has all the food it needs to guarantee no one goes hungry. But, generally speaking, farmers have bills to pay, too, and no government subsidy completely covers the nut. This same issue applies to world-wide hunger. The cost of shipping to (e.g.) Africa makes it difficult to get food to hungry Africans. Your machine only solves this problem if it is considerably more cost efficient than other manufacturing methods. Without solving the how-to-get-it-to-the-people problem, the technology is only useful in developed countries as a natural time-saver in homes and restaurants. It isn't useful in undeveloped countries where the cost of shipping raw supplies might be as great as shipping final products (especially, as you propose, if you're still only shipping a final product). Where it would be useful is in space-limited situations like spaceships and loft apartments where space for the kitchen is recovered in favor of the much smaller printer. 

Religions that celebrate child-bearing would freak out I'm going to start with this because, frankly, it might be the only reason Christians, Jews, Muslims, and Hindus would join hands in a single common cause: and that list constitutes approximately 90% of the world's population. If only one quarter of the group was willing to protest the decision, you're still talking about a group of people 20X larger than every military on Earth combined. And religions are far better organizers than governments. Enforcement would be unbelievably intrusive The simple reality is that people generally obey the law because the law generally leaves them alone. But now you're talking about monitoring people in a way that hasn't existed in western cultures since Nazi Germany. Theoretically, the more civilized/sophisticated/established a country the easier it would be to monitor and control the population. But it would take an invading army to control southern Africa and it might take nuclear weapons to control India. Too much land. Too many people. Too few "monitors." But, to be honest, it takes a boatload of effort to get people to comply with laws that are fundamentally against the basics of biology. Look at what it took to get same-sex marriage equality... and that only affects 1%-3% of the population. Restricting children tries to control the biology of frankly everybody. The phrase "police state" just doesn't cut it. Cultures that value male children over female children will see an increase in infanticide Female infanticide was not the result of China's one-child policy, the one-child policy was simply the latest excuse to justify it. However, in those societies that value male children over female the pressure to get that cherished male heir will increase substantially when you get one and only one child to raise. This has the side-effect of a potential imbalance between genders, meaning there's too many guys and not enough gals a generation or two down the road. I can't help but unreasonably think that a lot of guys without enough girls will probably result in a global Lord of the Flies situation. It also exacerbates two basic problems with any one-child policy: A threatened workforce The single biggest problem with one-child population control is that you're creating half the workforce you started with. This might initially sound like a boon as employers would spend big bucks to secure pretty much anybody. But the real problem comes when the workforce halves again... then again... and suddenly you have... A geriatric society more miserable than you can possibly imagine A society with an absolutely enormous number of unemployable senior citizens and a fraction of the number of people needed to provide services. This problem is horrendous for the first century, but never completely goes away because you are always halving your workforce with each generation (a two-child policy would make a TON more sense....). 

The simple answer is: not at all Consider eyesight, not just in humans, but across the creature spectrum. You have eyes of different design and makeup all over the place, from the multifaceted fly to the curiosities of cats, frogs, and goats. Add to this the variety just in the human eye including light sensitivity (something I'm very, very familiar with), acuity, the protection of lids and fluid, etc. There is such a wide variety of eyes on the Earth that I find it unlikely a second sun would change the eyes. But, for the record, when comparing your world to Earth: 

Chemical reactions aren't the most cost-effective way to create electricity, but we use them all the time. We also deal with a special class of non-metal materials that conduct electricity. They're called semiconductors. However, this does not mean you're going to have a civilization filled with the glowing warmth of electric light and the easy listening of Motown soul. Without a good conductor, the potential of electricity (haha, an EE joke there. Did you notice?) is quite low. I doubt you could arc-weld without metal conductors. But... Without plentiful oxygen there's a whole lot of things you can't do, like transportation (combustion), wastewater treatment, rocketry of pretty much any kind, plastics, acids (and a whole heck of a lot of other chemicals), and (not to make too fine a point) water. No oxygen kinda means no photosynthesis, which begs the question, what kind of plants do you have? It makes for aerobic water (aka, life in rivers and lakes), so without it you're not fishing. In fact, insofar as we understand life, no oxygen == no life. So, while electricity may be your main interest, it isn't actually your biggest problem. No oxygen is a bad thing. 

The original article with all the wonderously gory details can be found at Nature Plants. Conclusion On your world the Thylakoid design used by Begonia pavonina evolved generally rather than specifically for Earth's tropical rainforests. If you want a reason for that (which is likely far too much detail for your story), then you could shift your sun away from the green spectrum (unlike our sun which dominates in the green spectrum), or have something like cloud cover that absorbs the blue spectrum, leaving the red spectrum. But, like I said, that's probably too much detail. Or, if this is too much work, you could lace your soil with cobalt or some other blue-leaning mineral, which will taint the leaves. It might be simpler, but it would be way less cool. I'm just sayin'. 

Author Bob Mayer in his Area 51 books had high-tech aliens masquerading as gods in ancient Human times, most notably in ancient Egypt and ancient China. They used the mythology of the day to their advantage. Forgive me for forgetting the name, but the aliens in China borrowed an early Chinese legend of a flying dragon, which they equipped with hover technology and energy weapons, which then flew around the country terrorizing the people. In your own case, people cannot be assumed to be blind. If you're using machinery that can be seen (e.g., hand-held weapons, vehicles, or anything else that people could covet) that cannot be bound to existing mythologies then they will quickly begin to associate the "magic" with your posessions, not with you. If you can take advantage of existing mythologies, then this can be avoided... for a while. The best technologies would be those that cannot be seen. This might be complicated, but let's use some satellites. 

What I just did was create an arbitrary starting point. You must do that, because no economy (even really simple economies) can be "balanced" without an arbitrary starting point. My starting point was (a) the money I have to spend when everything turns bad (my coffer), (b) the money I think I'll need for next year, and (c) my own expenses. If you don't do something like this, it's almost impossible to balance out the numbers (take this from a non-accountant who once created his own corporate balance sheets...). By starting the way I did, I discovered how much money my people had, which makes it trivial to create item prices based on how common and/or rare they are. Believe me, toothbrushes are really expensive! 

For the sake of completeness, let me give you the perspective of an Electrical Engineer who once designed integrated circuits and knows a bit about the history of computing. Given the limitations proposed by the OP, it is IMPOSSIBLE to develop the technology necessary to build a computer running Windows 1.0. There IS NO LENGTH OF TIME that will change that. The mountain of technology is so large, the developmental basics so great, and the knowledge so specialized at thousands of points along the developmental path, that it's impossible. Sorry (I upvoted Karl's answer because it was well thought out, even though he's not familiar with some of the core technolgies... but as much as I liked the answer, this one needed to be provided.) 

Don't worry so much about what terrestrial insects look like. You're "evolving" something from those critters. So, let's look at the first problem: what do you need for bipedal locomotion? Balance You need something that provides the "gyroscope" that keeps the critter upright. For humans, that's a combination of... 

Your bridge could have been caused by a pre-historic meteor impact like the Chicxulub crater. Meteors push earth up around the point of impact. Depending on the type of dirt involved in the impact, the more shallow areas could conceivably form a curved land bridge where the deeper-side of the impact would have been entirely lost to errosion. 

If you're talking about the Earth specifically, then no, it wouldn't end up looking like that. Let's make some wild assumptions. 

It is impossible for the city's economy not to collapse. Using averages.... Beginning population: 2.3x106 Week #1: 22.5% of the city destroyed, leaving 77.5% of the city. Week #2: 22.5% of the remaining city destroyed, leaving 60.06% of the city. Week #3: 22.5% of the remaining city destroyed, leaving 46.55% of the city. Week #4: 37.5% of the remaining city destroyed, leaving 29.1% of the city. 

You're discussing a problem that already exists today, just on a smaller scale. It'w worth noting that there are (for the purposes of this discussion) two kinds of data. 

Irrelevant bonus question that need not be answered to be considered for answer acceptance... If the answer is "yes, we could detect that," does this suggest we are (a) alone in the universe, or at least in our corner of it, or (b) that transport tech will circumvent the issue of impactor energy signatures and we're actually surrounded and the only reason we get on with our happy little lives is we do... not... know about it? You don't need to answer this at all, but if you do want to have fun with it, I insist that you answer the actual question first. Answers that only address the bonus question will receive invitations for deletion. Of course, the real question may only be answered "nope, we can't see anything like that," in which case this bonus question is irrelevant and I'll be required to sit in a corner for an hour — but don't let that give you any ideas.