The immediate energy source for your muscles is adenosine triphosphate (ATP). When exerting force with a muscle it gets depleted (quickly) and when exhausted you fail to exert the same force. After 5 reps with the maximum weight you can do for 5 reps of some movement, a 6th rep fails. Fortunately, ATP can also get replenished relatively quickly. When being used, ATP is broken down and yields a different substance called adenosine diphosphate (ADP). Your body can create new ATP from the ADP. Of course, this requires it to perform some chemical actions. If the use of ATP chemically breaks it down and energy is released, it will take some energy to restore the ATP and make it available to the muscle again. Storing chemical energy in one place and then using it in another is essential in the energy transport throughout our body. The creation of ATP from ADP occurs through metabolic pathways that are a bit too complicated to start describing here in full, but the gist of it is that the full pathway requires carbohydrate, fat and protein metabolism. Look up "citric acid cycle" and "oxidative phosphorylation" for more info. So what does all of that mean for you? Here's where we get to glucose. Glucose is used later in the citric acid cycle and oxidative phosphorylation to yield ATP. It becomes oxidized, with as "waste" products CO2 (which you exhale) and water. Quite some water in your body is retained in the form of glucos, which is why you lose a lot of water weight on a keto diet. All of this means that glucose plays a key role in ATP formation, which your muscles need for producing force. On a keto diet, you strongly restrict carbohydrate consumption and deplete the glucose (and its stored version glycogen) in your body. Indeed, such a depletion is essential to the diet because it prompts the body to switch to ketosis for obtaining energy from fats. So how is it gonna get its glucose? For that, it turns to gluconeogenesis. This is yet another metabolic pathway that generates glucose from non-carbohydrate sources. One of the ways this can occur is through breakdown of proteins and fats. Now, where the glycolysis pathway described earlier has a positive net yield of ATP, gluconeogenesis is going to consume some ATP. Also, glycolysis can occur directly in the muscle, while gluconeogenesis occurs mostly in the liver. As you can imagine, this is not going to be quite as fast. When your muscles have a comfortable amount of glucose at their disposal they're happily gonna churn away on turning that ADP back into ATP. But when you're in ketosis, not only are you quite low on glucose throughout your tissues, making new glucose is gonna require gluconeogenesis. It's no wonder then that weightlifters tend to "carb load" before a heavy workout, and that you get exhausted faster on a keto diet when doing strength sports. So you've asked for hacks. When looking at it logically, the only possibilities are: 

It's probably bad form to just post a link as an answer, but honestly I don't think anyone could explain this better than Paul Ingraham on his blog PainScience, with the references and studies to back everything up: $URL$ and $URL$ Regarding braces (this is about external braces for implants, but there's some carryover in ideas): $URL$ Some key points: 

When I look at it, what is actually happening is that you're attempting to introduce some periodization into your workout. But rather than working up to an actual max effort and then cycling back, you'd try to keep linear progression going. StrongLifts 5x5 is a beginner program, you are starting to move past that stage. I'd advise you instead to look into intermediate programming. A good intermediate program would have some periodization, so your increases in weight lifted are now on a monthly or even 6-week basis. You could do a short run-up using StrongLifts 5x5 with linear progression until you start missing lifts, but once you hit intermediate stage, it will have mostly exhausted its usefulness for your situation. If you wish to design your own program with the concepts necessary for an intermediate, you might want to check out the book "Practical Programming for Strength Training" by Mark Rippetoe and Andy Baker. 

An eating disorder is going to require professional help, because there are underlying causes that aren't just going to be fixed by nutrition and exercise. You may not even know them yourself. Don't be averse to getting psychological help. When we're ill, we go to the doctor, right? And you don't blame yourself for getting a flu or inflammation. Neither should you think there's anything wrong with trying to fix psychological issues that may be beyond your control. Refraining from letting others help is stubbornness or misplaced pride. Assuming you are getting help, some points to assist you. First of all, 200 calories a day is quite simply not enough and will not be sustainable for any decent amount of time. You are not getting the nutrition your body needs, whether it's macronutrients or micronutrients. If you eat at your TDEE (total daily energy expenditure) you will not gain weight over time. Don't worry about it. I'd need body stats beside weight (height, age, sex, activity level) to estimate a TDEE, but it's likely well over 1600 kcal per day. Just eat that every day, and the average weight over a week should hardly budge. You may lose or gain a small amount of weight, in which case the TDEE can undergo minor adjustments (say, 100 kcal more or less) to fine-tune it. Note that I say average weight. Daily fluctuations are to be ignored entirely. I'll routinely weigh 2 kg more after a weekend because I tend to eat over maintenance, or be less strict, or eat a lot more carbs, and 2 days later it's all gone because it's water weight. Only a trend line over weeks is any solid indication. 

What limits? The point at which continued training starts being painful (not in the "feel the burn" way but "something's gonna tear" way)? The point at which you can't even lift a light weight anymore? The point at which injury occurs? Training works by disrupting "homeostasis", which is an equilibrium for your body. It is the state in which it resides, untrained, and towards which it will return if training is halted. Your body will adapt to new stresses imposed on it, but if that stress is removed, the adaptation will not last because maintaining it is physically expensive. An organism's body is like a self-tuning machine that wants to be functional and use its resources efficiently. Getting stronger and getting more muscle tissue will always take this form, no matter what your training level: 

In order to increase muscle mass, your body must be forced to adapt. A state of balance is called homeostasis. The essence for inducing a strength and/or hypertrophy increase requires disrupting homeostasis. The way we do this with strength training is by lifting weights in a manner that exceeds what our body is adapted to. There's a number of ways to do this. You can increase the weight on the bar, increase the number of repetitions, increase the number of sets, or a combination thereof. If you do not in some way alter the variables to place a stress on the body that disrupts homeostasis, no impulse is provided for it to adapt. After this disruption, the body will prepare for a repetition of this stress in the form of altering muscle tissue, bone density, vascularity and more. This occurs in the period of 48 to 72 hours after the workout, for a novice lifter. This means that any muscle group is ideally trained every 48 to 72 hours to maximize efficiency as a novice. After the adaptation, there is a period where one's performance is somewhat increased, making it possible to increase the workload by altering one or more of the parameters (weight, reps, sets, rest time). Doing this regularly in a way that doesn't exceed your capacity for recovery is what increases the baseline over time. After a workout, however, if no new stress is induced, you will gradually move back towards your previous baseline. When you stop working out, the body will no longer feel the need to maintain the metabolically more expensive muscle tissue and return to its old homeostasis. If you are working out only once per week, you'll have started back on that downwards slope before the next workout is done. Even if you do an extensive full-body workout on that one day, this is a frequency that is very sub-optimal for a natural trainee (read: someone who doesn't use steroids). Perhaps you'll still be able to make progress, but it will be much slower compared to working out each muscle group twice per week. In the worst case you will see no progress. Furthermore, trying to provide a stress that is enough to spur adaptation to avoid returning to baseline before the week is over will be difficult with just one workout. Total volume over a week is also important. You can't take the volume that you'd normally do in two workouts and try to cram it into one workout, because you would go well over your capacity for recovery, which might lead to injuries, or even a negative "return on investment". So I'd strongly advise you to stick to two workouts per week. This leaves us with the interval training. HIIT is cardio training and will mostly benefit endurance, fat burning, adaptations for oxidative stress etc. It is not a substitute for weightlifting to induce strength gain and/or hypertrophy. That said, just doing cardio alone is not enough to negate muscle gain. As long as you maintain a caloric surplus, with sufficient protein intake, muscle gain can occur. However, unless you are a beginner, or very overweight, gaining muscle while burning fat could prove challenging or impossible. Hypertrophy requires a caloric surplus while weight loss is only possible using a caloric deficit. Trying to do a "recomp", slowly reducing body fat while gaining some muscle, requires very precise calorie intake and the progress will likely be slow. It sounds like you want to make your workouts a bit more varied and include some HIIT for fat burn, or maybe save some time on your workouts. So maybe try this: do weightlifting twice a week, and do the HIIT training immediately after that. It will have some benefits: