As this is a homework question, I will only give hints without giving you the pages or quotes as extracting the forms would be trivial then. You mentioned the Critique of Practical Reason in your comment. That is the deciding hint. There is the fundamtental law of morals more at the beginning and then a type of it, as he says, later on which he says to be needed because we would have no scheme to apply the former directly, but would implicitly always apply the latter. This is a point where he directly contradicts GMM, by the way. Because the latter has a specific notion of law, it is worth discussing wether it has the same mode of universalization. 

Kant himself offers ideas of how to apply the formula in Ak. 429-30. I will quote and parse the text in order to highlight the guidance he himself has given for this particular formula (translations from Kant, I. (1785/2011), Groundwork of the metaphysics of morals: A German–English edition (M. Gregor & J. Timmermann, Trans.), Cambridge, MA: Cambridge University Press): 1. The human being is not a thing at anyone's disposal 

And how this more universal understanding can be reconciled with a classical understanding of hermeneutics is explained as well: 

Regarding the sublime as destinct from beauty In section 23, Kant destinguishes the sublime and the beauty. The main difference is stated as followed: 

There are the two aspects represented you asked for in the question: What is the main difference between labour and work and the purpose of it and is there a ranking in between them? Regarding the main difference Here, the classical difference Arendt offers is the one between animal laborans and homo faber. The former acts in the mode of labour, as its activity is directed solely to the recurring, to the necessities of life and sustaining it (as it is). Therefore, whatever is made through labour (i.e. it is not unproductive in a literal sense), is made only to be consumed, and not to last. See her discussion of the Greek distinction of the circular movement of nature (eternal) vs. the mortality of man, whose life cuts through the circle rectliniarly (ibid, pp.18-9). The latter instead is about humans as producing the world they live in by their own hands. They produce conditions of their lives that do so persitently, outlasting their own lifespan. Work is what produces the artificial, the culture, and settles a specifically human worldliness (see e.g. pp. 7-8). A quote elaborating this: 

The Copernican Shift of Kants philosophy actually was, in reference to Hume, that not the empirical facts themselves are true knowledge (episteme, "Erkenntnis"), because they are arbitrary; they depend on our ability to percept at all and our factual experiences. True knowledge lies in transcendental knowledge: What we can get necessary knowledge of are the necessary conditions of our experience. As necessary conditions they lie in every experience possible to humans. In this sense they are a priori. Every knowledge a priori is transcendental and therefore necessary (in a strict sense). For a reference and some argument on this, see the comments of the question and this answer. Transferred to the quotes in the question: Kant would say that the conservation of matter isn't anything we can actually experience: We can measure in several moments and therefore infer this as necessary in form of a condition of what we experience. But in a strict sense, we do not experience this itself, we think it as necessary, which includes a further judgement of reason. To add a general note: Nature = the sum of all experience. Laws of nature are the regularities in experience (Hume) thought as necessary. We do not experience this necessity, we think it. The necessity is of the rule for the relation expressed by the law, not for the truth or validity of the law itself. Therefore it is no problem for the necessity that laws of nature are falsifiable. 

I would use the definitions of Allan Buchanan, who is arguably one of the most influential writers in political philosophy. In his essay Political Legitimacy and Democracy (Ethics 112, 4 (July 2002): 689–719) he gives the following definitions: Political Legitimacy 

That means that while there is a link between subjective feeling ('satisfaction') and a representation, it is the representation of the existance of the object. As he continues to argue in §2, beauty does not need the existence of the object of the representation that evokes the pleasure at all, but solely refers to the representation itself. The feeling of beauty does not need any objectivity (or even 'intentionality') thought in the representation. Therefore, it is desinterested in this sense. And he even clarifies in a footnote on 5:205: 

So as you can see, in some sense in the person of Jesus the dogma has died and opened the possibility for his morality. But this is only due to the fact that the dogma of original sin only had this possibility left. 

Setting and provisional answer As your quote is a note regarding a certain sentence, I will first quote this one for providing context: 

To make something more out of it: Whereas originally, hermeneutics were about understanding texts (Schleiermacher, Dilthey), Heidegger extended the term on the overall strive and struggle of humans trying to find meaning in what they are confronted with. Thereby, we cannot give up everything that helped us before when confronted with something new, meaning that we have a limited framework from which we can understand new things, i.e. we rely upon our prejudices (in a literal sense!) - the hermeneutical circle that constitutes the limits of our understanding. This clearly does just as well apply to the rest of our life, not only to artifacts. Gadamer, building upon Heidegger's conception of hermeneutics, writes: 

Conclusion/Summary I actually think that this is not in the first place about the positive/negative or concrete/abstract dialectics Hegel later will dive into, it is a affront against Kant. Kant's ethics in general could be read as purely negative, though. 'Kant may have presented us the grapes', as Goethe once said, 'but rejected us the way to it'. The highest form of human excellence is accessability of the ideas in form of a positive determination through intellectual intuition, one might say. And the task of the philosopher is not only to perform it and express the insights gained, but to make it accessable to others through poetry. This is the core of Hölderlin's own systematic take on philosophy as I understand it. Argumentation I will argue here with the Oldest System Programme of German Idealism from 1797, which, although written in Hegel's handwriting, is obviously heavily based on Hölderlin's thinking of that time, who arguably has been the only one able to include all of the kantian, fichtean, spinozian and aesthetical aspects included. I am well aware, though, that since Rosenzweig most people tend to Schelling's authorship. It actually is still an open debate going on, recently once again inflamed by Förster. Kant, as positing reason and intellect in the very center of his philosophy, developed an ethical system that rests on the foundation of the Categorical Imperative, a principle (or idea), that in nuce only excludes acts as inproper/injust. His ethics is adressed as follows: 

tl;dr: Kant clearly states that we cannot! Evidence in the Critique of Judgement The Critique of Judgement, as his last systematic critical book, clearly destinguishes between intuitive understanding, that will be able to conceive noumena, and understandings like ours: Kant used the intuitive understanding as a limiting concept [Grenzbegriff] to understandings like ours and always disjunctive to it, like the holy will vs. a finite (albeit, in abstraction, pure) will like ours in his practical philosophy. From the Critique of Judgement, §77, paragraph no. 8 (Ak. 407.13-408.23, quoting the paragraph as a whole, bolded by me): 

There are several takes of this throughout the history of philosophy. One of the earliest examples I can think of is the philosophy of Dilthey/Misch, where the Kantian idea of transcendental [German transzendentale and transcendental also in non-adverbial form, i.e. necessary conditions of the possibility of experience, not the same as transzendente and transcendent in non-adverbial form, i.e. beyond all possible experience] logic is relativized historically, i.e. the factual and embodied knowledge of various times is understood as founded on factual and logical/conceptual conditions of that time. Both can change, which is exactly what makes history possible and actual reality. A related concept evolving around that time and being coined shortly thereafter out of that idea is the hermeneutical circle. The most famous example is by Michel Foucault, the historical a priori or episteme, as laid out in The Archeology of Knowledge and The Order of Things respectively. It expresses a similar thought to the one of Dilthey/Misch. What both takes have in common is that epistemologically, they analyse the factual and conceptual historical conditions and show how certain insights have been dependent on them and both necessary for the time and necessarily true only as embedded into that particular historical context. Coming to the paradox: As I see it, it confuses two aspects that above-mentioned authors are careful to distinguish - historical process [meta-layer and abstract fact] and historical setting [factual situation at a time]. An improvement of the understanding of history does not exactly change the pace or nature of the historical process. A change of the historical setting does, i.e. coming to know more or other "facts" in general. Knowing more about history is but a small aspect of it. In other words: It is new knowledge that's never been there (or been completely lost) that outdates knowledge, no matter whether historical or not. But historicity of knowledge is a fact that is only epistemologically accessible in hindsight. It is only what already has happened that we can know, i.e. epistemologically accessible. These are the huge insights of Dilthey, Misch, and Foucault [well, and others]. Therefore, saying something about the current state of the process of history at large is indeed paradoxical as it is impossible by the very nature of historicity. All we can say is that everything that is and ever has been (and ever will be) is only real insofar as it is historical. 

Movement is to be understood as causation as such, moving the substance in different ways causing a change of accidents falling under the categories. At least this is my best shot of what is left of Aristotle in my mind. Therefore God as the unmoved mover must be thought as the beginning of every single causal chain of events, bringing the substance of things into motion: 

I think it is quite clear from the text that Russel refers to the Scholastic tradition where Christians were pretty well defined and there had been no pluralism whatsoever blurring the definition. There has been the catholic church and some specific orders within it. That's about it. So nowadays, the definition has to be more vague in order to be applyable to all varieties that are thought under the concept of "Christianity". Think about all the sects, religious communities, churches etc. that are considered "Christian", not to mention evangelists and the variety under that name alone. One example illustrating this is Eucharist (quotes from Wikipedia): 

This is an important distinction if we are speaking about objectivity of morals: If I have an incentive to perform an action, there is no reason to think that every rational being would necessarily share it. That's why we need a formal principle that can nevertheless serve as a motivating ground. Step 4: If the end of an action is to achieve a certain, determined effect, it is only relative to that effect and the subjective interest in it, i.e. a subjective end in need of an incentive. 

Taking the Critique of Judgement, there is a neat table at the end of the introduction (Ak. 5:198). The faculty of judgement is one faculty of knowledge there, as different from reason and mind [Verstand]. In this sense, it is not rational, but purposive (its principle a priori), as rationality is often bound to laws and ends which are ascribed to mind and reason. Another point is that in the first column it is stated that the mind is the faculty of knowledge for all faculties of knowledge. So every knowledge about/from judgement has to be rational. But this is not going very deep, because the interference of mind, judgement and reason is hard to understand. This in some sense has to be seen in the light of the humean analysis, taking the deep difference between reflective and determining judgements: Reflective judgement has to follow the maxim of purposiveness as it can only be purely inductive and in this sense is not rational (like causation is not rational in a strict sense). But determining judgement subsumes concretes under concepts by the very rules/laws of that concept (instated by reflective judgement) and is in a full sense rational. "[So] the judgement of taste", as stated in § 1, "is not a judgement of knowledge, therefore not logical, but aestetic" (own translation). Given that distinction it is quite clear that aesthetic judgements are not rational in a kantian sense, but purposive.