To the best of my knowledge, there are no surviving records outside the Bible that can be linked to the time of Solomon. There are surviving mentions from the records of other nations to King David, and to some of the kings who reigned after Solomon, but not to Solomon. (Not shocking in itself -- lots of people in ancient times are known to us from only one or two sources.) It's instructive but not definitive to examine the Mosaic Law. I was surprised when I checked on this to find that the Mosaic law does not have any clear prohibition of prostitution. Deuteronomy 23:17 bans cult prostitutes, but not prostitutes in general. Deuteronomy 22:21 says that if a man marries and discovers that his bride was not a virgin, she can be executed. But if a prostitute never tries to marry ... there's no clear law against it. It was certainly condemned as horribly immoral. It makes me wonder if it was like pornography or alcohol abuse in the U.S. today: widely condemned, but not illegal. I say it's not definitive because just because something was written in the law 430 years before doesn't prove the law was still enforced or even thought about. Or new laws may have been written. So I think the answer is: no one knows. I'm happy to hear if anyone has information I'm not familiar with. 

In the movie U-571 (IMDB) there's a scene where two U-boats fire torpedoes at each other, at close range, while both submerged. I always imagined U-boats would fight one another while on the surface, with their deck guns. Use of torpedoes underwater adds the problem of the third dimension, thus hitting an underwater target would be very improbable and a waste of ammunition. I am sure modern submarines have no problem firing at each other in 3D space, but I'm not convinced that the scenario I describe has never happened with their WW2 predecessors, however unlikely. Are there any references to this tactic? 

Related: It's worth noting the little (apparently) known fact that the Chinese and Vietnamese held Vietnam Warr part 3* between themselves after the end of part 2 with substantial losses on both sides. (*Part 1 - with France, part 2 with USA). Significant disgreements exist to the present and various "incidents" involving deaths on both sides (mainly offshore) occurred over decades. There is an interesting website here (Googlabet translate does and OK job for those who do not speak French. The Paracel Islands, a continuing conflict I became more aware of the issues involved after being asked for permission to use one of my photos of the Paracelles* by a Quebec university. At the time I imagined it was tourist or marine related and only recently discovered the actual use. (Mine is the pretty blue photo and maybe also the rice terraces)(maybe not the latter. From that site: - translated from French by Googlabet. 

At least some ancient Greeks accepted homosexuality. Thebes and Sparta are both reported to have military units made up of homosexual couples, the reasoning basically being that this would inspire them to fight harder to protect their lovers. Some sources say that Sparta considered homosexuality superior to heterosexuality because they believed women were inferior to men and thus not worthy of true love -- a woman was only good for reproduction. For the most part Greek homosexuality appears to have been pedophilia, at least, they routinely talked about the older man as the "lover" and the younger as the "beloved", though I don't know what the upper limit on the age of the beloved was. Plato quotes Socrates as saying that when he was a boy he was proud of his abilities to seduce older men. Homosexuality was certainly known and practiced by the Romans, but it was widely condemned. Or at least, the surviving history books were written by people who condemned it. But for example, according to Plutarch, when Julius Caesar was a young man, he was appointed ambassador to Illyria, and had a homosexual affair with the king of Illyria. But Plutarch says this brought widespread criticism, opponents taunting him as the "Queen of Illyria" and the like. According to the Bible, Sodom and Gomorroh accepted homosexuality. I don't know of any other ancient cultures who accepted it. Of course that doesn't prove there were no others: I don't claim to know all about every culture that ever existed. 

The Royal Library of Alexandria is estimated to have had over half a million documents and house about 100 scholars, according to this article. This would suggest a fairly decentralized archiving system, perhaps with every section having its own system of record keeping. According to the relevant Wikipedia entry, the library also engaged in textual criticism, which implies further detailed record-keeping. Apart from that I couldn't find any other insights into how the collection was organized. What do we know about the indexing system used by the Library? To clarify: the title refers to the organization of the manuscripts, not the structural organization of the Library itself. 

*Photo taken on a flight from Hong Kong to Singapore - flight path reached almost to Vietnam about half way down "North" Vietnam then followed coast down. We flew across the Paracelles en route. Larger version click image twice to enlarge further 

No! The US saw involvement with the Chinese war effort as very much part of their overall war effort. Ref (2) below is a US Army military history brochure which portrays the Chinese activities as a US campaign. (Probably even more than it was). By keeping China in the war, in the order of 1 million Japanese troops were kept occupied and were thus not available for use elsewhere. This was probably around 20% of total Japanese military manpower. 

Personally, I always hate it when a TV or movie producer takes some famous book and makes major changes to it, like adding a totally new character. Like hey, if you didn't like the story, write your own. Don't put your words in someone else's mouth just so you can piggyback on his popularity. Thee was certainly no such character in the original Robin Hood story. Whether this really is or will become a "staple of the mythology", we'll see I guess. But that little rant aside ... To make a Muslim character living in England plausible, you don't have to suppose any large community of Muslims establishing a permanent residency in England. You just have to posit that ONE person could have made it there. And that seems pretty obviously possible. Others have noted that Muslims did visit England and trade with England in this period. You just have to suppose that among the hundreds? thousands? of Muslims who visited, one decide to hang around and join this particular group. 

Supplies sent by Burma Road in 1 year - May 1941 - April 1942. 110,864 tons (so precise :-)) or about 300 tons per day. About 60% of what was achieved by air per day subsequently. Major impediments, in addition to the road itself, were Burmese customes procedures (somewhat surprisingly), and a very steep in-Burma railway section that required the use of "mountain railway" engines and small load sizes. A section of the Burma Road [!!!!] A degree of dedication by the Allies in maintaining supplies is indicated. Wikipedia - Burma Road 

I'm sure not what you're looking for, but as a technicality: The property of an embassy is normally considered the sovereign territory of the country staffing the embassy, and not of the host country. So any time a new embassy opens, the host country is donating some land to the foreign country. North Korea opened an embassy in Belarus on Sept 18, 2016, so that's probably the most recent such case. Update Okay, this looks like a word game. Of course, diplomacy is often all about word games. Under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations ($URL$ Article 22, "The premises of the mission shall be inviolable. The agents of the receiving State may not enter them, except with the consent of the head of the mission. ... 3.The premises of the mission, their furnishings and other property thereon and the means of transport of the mission shall be immune from search, requisition, attachment or execution." And Article 23, "The sending State and the head of the mission shall be exempt from all national, regional or municipal dues and taxes in respect of the premises of the mission ..." The Vienna Convention does not use the words "soveriegn territory" or any similar phrase, either to say embassy premises are the territory of the host or the sender. The US state department web site says, "While diplomatic spaces remain the territory of the host state, an embassy or consulate represents a sovereign state. International rules do not allow representatives of the host country to enter an embassy without permission --even to put out a fire -- and designate an attack on an embassy as an attack on the country it represents." ($URL$ So ... the embassy property is the territory of the host country, but they cannot enforce their laws there nor collect taxes there, and an attack on embassy property is considered an attack on the sending country. And by the way, embassy grounds are normally patrolled by soldiers or other armed personnel of the sending country. It sounds to me like a very fine hair to split, to say that the sending country sets and enforces the laws, has sole right to impose taxes, and maintains troops on this piece of land ... but it's not their land: the land belongs to another country that does NOT set or enforce any laws, impose any taxes, and is not allowed to send troops in. In a brief web search I found plenty of sources saying an embassy is the territory of the host and plenty saying it's the territory of the sending nation. e.g. host: $URL$ sender: $URL$ some of each: $URL$ 

The following is an anecdotal account from my mother which I recall from memory: She was in the changing room of a clothing store (in Athens, during the 80's or 90's) and overheard the attendant, who had in the past conspired in abducting young women to supply a harem, and who was relaying the story to a friend of hers. The incident was made memorable to her because of the method that they used: They would put an ad in the paper looking for an actress or dancer (or similar), and during the interview they would tell her that it's a very small role, won't take too long, no need to tell your family or friends. That's pretty much what she overheard, and told me that a similar offer had been made to her while she was looking for work some time prior to that. She also remarked that this method had pretty much died out nowadays (late 90's at the time) due to the collapse of the Soviet Union, and the supply of eager (though potentially unwilling) emigrants from these countries. I'll ask for more details when we next speak and update this answer accordingly. Again, this is an anecdotal account that I relay from memory, so take it with a generous pinch of salt.