This Jewish source characterizes Muslim rule in Spain during the Middle Ages as being "kind" by contemporary standards, but not by modern standards. Jews and Christians in Spain lived in a "second class citizenship," denied certain prvileges, but also free of "ghettoes," forced conversions, and outright persecution. Their fate in Moslem Spain was much better than under the Reconquista and Inquisition of the "Catholic" Ferdinand and Isabella. In fact, after the Jews were expelled from Spain in 1492, many of them fled to North Africa. The above was fairly "typical" of the millennium between 700 and 1700, although there were exceptions at various times and places. On the whole, however, it is reflective of how Jews "voted with their feet" during this period. 

The "European" version of the Triangular Trade had European countries ship manufactured goods to Africa, in exchange for slaves, which they sold to Caribbean planters in exchange for sugar or molasses to make rum destined for Europe. (The American version substitutes New England for Europe.) Western Europe had very few Jews at this time (16th to 19th century). Thus, they were not heavily represented, if at all, and the trade was carried on by Europeans (British, French, and others). 

The first stage of the Stalingrad campaign (pre-encirclement), lasted from mid-September to late middle November, or just over three months. The implications would have been very different if the Russians had lost the west bank on say, September 15th, October 15th, or November 15th. If the Germans had captured the west bank of the city by about November 15th, the result would hardly have been different. The encirclement attack would have proceeded, and captured the German Sixth Army. If the Germans had captured the west bank by October 15th, the encirclement attack might not have succeeded. That is, the Germans would have had a chance to rest, fortify Stalingrad in safety, and reorganize their troops, particularly their mobile divisions, to face the west and guard their flanks with the Volga at their "backs." In the actual battle, some of the heaviest, and probably the most critical casualties, took place just after the "final offensive" beginning October 14th. If the Germans had captured Stalingrad by September 15th (which they would have if the Soviets hadn't rushed reinforcements into the city), this victory might by itself forestalled the encirclement campaign. In any event, the Germans might have even enjoyed follow up successes, such as moving down the Volga, capturing Astrakhan, and cutting off oil supplies from the Caucasus. My best source on the course of the battle is Chuikov's "The Battle For Stalingrad." The interpretations are mine, not his. 

Until now, British law has given priority to male over female heirs of kings. But where there were no male heirs, a girl got the nod. For instance, King Henry VIII had three (surviving, legitimate) children; Edward (the youngest), Mary, and Elizabeth. Edward, the boy, was crowned king ahead of his two older sisters. He died in adolescence (without children), so his older sister Mary was crowned Queen Regnant (a female king), and when she died childless in middle age, the middle child was crowned as Queen Elizabeth I. Centuries later, King George VI had "only" two daughters, Elizabeth, and Margaret, so the former was crowned Elizabeth II. But if Margaret had been a boy named Mark, then "Mark" would have been crowned king over Elizabeth. Going forward, Kate Middleton's first child was a boy, but even if it had been a girl, under the newest laws, the girl would (assuming she lived long enough) have been crowned Queen (Regnant), even ahead of any younger brothers she might have had. 

The "main" Colorado River starts in Colorado, goes southwest in that state and Utah, and heads west then south through Arizona before forming the California-Arizona border, and empties in the Gulf of California. I would just call it the Colorado River. The river you are talking about was named "Colorado" because it is "colored," but starts and ends in Texas, and I would call it the Texas Colorado River. "Colored" in this context means the color of the soil, typically red or brown, and not non-soil colors such blue, purple, or green. 

This was Joseph II, the son of Empress Maria Theresa. The mother was considered an "enlightened" monarch for her time, and the son was a well-meaning reformer, who proved that "the road to hell is paved with good intentions." He ruled in the second half of the 18th century, jointly with his mother in the earlier years. For instance, he set the serfs free, and then insisted that they pay their bills with "money," except that there was too little money available in the kingdom for them to actually do so. (Everyone had been functioning on a "barter economy.") Laws like that made people want to go back to being serfs. More to the point, the lack of money in the kingdom prevented him from properly compensating the nobles for their services and losses, which earned him his "deadbeat" reputation. 

I would recommend reading the novel "City Boy," by Herman Wouk. It was set in 1928, just before the 1929 crisis, and gave a description of middle class life going into (but not after) the 1929 crisis. For an account of life during the 1930s itself, the "classic" is John Steinbeck's "Grapes of Wrath," about how formerly middle class people fell into poverty. 

It had to do with the way that "Britain" was settled by the Anglo-Saxons. The general idea was that they "swamped" the locals, but there are at least two variations on the theme. Variation one is that the locals had been weakened by natural disasters and internecine fighting, perhaps occasioned by the weakening Roman influence in the fifth century CE. When the Angles and Saxons arrived from across the North Sea, they pretty much "wiped" out most of the remaining locals (except in remote areas like modern Scotland and Wales) without ever absorbing a meaningful part of their "Latin" culture. Variation two is the that the invaders thoroughly subjugated the locals without "wiping them out." But they imposed a cultural imperialism, kind of like what the (German) Teutonic knights did to the Baltic Prussians.Anglo-Saxons so dominated the locals that the survivors were "absorbed" into dominant group without having a meaningful influence on them in their turn. What did not happen was that invaders co-existed with the locals on more or less equal terms and "shared" their cultures as happened with e.g. Germans and Latinized Gauls in modern France. 

In a series of speeches on June 18, 19, and 22, 1940, broadcast by the BBC, the escaped General Charles deGaulle called on "the French servicemen of the land, sea, and air forces" to leave France and join him in London to continue the fight. His rationale was that "this was not a Franco-German war...this is a world war," of which France had merely lost the first round. He cited the (overseas) French Empire, Britain and its Empire, and "the gigantic industrial potential of the United States" as reasons to continue the fight. He also noted that the governments of Poland, Norway and the Benelux countries (together with parts of their navies and merchant marines) were now in British service against the Germans. Hence, it was logical that at least some French seamen (of the military arm that had the best potential for escape), would try to do so. Having done so, the choice of some might not be to fight alongside deGaulle, but rather to align themselves with "the gigantic industrial potential of the United States," in case the "Free" French were defeated a second time. Also, many Frenchmen preferred working with the Americans to working with the British after the July, 1940 British attack on the French navy at Mers el Kebir, as a commenter pointed out. In that case, the American navy had a full complement of personnel in 1940, but the merchant marine was "ramping up" in response to the war, making that the more logical place for a French seaman.