You might argue : An evil - bad state of affairs - has occurred (caused by my accident). If I stay and am punished, this will only add another evil - another bad state of affairs - to the world (assuming you regard punishment as an evil). Two evils are worse than one, so zoom off as fast as you safely can. I expect disagreement but exactly what is wrong with the '2 evils versus 1' argument ? 

You use an example from advertising but also refer to Wittgenstein, which suggests you are interested in a philosophical dimension. That dimension is what I'll address. Luis Henrique is right : it is not our (knowingly) misusing language that causes philosophical puzzles and false ideas. Rather, 'language itself misleads us'. Wittgenstein is very clear on this : 'Philosophy is a battle against the bewitchment of our intelligence by means of language', 'Philosophical Invesigations', 1953, I, §109. Plato in the 'Phaedrus' mocks the written word as, separated from the living mind, incapable of reproducing thought clearly and with certainty (274c). Plato aside, at least since the time of Aristotle, philosophers have been aware of and have tried to guard against the specious and deceptive use of words. In 'Sophistical Refutations' (De Sophisticis Elenchis) Aristotle identifies six kinds of skids of language that produce false arguments or slippery claims. More recently - 'recently' at least in terms of the history of philosophy' - Francis Bacon (1561-1626) identified certain, actually four, idols of the mind (idola intellectus) among which which were the idols of the marketplace ('idola fori'). These derived from the deceptive use of language. Confused and ill-defined terms, for example, generate endless empty controversies. Hobbes in 'Leviathan' (1651) hankered for 'perspicuous words' to keep us firmly away from the 'absurdity' of our speech ('Leviathan, ch. 5). Later Locke had two chapters in the 'Essay concerning Human Understanding' (1690) which focus on the unreliability of language : III.9 'Of the imperfection of words' and III.10 'Of the abuse of words'. Mention should also be made of Leibniz's (1646-1716) project or dream of a 'characteristica universalis' or universal language : a flawless system of deductive theories formalising our knowledge of the world and framed in terms a perfect language - of which we were sorely in need. (A language in which it would be impossible to go wrong.) In another jump across the centuries we can cite the work of Jacques Derrida (1930-2004). Derrida notably holds that we can never in spoken or written language have any present stable or decidable meaning. (A claim that applies to itself ?) Note, however, that this is not a claim that language is misused, only that it has inherent limitations insufficiently recognised in the past. Many other examples could be cited but you probably have a sense now of how much and for how long the pitfalls of language have vexed philosophers. 

CONNECTING THE TWO The promotion of social justice, which is a hallmark of liberation theology, takes account in black liberation theology of the social injustices experienced specifically by blacks in the ways Linda E. Thomas spells out. FURTHER REFERENCES Liberation Theology: A Documentary History. Ed. Alfred T. Hennelly. Maryknoll, N.Y.: Orbis. Pp. xxvi + 547. Liberation Theology and Its Critics: Toward an Assessment. Arthur F. McGovern. Maryknoll, N.Y.: Orbis. Pp. xxii + 281. Rufus Burrow, James H. Cone and Black Liberation Theology, Jefferson, N.C.: McFarland & Co., 1994. Pp. xxi + 281. 

The nihilistic argument here relies on the fragility and contingency of happiness. One may or may not be born into conditions conducive to happiness; and if one achieves happiness it may be removed at any time by chance or at any rate unpredictable events. My inclination is to suggest that the hazardly nature of happiness is not enough to vindicate nihilism. Nihilism involves views such as that life is absurd, meaningless, a waste of time in face of death and the like. But it does not follow, because happiness is fragile and contingent, that therefore life is any of these pointless things. There is more to a valuable life than happiness. What more, then ? Dignity : the capacity of persons as autonomous agents to choose their ends. This can survive, not indeed every misfortune but a much broader variety of circumstances than happiness. The nihilist might try to rebut the meaningfulness of a life informed by dignity - 'it's pointless like everything else' - but only by a kind of practical self-contradiction. For the nihilist is exercising his or her capacity for autonomous agency throughout. He or she has decided to remain alive in face of the meaninglessness of life : suicide is an option, it has by the nihilist's autonomous decision not been taken. The nihilist, or at least the kind of vocal nihilist we are dealing with here, has also taken the autonomous decision to voice his or her sense of the meaningless of life. All this amounts to a practical valuing of autonomy. If life is pointless and not worth bothering about, why preserve and exercise your capacity for autonomous decision to tell people that life is pointless and not worth bothering about ? 

▻ IDEALISM 'Idealism' is a term of wide latitude. I take it provisionally as the view that all that exist are (a) ideas in (b) a subject's mind. Generally a plurality of minds is assumed. If any philosophy matches this description it is Berkeley's Idealism. ▻ BERKELEY'S IDEALISM AS A TEST CASE Then consider Berkelian Idealism. For Berkeley all that exist are minds and their ideas. Minds are entities, just not material entities - they are immaterial substances. They exist but are purely thinking or perceiving things. What they think or perceive are ideas. There is not just a single, conscious, immaterial substance : there is a plurality of such substances, namely all the separate immaterial minds. Immaterial substances do not co-exist with material substances. For Berkeley there is no such thing as material substance. What we regard as material or physical entities or objects are nothing but collections of ideas. It's weird, probably wrong, but it's what Berkeley believed and what he argued for with considerable ingenuity. ▻ MINDS AND IDEAS : HOW RELATED ? Berkeley is clear that minds and ideas are distinct. Neither is reducible to the other. Minds perceive ideas; ideas are perceived. Take Principles, §2 : 

So the reason-based explanation is a causal explanation REFERENCES A. I. Melden, 'Free Action' (London, 1961), p. 184. R. S. Peters, The Concept of Motivation (London, 1958), p. 12. W. D. Gean, 'Reasons and Causes', The Review of Metaphysics, Vol. 19, No. 4 (Jun., 1966), pp. 667-688. D. Davidson, 'Actions, Reasons, and Causes', Journal of Philosophy, 60 (1963), pp. 685-700. Reprinted in 'Essays on Actions and Events', Oxford: Clarendon Press, 2nd edn, 2001. Fred Dretske, 'Reasons and Causes', Philosophical Perspectives, Vol. 3, Philosophy of Mind and Action Theory (1989), pp. 1-15. Published by: Ridgeview Publishing Company. E. Anscombe, 'Intention' (Oxford, 1957) 

Meritocracy is linked to the idea of distributive justice, specifically as far as concerns the allocation of jobs. It involves at least three ideas : 1 Jobs are allocated on the basis of merit. 2 The allocation operates in a context of equality of opportunity (otherwise we both might be of equal merit but I get the job because I know the boss). 3 Rewards are specified on the basis of merit. One might have two worries or cautions about this. To begin, if meritocracy is about justice, it says nothing about freedom. More than that, it says nothing about how one job merits more pay than another (if it does) or in what proportion. The problem is magnified when we compare different kinds of job. In other words, and for example, the principle of meritocracy has no objective metric by which to decide whether person A in job X should earn the same as person B in job Y. Or if they merit different earnings, what the proportionate difference between their earnings should be. Does A merit 50% more than B, or 10% more, or 1000% more or 15% less. Any answers are likely to be arbitrary rather than objectively meritocratic. 

Nozick's objection to Rawls' 'difference principle' is that it is a patterned principle. This means that it considers, without regard to how actual distributions of property or entitlements ('goods' for short) have come about, that there is a proper or just pattern of distribution. That is, a pattern in which 'Social and economic inequalities are to be arranged so that they are ... to the greatest benefit of the least advantaged'. This is clean contrary to Nozick's idea of how just distributions come about. For Nozick property holdings or entitlements are just depending purely on how they have been initially acquired and how they have been subsequently transferred. (This is why he calls his theory a historical entitlement theory of just distribution : how a distribution of goods has come about is decisive.) There are conditions for just acquisition and conditions for just transfer; as long as these conditions are met, whatever distribution of goods results is just. It is fairly evident that there is no guarantee or even likelihood that a specific preferred pattern of distribution of goods - one that satisfies the difference principle - will result from the the processes of just acquisition and just transfer that Nozick specifies. It might do - but I might win the lottery. There can be certainty or even probability. To complete the story we should note Nozick's slogan, 'liberty upsets patterns'. To create a distribution that fulfils the difference principle, there will need to be redistribution. This will be unjust since it removes from those with just holdings of goods (by Nozick's criteria) what is justly theirs. More than that, once the redistribution has taken place, the pattern of distribution dictated by the difference principle can be preserved only by limiting or removing people's ability justly to acquire and to transfer and so upset the pattern. That is, by curtailing their liberty. REFERENCES Robert Nozick (Contemporary Philosophy in Focus) ISBN 10: 0521006716 / ISBN 13: 9780521006712 Published by Cambridge University Press, 2010. Santosh Bakaya, The Political Theory of Robert Nozick, ISBN 10: 8178354810 / ISBN 13: 9788178354811 Published by Gyan Books, India, 2006. A.R. Lacey, Robert Nozick, ISBN 10: 0691090440 ISBN 13: 9780691090443 Published by Princeton University Press (2001). Simon A. Hailwood, Exploring Nozick: Beyond Anarchy, State and Utopia (Avebury Series in Philosophy). ISBN 10: 185972485X / ISBN 13: 9781859724859. Published by Averbury, 1996. Jonathan Wolff, Robert Nozick: Property, Justice, and the Minimal State, ISBN-13: 978-0804718561 ISBN-10: 0804718563 Published by Cambridge : Polity Press, 1991* *Copies may be hard to find but this is an exceptionally lucid introduction to Nozick. Pulin B. Nayak, 'Nozick's Entitlement Theory and Distributive Justice', Economic and Political Weekly, Vol. 24, No. 4 (Jan. 28, 1989), pp. PE2-PE5+PE7-PE8. Neil Cooper, 'Justice and Historical Entitlement', Canadian Journal of Philosophy, Vol. 7, No. 4 (Dec., 1977), pp. 799-803 Thomas Scanlon, 'Nozick on Rights, Liberty, and Property', Philosophy & Public Affairs, Vol. 6, No. 1 (Autumn, 1976), pp. 3-25.