Decades ago, there was a proposal that there should be no-rescue zones for backpackers, in which backpackers would be entirely on their own, and rescue by government agencies would not be permitted. (Private rescue operations would be permitted.) See, for example, this 1984 article in Backpacker You're Losing Your Right to be Alone. As I recall, the principal objection was, to put it crudely and sexistly, no agency could resist the pleas of a tearful mother whose son was lost and possibly seriously injured. Public outcry would force government SAR. Did this proposal just fade away? Or was it never really taken seriously? 

I remember reading in a reputable journal that Felis chaus may have contributed to Felis catus, but I cannot track down a reference now. 

There are too many factors to consider to give anything like a precise answer. I suggest a conservative rule of thumb for an average hiker, not a super athlete: if you can see or hear the waterfall and you cannot step or jump over the stream in one step or jump, you are too close. If the waterfall is tiny, and/or the stream is shallow and slow, and/or there are some flat rocks in the stream this rule is too conservative. Like everything else in TGO, the answer depends on judgement and the amount of risk a person is willing to take. 

This source, List of fatal cougar attacks in North America suggests that you are probably safest from a cougar while sleeping. Of the seven adults killed by cougars in North America from 1990 through mid-2008, five were jogging, hiking, biking or skiing. One was killed defending her six year old son on a horseback trip. The body of the seventh was found near his mobile home. During this period, two children were killed by cougars, and five children in the 1970s and 1980s. No adults were reported killed by cougars in the 1970s and 1980s. The source also lists fatal cougar attacks from the beginning of the 20th century, but a list from these early years may not be complete. Living with Wildlife: Cougars by the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife has this to say about camping in cougar country (emphasis added): 

It seems from your question that you have observed that other crows are interested in this baby. Try this procedure, but watch what happens. If the crows adopt him, problem solved. If they reject him, you have a pet crow. You are part of nature, and I think it is admirable you are taking an interest in someone who might have died on your doorstep. 

I'm not going to repeat any of the good advice given in earlier answers. However, creams, lotions and salves will not work if you have a massive case of poison ivy. Then there is nothing to do but go to your doctor or to a walk-in clinic and get a prednisone shot and/or tablets. I had a horrible case of poison ivy many years ago -- hands, arms, legs, face, and, I don't know how, around my waist -- unendurable. I got a shot of prednisone plus a course of prednisone tablets. Within 24 hours, the eruptions and itching were totally gone. Ever since then, I have been a fanatic about watching out for poison ivy and washing my hands thoroughly with Lava Hand Soap very soon after I even suspect I have touched it while gardening. This has worked. Prednisone is a powerful drug, and not one you want to ask for casually or use frequently, but when your body is covered with poison ivy, Over-the-Counter remedies are useless and you need prednisone or a similar steroid prescribed by a doctor. 

The owl was also protected, but the city got permission to hire a falconer to trap it, and a permanent home was found for it. The article does not say how effective the umbrellas were. It does note that the European eagle owl weighs up to 3 kg and has a wing span of up to 1.8 meters. So if umbrellas worked on the owl, they probably will work on your crows. 

If you really mean that, then you can't not try skiing. There are many trails in Colorado where it is no easier to go uphill on snowshoes than to go uphill on skis, given even modest technique on skis -- but with even the smallest downward gradient, it's no contest, skis win! Simple physics. Ditto for travelling in the back-country. I agree with njzk2: "Snowshoeing is ridiculously easy [to learn], inexpensive and will take you everywhere." I'd add: it's much easier to sprain or break something on skis than it is on snowshoes. If you want to travel alone in the backcountry or on unfrequented trails, snowshoes are a better choice. But...to live in Colorado and not try skiing? Unthinkable! You might want to consider telemark skiing. Telemark skis have a binding which leaves the heel free. For an unabashedly pro view, see here Also see Wikipedia. But telemark vs alpine skis vs plain old X-country skis should be the subject of another question, if you opt for skiing. 

A recent power failure made firewood one of the four most important things in our lives for nearly three days. We had enough in our pile of cut up fallen branches and small logs to keep our cat warm and happy, and ourselves not too unhappy. We've never split logs (and certainly never bought split logs at the supermarket), but I've often wondered just how difficult it would be to learn how to split logs. Assume you, an expert log-splitter, have an utter neophyte in front of you, in reasonable, but far from spectacular, condition. What are the steps you would take to safely turn her into an adept log-splitter? And, very roughly, how long would it take -- i.e., one half hour session; ten half-hour sessions; more than ten? What would be the youngest student you would train? 

I have often checked into the Ahwahnee in Yosemite Valley after emerging, filthy and undernourished, from the backcounty. A hot shower in one of the cottages, an Ahwahnee Burger, a glass (or three) of wine and boysenberry pie a la mode delivered to the cottage patio -- bliss! Imagine my shock when I heard that the Ahwahnee had been renamed The Majestic because the former concessionaire had trademarked its name, and that of Curry Village and several other historic places. The San Francisco Chronicle said on March 11, 2016: 

I agree with what @Tullochgorum said, and will not repeat his points, but let's examine your strategy of eating half your food and then turning back. This is a zeroth order approximation to how to end your trip at the same time as you finish your food. As @Loren Pechtel said, you may run into bad weather on your way back. But you are young, fit, strong and intelligent. You can afford to be tent-bound for a few days, eating very little and burning few calories. You will then do what explorers in similar situations have always done: Cut your rations, try not to think about food, bull through and arrive at the end thin and hungry. You can fine-tune your strategy by taking into account the altitude profile of your hike. At one extreme, the trip out has all of the ascent and the trip back is pure descent. Since descent is usually twice as fast as ascent, this means you would turn around when you had eaten 2/3 of your food. In the other extreme (going into the Grand Canyon, for example), you'd turn around when you had eaten 1/3 of your food. Taking the profile of your hike into account gives you your first order approximation. Now for the second order approximation: Your pack will be lighter on the return, so you can make better time. You will be fitter on the way back, so you can make better time -- or you will have gotten exhausted or sprained something so you will make worse time; you have to deal with this variable statistically, based on what you know about how you perform on long hikes and how accident prone you are. Finally, you can deliberately plan to lose weight on this trip. You should be OK planning to lose 5 pounds, but your safety margin for bad weather is less. You might want to gain weight before the trip, but if so you have to embark on a weight-gain plus improved fitness regimen, as Jon Krakauer did before his successful Everest attempt, reported in Into Thin Air. This may be overkill for the trip you are planning. 

As to why the domestic cat (which includes feral cats) "play" with their prey, Metaphorical Platypus says: 

We have experience with ice accumulating on our tent, but we just bang it off manually. We've never had to deal with a tent encased in strong ice. Usually we'll reposition the pegs and ties because the tent has slumped from the moisture and then ice, but we just manually knock any of that ice off too. We haven't had to deal with more than a day or two of below freezing temperatures, so your conditions may be more extreme than ours. Our main experience has been with snow, which is easy to knock off even from the inside -- but that is not pertinent to your question. We have not noticed any degradation in our tent because it was subjected to frozen precipitation and below freezing temperatures for a couple of days. We have a three season tent. If you have a four season tent, resistence to very cold conditions should be part of the design. In my opinion -- it is just an opinion -- the UV of strong high altitude sun and leaving the tent tightly packed in its stuff sack for long periods between trips shorten the life of a tent more than cold. In summary, my advice is to manually bang off as much ice as you can, then swab the tent off with a towel or sweatshirt, then pack the tent loosely, if this is practical, and spread it out at the first opportunity. If you have to stuff the tent tightly in its stuff sack while it is still icy cold....well, that is a problem for which I do not have an answer. Except...carrying it even slightly loose will help. 

The first rescue team had to parachute from only 700 feet into a driving wind to reach the survivors, because the overland team faced so many difficulties from the terrain. The article has much more detail, and possibly rescue techniques have improved in 25 years, but remember this was a fully equipped military aircraft that crashed only 12 miles from its destination. Limitations of this answer: (1) it is one anecdote (2) the crash happened in November. The ending would probably have been happier for a June or July crash. (3) But not necessarily happier, if the crash was into the increasingly summer-ice-free sea (4) Although not explicitly stated, the passengers were likely young and fit and accustomed to discipline, not the profile of commercial passengers (5) Where were the polar bears? (Bottom line: Pack fleece and power bars in your carryon.) 

I am not a robin or even a bird expert; this answer is solely from googling "Do robins mate for life?" From Journey North American Robin -- Annenberg Media $URL$ "No, robins do not mate for life. Pairs usually remain together during an entire breeding season, which can involve two or three nestings. However, in spring, sometimes a male and female who mated the previous year will both return to the same territory and end up together for another year. This happens most frequently when they were successful raising babies the previous year." From the same source: "....as the last brood fledges and becomes independent, the male and female feel less attached to the territory. They grow restless to travel and associate with other robins." From this and another source which I can now not bring up, I infer that you may have seen them late in their third brood, or they may both be briefly hanging around their seasonal territory until it is time to migrate again. (If you had just raised three broods, you too would need a short rest before flying several thousand miles.) See also The Cornell Lab of Ornithology, All About Birds, The American Robin $URL$ This source says that many American Robins "spend the whole winter in their breeding range. But because they spend more time roosting in trees and less time in your yard, you're much less likely to see them." It does not say whether the male and female stay together.