Since they retain any human motivation they had when they were living, and can lie, I would think their use in law enforcement would be extremely limited. The police might use them to aid in an investigation, like questioning a witness. But they'd be less useful than a witness because a witness can be called into court and threatened with perjury, or complicency in a crime if they don't cooperate or tell the truth. A dead person is not susceptible to such threats, so has much less motivation to "snitch" on a fellow cohort, and more motivation to frame an unliked ex-spouse. 

The question of inbreeding could be addressed by using programs used by zoos for breeding of captive endangered animals. Those track and optimize pairings to maximize genetic variability when specimens are rare. That could be kind of a kooky reference for the story. 

Answer: No. First of all, the attacks may or may not actually be attacks. After all, natural disasters do occur all by themselves, and really makes for some pretty good plausible deniability. Secondly, I think you're ignoring the political motivation a group could have for taking credit for a natural disaster. Take terrorist groups for instance. They could claim they have the technology to cause, or have caused, an earthquake, and threaten governments at will. The government being threatened may know whether the claims are credible, but the general public may be more fearful, uneducated, or just generally conspiracy-minded. Weather control, especially if the technology is known to the general public, could be a very effective social, political, and military tool, even if it is never really used. 

I think the scope of your question is too large to be easily answered here except by essay. I recommend breaking it apart for specifics. That being said, your primary concern about the spaceo-political structure that would develop would likely be some combination of what you have listed. Take into account that all worlds/species will likely not be equally technologically advanced. That can have a profound influence on the structure that would arise in each system. Consider Earth, 19th century as an example. Most people were culturally isolated, and as such didn't have any exposure to lots of things we take for granted today. Lack of variety caused a lot of prejudice, misinformation, and unfair stereotypes of other races and cultures. There were adventurers and merchants, certainly, but most people were pretty xenophobic by nature. Goods from around the world provided ample opportunity for trade. Something common in one area would be rare and exotic in another. Think of the introduction of the banana at the 1876 World's Fair, or silk from China. I think commerce would be the driver of contact between worlds. More advanced cultures would certainly take advantage of less advanced cultures, and the desire of one world to assert dominance over another would depend on their prevailing world view. One culture may see themselves as superior, and their religion may demand they colonize and proselytize wherever they can. Another culture may be a kind of insectoid hive mind, and not want to have anything to do with other cultures. Again, commerce will be your driving factor behind the motivations of not just individual worlds, but individuals from each of the worlds. Treaties will be formed to create or secure commercial interests as waging wars across hard-to-travel interstellar boundaries will be too impractical. 

As naive I can be, I always assumed people started inventing flying machines in order to "be like the birds". In an earth-like world without any flying/gliding being (animal or plant), what could be the drive for people to glimpse the idea of flying? Assume this is about a "Leonardo da Vinci" inventor, who is planning to create a machine to "go into the sky". What kind of simple observations and thoughts would be sufficient to at least spark this idea? Provided that gravity teaches that "what flies goes back on earth in no time", is it enough? 

A lot of people believe that a chip cannot be tampered with from a distance. This is not true, especially if you are setting your story in a future where technology has evolved. Assuming your ID must be wirelessly communicated, I assume that the informations (whatever they are) stored in the RFID-like chip are encrypted. The problem with traditional cryptography, though, is that if you have the key(s), you have everything you need to decrypt your code... And the keys are too stored somewhere. Quantum cryptography is said to be impossible to hack due to the fact that a "bit" of information alters its state when it's read (from third parties). Problem is: it alters its state when it's read by a machine too... and if a machine is expecting a certain sequence to launch the missiles, it means that there's too a key involved... Assuming the worst case, terrorists have the key(s). A wireless transmission of a code is really a bad idea, since what the terrorists would do is simply set a smart-antenna to track the chip from a distance, and read its informations. What's indeed difficult is actually to get to the president physically. So why bother with a chip, when a retinal scan (some users already pointed out that this is impossible to hack - and why can't the scan work with sunglasses? They can be "smart" ones, or the scanner can be), voice recognition, fingerprint analysis, password and a titanium bullet with a code inside hidden in the body are all things that need a physical abduction? In short: I wouldn't rely on a (single) code stored on a (single) chip. Especially if transmission is considered. 

I can actually think of many ways for them to "enjoy" wars, but in the long term, since they are immortal, they'd learn that wars achieve nothing. Let me explain: if they know they are all immortal, they will probably focus on a guerrilla with ambushes and imprisonment rather than anything else. Maybe kidnapping and maybe sabotage (but hey, even if they are greedy, they can anyway live without crops, right?). So after a couple generations the war will reach a standstill, where factions simply don't go in some territories (fear of being taken by the other faction and spend the eternity inside a volcano?). Eventually their arrogance and ignorance (they are human-like, right?) will make some people think that they could instead reign, so I would focus more on "secret" civil wars, kidnappings and tortures rather than a proper war. 

Consider this. A talisman is not an object in the way that a pocketwatch is an object. The talisman is both an object and a "feel". A person can have a "feel" for making talismans, but this person would have no "feel" for anything else. The talisman-maker would not make talismans by enchanting any random object, the talisman-maker would instead, for instance, make a fire talisman by burning rowan wood and pouring the ashes into a hollow ring with a stone of obsidan. The mage in question would be able to make as many talismans as necessary, but would have to own the required ingredients for a spell, AND have a "feel" for talisman-making. Unlike spells, talismans would be reusable, and the magic would never decay. An interesting possibility for this would be to have an ancient, utopian civilization that existed for thousands of years before falling to conquering outsiders. During their reign, they made some of the most powerful talismans the world ever has or will see. If these include time or mind control talismans, they will be sought after by every person in your world. 

Ammo Homing Bullets. Flying insects with pistol shrimp-like claws that find a victim and fly upwards in a parabola. At the peak, they start gliding downwards slowly, and use the pistol shrimp hammer-claws to launch themselves forward and shoot into their target like a bullet, cutting their spinal cord. Melee Blunt bony hammer-like tools with claws on either side to destroy enemy craft. Stinging nettles the size of swords with deadly neurotoxins in the needles. Explosives Witch hazel-like plants that explode on contact, with the force of a megaton of TNT. 

The phoenix has fireproof epithelial tissue, and a microbiome made up entirely of archae evolved for surviving massive temperature fluctuations. The phoenix has a special organ where it ignites methane, which is a byproduct of digestion. When the phoenix is infected by a parasite or bacterial/viral infection, it bursts into flames, killing the infection. The phoenix also has an incredibly long natural lifespan, so it can survive for centuries if nothing kills it. 

The spriggan is a giant bioluminescent insect covered in barklike layers of chitin. The spriggan has branchlike appendages with "leaves" at the end, which are biologically similar to wings like those of a butterfly or moth. The spiggan's third pair of limbs are hinged behind their arms, and are covered in spikes to use as weapons. 

There was once an australopithecine called Paranthropus Robustus. It was slightly smaller than the reigning hominid at the time, and was driven extinct by habitat loss. Had it survived, and had evolutionary growth similar to hominids, the creature would be slightly smaller than modern humans. Seeing as Paranthropus was a herbivore, it wouldn't be able to obtain the large amount of brain fat necessary to compete with humans. Thusly, it would likely evolve a larger stature and become an expert at hiding from humans, who had vastly superior technology. These adaptations would have all taken place by the middle ages. Considering the areas where these beings live (according to mythology) are not the ones containing the most technologically advanced humans at this point, it would have a perfect place to live without too many consequences if they were found. Interestingly, these places are still fairly to extremely isolated, so the only humans they would have contact with are lone backpackers. It would be interesting to see the instinctive behaviors of this species (e.g. avoiding certain areas like hiking trails, specific caves, parts of Mount Everest.) 

but I'd believe normal people wouldn't want to call themselves like semi-gods, nor would they dare to call themselves "the ones who know [insert divinity name here]". TWIST: The "Moirai" could also actually be their enemy, since they'd no more shape human destiny. 

As I pointed out in some comments, let belief do the trick. Your question pretty much implies that creature C has to provide A & B in both their universes a tangible/perceivable proof (which sounds to me a lot like scientific method), but since the dimensions are orthogonal, each inhabitant of these planes would not have the possibility to glimpse the existance of "the others". Let C be a creature A e B look up to (God?) in both worlds. Through belief of C's words, A could believe in B and vice versa. Let me write an example: suppose my terrestrial life and the hell are orthogonal. Through religion I believe in the existence of hell, therefore I don't commit crimes or such in order to preserve my soul in the afterlife. By acting like I do, I am altering what happens/will happen in hell (I am wildly assuming that hell has no time). The two dimensions are entwined, but I never had the possibility to experience any proof about it being real. 

Make it biological. A tons of stuff that lives like cells and so on cannot (yet) be seen, scanned or whatsoever. Microscope stuff that you see is often dead and artificially-colored in order to let people actually see it. This would also have the advantage that you could have a very fast-expiring mix (when cells inside are dead, it works no more). 

What about "Thanatógon(s)" and "Biógon(s)"? Those come from death = Thánatos (θάνατος) / life = Bíos (βίος) + the word "puppetteer", which is translated into "Góns" (γόης). I strongly disagree with people using "Nekros" as "Death", since it actually means "Dead" (a person who is deceased). The divinities they devote to could indeed be the "Moirai": 

What about a particular kind of cancer? I'm not a doctor, but it is my understanding that some kinds of cancer happen due to DNA damage. What would happen if the two nations had a problem on vast scale of people having these kinds of illnesses? I think they might try procedures to repair the DNA, and since identical twins have the same DNA, they could lead their trials on twins. Of course, if the phaenomenon is widespread, the governments would have to "use" all the twins possible (since they are rare)... 

It's not a safe place. The bosses are secretly studying a way to upload themselves into the machines, and while for religious matters the protagonist won't create an army of himselves, the bosses would. Each boss is provided with a save point in order to study it, with the order to upload himself/herself/itself only if he/she/it has 100% chance to succeed. Bosses, though, are not overconfident, and that's why they put an entire dungeon to protect that point, and why they didn't try that yet.