Demarcation between science and non-science is greatly overvalued because people have an irrational idea that science is an authority. If something they call "science" says X, then you shouldn't question X, and if you do you're a heretic and a moron. There is no scientific method per se, as pointed out most persuasively by Popper, who pointed out why there couldn't be such a method. The problem is that how you came up with an idea is irrelevant to assessing it. You could get high and stare at the ceiling, you could be inspired by a dream, you could have the idea while knitting. What does matter is how you assess the idea. You should look for ways it might be contradicted by experiment. You should consider whether it contradicts current explanations and if so look for ways of solving that problem. You might call an idea science if it can be tested and is not ruled out by explanatory problems. See, for example, "The Fabric of Reality" by David Deutsch, Chapters 1,3,7. My understanding is that string theory is not currently testable. You could say it is unscientific if you want. But then you should ask whether this makes any practical difference. Just about any theory of quantum gravity will be difficult or impossible to test. That doesn't mean people should stop working on that problem. 

Intuition is not an infallible source of moral knowledge. It is often badly wrong. For example, lots of people in Nazi Germany thought it was perfectly acceptable to torture and murder millions of Jews. In general, thinking of morality in terms of its source is a bad idea. Moral knowledge is created by guessing about what is right and wrong and criticising the guesses: $URL$ 

Aristotelian logic isn't the reason for the regress problem. The demand for justification is the reason for the regress problem. Any argument uses premises and rules of inference and the truth of the conclusion is dependent on the truth of the premises and the correctness of the rules of inference. If you want to say the argument shows the conclusion is true then you have to do one of two things. (1) Assert that the premises and rules of inference are correct and can't be questioned. (2) Try to prove the premises and rules of inference are correct. Option (1) is bad since it would stop you from spotting mistakes. Option (2) is impossible since it leads to the infinite regress. There is another option: reject the demand for justification. You look for problems, guess solutions to the problems, criticise the proposed solutions until only one is left and then look for a new problem. The criticism takes the form of working out the consequences of your ideas and then comparing those consequences to reality: if the consequences don't match reality the theory is wrong. You can make various kinds of mistakes in the comparison, so the comparison and so on are also guesses that might be eliminated by criticism. If you want to know more, see "Objective Knowledge" by Karl Popper Chapter 1, "Realism and the Aim of Science" by Popper, chapter I, "The Fabric of Reality" by David Deutsch chapters 3 and 7, "The Beginning of Infinity" by Deutsch chapters 1,2,4. 

You say you are very familiar with Popper's ideas, and yet you say his main contribution was the "falsification principle". This is false, as was pointed out by Popper himself in the introduction to "Realism and the Aim of Science". Popper's greatest contributions to epistemology was providing an alternative to the idea that theories ought to be justified ("Realism and the Aim of Science", Chapter I), tying epistemology to evolution (see "Objective Knowledge" by Popper, or "Evolutionary Epistemology, Rationality, and the Sociology of Knowledge" edited by Radnitzky and Bartley), and some stuff about epistemology in political philosophy, explained in "The Open Society and Its Enemies". So you seem to have overstated your familiarity with Popper. Lakatos made up a load of stuff about Popper's alleged positions that have nothing to do with his actual positions. For Lakatos' criticisms and Popper's reply, see "The Philosophy of Karl Popper" edited by Schilpp, and the introduction to "Realism and the Aim of Science". The best improvements on Popper have been proposed by David Deutsch (see his books "The Fabric of Reality" and "The Beginning of Infinity") and Elliot Temple: $URL$ 

It is common to say that a person who commits a terrible crime is insane, and that his insanity is due to illness, or a form of illness or something vaguely along those lines. This kind of statement is false. An illness is a chemical or structural abnormality in your body. Such an abnormality can't cause a person to do anything. To say that a person who commits a terrible crime did it as a result of a fault in his body is like saying there is a fault in your television because you find one of the programs on the television distasteful. A person who commits a crime, any crime at all, does so for a reason. Their reason may be stupid, or wicked, or both, but it is a reason. A person who shoots a load of people can think, as illustrated by the fact that he has to think about where to aim the gun. Saying that a person who commits such a crime is insane is just a heavily disguised moral judgement. We would be far better off if people stopped disguising their moral judgements in this way. Calling people insane makes it difficult to discuss the behaviour of the criminal properly, and makes it difficult to criticise standards. For an extended discussion of this issue and many others see "Insanity: the idea and its consequences" by Thomas Szasz. 

The position you have described is usually called instrumentalism and it is wrong. To see the problem suppose you're trying to prepare a rocket to go into space. You see somebody cut open a chicken, scatter its entrails on the ground and look at them intently. You go up to this person and ask what he is doing. 'I'm checking whether there is enough fuel in the rocket,' says he. 'Um, the fuel gauge is over there,' you say, pointing in the relevant direction. The man looks at you witheringly. 'Oh, you poor fool,' he says. 'We can't know anything about how the world works, so how you can say that I can't know how much fuel is in the rocket by looking at these chicken entrails?' 'That's ridiculous,' you cry indignantly. 'The fuel gauge has a floater in the tank which is connected to a metal rod with a variable resistor attached whose resistance increases or decreases as the fuel level rises and falls as a result of the change in angle of the floater to the metal arm.' 'No, that won't do at all,' the man says. 'That's a statement about how part of the world works and it's impossible to discover anything about how the world works, so I'll stick to my chicken entrails.' The moral of the tale is that any measurement or practical undertaking of any kind depends on knowing stuff about how the world works. Taken seriously, your position would lead to the destruction of all science and all human civilisation because it would eliminate the only means of discovering whether a measurement device works or not: thinking about the explanation of how it is supposed to work and whether it corresponds to reality. See 'The fabric of reality' by David Deutsch, which discusses many variants of your position and refutes them. 

I think this question is not answerable because the government lacks the feedback necessary to come to the appropriate decision. Let's consider a slightly different context where the question may be answerable. Suppose that a mine owner has his miners and technicians and people like that in a mine. If the mine collapses he loses most of his employees and he spent years training them and getting them to work well as a team and that sort of thing. There is a possibility the mine could collapse and if the miners aren't rescued he has to find new employees and go through the whole process again. So he might decide that this would be a disaster and that he should insure against it so that if the mine collapses the insurance company will pay to dig out his men. And maybe it will cost $10 million for each man or whatever. And let's suppose the insurance company provides the coverage. The insurance company has to pay the bills by getting people to give it money because giving the money is better than not doing so. The customers know their money will be used to pay for accidents and that sort of thing. So there is a clear sense in which the insurance company customers consent to pay for whatever the insurance company decides to cover. And there is a check on the company deciding to cover silly things. If the company agrees to pay a man $1 million if he nicks his pinky, it won't last long. If the company refuses to pay out to rescue the miners then it may be guilty of fraud and some of its staff may face prosecution or fines or something like that. In addition, an insurance company that doesn't pay out when people think it should may lose customers. Customers want the company to pay out when it should because they want to get the money they are insured for under the circumstances stipulated in their contract. A government is in a very different position from the insurance company. If your decide you don't like something the government is doing and that you would prefer to pay a different group of people to do the same stuff, or pay nobody for the relevant service, you will not get far. The government will take tax money without asking for your consent and if you try to resist you might be imprisoned or killed. You could vote against a government that does something stupid but your vote is only one among millions. You could argue the government shouldn't do something but you would have to persuade something like a plurality of the population to throw out the current government. At that point you get a new government over which you had about the same amount of control as the old, i.e. - negligible control. Since governments have very little in the way of feedback, it's a mistake to expect them to reach the right answer on sophisticated and subtle moral issues. Should the government save some miners? I don't know, and neither does the government.