Nasal fricatives are seriously rare or nonexistent; this dissertation looks at the essentially aerodynamic problem of producing fricative noise and nasalization simultaneously (fricatives require high airflow with major impedance; nasalization provides a no-resistance escape route for air, so thwarts pressure buildup). Nasal vowels on the other hand are not extremely rare though they are "marked", i.e. less common than oral vowels. Nasalization makes it harder to distinguish vowels, so there is a functional-perceptual reason for the disadvantage that nasalization has in vowels. 

There are vast numbers of languages without /ɬ/ or /ɮ/: English for example. /ɮ/ doesn't exist in any Indo-European language, and exists in maybe a dozen languages. It's easier to list the languages that have these than to list the ones that don't. Khoekhoe (Nama) has no palatals of any kind (nor does it have hlaterals); nor do Pirahã, Rotokas, Hawaiian. 

The reflexes in daughter languages support the reconstruction of separate roots (supported by the simultaneous existence of φεύγω and φόβος), but the semantic and phonological similarity is striking. It is probably coincidental, meaning that systematically deriving the two from a single root is beyond our technical capabilities. It's not uncommon to have multiple similar-looking roots with similar meanings, such as bhlegʷ, bhlew, bhlei, bhrew with meanings "bloat, swell": more examples here. 

The real question that should be asked is, why would anyone write a textbook in the first place? I will only address the question as it applies to phonology, but similar answers can be given for all domains of linguistics. First, there is a difference between "making reference to" and "making extensive use of". I could mention that Lushootseed has only 1 or two words with nasal consonants, but I can't make extensive use of Lushootseed in illustrating some important point about phonology, nor can I do that with Makah or Kutenai. Every textbook author has to make a decision as to what "the point" is. Some authors favor unloading all information they can find in a domain. One (generative-oriented) perspective on phonology is that phonology is about computing changes from underlying to surface form. Not all languages have interesting changes from underlying to surface form, so Lushootseed for the most part simply assembles morphemes and pronounces the result. One phonological change is the change /txʷ,dxʷ/ → [tu,du] in some context (involving verbs – as an exercise, look at the available materials to figure out where this happens), but that is a morpheme-specific alternation, so not necessarily of any use in a textbook (depending on the degree of generality that, as an author, you demand of your processes). Unless the point is to exemplify "consonants becoming vowels", this fact doesn't exemplify anything. Then finally, there is the problem of actually showing in a textbook-suitable fashion that this even happens. Paradigms are really important for some perspectives (esp. as exemplified in Kenstowicz's book). First, as an author, you have to have a clear understanding of the standards you want to convey. Some authors are willing to pick up a word or two from a source and simply assert "/kʷaxʷadxʷ-bš/ → [kʷaxʷadubš]", but other require more data and more convincing. This brings us to the problem of descriptive grammars. There is lamentably little by way of grammatical description of Lushootseed: a couple of dissertations, a textbook (possibly out of print), a collection of data hosted by John Lawler, a few journal articles, and a few people who worked with the last fluent speakers (and whatever unpublished notes they have). Kenstowicz does not know Lushootseed at all, so it would be ridiculous to expect him to know of this process and be able to work it into a textbook. I know a bit of Lushootseed, and know that my hard-core data on this process is limited; and I also know that the process doesn't illustrate something important that needs to go in a textbook. When it comes to Makah, I know virtually nothing about the language, though I think there could be some interesting phonological alternations (figuring that Makah is similar to Nootka) – but I don't know of a Makah grammar that I could peruse to pull out paradigmatic examples. As for Kutenai, I know nothing. There are similar cogent reasons for the lacunae that you call out in Kenstowicz's textbook. You might want to engage in a larger-scale comparison of textbooks, at a minimum comparing K's textbook with earlier Kenstowicz and Kisseberth, to see what languages are employed, for what purpose. Tupi, being an extinct language with inadequate synchronic description, is not going to figure in phonology textbooks that have high demands of paradigmicity (where the facts demonstrate what the underlying forms must be, and URs aren't just handed down from on high). There is limited potential with related Guarani, where there probably is something about nasal spread that is interesting: but the data simply have not been there for the average work-a-day phonologist. The one thing that might be of some interest is the question of whether there actually is a phonological rule of nasal spreading. There is reasonable evidence that the claimed nasal spread is low-level phonetic coarticulation, which is a question that has to be addressed experimentally with a large supply of speakers, not written-language assertions. Similar issues thwart attempts to incorporate Aztec (Nahuatl), Quechua (a language family) and Maya (a language family) into a Kenstowicz-like textbook. I also suggest paying more attention to authors' data sources. Kenstowicz has worked on a number of Asian and African languages, and has had students who did so, therefore those languages figure prominently in his textbook. If he had worked extensively on Lakota or Ojibwa, he might have included paradigms from those languages. It turns out that the phonologists who have worked on those languages mostly haven't written textbooks, or have written textbooks of a completely different nature. The fascinating phonology of many Athabascan languages is simply too complex to be of use in a textbook, unless the book intends to use Navaho or Slave as the main language to exemplify all phonological concepts (any takers? E.g., convert Rice's Grammar of Slave into an introductory phonology textbook). In short, if an author has no personal knowledge of a language, little reasonable chance of gaining adequate knowledge, and no concrete reason to believe that there is a pedagogical payoff in the language, that language is unlikely to figure in a textbook. Once you move past textbooks and look at phonology at large, your claim is simply wrong. Native American languages have figured prominently in theoretical phonology – see Ojibwa, Menominee, Lakota, Sarcee, Navaho, Klamath (the mother-lode language), Karok, Tunica, Choctaw, Paiute, Mohawk. Salishan languages mostly don't figure in discussions of phonology, except for reduplication studies, but they do figure prominently in morphosyntax and semantics. 

There won't be evidence that speech is perceived linguistically, since that is not a sufficiently precise claim that it could be tested experimentally. Since it is self-evident that people do perceive the linguistic units words and utterances (in one understanding of what perception is), no experiment has been conducted (as far as I know) to prove that this happens. Everything starts from the fact that we perceive words, and larger chunks, and works from there. On the other hand, the exact method whereby speech is perceived is not at all established, for example the issue of features, segments, syllables, phonemes etc. as "basic units". The topic of units has an extremely rich literature which cannot be covered here, but there are some important works that may include sufficient evidence for your purposes. (The problem is that if you frame your question in a novel way, there is not likely to be evidence available that distinguishes your theory from some similar theories). At the level of reference books we find Miller & Eimas Handbook of Perception and Cognition: Speech, Language, and Communication; Pisoni & Remez The Handbook of Speech Perception; Pickett Speech perception and linguistic experience: Theoretical and methodological issues. Some classical articles especially relevant to the linguistic-unit question of speech perception are Cooper, Delattre, Liberman, Borst & Gerstman 1952 "Some experiments on the perception of synthetic speech sounds" JASA 24; Liberman 1957 "Some results of research on speech perception" JASA 29; Liberman, Cooper, Shankweiler & Studdert-Kennedy, "Perception of the speech code" Psychological Review 74; Stevens 2002 "Toward a model of lexical access based on acoustic landmarks and distinctive features" JASA 111. Additional articles include OCallaghan, "Auditory Perception"; Holt & Lotto "Speech perception as categorization" Attention, Perception, & Psychophysics 72; Rubin, Turvey & van Gelder "Initial phonemes are detected faster in spoken words than in spoken nonwords" Perception & Psychophysics 19; Pisoni "Some current theoretical issues in speech perception" Cognition 81; Miller & Isard "Some perceptual consequences of linguistic rules" Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior 2.