And obviously, in different times they used different lengths. And of course, they used shorter variants when riding a horse - many hakamas that you see, are a rider's variant. 

Of course, yes. Is the sentence of Socrat not enough as an argument? On the other hand, Sokolovsky in Russia this year was condemned, to 4 years of conditional imprisonment, for his doubts in God's existence and in Immaculate conception, and 50% of population are not christians... I am afraid, the question can be correctly answered only after we decide what can serve as a check for if some people really believe in its gods. How many people believe so that they can walk across a swimming pool? Filled. BTW, Opera Jesus Christ - superstar is already considered as antichristian in Russia. Fanatics or these that are playing fanatics are so unlogical that it is very hard to measure them by logic. 

Another bombing of the Continental US by Japan that was not mentioned yet was the Japanese bombing of Oregon via submarine-launched bomber planes. The Lookout Air Raids are bombings that were carried out by the Japanese Navy against the American mainland by using incendiary bombs to start forest fires and therefore divert American resources to fighting fires. However, the bombs failed to cause a fire, rendering the operation more or less useless. An interesting footnote to this story is that one of the pilots involved, Nobuo Fujita, returned to the town he bombed after the war to express his remorse, and was favourably received during his visit by the citizens of Brookings, Oregon. 

"The Wild Field", or the steppe betweeen Danube to the West, Poland and Russia to the North and Crimea to the South in 16th Cent. The eastern border of that place changed. The area was 0.5-1 million km2. Crimea and christian states were not in prepetual war de jure, but de facto conflicts were so often, that normal life in this area was absolutely impossible. Even the southern regions of Russia and Poland were almost every year robbed off. The amount of slaves from the North was so huge, that one of the slavetraders seeing crowds of prisoners exclaimed: "Do there remain some people in these lands?". The numbers of slaves taken by Crimean Tartars without any doubt was much greater than the meager million of the african slaves. There were some safer points in the area that were used as a continious living places. Khortica island on the Dnepr river, for example. But that didn't change the whole situation. 

$URL$ , in its various language formats, is a binary human-optimised code. $URL$ , Braille's precursor, also fits your description request. Both codes are fixed-length, and therefore do not suffer from the problem as quoted in the question. 

A Reddit comment (which started off this search) claims the symbol originated because the rooster is seen as gallant: 

The "parable of the arrow/sticks", as described in the title, is frequently repeated amongst many nations and civilisations, even though many of them have not come into contact with each other. One version of the story that was quoted from Iroquois folk legends by John Hancock goes: 

The year in different countries historically started mostly around winter day length minimum, or autumn/spring day/night length equality (Russia had used both). I don't know why the summer maximum was not used. The Egypt year was started by Nile flood. Psychologically I do understand the start at winter minimum (Dec/Jan) the most of all, as it is the point when the day starts to grow. And while our ancestors had not decent lighting, it was maximally important for them. It could be compared to the spring of light importance in the modern Northern Europe (Finland, Iceland, Murmansk in Russia). 

This story has also been attributed to the Mongols, the Bulgarians, in Aesop's Fables, and is thought to be the origin of the Roman fasces. What is the oldest known reference to this story? 

The Gallic Rooster is widely used as a symbol of France. However, there are a number of conflicting sources on how it originated. The French embassy in the USA states that the rooster originated from a wordplay for "Gaul" and "rooster" in Latin: 

The problem is that even if we'll find a photo of earlier times, the most probably we won't recognize it as a photo, for they were of very low quality and were drawn on for improvement of the image quality. 

Surely, it looked differently in 19 Cent, but Petropavlovsk was considered extremely important in strategic sense and obviously, no drawing was permitted. There is a problem with searching itself, too, for Google provides the must more known Petropavlovskaya fortress in St. Petersburg instead. And castle "Ostrog" in the Czech republic. Don't even try to look in English. So, as for the question "where" - the answer is clear - your hero was hold in ostrog. As it looked from inside and conditions - that depended on the concrete prisoner, crime and situation. Some prisoners lived in a room or even a hole dug in the ground, having only bad soup and a piece of bread for a day, some important prisoner could have a good room near the mayors premises, having dinner with him and be only forbidden to go out of the ostrog, or even without that limit. 

The decolonialisation of Singapore and (now) East Malaysia and their subsequent annexation to Malaya in 1963 occurred with no military actions taking place. $URL$ Granted, their neighbours (namely Philippines and Indonesia) were not happy about this and organised a number of terrorist attacks and low-level skirmishes soon afterwards, but the territories themselves were annexed peacefully and there was no significant local resistance to the annexation. $URL$ 

The French governmental website doesn't state a definitive origin for the symbol, but notes the wordplay and states that the rooster was used as a religious symbol, as well as a symbol of opposition to Germany's eagle: 

Helping my daughter with a presentation about Cook, I looked for English sources about his biography and was surprised to read that he was a son of a farmer hand - practically, the bottom of the lower class. Was it real? I mean, he could be really the son of that rich farmer, and had much better support at start? What was the statistics about bourgeoisie/worker/farmer sons among navy officers in England? For me numbers before the industrial revolution and after it are interesting: The end of 18 and 19 centuries. I don't hope there are full tables about that somewhere. Any information would be gladly accepted. In Russia, for example, even at the end of 19th cent, admiral Makarov, the son of a boatswain, was accepted as a funny exception. Only aristocracy of blue blood could send their sons to be navy officers. The plebs could become officers and even serve at navy, but they didn't get navy officer titles. 

$URL$ This link appears to provide information on seat dimensions, arch heights of the 4 rows etc. Unfortunately, it didn't cite its primary sources. 

Unfortunately, the first Irishman they approached (whom they hoped would lead them to the IRA) handed them over to the police instead. They also had plans of using the IRA as proxies/allies to invade Northern Ireland, but the plotters were also arrested. So, they didn't get to invade Ireland, but not for lack of trying.