The context was that some people were pissed off and the implication was that therefore something very useful or interesting had caused that anger. Now I'm pretty sure the argument is fallacious since there are any number of things that can piss people off and doing something useful or interesting is only one of them. But I can't tell if the fallacy is an example of post hoc ergo propter hoc or not. According to Wikipedia, the form of the fallacious argument is: 

Neither justification is satisfactory for reasons that Hume points out. Both must be taken as properly basic assumptions. 

Note that by using the word "form" (μορφη1 in the Greek) Paul is referencing Plato (or at least the ideas of Plato, which he'd been trained in). Jesus started with the "shape" or form of God, which meant that he was identical to God on a Platonic level. It isn't a perfect choice of words, as we shall see in a moment, but it speaks in terms his listeners would understand. From there, Paul says Jesus took on a different form, that of a servant and a man. The idea that anyone could take on a different form than their own is nonsensical within Platonic thought2. A god attempting to become a man is the equivalent of attempting to "draw a circle that is square" as Cody Gray suggests in the comments to the question. But Paul is trying to express an idea about God that is completely novel: a god that has power to change even his own form. Elsewhere, Paul admits this concept of God appears foolish. The whole idea of a God becoming a man so that he can be executed, which will allow him to be exalted, is on the face absurd. If you want to dismiss the whole thing as nonsense, you may. In that case, it should be no surprise that there are dozens of paradoxes in addition to the first bit of nonsense. But you really can't expect those paradoxes to be convincing to those of us who have accepted the far more absurd idea that God would allow himself to be executed. And if the only people who are convinced they are a problem are the people who already reject the basic notion of Christianity, these paradoxes aren't very interesting arguments. They are a sort of straw man. At least one solution to the various paradoxes is suggested in this passage: God may chose to be limited. Can God die? Yes, if He chooses. Can God change what He knows what will happen tomorrow? Yes, if He chooses. Can God create a stone He can not lift? Yes, if He chooses. Can He lift that stone? Yes, if He chooses.3 Does this mean He is nonsensical? Not obviously. He may, of course, choose to be sensible to humanity. 

The idea seems to be that one who knows how a disease is spread will have the knowledge of how to avoid spreading it as well as the knowledge of how to secretly infect people. I don't think there is any question but that this is true. 

As I think about it, however, I can't think of any material difference except that the generic "demon" (which is a stand-in for any powerful being) is replaced with a specific candidate: our own decedents. While it certainly makes for some wonderful science fiction (and even seems inspired by it), there doesn't seem to be anything about the ontological and epistemological aspects of the theory that weren't anticipated by Descartes. Is there some aspect of the Simulation Argument that improves on the Evil Genius? Would not the same limitations on proving (or disproving) this sort of existence apply equally to both? 

As we struggle to understand the reality of the world (and of ourselves) we need to use language that bridges the gap between what we can understand and what we want to understand. At the time, myth was the state-of-the-art tool for accomplishing this feat. (Today, mathematics has shown itself to be a powerful alternative.) 

Interestingly, a friend and I struggled with the opposite conundrum from what concerns Singer. We were both married to women who did not wish to have more children. My friend commented to me that submitting to sterilization would be like killing his unborn and unconceived children. As soon as he said it, I understood my own grief. How could anyone choose between the idea that conceiving children brings more suffering into the world and the idea that not conceiving children denies them the benefits of existence? (I should note in passing that we have both resolved our conundrum: his wife suddenly desired children and is now a wonderful mother, and I learned to sacrifice my desires for the needs of my wife and be content with our only son.) As far as I see, the only way to chose would be to have a detailed accounting of the value of existence versus nonexistence and compare it to the negative value of suffering. And there are a few other unobtainable figures you would need to be anything like accurate. When you start to think of it in this way, it fails the smell test. Singer seems to couch is argument as if it's a relatively new idea that arises from global climate change or the population explosion or whatever apocalypse is of the moment. (I made the mistake of glancing at the comments of the original article. What a cynical bunch! I may be ashamed of my own generation.) But it's not new at all. One of our oldest texts is dedicated to the question: 

According to Wikipedia, the question has been reshaped by philosophers and proponents of ethical monotheism to be: 

Summary At least Gottfried Leibniz and any philosopher who holds a pantheistic view are examples of philosophers who equate mankind with God at least in part. (I submit a philosopher who himself claims to be God in full would either be crazy or equivocating on the meaning of .) 

Let me suggest that Western philosophy, which seems the true thrust of the site, has limited tools for dealing with this concern as it's not so much an issue in Western thought. Western thought tends toward constructing meaning rather than in finding well-being. One source I know of that does address a similar question is from St. Paul: 

René Descartes gave us the problem of how the mind interacts with the body in its modern formulation. Essentially, he asked how the incorporeal mind was able to influence the material body. He also pointed out that the mind was influenced by the body, which was a more novel suggestion (and clearly a true one given what we now know about biochemistry). He landed on the pineal gland as the point where the mind and body interact. This turns out to be a simplistic solution and at least incomplete, if not outright wrong. It seems the most usual solution to the problem these days is to simply eliminate the concept of a mind separate from a body. Therefore our thoughts are something of an illusion that arise from complex operations of the brain, nervous system and hormone secreting glands. Assuming this conception of the mind is acceptable to a thinker, the solution is perfectly serviceable. But what is the current thinking about the mind-body problem among philosophers who still maintain a separate mind? Are there any dualist philosophers still in existence?