There's a lot of research done about bicycle development in History of Technology, mainly because researchers who pioneered these theories came from the Netherlands. The paper published by Bijker ("King of the road: the social construction of the safety bicycle.") is a major work that introduced the theory of social construction of technological systems. You can find a short summary of Bijker's book at the bicycle research project. A Google search can give you a pdf of the paper. Note that Bijker's book is not considered "new" anymore, but rather "classic", and many new research goes beyond. 

As there is less weight on the crotch, and when it hurts, unconsciously you will stand more on your legs, it takes more time for the "crotch-valley" to form in the saddle, maybe double time. At the beginning it hurts, and as time goes by, and as the leather deforms slowly, it will be better and better. An anatomic saddle, which has the valley for the crotch built-in, only needs some play with angle of the saddle, otherwise it should not hurt from day one. Note that if you change the angle of the leather saddle after break-in, it can be the the crotch-valley is not deep enough, and it hurts again, until it deforms according to your new position. Otherwise, here's a link for saddle break in: Breaking in a Leather Saddle This is the most imformative page I've found about Brooks saddles: Leather Saddles - SWHS.home.xs4all.nl 

A practical consequence for me that a second hand aluminium frame bike is risky, needs careful inspection of the frame for signs, and information how much the bike was used, how it was kept. Some more interesting resources: 

So none of these justify why offer lots of mid-range touring bikes with suspension, and then the top range much less. 

Before mail order, and before Schwalbe this myth was true, but it is not anymore. Now we have DHL, TNT, internet, mobile phone, iPad, and a whole range of puncture proof, long lasting tyres, comfortable ballon tyres in foldable version. For me, the wheel size preference on a single bike boils down to: 

The important thing of a touring handlebar is to offer at least two positions for the hand, to prevent sore. A butterfly offers 5, a drop bar offers typically 3, a flat bar with Ergon grips offers 2. Note that you cannot convert a bike from drop bars to butterfly/flat without compromising your sitting positon. Thorn bikes have a long article on this in their bike selector booklet. What is important for me in a touring bike: 

Cannondale Tesoro 1 2014 Rose Black Creek Koga-Miyata Feathershock Giant Expedition AT 2013 (not sold anymore) Schwalbe's balloon bike concept in general $URL$ 

The Shimano STePS with Di2 and Alfine 8 received a firmware update this year, which enabled automatic shifting (it was not automatic before). Does anybody know if Alfine 11 models will receive any firmware updates to switch automatically? This FAQ from Shimano only mentions the Alfine 8. $URL$ 

Read this article: $URL$ The writer chose 700C for single bike (speed preference), and 26" for tandem (strength preference). Handlebars: 

By breaking in your Brooks B17 etc. leather saddle, you create the "valleys" in the leather for your sitbones and the crotch area of the pelvis bone. Therefore you need enough time for the leather to deform at these three areas. There is various information on the net. My experience is that about 500km of riding (so about 25h at 20 km/h) gives a good enough break-in. SITBONE However, I agree with "Fred the MagicWonder Do", if it is not roughly comfortable on day 1, i.e. roughly the width is not good enough, it never will be. So from these, the biggest deciding factor of saddle comfort is total effective sitbone width. This is measured in cm, and the width you need depends on two things: 

Base width = width of your sitbones (in cm, typically 10-14 cm) Plus additional width required for your riding position (in cm, typically 0-4 cm) 

Background: I have been riding a Cannondale Headshock bike for commuting and touring in the last ten years, and I loved the front suspension. I find it softer on the hands/wrists, especially on long rides. If the suspension is off, and I ride a full day, my hands get much more tired, vs. with the suspension on. Handwriting for example is much harder after a long day of riding, with suspension off. I had zero issues with the fork, functions since 2004 without issues. I do have a front rack, too. The bike has wide tires (IRC Lover Soul, 26x2.25). So it seems the benefits are there, there are no maintenance issues (was serviced regularly), racks can be mounted on them, and cost in the upper segment shouldn't be an issue. And the top touring bikes are still offered without front suspension. Why? Edit: Let me ask again: my question is NOT about the pros and cons of using a suspension fork in touring in general, or whether you think I need it or not, or what is my definition of a touring bike, or whether there are touring bikes with suspension or not (there's a lot of them). My question is: Why is that while many middle range touring bikes are with front suspension (1000-2000 Euro bikes), then most of the TOP of the line touring models (4000 Euro and above) are without? My logic would be that if it is offered in mid range, it's also offered on the top bikes, too. See for example the range of Rose bikes, who are one of those manufacturers who sell among the highest number of touring bikes. Rose has 20 different "Tourenräder" for 1000-2000 Euro, so these middle range touring models are almost all with front suspension. If I look at Tout Terrain for example, from the 10 top of the range models, they only have two model with front suspension, the Panamericana, and all the rest is fixed fork. 

My advice: If you have the budget, make a custom built frame. It's expensive, and the price/performance ratio is low (the benefit you get is probably marginal vs. the investment), but why not. It will be your bike, made for you, it's a great feeling, and people easily spend more money to upgrade the stereo in their car. However, the custom frame has to come from a touring expert workshop, who also manufacture several different stock touring bikes. So the basics about geometry (chainstay, wheelbase, fork angle) are fit for touring. Koga, IDworx, Tout-terrain are good examples. My own experience is that the more I tour, the less I care about the bike, and focus more on the journey. At the beginning, I worried a lot, now, I just use the bike I have. It has 8 hub gears, but it doesn't stop me to go for several days of touring, even with hills. 

Cover brand names on your bike with tape. One of my bikes is a Cannondale. First thing I did was to cover with tape all the letters. Looks uglier, but doesn't cry "I'm an expensive brand!". 

I got one answer from Shimano via Facebook (July 2017), but this is NOT CORRECT. $URL$ "Hi, Do you know if the Shimano Alfine 11 has automatic shiftin possibilities with the STEPS systems? I to ask in many local shops, but they didn't know, I asked bike builders, but they didn't know. They only have bikes with Alfine 8, for which the automatic shifting works. I've looked into forums, checked your Shimano websites back and forth, but I didn't find any information. I would be considering to buy a new bike with Steps and Alfine 11, if it has automatic shifting. If not, I would stay with Alfine 8. However, in our hilly city, Brussels, the Alfine 8 often feels not enough in range. Thank you and kind regards," "Thanks for contacting. Shimano Alfine 11 speed hub is available with Shimano STEPS, but Alfine 8 isn't. Unfortunately automatic shifting is also not available yet in combination with STEPS. We can't guarantee this will be in the near future. Kind regards, Team Shimano" 

your best option is a Hebie Chainglider. We have it installed on our bike with Alfine, and it works great. If you have Di2 shifting, you need a different back part. 

If you want speed over longer distances, I recommend to buy a Trekking bike. They have 700C wheels, and therefore are faster. My experience is that for 30 min or longer commutes I like speed. For this bike a derailleur gear is better so you can speed up. If you like comfort, you can buy a Cannondale Badboy or similar. With 2" wide tires that handle well the potholes. To get from A to B in a big city, lots of stopping, changing directions, I liked the comfort better. A third option can be a Brompton foldable bike, with 6 gears, which is the most versatile in city traffic, you can mix biking and public transport, and use whichever is faster/better. They last long, so good investment. 

Design, manufacturing, welding, material: determining factor for 90% of bike owners, as they don't use the bike that much that they would fatigue it with use. We, on this forum, are probably in the other 10%. Environmental conditions: saline, humid, big temperature changes increase. Use (rider weight, terrain): heavier riders fatigue more, and more use over time increases the chance to fail significantly. For heavy users, who buy good frames anyway, and take care of the bike, probably this is the limiting factor. Counting how many km someone can practically tour per year, this limits the frame lifespan to 5-10 years or max ~200 000 km. 

CROTCH The other deciding factor is crotch depth - whether there is room for the crotch part of the pelvis bone, or the bone and genitals hit hard plastic/metal. 

Fatigue design of welded bicycle frames using a multiaxial criterion (Procedia Engineering, 2012) Fabrication and Fatigue Failure in Aluminum (Professional Boat Builder, 06 2012) The formation of fatigue cracks in aluminum single crystals (Acta Metallurgica, 1961) Fatigue Design of Aluminum Components and Structures (Hardcover, 1996) Sporting Materials: Bicycle Frames (Encyclopedia of Materials: Science and Technology, 2001) Parametric Finite Element Analysis of Bicycle Frame Geometries (Procedia Engineering, 20114) What is fatigue failure and how can it be avoided? 

If in doubt, go for wider. Narrower causes pain. You can measure your sitbone length with cardboard paper (like an amazon shipping box). See the info at SQ Lab for the measurement (you don't need the special device, you can do it on a simple chair). SQ Lab saddle width measurement 

A touring specific general bike is probably better, vs. the custom frame of a generalist shop. Geometry, strength, details (braze ons, eyelets, racks, etc.). If it is a not from a touring expert, your bike can be actually worse for touring vs. a touring expert's general bike. Is it a custom sized frame of an otherwise stock bike, or is it built from ground up? The latter is a good way to go, for the latter, you need a couple of tours behind you to tell what you need. The comfort on your bike is primarily determined by the contact points (unless the bike is way too small or way too big): handlebar, saddle, pedals. For example, my experience shows that gel tape improves more hand comfort (30 USD) on touring vs. suspension forks (300 USD). 

The big part of men find comfortable a Brooks B17 width, and these people write in the reviews how comfortable it is. Those who complain, probably have more distance between the sitbones, and/or ride more upright, and the B17 is not wide enough for them. I have a wider than average sitbone width (12.5 cm), and I ride in a trekking position (14.5 - 15.5 cm), and no surprise, the B17 was uncomfortable for me. The B67 was better. In the end, I decided on a 15 cm SQ Lab 604 saddle, as it is water proof, and I often bike in rain/cold(wet). I don't like that when it rains, I stop, stand on my feet, the leather takes up water, and keeps me wet the whole day. 

A recent view is that technology was less of a factor vs. sociological factors. The main sociological difference between the Penny-farthing and today's bicycle frame is the perspective of safety: the rider wants to feel safe or not. In the times of Penny-farthing mastering a difficult to ride horse/vehicle was a major feat, and riders wanted to show of their skills. Riding a more difficult vehicle was a wish by riders. Today's bicycle with the diamond frame mostly offers safety for the driver, by having a good view around the traffic, and a good chance to stop when needed (vs. efficiency, aerodynamics, speed, acceleration, etc., while recumbent and other designs do better in those aspects). Today riders want a bike that offers higher safety, vs. feeling unsafe. 

Expedition bikes You will see "expedition" bike at manufacturers who are specialized in touring bikes, and have many models. The marketing department needs to differentiate somehow, so the common groups are called trekking, touring, expedition. But this can vary, and for me the expedition is usually the top bike in their offering, with the most expensive gear. Usually there are three categories in marketing to sell products, a low range (silver), a medium range (gold), and a top of the range (platinum), or whatever name you call it. The top of the range is usually the product with all the bells and whistles. Only a few customers buy it, but the idea behind is to make it available, so if somebody wants to buy it, it is there. $URL$ $URL$ 26" vs. 700C More of a personal preference choice then a real rational one. People often quote that 26" wheels are easier to come by in rural areas. This is a myth: