"I am only mentioning the Theravada belief here" As Buddhism teaches birth happens far before physical birth.It happens when the Semen finds the egg and start the process of growing.so not only abortion,Taking a pill is a violation of the first (not killing and never supporting killing). Buddhism is against any sort of killing Murder Hiring for murder Assisting murder Praising murder killing unborn suicide telling others to kill approving the act of killing Female rights for abortion is a medical and a social issue and it has nothing to do with Karma! "Please note that there is no instruction on anything described as bad Karma to be done in a acceptable way.Buddhism is a straight religion it does not take back what it says and it does not open back doors to people to get away with things.What you choose to do is yours to decide but you will have to take it with you from life to life." 

Monks can garden if the Land and all upon it has been offered to the temple. It happens all over Asia. But monks keep themselves from digging and such tasks because of the possibility of harming an animal. Most of the times all the work is outsourced to laypeople and a share of harvest is given. 

I mentioned these because these kind of issues should not become a barrier to a fellow practitioner.Hope this helps. If you mention the kind/version of meditation you practice i would like to help you further. 

The reason why "Mercy killing" is bad according to Buddhism is very simple,let me provide some quotes from lord Buddha... "Every being is attached to their lives no matter how good or bad those might be,no matter how much pain they suffer every being at all times is attached to their lives and wish to live" "One should place himself or herself in the position of the receiver of his or her actions and see if what they are going to do is something that the receiver would like, As no one likes suffering,harm,fear or death no one should do such things to another" Lord Buddha mentioned that even beings in hell are attached to their lives! So the conclusion is that all beings at all levels in any place like only to live no matter what the state of their lives are. 

There is a simple difference between the modern perspective of memory and the Buddhist perspective of memory. So what is it? In the modern understanding the brain is the storage device of the mind ("Mind" being a neurological phenomenon). So to science it is a "As long as a being live" story,so their understanding fits the currently accepted version of scientific truth. Because as to them a creature grows it's brain with age,use it while it is alive and the memories die with the death of the creature. Science will no longer proceed to a new theory because they have cemented their version of truth with this "only biological understanding!" So what is the less explained Buddhist perspective? As Buddhists we do not believe in a "Soul",Now this brings a lot of riddles on to the table because in any other religion "Soul" is like a "Log Book" so for them it is end of story! If you try to find an answer from already existing sources of Buddhism you will see a certain paradox. Which is nothing else but the complete ignoring of the biological side of this story. The double paradoxes If you take a look at the Scientific perspective you will see the exact opposite version of this paradox. Which is the complete ignoring of the Mental side of this story. The conclusion 

These advanced beings are not alien to earth,thousands reside in earth and in many other planets.They have two genders Male and Female.And anyone human can become one of them by gaining enough good karma. Lord Buddha clearly said that there are no souls,these is no owner to life,there is no creator,there is no forgiving (Like they do in churches) and there is no one looking down on living beings to punish or reward them. It is safe to say Lord Buddha slammed the theory of a "Almighty God". The reason Lord Buddhas are born is to help others reach nirvana (it is not a place or an existence,but a level of understanding that unlocks everything about universe). Buddhism completely reject the common concept of "God". The Gods in Buddhism did not received the title "God" by lord Buddha.Later when people were translating Buddhism to English they used the word "God" because of the many similarities.They are originally called "Deva".And the heaven mentioned in Buddhism is originally called "Divya Realm", the hell heaven mentioned in Buddhism is originally called "Naraka / Apaya". This might be a little hurtful but Lord Buddha had something to say about the people called "Sons / Daughters of gods","Prophets of gods".Lord Buddha said that there is a world in "Deva realm" or the so called "Heaven", in it is a dominating king who controls the universe's beings.He only like loyalty towards him and he destroy the ones who go against him.It is his and his army's duty to keep it all under his command until the successor to the throne arrives,When he comes he will do the same.This position is so powerful he even challenged lord Buddha,Lord Buddha accepted the challenge and won it.It was the moment of greatness,the moment lord Buddha became the enlightened. Lord Buddha said if people come to the path mentioned in Buddhism this king will loose his influence over them so he do many things to stop it.One of which is selecting individuals in times with less understanding about things and teach them false beliefs and ask for their loyalty and expansion of these beliefs. This king is called "Maara".And to learn more about "Deva realm /Heaven" click on this link $URL$ This is about how lord Buddha described himself and his understanding... $URL$ This is about the fate of the mankind.A very special teaching of lord Buddha. $URL$ If you have any questions regarding the answer or about the contents of the links please leave a comment below this answer. May Triple Gems Bless You. 

you have no fear of today, because you have done what was needed to be done.Which is freeing yourself from the never ending fire of lust,hate and confusion (Reaching nirvana).As of this moment you are in the bliss of nirvana.You have nothing to fear about the future you can choose the time of death even before the life does it for you( giving up "Aayu sanskara"),You know there is no more living (no more next lives).So there is no suffering and there is no more suffering to expect.This is the bliss, the realization of "I have seen the end of all and i am free now". I am sure you are confused,let me end my question with the last explanation and you will get it all after this... When an arahant dies his or her mind does not create itself another life,why? because their karma has been deleted by them being arahant. So there is nothing more left to give them a birth. The example given in Buddhism is "Like a lamps fire blown by from the wind".they do not collect any karma,that function is no longer available to their minds.So when they die it is like deleting a file from your Phone or Computer,it is gone forever.It is not gone somewhere else,it is not gone to a different format.It is simply no more.This is how an arahant's mind work in the last moment. So the bliss is nothing but having to go trough this pain no more. If you have any questions about the answer please leave a comment. May Triple gems bless you! 

I have a Blog and a lot of people come to learn Buddhism in it. I want to start doing articles on Theravada Buddhism and i do not have any idea if i can do it without being a bit corrosive in certain topics. I want some advice how to do this. So can you guys help me? 

As to Buddhism killing is wrong and planning such things is also wrong. So what is the difference between the Karma of a person who killed someone and a person who only planned but never killed. 

Here are some Audio links to practice - Vipassana Mindfulness Impermanent Meditation 1.MP3 Impermanent Meditation 2.MP3 Meditation of Posturest full Awareness.mp3 Meditation of Foulness.mp3 Meditation on Nine Cemetery Contemplations.mp3 Meditation on Elements.mp3 

I heard an atheist ask this question from a christian and found myself lost in this question as well. Plainly and simply the question is this, 

Here's how and why it all happened if that helps you.... After Lord Buddha the teaching was kept alive by the monks who learned and kept it by heart, they did it in few different ways. Some individuals kept it all while some learned chapters. Time to time they would come together for a reciting. This would be called a Council, It is essentially a global gathering of monks who have the teaching by heart. Here they would each recite the teaching that they have kept. This was done to clear any doubts and clean the error as all the other are listening and chanting too. 

The sutta Chris W had mentioned above has a chanting of its own in theravada tradition.It is called "Bandha Piritha". Here's the full translation of it. 

Lord Buddha never said that Males are better than Females. But as this is India that we are talking about Buddhism had to face some major issues when bringing equality to a country that was dominated by a cast system that was directly attached to the religion which later on formed Hinduism. Lord Buddhas take decisions taking Past,present & Future into equation. When Lord Buddha himself first visited his own relatives they did not worshiped Lord Buddha. So Lord Buddha had to show miracles to get them out of their ego of cast and royalty. This was the kind of socio-political landscape that Lord Buddha had to work with. Buddhism had to do things very carefully because any wrong move would have caused a bloodbath between Buddhist kings and non-Buddhist kings over the new found religious democracy.So Lord Buddha had to face some difficulties when handling social issues. A good example can be found in the situation that unfolded when Lord Buddha allowed Prince Rahula (the son of prince siddhartha who later on became our lord Buddha). Lord Buddha's father came and pleaded for a new law that forbids the acceptance of people who come to become monks without the approval of their parents. This law is valid to this day and the only way such a person is going to become a monk is either waiting till his or her parents die or threatening to suicide if the monk-hood is not granted. (I personally know a great monk who became a monk by the threatening.) As you can see it is not fair but it was necessary. Now lets see why this happened. In the era of Lord Buddha women were right next to animals, more tools or breeding machines than equals with men. Lord Buddha had to fight centuries old traditions and beliefs. (sadly to this day Indian government has to issue advertisements via all forms of media saying "Your daughter deserves education too"). It is in teaching that Lord Buddha refused to accept Female monk hood three times and after the third accepted it. But the Female Monk hood disappeared from many countries and even today female to male ratio of Buddhist who would consider monkhood is not satisfactory. Maybe that was the reason it disappeared. Lord Buddha gave a certain set of rules to be followed by female monks so that they could avoid any harm that could come from the society that was genuinely "Masochist".