I am going to approach this question differently. Since the question is marked with the rock-climbing tag the use of a 7.5mm Technora escape rope that AM_Hawk's answer focuses on seems unlikely. Also, the method by which he arrives at a minimum Prusik cord size doesn't address certain issues. Cord diameter All else being equal a smaller cord for a friction knot, such as a Prusik, will grip better than a large one. I have seen several guidelines, such as use cord no larger than 70% of the diameter of the rope being ascended, but truly this is only a guideline. A stiff and slick cord will have much less purchase than a limp and rough one, therefore maximum diameter is determined pragmatically by what will grip. There are cords made specifically for friction hitches, and these typically limp cords will work better even in larger diameters than will stiff accessory cord not intended for the application. For example, BlueWater 8mm Dynamic Prusik Cord is limper and will grip better than their 6mm Accessory Cord. As far as minimum size, there really is none from a friction standpoint as the smaller cord grips better; it is entirely possible to use a shoelace, paracord, a string from your chalk bag, etc., so long as it can hold your weight. One would be a fool to have these thin cords be his only attachment to the rope of course. You can protect the ascent by progressively clipping in to loop knots in the rope, as AM_Hawk described, or you could use a non-toothed progress-capture device such as a Petzl Shunt. (Please don't implement a system without a full understanding of the devices, failure modes, and risks involved; this is merely an example.) Perhaps you are seeking a minimum size of friction hitch that is safe as a primary connection point. That is hard to answer. One possible failure mode is burn-through; that is, if the knot slips the friction will melt through the cord long before you deck. Hypothetically a smaller cord, if the loop is appropriately sized and the knot well dressed, might be less susceptible to this as it should be less likely to slip, but a larger cord stands a better chance of arresting the fall before it melts or tears through. There is also the consideration of fusing. Several test reports describe the friction hitch fusing to the main line after slipping; while this is less immediately terminal than burn-through it could still leave you stranded. Resources I was unable to find dynamic (drop) testing of small diameter Prusik cords. However, here are some resources that seem relevant. 

And there are some nice cracks to place some protection in, with the slings/rope coming off the cliff, kinda like so: 

I've been doing some research on what type of cord to use for resligning some hexes, and I found something very surprising here. Basically, the paper seems to suggest that while the tensile strength of high performance cord vastly outperforms nylon, the strength once it's tied in any sort of knot is significantly less. It also suggests that while other materials might outperform nylon when new, several of them rapidly degrade when stressed, to a tensile strength well below ordinary nylon. Is this just a fluke? Is regular old 5mm nylon really the best choice with a rating, for example, of just 5.6 kN for slings? (Given the average breaking strength of a loop of 7mm nylon tied with a double fisherman's was rated at about 5/3 of the tensile strength, I'd think it's probably a -3-sigma rating pretty close to 9kN when tied... Obviously not tested though.) It seems odd that it isn't more well-known that nylon is the best choice if it's true... Everyone seems to swear by high performance rope for slinging chocks and setting anchors, but it seems the "high performance" rope might just offer a better sounding number than an actual performance increase. Has anyone had any experiences with cord failing on a piece of pro? What failed, when? What's worked? What do you trust? Does anyone have any other info on the failure of rope when in actual climbing configurations, and not just the tensile strength? 

While the content is clearly designed for entertainment you should check out The Slingshot Channel by Jörg Sprave. Many entries are hilariously ridiculous but if you look deeper (specifically the older videos) you'll see how powerful these tools can be as well as many varied and original designs. 

Tendovaginitis I'll quote a bit more because I think it's important information for you. Emphasis again mine: 

Some organizations feel that even two opposite-and-opposed screw-gate carabiners are insufficient, such as the Australian Professional Association of Climbing Instructors (PACI), who released a detailed paper on their recommended protocol: 

As far as I know there are no general authorities for the placement of fixed gear and bolts may have been placed well or poorly. There are however organizations that provide safety guidelines for placing and replacing bolts. Understand that while good bolts rarely fail there is always a good measure of faith involved. You should learn how to inspect bolts and check every one that life or limb will depend upon, though that's easier said than done in many cases and you may have to trust guide books and beta from other climbers as to the suitability of bolts along a route. It is my understanding that bolts are often not professionally placed, that is those placing them often have no specific training or certification in their correct application. A likely reason for this is liability mentioned on this Allied Climbers of San Diego page: 

Since I mostly climb trad style, I don't use quickdraws for leading outside of the gym. I use alpine quick draws (two biners joined by dyneema slings) which offer benefits of adjustable length, reduced rope drag, and most importantly reduced movement (which reduces the chance a piece of protection wanders out). There are some downsides to this, however: two of them being that gates of biners on alpine draws are more likely to open (at least with non-wiregate biners), and without the stabilizers found on ordinary quickdraws, the biners are more likely to move around (meaning the gate gets reversed or, even worse, ends up horizontal and a fall will load the gate—the reason I don't use wiregates for alpine draws). I've heard before that, because of the above, it makes sense to place a draw with a locking biner every so often when you're at a place where you have an extra second to do so (easy spot, maybe a ledge). What's everyone think of this? Anyone do this? Is it really necessary? Do you use two locking biners, or just one where the rope goes through? 

If I'm going on a four-day hike, I don't want to lug around a 15-lb cast iron dutch oven. I've thought of graniteware, but the handle on a saucepan is a bit bulky and makes packing it awkward. What do other people use?