and from 1976 (where there is a much stronger East-West divide than a North-South one, and the colours ae still reversed): 

This concept is actually regarded as one of the key advantages of the Roman Manipular line of battle compared to the Greek Phalanx. When the front line of maniples were starting to tire the 2nd line would advance through the gaps between the first line. This would be repeated through the course of the battle, slowly pushing the enemy backwards with each leapfrog. John H. Gill's 1809 - Thunder on the Danube, Vol. I on page 193 describes St. Hilaire employing this stratagem during the battle of Teugn-Heusen, April 19, 1809. The 3rd Ligne attacks the Austrians first in a pinning attack; followed by a more serious assault by the 57th Ligne that captures and holds the Buchberg. Meanwhile the 3rd Ligne reforms and with the 10th Leger, 72nd Ligne and 105th Ligne launches a third wave that pushes the defending Austrians first through and then out of the neck of woods between the Buchberg and Hausen. The usual variant on the stratagem was for a second line to advance through the gaps in the first line, this being regarded as safer than having the first line attempt to disengage while still in primary contact with the enemy. Another standard use of this stratagem is the use of light cavalry to cover a retreat. The light cavalry charges through the gaps in the infantry line and engages the enemy long enough to allow safe disengagement by said infantry. Next the cavalry disengages and reforms some hundreds of yards back to freeze the enemy advance, before itself withdrawing. No Napoleonic or Frederickian commander could be regarded as competent who did not have this tactic in his kit. The Charge of the Heavy Brigades (Household and Union) at Waterloo is another classic example of how to employ this stratagem to effect. Both D'Erlon's I corps and the British heavy cavalry are effectively hors de combat for the remainder of the afternoon, but the consequent limiting of Napoleon's options buys Wellington more time. Update: The evolution of tactics from the Frederickian linear model to the Napoleonic battalion model is nothing less than a modern example of the evolution of the Greek phalanx into the Roman maniple, and then cohort. It created gaps in the line that were too small for the enemy to make effective use of, but through which friendly artillery, cavalry and relieving infantry could advance to allow the original line to disengage. In the latter part of the 20th century this stratagem migrated all the way down to the squad level; one sees it in use during the standard squad leapfrog so popular in WWII movies, where half the squad provides covering fire while the other half advances, and then the roles reverse. Update #2 - The Conquest of Gaul: In Chapter 5 (of my translation) Failure in the Alps (57 BC), 4th paragraph, Caesar writes: 

It is clear from these excerpts, as well as the remainder of this excellent paper, that not only were the basic laws well understood, the proper proceedings to be performed after a violation were as well. As today, there were specialized societal roles - Sheriffs, Coroners, Lawyers, and Judges - tasked with expert knowledge in various aspects of the Law. Every county seat would be visited twice yearly for an assize by appointed Justices, to deal with all pending cases. Additionally, there was a fundamental understanding of many consequences of the existing Laws that were well understood by the populace at large. (pp 424-5) 

Here are six brothers, sons of Abdul Aziz (1902-53), who have been (and the most recent still is) Kings of Saudi Arabia: 

How about the ouster of Reza Shah Pahlavi in favour of his son Mohammed Reza Shah Pahlavi in 1941, by the British and Russians. 

Prior to independence in 1975, Surinam was a colony of the Kingdom of the Netherlands with no government of its own. A Governor General was appointed by the Dutch crown (in practice the Department of Overseas Territories), who co-governed with the assistance of the 15 member Estates of Surinam elected by the colonial elite. With the establishment of the Dutch Government in Exile under Queen Wilhelmina, both Dutch Guyana and Dutch East Indies (ie the future Indonesia) were administered as before evacuation of that government to London. After the establishment of the Vichy government in unconquered France, Wilhelmina took the action of replacing her Prime Minister, Dirk Jan de Geer, with Pieter Sjoerds Gerbrandy due to the defeatism of the former. All Dutch Colonies were administered by the eponymous department headed by the Minister of Colonies, a position also held by Gerbrandy in the Government in Exile. The timeline suggests that recognition of jurisdiction over Surinam by the Dutch Government in Exile, even through the American occupation of the colony for most of the war, was de facto in exchange for that body signing the Atlantic Charter, under which the signing colonial powers agreed to end colonial relations with their colonies post-war. 

The destruction of the World Trade Centre Twin Towers, and attempted destruction of the Pentagon, on Sept. 11, 2001. 

They are termed camp followers and have followed armies since before Ramses II at Kadesh. Modern armies travel with long tails of official logistical services - cooks, tailors, smiths, armourers, teamsters, nurses, physicians & surgeons, etc. - that in earlier times were provided by civilian camp followers, but wives, children, mistresses and others have also been present since time immemorial. American armies has been more prudish than most in their regard (notably only after the Revolutionary War), and European armies in general have usually declined to officially supply comfort women to their troops. However armies have always been a profitable place to find lonely young men with money to burn, especially after a victory. Wives have often found it worthwhile to follow their men to guard their husbands from temptation and share their tribulations, as Martha Washington did at Valley Forge. Marshal Massena's mistress always followed a day or two behind her husband while on campaign, except when accompanying him more directly dressed as a male soldier. During the Napoleonic Wars camp followers were commonly found behind all armies as at Waterloo. During preparations for the 1812 Russian campaign: 

The Counter Reformation in Europe culminated in the murderous, no-holds-barred, Thirty Years War. That war ended with the signing of the Treaty of Westphalia in 1648, and ushered in a period of religious tolerance in Europe that, exclusive of Ireland, lasted for over three hundred years into the 20th Century. Note that the Treaty of Westphalia also occurred contemporary to, perhaps not coincidentally, the beginning of The (Age of) Enlightenment. Although Europe would continue to experience a succession of wars over the next few hundred years, these would be of a very different character from those of the 16th and early 17th century - they would no longer be religious wars, and they would be fought for limited ends and with limited means. Not until the 20th Century would the concept of Total War again enter the European mindset. The religious intolerance and bloodshed of the preceding sesqui-century ended. Some discrimination persisted, but across most of Europe the concept that everyone could adhere to a religion consistent with one's conscience was accepted. It's true that European monarchy's favourite hobby remained warfare - but it was now about politics and personal grandeur instead of religion. Note here that there are only six heretics burned in Catholic and Protestant European countries post-1648: 

In the terminology of the time, a fair copy was the (error and correction free) copy made, for distribution, after all drafts were complete. In high school I belonged to the club that volunteered to hand-set and print the school's brochures, flyers, and event programs on an ancient hand press. Modest experience only; but based on that I estimate that an experienced typesetter was no more than only a fifth or tenth as fast as a good calligrapher in producing a document. While multiple pages could be set in parallel by multiple setters, that is difficult to do for a single page. My guess is that a first fair copy was penned by Jefferson from the drafts for signing, and then either it or a second was supplied to the typesetters for working from.