Our ancestors without modern instrumentation figured out a bunch about the Earth as soon as they developed sufficiently advanced math to calculate the Earth's shape. They did this just using logic, math, and geometry. It might have helped conceptually but I'm not sure that a ring system would have accelerated these discoveries & calculations by much. 

Concept Or for another perspective is based upon The Millennial Project: Colonizing the Galaxy in Eight Easy Steps - specifically the section on a space colony (I believe it is Step 4). Consider the much of the terrestrial radiation shielding comes from its thick atmosphere. If you wished to have an extraterrestrial habitat with the same level of radiation shielding, then it would need about the same amount of radiation shielding. You can create such radiation protection out of gases if you don't mind it being hundreds of miles thick. However, you could build it just 32 feet thick if you use water instead. So imagine a giant hollow water drop. The water serves many essential purposes with radiation shielding being one of them. Interestingly, the water is transparent so it will transmit light for any gardens you wish to grow inside your water drop. Your hollow water drop will require membranes (hopefully self-sealing) on both the outer and inner surfaces to keep the water where you want it. Scaling When I ran through the calculations to find a body whose self-gravitation would completely compensate for an interior membrane pressure of 1 atmosphere, I got something ridiculous like r = 32,000 km. This would be about the size and mass of Uranus. Clearly most of the space of such a large body would be unusable (either that or I made an error in my calculations). So it'd be better if you instead scaled the thing so that the center was still habitable. Unfortunately, the integration requires me to do too much work so let's hope someone else will do it for us. My guess is that it could be as large as 200 - 400 km in diameter. 

These natural electric currents are exploited for FTL travel. In simple terms, starships travel inside a magnetic bubble along an electric current to a nearby star, drop the bubble just in time to turn via gravity/slingshot, and then follow another electric rope to the next star. A few star systems (early Type II on the Kardashev scale) have created super-highways by strengthening the weak Birkland current between two distant stars. They can now skip past the connecting stars and travel directly hub to hub. Assuming navigational stars are average 5 light years apart, let's estimate a super-highway at 20 to 25 light years. My question is about the devices they use to do this. the device, I think...? I am picturing something like AC transformers, a mega-structure in space that converts the stars' electricity to a higher voltage, with a synchronized transformer at the other end. I'm not an electrical engineer so please correct me if I'm using the wrong electrical analogy. This is my placeholder artwork from an earlier draft: 

First a brief explanation of what flickering is: Flickering is caused by transient changes in light intensity. It is much more common to see flickering in small / point sources of light (e.g. stars or planets) because very small atmospheric changes affect all light arriving from that source. Similar small atmospheric disturbances usually don't affect all the light coming from non-point sources like the moon. Causes The most simple and plausible causes of "moon flicker" (changing brightness) would fall into one of these categories: 

Other people looked carefully at the amount of materials required and found that it would not be unreasonable to make a "bridge to the stars." However, there's more to this than just building the bridge. You also need some sort of vehicle to traverse the bridge. Yes Bridge Crawlers In most ways the devices used to move stuff along the bridge to the stars would act like elevators (just like for a space elevator). I assume that this would be the case for your bridge to the stars. Eliminates Propellant Needs The most important benefit of using elevator cars to crawl on your bridge to the stars is that it removes the need to bring along propellants - since the bridge becomes your propellant. You will still need to bring the other stuff you require to survive in space (life support, power, etc.). Might eliminate the need to generate power Depending upon how you make your bridge, you may be able to transmit electrical power through the lalalaicanthearyouium structure of the bridge. Lalalaicanthearyouium had better be a superconductor though or transmission losses will kill you, lol. Conclusion Basically, not only are the material requirements reasonable, building one would actually make the travel easier. We just need to pretend stellar motion doesn't occur :) 

If you want a historical answer look to Sparta. At birth, any "imperfect" babies were tossed from a cliff. At age 7 male children were kicked out of the village and lived like animals in the outlying areas, fending for themselves, stealing, and forging bonds with older boys. At 14 they are allowed to return to society by surviving a gauntlet of the whole village beating them while they try to steal cheese, then the real training begins. It's estimated the Spartans weeded out their own men down to only the "top" 30%, or in other words only 3 in 10 boys survived to adulthood. The ironic part is that Spartan women, while not given the same harsh treatment, do not cower from these "supermen" but instead all turned out to be ballbusters who filled in the various vacant roles in their society. Although not treated as equals, the women exercised along with the men, and ate the same meat as the men, and at least in some cases owned property, horses, businesses – this was unheard of in the rest of Greece. Although not allowed to directly compete a Spartan woman sponsored horses in the olympics. And the most flagrant display of female independence in history was by a Spartan Queen named Helen of Troy. Any breeding program to create superior men would eventually consider the superior women that birth them (and they might actually take pride in it). Grabbing random women off the street seems to be at complete odds with eugenics, not to mention a traumatized unwilling virgin mother doesn't sound like a healthy baby factory. I suggest more women than men in your program (at least double), with possibly a lot of brainwashing over how healthy and fit they must be to provide babies for the cause. They would be kept separate from the men, or rather the men would be kept separate from the women for reasons any farmer knows. 

Unless there's a serious error in our current understanding of physics, interstellar travel is going to be exceedingly difficult. In a previous answer on the WB site I ballparked it at $3,750 Trillion (many decades of the entire Earth's combined GDP). At such high costs, pretty much any physical objects in other star systems (e.g. minerals, living space, etc.) are simply not worth pursuing. Add to that the fact that two technological civilizations are perfectly capable of transmitting knowledge using radio, laser, or equivalent exceedingly cheaply. Meaning trading information doesn't require interstellar voyages either. What that leaves us with is something more like the motivations of the monolith makers in Arthur C. Clarke's 2001: A Space Odyssey. In those books the monolith makers treasured the spark of intelligence itself and planted the monoliths to aid in blowing on the embers of fledgling intelligences and notifying its makers when those embers ignited into a new intelligence. IMO, the only rational and self-consistent reason for expending the effort of interstellar travel in the events of your book would be the preservation of this spark of diversity. 

She needs to introduce hygiene to the medical profession before it becomes institutionalized. Perhaps she could become a housekeeper for a leading barber/surgeon. As part of her household duties she insists on sterilizing his tools, which he doesn't object to because she lays them neatly on a tray and assists him in a very organized fashion which also impresses his patients. She has some strange house rules about cleaning the hands, but again she is so efficient and flattering that he concedes to these minor demands. She is also very attractive and has the most perfect teeth of any person he has ever met, so he falls in love with her and is willing to accept some odd quirks. To the mothers and wives of the patients, our Dentist secretly gives advice on how to keep the wounds clean and care for the healing with herbs and boiled water, tinctures and ointments (who knows, maybe this becomes a side business and she is silent-partners with an apothecary). After a decade or two the barber-surgeon is so successful everyone is talking about it, and the King takes notice. Let's say that King is Henry VIII, who decides to organize all the barber-surgeons into a single guild. This actually happened in 1540. 

I'm not sure we need to discuss solvents in this answer. This article shows that humans found a bacteria that extracts gold from its environment and then coats itself with it. If we extrapolate this ability to a eukaryotic being's nerves, then we could get nerve cells coated in highly conductive metals (probably copper - since it's more available and already used in the body). Once these cells are coated in a highly conductive material, it's easy to see that any electrical impulses passing through that cell will preferentially travel the path of least resistance (through the metal exoskeleton). The problem is, most of the delay in nerve transmissions are due to the signal jumping the gap between cells and NOT the electrical impulse traversing the cell. 

Neutron stars are natural objects, humans are incapable of producing them. Neutron star would wipe out the Earth. The minimum stable neutron star mass is ~$ 1.44 M_{\odot} $ Neutron stars are the remains of supernovae as are most exotic elements The Earth would be destroyed by gravitational disruption. 

I think you've mixed your metaphors.... Ships are not whales. Harpoons did not drag a whale any significant distance, actually the opposite: a harpooned whale dragged a small boat with the harpoon men aboard (called a sleigh ride) until it gave up from exhaustion and floated on the surface, vulnerable. The whaling ship caught up with them and processed the dead or dying whale on the ship before dumping the carcass at sea. Harpoons aren't tow lines for large heavy objects. The problem isn't rope strength, the whale's flesh (and by metaphor your ship hull) would tear apart where the harpoon had penetrated long before the rope broke. Piracy does not mean dragging a ship back to base, that only makes sense if the ship is salvage and has no power. Your pirates are sitting ducks while acting as a tow truck, not just from a space navy but from other pirates. Piracy generally means one of two things: capturing a ship to steal it, or (more often) temporarily disabling a ship to board it for loot and taking any passengers who could be ransomed. In reality, intercepting and boarding another ship would be impossible at interstellar speeds without catastrophic impact, so ignoring that small technical issue we still have two main strategies: 

However, stories written this way tend to have more problems with internal consistency than those written with the top down approach. Top-down approach: If you plan to generate lots of material about your world/universe and wish for it to all remain consistent, it's usually better to use the Top Down approach. Other thoughts If none of the approaches suggested in the reference materials work for you, realize that many authors often just start by doing whatever they love first and then fill in the blanks around what they created. For instance, JRR Tolkien first developed the languages for his novels because he loved languages. Later he developed the mythology to go with those languages and filled in the blanks. 

A note on tides: When I said this configuration has no tides, I only mean this in the sense of terrestrial water tides. The reality is the egg shape of the planets is one giant tide. However, since the planet rotates at the same speed as this tide, then the inhabitants won't really notice that change. OTOH, if the planets haven't completed tidal locking and one or both are librating around this tidally locked configuration, the waves would be devastating. There would be tremendous heating of the crust, 10.0+ magnitude earthquakes, volcanoes, etc. In fact, the surface might not be livable. Water would be flowing in giant waves ala Miller's Planet from Interstellar. Giant wave from rotational libration around tidal locked configuration: 

Since everyone else is saying gravity, I will suggest ELECTRICITY. Make your FTL drive dependent on leveraging a sun's magnetic field lines into a particle accelerator. Similar to all the gravity-well suggestions except the ionized solar wind is the polarizing force that aims the ship away from a star during acceleration, and towards the other star during deceleration. It only works on the star, not a planet, because the star is the dominant magnetic field. At FTL speeds you can't stop halfway to visit a planet, it would be like a ball stopping in mid-air. 

My habitat ring is constructed in orbit around a planet with disconnected sections: (not to scale, obviously) 

Well, this is what wolves do. After being loyal to the pack leader, eventually a mature wolf will challenge the aging alpha for top spot. Can be male or female. And since most wolves would have been born into the pack and only the alpha pair breed, the challenger is invariably an offspring. 

Some think that Ceres' water ice layer may include a water liquid layer. In which case, a planet like this could generate a magnetic field like that of ice giants. Such a planet would contain a solid silicate - metal core, liquid water inner mantle, icy outer mantle, and rocky crust. 

Maximize the space available for human settlement Minimize risks of environmental system failures For long-term habitability of the colony 

48 msec Approach So what you'll want is a multifrequency laser. Since there is no such thing, then what you'll do is use a MASER (microwave amplification by the stimulated emission of radiation - a microwave laser) plus an IR or optical laser. The purpose of the microwave is to deposit heat through the depth of the bread. The purpose of the IR/optical laser is to brown the surface and make it toasty. Powerful lasers I know there are IR lasers at least 10x more powerful and probably MIRACL (mid-infrared advanced chemical laser) is 100x more powerful than this one. Pretty picture of a 15 KW $CO_2$ laser.