You got some very good answers already. I just want to point out this: The "temperature" of a black hole is more like just "a way of speaking". It's not temperature as normally understood. There is this process called the Hawking radiation where vacuum near a black hole produces a stream of particles, borrowing energy from the black hole's gravity to create those particles - and so it appears like the black hole "emits" radiation. Since this is radiation, you could in theory measure its temperature. But that's just the temperature of the Hawking radiation. Obviously you couldn't stick a thermometer into a black hole. 

The intuition in the question seems to be that if stars get lighter and this makes orbits widen, maybe the same effect explains why the universe "widens". Stars are converting some of their mass into light, but this is a small fraction: the efficiency of fusion is about 0.5-1% of mass into energy. And many stars will not burn all the fusible matter in any case. Brighter stars also tend to lose mass through stellar winds, reaching rates up to $10%{-6} M_\odot$ per year or above. Starlight tends to escape galaxies, while the stellar winds mostly feed the interstellar medium. Most mass hence remains in the galaxies and stellar activities cannot explain their accelerating expansion. The small amount of escaping starlight and very hot gas does make galaxies a bit less strongly bound in clusters, but it is small compared to estimated dark matter halo masses and (maybe) infall of intergalactic gas. 

One criterion that works well is the presence or absence of smaller craters inside. If the crater is clean, it's probably new. If it's full of smaller craters, it's old. This applies to planets and satellites with no atmosphere, or with a rarefied atmosphere. 

Electronic viewfinders (such as the ones using LCD or OLED screens) are excluded from this discussion. There's no danger of eye injury there, except perhaps danger of damaging the camera's sensor if exposure is very long and the lens aperture is big. It's the classic or optical viewfinders that are targeted by the warning. 

Yes, a droplet of water would do that. However, at the planetary scale, the contribution of superficial tension is negligible. At that scale, gravity dominates all other forces. In fact, you could model a planet as a loose mass or rubble, kept together by gravity alone, and the model would be very close to reality. 

Is there any reputable published source on expected elemental abundances at the end of the era of stellar fusion? I am here interested in the contents of galaxies; much of intergalactic gas will be lost and remain primordial. Adams & Laughlin mention estimates of Timms that the final chemical composition will be $X\sim 0.2, Y \sim 0.6, Z \sim 0.2$ but does not analyse the composition in much detail beyond the chemical evolution of white dwarfs (which mostly happens in the later degenerate era). Fukugita and Peebles also make use of a very approximate estimate. It seems entirely doable to run an IMF model, add some intergalactic gas infall assumpptions, add some recycling assumptions for different mass classes, generate a composition and iterate until a limiting value. But it also seems to be a lot of work that I strongly suspect somebody has already done somewhere far better than I could do. Another, very crude, approach might be to argue that since we know the cosmic element abundances today after 13.6 billion years of stellar activity we can rescale them to a limiting value: $A(t)=A(\infty)(1-e^{-t/\tau})$ where $\tau$ is the timeconstant of stellar elemental conversion. That would give the desired $A(\infty)=A(t_\mathrm{now})/(1-e^{-t_\mathrm{now}/\tau})$ (at least for metals; hydrogen and helium would be depleted). This assumes that the rate of conversion does not change (highly doubtful, since it will be more red dwarf conversion of hydrogen to just helium in the future than in the past where many more heavy stars formed due to the peak of SFR). If we use the estimate that $Z$ will increase by a factor of 10 from the current $Z\approx 0.02$ we get $\tau=1.3097\cdot 10^{11}$ years which seems reasonable, and of course just $A(\infty)=10A(t_\mathrm{now})$. That would for example make 10% of the mass oxygen and 4.6% carbon. But it would be underestimating the r-elements produced in neutron star collisions (since these were more rare in the past) and cosmic ray spallation elements. 

The Sun outputs several different kinds of things. Electromagnetic radiation The Sun is (partially) a black-body radiator at a temperature of near 6000 K, and therefore emits all sorts of electromagnetic energy, including UV and X rays. 

I make telescopes and telescope optics (mirrors). The question is actually pretty complex. I get it a lot, because most people believe magnification is the end-all-be-all of telescopes, but reality is a little different. Here's what I mean by that: You are correct that the actual magnification of the instrument (how much bigger the image is compared to the object) is given by the formula: 

So what can you do with such a setup? Comet- or asteroid-hunting works pretty well. Terry Lovejoy has discovered several comets recently using equipment and techniques as described above. Here's Terry talking about his work. Tracking variable stars is also open to amateurs. This could also be done visually, without any camera, just a dob, meticulous note-taking, and lots of patience. With a bit of luck, you could also be the person who discovers a new supernova in a nearby galaxy. You don't need professional instruments, you just need to happen to point the scope in the right direction at the right time and be the first to report it. This also could be done purely visually, no camera, just a dob. 

Mars currently has albedo 0.250, 81.7% of Earth's somewhat brighter 0.3. A terraformed Mars would presumably have a similar albedo. That would make it slightly brighter and bluer, about 0.2 ($2.5\log_{10}(0.3/0.25)$) magnitudes brighter. But this is not going to change the overall magnitude ($\approx -3$ at most) much. Various aspects of the terraforming assumptions may nudge this up (more ice, extra light from solar mirrors) or down (less clouds? deliberate ice darkening?) 

Black holes can orbit each other (we know this from the gravitational waves from their eventual mergers) and there is no particular reason against a small black hole passing through the ergosphere of a large black hole. The main problem is avoiding a merger. The the two-black hole spacetime has no analytic solution and numeric simulations are messy, but a merger will definitely happen if the event horizons overlap. In any case, a rotating black hole has an ergosphere with an equatorial radius of $2GM/c^2$ and event horizon somewhere between this and the limiting radius $GM/c^2$. If we use the extremal case, then we can presumably just barely fit in nearly an identical mass and rotation black hole in the ergosphere. More likely a much smaller black hole could fit in. The direction of rotation would matter for the dynamics, since counter-rotating black holes would tend to coalesce (see this page for a plot of the relevant radii and where the innermost stable circular orbits are). A single black hole passing through the ergoregion would not be able to perform the Penrose process, but we can imagine a binary black hole pair that is ripped apart by tidal forces and then presumably the remaining hole would be ejected with a lot of energy. So, yes, we could get fast small black holes this way. In practice this system would lose a lot of energy through gravitational waves, making it likely that the holes would coalesce anyway. The exact limits require numerical relativity simulations to estimate, and this one would be a tough one. (Note that the gravitational waves also carry away energy, up to 1/8 of the total mass of two equal-sized holes merging, but this energy is very hard to capture. Penrose did note in his classic paper that Misner was first in proposing black hole mining using a variant of this.) 

I was reluctant to do an answer because I do not own a NexStar 8 SE, so I can't speak from direct experience. But this information may prove valuable, so here it is. The smaller NexStar scopes (like the 4) can be used tabletop-style. The scope is small enough so that the base is sitting just fine on a flat surface. The 8 might be a little too big for that - I'm not 100% sure. However, if that's the case, there's a simple remedy. Take a piece of plywood or plastic, bigger than the base, thick enough to be rigid, and improvise a way to attach it to the scope base (use bolts / nuts with the same thread as the ones on the tripod). The wider area should stabilize it, and the extra piece of material is flat and easy to carry. At your local home improvement store they surely carry plywood conveniently cut into round pieces of various diameters. Just get one of those, get the appropriate size bolts and washers, and that should be it. Maybe put 3 pads on the bottom of the plywood so it doesn't sit on the bolt heads. Get a spray can of shellac or urethane and give it a nice protective coating when you're done. The NexStar mount should withstand the challenges of travel pretty well. It's the optics I'm more worried about. As others have said, most tables are too wobbly for astronomy. Use a sturdy table, or some surface that doesn't move around, like the wide edge of a concrete balcony or something. 

The gravitational binding energy of a solar mass star of uniform density is $3GM^2/5R = 2.2774\times 10^{41}$ Joule. The energy of a typical supernova is $10^{44}$ J. So it looks at first glance like the explosion could disperse the other star... ...except that this assumes more than a thousandth of the supernova energy is absorbed and does work on the star. If the other star is more than 16 stellar radii away then it will definitely not be hit by this much energy. And even if it is close enough, converting radiation to mass lift is not going to be efficient. The nova will mainly heat up the surface layer down a few optical depths, meaning a few thousand kilometers get very hot but it is doubtful this does more than push the star away a bit and induces some wobble. 

There are two main obstacles to doing astronomy at the bottom of an ocean of air: atmospheric turbulence (a.k.a. "seeing") and light pollution. Seeing affects observing high resolution objects such as planets and double stars when seen in telescopes. It's caused by air eddies and vortices that muddy the image. It's of no interest here so we can ignore it for this discussion. Light pollution affects observing faint objects such as galaxies (including our own), nebulae, and star clusters. It's caused by light from artificial sources (city lights, industrial lights, cars, etc) going up, being reflected on particles in the air, then going back down. It makes the sky seem to "glow". It drowns out those objects which are not very bright - and galaxies tend to not be bright. There's only one way to avoid light pollution: go far away from human settlements and facilities. The desert and the open sea are not light polluted. Google "light pollution map" for some websites that will help you choose a dark site. Here's one example out of many: $URL$ Recently I've visited Death Valley. The surrounding area has essentially zero light pollution. Even driving 30 minutes out of Ridgecrest you're already under a very dark sky. I took the opportunity to show my kids how a dark sky really looks like. The Milky Way is very clearly visible. Wherever you look, there are stars upon stars. Take a pair of binoculars, point them at random places in the sky, and even more stars are visible. There are star clusters that you could chance upon just by sweeping the sky with the binoculars, and they look like someone threw a handful of diamonds on black velvet. Little shooting stars are visible often. It's extraordinary. 

The second is an interloper moving more slowly, with speed 1. Now the binary moves along more, and the interaction causes a quasiperiodic oscillation in seimajor axis. Just dropping the interloper with zero velocity makes it bound to the binary, oscillating back and forth, driving complex quasiperiodic or chaotic motion. It is possible to make the pair scatter by throwing in a sufficiently heavy interloper with enough momentum that first drags the binaries close, transfers enough momentum to unbind the system, and then passes along. Of course, if the direction is not exactly symmetric things can turn messy. Note that there are non-chaotic solutions too. To sum up, interlopers can deposit energy and momentum, split binaries, or create chaotic tangles. But it is not the barycenter that is the important part. 

The 10 mm ocular should work fine. It will give you 60x of magnification. The 5 mm ocular is probably a bit too much for this scope. You can definitely try it, but the expectation here is that the image will be a bit too washed out. With 50 mm of aperture you can't really expect to push magnification much above 100x (twice the aperture in mm), and even at around 100x it would work only if it's a high performance instrument. But, like I said, try and see what happens. What you can see in 50 mm of aperture: You will see the phases of Venus. It will look like the Moon, just very tiny. This is best done when Venus is at the greatest distance from the Sun, and then it will look like a disk cut in half. Jupiter - you will definitely see the disk. Seeing the equatorial belts will be more challenging, but it should be doable; it may take a few attempts if it doesn't work on first try. Jupiter is low contrast and it's hard to see its features. Let the image float through the field of view, relax and just take it in; after a few minutes your brain adapts to the view and starts perceiving more details. Jupiter's moons are definitely visible, like 4 tiny stars that seem to follow the planet around. Sometimes some of them are hidden, so don't be surprised if you can't see them all. Saturn's ring is clearly visible. You won't see details such as the Cassini division, but the ring itself will be shown across the planet's disk. The Moon is an excellent target for telescopes of all sizes, and there's a lot to explore there. Mars will probably not show a lot of details in 50 mm of aperture. Anyway, this planet is only worth observing for a few weeks around each opposition, which happens once every two years (plus a few weeks). At best you will resolve Mars as a tiny brick-red disk, but I doubt you'll see terrain features. But go ahead and give it a try; when the Hellas Basin is full of fog, or frosted over, it's very bright, so in a small aperture it might be perceived as a white speck of light on one side of the disk. (I'm actually kind of curious myself if this would work. I'll give it a try next time around, since I have a few 50 mm doublets to play with.)