hinting this to most of the prospective employer sounds to them like a "hey, change your entire Excel based workflow just to accommodate for my brilliant capacity with MatLab!". Together with soft skills you may lack or need to develop (as suggested in other answers), they need to be convinced that you fit in their organization, not that their organization can easily adapt to your way of working. And don't forget, of course, that there can be other candidates more qualified than you. 

As opposed to other answer, and also based on what I have done for positions I really cared about, I say there is no harm in asking a more detailed feedback on your rejection. Worst case is that they will ignore your request, best case is that you will get more information. Just mind that you phrase your request making clear you want to improve yourself, not judging their selection criteria. 

Whoever will handle your resume will only care of one thing: can he/she open the file to read it? As long as you send your resume in a format that is well known you should not really be worried about the editor you use. Also note that most online forms for applications allow you to attach a variety of file formats, among which .pdf is always present. Things might be a little different for a limited set of positions (i.e. Apple is known for "convincing" their employee to use only and always Apple devices, so I am not sure how a Word file would be perceived there). 

No, don't go straight to the point asking about their reputation. If you want to have some information on the work environment, you can for example ask what is the turnover rate for the office you are joining, or ask the interviewers what they like and what they would improve in their job. Then try to read among the lines of their answers. 

Well, if they keep asking and they keep getting the info they want (with the added value of not having to pay a dime), why should they stop bothering you? Politely answer that 

Luckily enough, there is still no way to suck away knowledge from your head when you leave a job (mandatory Dilbert reference). The certification for each training has your name on it, and you have also the related knowledge. The only thing the company can do is to request a partial refund of the training cost (where I work it is normal for generic training to be due a reimbursement upon leaving the job in the 3 years following the training), but this has to be specified upon signing up for the training or in the employment contract. For company specific trainings I doubt the training itself can be valuable outside that company, so I wouldn't bother asking twice about the certificate (i.e. some companies enforce a sneezing policy in their factories, which you probably won't need to have a certificate when you go working somewhere else) In all cases you should have already access to the certifications. Just print an hard copy as long as you have access rights (if it wasn't given to you upon completion) and use it. 

If your mind is really made up for leaving, there is no reason in playing with the fire and risking your perspective employer to doubt your commitment. If, as you say, it's the company tune that motivates you to leave, it is not an higher salary that will accommodate that. You are wasting time (yours, your current manager's, your future manager's) just to fiddle. If this comes to surface it won't praise your attitude. 

You make it sound as if it was expected from your colleagues. I cannot for one instant imagine your boss, or your service boss, asking this from you. For instance, it often happens that, at small companies, employees gather informally to buy coffee or drinks or what have you. That is just being socially "aware" as far as I am concerned. Now, if you don't feel like participating, which you are totally entitled to, just firmly, but friendly say something like: "I understand that this is the way you do that here, and look no offence, I will not participate since I don't use your kitchen/stuff and [some other reasons/or no reason at all]". It is your very own right, but then if everybody contributes and you are drinking the coffee there, don't be surprised if people give you the cold shoulder. If not, no worries, just say so. 

I do have an small internal question as to my way of reacting at my current workplace. We are small team with quite broadly defined roles, but with quite overlapping skills and competent members (or so I'd like to think). We are all technical members with a specific main skill though. I have a more senior outlook on the code side of things and believe I can structure and express a technical vision of the project. I am weaker on other aspects too, but that is ok, to each his own. I also have measurable years of service in the IT world. I do have a younger colleague, whom I know is competent, and whom insights I respect, but quite lacking in code quality and structure. He recently was struggling with an aspect of the code, quite ostensibly, and I happen to have implemented said aspect some time ago. I noticed that and proposed some help. He firmly refused said help. It does happen often, and I believe he wants to impose himself, or at least he fears for his competence being put to question - which I do not intent to do, really. He ended up indeed struggling with the problem. I do not want a small team going through power struggles. Now, I personally would like to help, I believe it brings the project further forward. It feels like the sensible, mature thing to do. Now two things: 

It is becoming clear that while he wants to learn, he is doing some harm to the project. It is not being noticed, nor do I want to make it go noticed: I respect the person and want to find a constructive solution. I also recognize that this all comes down to authority in the end. I do have a boss I should mention, who is keen to keep everything flat and equal. I have already expressed that while I believe in dynamism and equality, there comes a time one should take some lead in specific aspects. I have suggested for equality that the boss should give a lead to each of the member in it own best competence. For now the boss has refused, fearing some reactions. My question: is it ok to want to mentor, and if yes, is the way I tackle that mentoring correct ? 

I can simply accept said situation and ignore that. Don't believe it is the best for the project I should try to help in a more well meaning, subtle way 

So I am in my early 30s and live in Florida. I have a BS degree in a IT field and have about 3 years of experience working since I graduated. I am also a honorably discharged veteran. I was the top employee at the 2 jobs I have worked at since graduated and am extremely driven and want to devote all my efforts to my job as I started late in the game and went in the military - did not graduate until I was around 30. I did interview over the phone and was told to come in next day as they wanted me for the position and thought I was the best applicant by a long shot. I started working as a consultant and worked for about 5 days. The pay is not that good - at least since it is only a few dollars more than my previous job. Although I am a very good worker and have not had any issues in either previous jobs I do have arrests from when 5-6 years ago. I had multiple DUI charges and a few minor charges (all misdemeanors) and nothing related to theft or anything that would say that I am not honest or a bad person etc. My credit is also not that good and I am working to get that improved as I did not realize how important the score is until getting out of the service and not being as responsible with payments/credit as I should have. Anyways, I was given a pretty large list of tasks and was working each day for many hours even though it was originally stated as a part time position. However, the day after I signed the form for a background check, I spoke to the person who hired me, and they said to not come in until the next week (4 days) as they were going to be out of the country. I have also been in contact with another employee in the office and they seem the same as when I had been working in the office with them. I am very worried at this point as I just sensed it odd that there was alot of tasks they wanted done ASAP and most were in the office - and then when asking if I should go into the office to work on these tasks for the next few work days, they said to just come in at the start of next week. The last thing I have heard is from the other person in the office who is still very nice and helpful and said to contact the person who hired me (main person in charge below owners) at the start of the next working week at a certain time early in the morning to see when they wanted me to come in again. Sorry for long post - I tend to write alot, but I would like any feedback if anyone takes the time to read my situation. Thanks for your time if you did read this post. I just found this site and will spend some time reading other similar situations if I can find them on here. -A Concerned new employee who just started a great job and worried I may be let go already even though I have not done anything wrong on the job