Well there is this site that I've used - $URL$ But as likely as everybody else will tell you, go play and train - that's how you're going to improve it. I'm a runner and running made my reaction times with legs and balance really great - literally I can count on my hand how many times a year I fell on my butt, even during the winter. Here are some apps but they do the same as the web site: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

You didn't give enough information as in what is your physical fitness and how long have you been doing this. Also running on empty stomach should normally feel like that most of the time unless you are an endurance athlete and have been doing it for some time. Also no age, training plan and what is your goal, even for how long after 20 mins. are you running and with what speed or for what distance. In short. That's exactly the time - around 25 min. from the start of a run when the body switches your metabolism to burn more fat. This switch could be quite noticeable if you are still a beginner in running which seems like it. Sources: $URL$ 

I'm assuming that you've just started running? Since this is your first 10k ever. As you've noted - an injury is imminent. And as people in the comments have said - every person's body is different. You are increasing your mileage very steeply and rapidly which is the bigger concern, not so much as the speed. Your body will break at some point somewhere with these 5 times per week runs. Take all the hype a bit down and don't increase the week mileage by more than 15-20%. I get what you are experiencing, which is the "runner's high" and it can give you crazy motivation but be objective about it. As a fellow runner I have made the mistake to increase rapidly the distance per week many times and this has always led back to 2-3 weeks of resting without runs because of some injury. You can try and switch at some point from 5 training days to 3 because the body will start failing with recovery and couldn't cope with such a rapid increase in the distance. (also with the sprints, read below) As you want to increase your speed, you need to do speed exercises and not so much mileage. You should look around the Internet for speed training programs for 5k and 10k but in general here's what you have to do: Sprints, SPRINTS, SPRINTS!!! For starters you could incorporate a 10x50m sprint after your normal runs. (you should try and run at about 80% intensity during sprinting, so that you won't die and throw up at the second sprint :D) Warm up, I mean it! Mandatory 5 mins. warm up before the start of running. Also before starting any kind of sprint run at least 1k to kickstart that body and switch to running mode - this is after the mandatory warm up. Some days you could skip entirely the long runs (honestly, you need just one long run per week 10-12-15km.) and after the 5 min. warm up and a 1k. run just start sprinting. You can do several types of sprints at which you'll get better over time as you progress. Firstly try 10x600m with 3 mins. rest between sprints (during the rest you could walk and breathe, don't just stay in one place) with about 80% intensity. Then there is the 5x1km. sprints but these are a bit more advanced and you should first do the 600m ones. Again 3 mins. rest with 80% intensity or more. Then there are the 10x100m sprints with incline, on some hill or something and you give everything you have there, go down the hill and repeat. Recovery after sprinting is going to be really bad, you will see. So no running on the next day. So, let's summarize what you could do in 4 days of training per week: 

Me: I am 191cm 71kg. I am fairly defined except my stomach. My training: I currently do heavy free weight sessions 4 times a week: chest, back/arms, legs and shoulders/arms. My diet: High protein/medium carb diet of mainly turkey, fish, rice, potatoes and eggs. No protein shakes (allergic). I am going on holiday in 2 weeks and would like my stomach to look its best and it currently does not look great due to some bad eating. So basically I want to drop as much fat on my stomach as is possible without loosing existing muscle tissue and am willing to work for it. From the internet I have read interval workouts on treadmill/cross trainer and eliminating all carbs. Does anyone have any ideas how to achieve this and fast? Should I take a break from weight training altogether or just add interval training or what? 

The reason is similar to why ready-cooked meals are not good for you - because they are processed and contain ingredients which are used to keep everything together for long periods of time. e.g. if you cooked a lovely salmon steak, vegies and rice and put it in the fridge and then you bought the same ready-cooked meal and placed it in the fridge. Your home made meal would last far less time because the bought one contains special substances to keep it fresh which may and may not be good or necessary for you! Also imagine you placed your home-cooked meal in it a blender and made it into a liquid food and then drank it you would not give your body enough time to process it and absorb the nutrients as it would flow through you system much faster. Also if you placed that processed meal in the fridge you could only leave it there a few days - meal replacement drinks are in power form and can last months because they have ingredients to keep it from going bad. 

Do maximum you can handle leg weight training. Massively heavy leg presses, single leg squats etc - basically a high intensity leg workout with the heaviest weights you can handle until fail (have a friend help) 

I have never heard of coffee hindering weight loss however if you are having any form of sugar or sweetener in your coffee that will most definitely affect the pace at which you lose weight because your body will turn that sugar into fat. If you drink coffee I would suggest you drink black coffee with no sugar and no sweeteners. The best time would be just before training because it will numb your muscles slightly and allow you to push yourself harder at the gym. The stretch marks are likely just due to your weight loss. You could try doing pilates, yoga and loads of cardio like running outside to tighten up. This is a good sign as you are loosing weight then. 

You won't be able to gain weight that fast, however you will be able to gain weight if you increase your calorie intake massively. If you don't care how you look you can read up about how Matt Damon and other actors put on weight by eating junk food all day. But hopefully you want to be healthy and be in shape, so you need to do massive compound exercises such as leg press, shoulder press and bench press with free weights. Then you need to eat every 2 hours mostly protein and carbs. Minimum 6 meals a day. I am talking 3 steaks, 4 chicken breasts, fruit, wholegrain pasta, cheese, 6 glasses of milk, 6 eggs - you literally have to be constantly feeding yourself. Then you need to organise your supplements - protein shakes 3 times a day etc.