This type of dry fly floatant powder is quite effective at drying off smaller flies. I believe it's the same silica gel that is used to keep packaged electronics dry. But I typically just press flies between folds of a cotton t-shirt briefly. This will draw most of the water out and restore "floatability" to the fly. It should also leave it dry enough to put back into storage. 

To gather nesting material - small twigs or fluffy seeds As a nesting location - good cover or protected location To eat insects that are attracted to the plants - flowering plants will be covered in insects which myriad birds eat - even when they are commonly known as seed eaters birds will look for the protein in insects. Heck, insects are a huge part of even a hummingbird's diet. To eat the seeds. This might feel like little more like putting out a feeder (which is undesirable), but in this case there won't be the massive quantities being dumped out at once. The plants will ripen their seeds over time and they may be of no interest to many rodents anyway. 

Here's a decent video detailing just how to do it: Basically filet it like any other fish. Remove the "dark meat" that is pungent and distasteful. Then remove the row of spines. Taste tests described in the video show that virtually everyone preferred asian carp (poached or fried) over the other varieties such as tilapia. Here's another one narrated with a great accent. 

Ignorance often breeds (uncontrollable and unnecessary) fear. It doesn't take much to learn about the significant dangers (and how to deal with them) in an area you will visit. Facts such as (in Southern California low desserts) no rattle snake bitten victim has ever died. (One exception concerned an "imported" rattlesnake) (In a similar vein, on average, from Alaska to S Mexico, only one person per year dies from shark attacks.) Many/most? venomous snake bites are "dry." The snake does not waste metabolically expensive venom and often the first bite is dry because it is not trying to kill you (you're not a food source) it's trying to escape from you. An angry snake, one that has been threatened for a long time - usually by an inebriated ignorant younger male person is a different matter - the snake will chew and inject all its venom, understandably so! (The boomslang was considered to be harmless until 1953 because so many people had been bitten without any symptoms. If you are not a small person (baby, child) and/or do not suffer allergies and/or are not decrepitly old, you have little to worry about. When it comes to not panicking, think about all the positive aspects that you can derive from knowing the "statistics" as above. From a few years of instructing people to (enjoy) scuba, I have found that telling people to be continually aware of and to control their breathing simply does not work. The breathing rate/quantity response with its positive feedback on breathing too fast/too deeply (essentially you are lowering your CO2, thus raising your pH to which your autonomic response is to feel more panicky and breathe even more so. In a situation, briefly take note of your breathing, is it too fast? too deep? too shallow? Don't "think" about your breathing continuously, your body is pretty good while your brain is in automatic. Look and concentrate on some smallish and slightly complex object that you can pick up to investigate, feel, smell etc. Use as many senses and as narrowly as you can. Humor (even dark humor) works. When I see a big shark, I look to see "how fat" it is. Fat = not hungry! (I hope) (They are or at least have all been not skinny so far.) In many situations I repeat the "mantra" - Rule # 1 Don't panic, Rule # 2 Don't panic, Rule #3 Don't panic, Rule # 4 OK you can panic now. Many people only panic if they have a receptive audience - it is a disguised plea for help. Be aware that "fearless" people are NOT courageous. They are usually ignorant. Fear and its display is not something to be ashamed of. A courageous person overcomes their fear. Sometimes if there are timid people about, it is good policy to hide your fear and/or the cause of your fear because you don't need additional problems (panicking companions) to have to deal with too. Excuse the crude grammar, punctuation, syntax, lack of references, non extant editing, split infinitives, post sentence prepositions etc - I have got too many other things to worry and get panicky over, at the moment. 

I forgot to post what we ended up doing here, so I'll do that now (better late than never) Basically, we slept two nights in Hottinger Alm, which is really close to Innsbruck. We took the "Nordkette” to Hungersberg, and from there we walked to Umbruggler Alm, had lunch, and continued on to Hottinger Alm. It's uphill, but the stop along the way made it reasonable. A few hours walking altogether. We made two short side trips to Bodensteinhutte (which has facilities, i.e. food) and to Achselboden Hut (which doesn't). We walked back to Innsbruck via a gentle biking path, stopping on the way to have lunch at Arzler Alm. All of this was done with my son on my back. Another thing we did, which wasn't in Innsbruck, was to do two trips from Pertisau (we took a train+bus to get there). On one day we bicycled to Gramai Alm (we rented bicycles and a carriage for our son) and on another we walked to Pletzachalm. This area is even easier to walk with kids, because the trails are paved, so you can even take them with a stroller. 

About twelve years ago, I went hiking in Sant Maurici National Park in the Pyrenees. It's the other National Park in the Pyrenees (the first is the one Wajurgmitr mentioned). There are two viable entrances to the park- from Boi in the west and Espot in the east - I started in Espot. There are ten or so refuges in the park, in which you can eat and sleep, but I think camping is also permitted under some circumstances. There are plenty of trails through the mountains, so a number of routes are possible. There's a famous circuit called the "Carros de foc" (Chariots of Fire) which covers a couple of the refuges and takes up to a week, so that might suit you. And the park's beautiful- I can attest to that. I slept in a refuge located on a peninsula, surrounded by clear lake water and mountains- I wish I remembered the name, but I think it's in the picture in the top of this (possibly useful) web site. This TripAdvisor thread describes one possible trek there - within it you can find this more detailed account. Finally, the book Hiking in Spain has some descriptions of the park- in the link you can find a relevant excerpt.