I was sitting among my friends when I realised none of them are mine. They will change or perish. I felt detached and disconnected. I no longer focused on what they were saying. I appeared absent minded to them. I appeared as one who doesn't understand or care or love. My question is : Why should I focus on people or serve people who are not mine ? 

Universe acts in this way because there is far greater suffering if we go down the wrong path. In order to remain on the right path ,the path leading to cessation of suffering,we must follow five precepts. We are sure we are correct because Buddha the great Teacher said so. You can test the validity of five precepts yourself but that would be a waste of time. 

If no one can stop the dissolution of Self from happening then we see that eventually everyone will attain Nirvana with or without a great teacher like Buddha. 

While describing Dhamma Buddha asks "Is what is impermanent suffering or happiness?" to which Ananda replies "suffering". My question is : Is what is impermanent always the cause of suffering? 

I guess I have found an answer in Manual of Buddhism by Hardy Spence(page 394). It mainly states that Upadana and Karma lives on after death, due to which another being is reproduced.However the exact mechanism is not known. 

You can be sure that Buddha woke up( got enlightenment) because after he attained nirvana he thought to himself that "I have attained Buddhaship. I am the teacher of three worlds. " 

When saying that the aggregate is not-Self are we not predicting the existence of a thing called Self? No, we are not predicting existence of Self. You are aware of what is Self. You identify Self as your body and/or You identify Self as feeling and/or You identify Self as consciousness and/or You identify Self as perception and/or You identify Self as mental fabrications. Self is already known to you.(If you do not identify your self with body, feelings,perception,consciousness,mental fabrications then you are already in the state of Anatta.) What we are saying is that your identification of Self with body , feeling , consciousness, perception , mental fabrications are wrong. Self is not body , feeling , consciousness , perception , mental fabrications. Now the question is what is Self? That you will have to find out by yourself by doing meditation. You will ultimately find that Sabbe Dhamma Anatta. There is nothing worth identifying as Self not even Nirvana. Therefore Self must have been like an illusion or error or a dream. Self is like a misconception. A false understanding of Self arises and we cure that misunderstanding by practicing Anatta. 

As per my understanding during his lifetime, Gautama Buddha, had attained Nibbana with residue. And after death he attained Parinibbana (or Nibbana with no residue). Nibbana with residue is defined as following : 

Nirguna Brahman and Nature of Tathagata can not be compared. Nirguna Brahman is said to exist. Tathagata is not said to be existing or non-existing. 

Everyone born in this world is bound to suffer. Mara tempted Buddha so many times to abandon his quest which he did not. Yet Mara herself never suffered due to her own Karma or due to her belief system. Mara is alive even today. My question is why not Mara, the tempter, suffers or suffered due to her belief system and actions ? 

Apart from right view of stress , origination of stress, cessation of stress and path to cessation of stress, I hold the view that humanity,which is under stress, must be saved. My question is :Am I holding the right view that humanity must be saved from stress? 

We describe all sufferings using dependent co-arising.But dependent co-arising of suffering of Gautama Buddha is only possible if Gautama Buddha had failed to achieve the complete cessation of ignorance. Because if he had completely destroyed the ignorance at the very beginning then suffering would have ceased automatically. 

Namo Buddhaya. If I ask you , who says that there is no self ? You will say Joseph Goldstein says so. If I ask you , who is Joseph Godlstein ? You will say the one who wrote the book. But if I ask you, is the Joseph Goldstein who wrote the book was same as the Joseph Goldstein who is present now ? You will say no. If I ask you , is the Joseph Goldstein who wrote the book was different from the Joseph Goldstein who is present now ? You will say no. Joseph Goldstein is similar and different to the Joseph Goldstein of the past. Thus ,you will find that there is no permanent,unchanging identity called Joseph Goldstein. That is why Buddha declares Sabbe Dhamma Anatta. All phenomenon are without Self. Now the question is where is the idea of self arising ? The conceiving of the Self arises due to clinging , due to attachement. When the mind identifies itself with form , feelings , perceptions, consciousness and /or volition formations as me or mine then self is said to conceived. It is like a disease because form is not self, feelings are not self , perceptions are not self, consciousness is not self and volitional formations are not self yet we conceive self as one or some of the five aggregates. Is it be more accurate to say that the self as a feeling that there is a subject of experience "cannot be found" or "is not there in the first place."? Subject of experience is existing like a disease if there is a clinging. If you do not cling to the experience as me or mine then there is no self to be found. Since, when an object is known, how do you deny there being someone who has done the knowing of the object? I am the knower of your question but am I the same person who read the question and who answered the question ? Or am I the different person ? Answer is I am neither the same nor the different person. I am similar and different. It means that there is no permanent , unchanging self called Me. I do not deny someone has done the knowing of question but that someone can not be called to have self. 

I will not be able to give a long answer because I have not found any scriptural meaning of the word delusion. However the sanskrit term moha or delusion is a fairly common word. It means attachment. Buddha essentially says is to get rid of attachment in relation to the five aggregates. At one place here Buddha mentions how to get rid of delusion : 

You need to get in touch with Brahmins of Buddha Gaya in Bihar , India, who are practicing the religion with Buddha as the Avatar of Vishnu. They are leading a very balanced life in spite of the contradictions between Vedas and Buddha. I am not aware of how they are doing it but they are doing it. It is said in the book "Buddha Mimamsa" written by Maitreya that the original Religion of Buddha was part and parcel of orthodox Hindu System based upon the world-old religion(Sanatan Dharma) of the Vedas. Moreover it is worthwhile to mention that Gautama Buddha was himself a Hindu so whatever he learned he must have learned from a Hindu...His own discoveries like no-self , five aggregates and dependent origination doesn't make Buddha a Buddhist. What Buddha stands for is Truth. So if you are a Truth seeker then I guess you have no choice but to follow and understand what Buddha said. There is in my opinion no need to become a Buddhist without yourself realizing the absoluteness of his teachings. 

Good will , compassion , equanimity etc are objects of meditation. Good will is used to escape from ill-will. Compassion is used to escape from viciousness. Equanimity is used to escape from passion. All the above ideas are familiar to me and I understand them well. Along the similar lines there is a concept of signless (I guess signless is also an object of meditation). Signless is used to escape from all signs. Following quote from aṅguttara nikāya explains signless : 

Namo Buddhaya. At many places in the texts it is said that the Buddha had set the wheel of dhamma in motion and that it can not be rolled back by anyone. This sutta is devoted to the understanding of wheel of dhamma. My questions are based on the above sutta(I am looking for the answer to the first question mainly but you can answer the rest if you want.) : 

To me the tone of the speech is an example of harsh speech. You are misreading. You are imagining things. His tone is always of compassion. If I were to use this kind of speech in my day-to-day life I would consider myself not living up to the standard of Right Speech as per the Noble Eightfold Path. I understand, however, that the Buddha controls his speech masterfully. In that case, how did this sort of speech come to be? There is no clause in 'Right Speech' that allows us to engage in harsh speech for the greater good - for example rebuking a monk harshly. That being said, do not mistake this for casting doubt on the Buddha. I consider him a good example of what everyone should act like and his control of virtue, faculties, and activities is something everyone should strive for. You are trying to criticize Buddha for using harsh speech. If as a father you scold your son sometimes to put him on the right path then is it harsh speech ? Also, there are several more examples. I have read through chunks of the Pali Canon and there are other Suttas where the Buddha engages in speech I would again consider a violation of Right Speech (not that I have a perfect record of Right Speech). My question is why? Why not rebuke without harshness and adhere perfectly to gentleness? Criticizing Buddha is like criticizing Father. Such a criticism will lead you towards doubt and confusion. He is rebuking in the best possible way ,in the best interest of the monk. 

Strictly speaking swabhav is associated with self. You don't say chair has a bad swabhav. Or the photon or empty space has good swabhav. My swabhav or your swabhav has been evolving and will continue to evolve but there is no permanent nature which you can call as self. Swabhav falls in the category of five aggregates as mental formations or sankharas. 

Once I asked a wise man "Why should I be happy?" He said "Because there are people more miserable than you. Thank God that at least you are better than them." There are couple of depressed kids living in my neighborhood(people call them mad). Sometimes I feel happy that at least I am not depressed or mad. I use their depression as a reason for my happiness. My question is (from the Buddhist point of view): Should my happiness be dependent upon the suffering of others? In other words should my happiness be dependent upon my ability to find an example of new low in the human suffering? 

I have found the reference to the 4 of the 5 kinds of contemplation mentioned in the question. They are taken from Visuddhimagga sanna(or sanne??). To quote -