Given my time with the reading & practice of Zen, Buddhism & Sanatan dharma with a lot of spiritual people, I'll answer this from a different Point of View. Jayarava's answer is perfectly accurate to say why people in various places and cultures portray the enlightened Master the look up to in different ways. 

Everyone, every place, every nation, every atom & molecule have to play their part in the universe which has been labeled as both: 

Adding a note since someone hit negative on my answer :) just because they disagree - opposite of what Buddha or any enlightened master teaches us. So, Masters did not belong to Nations. If anything, every time a Master has come to the planet, they have come to help whoever they can reach, directly or indirectly. Masters do not associate with Nations, Cultures or People, It is the Nations, Cultures and People who identify with associate with a Master. Hence, people take on rituals & rites, methods & flavors; and later even fight with other groups over those details. Masters do not create factions, they join everyone, or should I say they are here to "remind" and "make us realize" that we are already ONE. So, when they teach LOVE thy neighbor or Compassion, those are not for the other, but to for US, to realize the Oneness and practice it as something you are not doing for other, but for yourself :) Hence the term "self realization", reminding and realizing that we are the all-pervasive universe - everything & nothing. :) 

Gathas can be helpful for increasing awareness of daily activities and breathing. They are short practice verses/poems read silently while we synchronize the reading with our breathing. For example: 

Are there any websites that have an English translation of the Chinese Buddhist canon, similar to what is available for the Pali canon at accesstoinsight.org and suttacentral.net? Grateful for help and with kind regards, Tord 

I'm right now working on an application for increasing happiness in everyday life, inspired by practical teachings in Buddhism about happiness for laypeople. My question is: What did the Buddha say about happiness for laypeople? I have found these Sutras helpful: 

UPDATE to make the question more clear: The question is specifically about friendship with the Buddha himself (not general friendship on the path). I have chosen to call this friendship "spiritual" but maybe "virtual" or another word would be better, or another word that describes that the friendship is different from a person alive in the typical sense 

You can find more practice poems here and in the book "Present Moment, Wonderful Moment - Mindfulness Verses for Daily Living" by Thich Nhat Hanh 

I am curious about how to think about the four immeasurable minds in a practical way, please help me make sense of them (see detailed question below) Background In the book Teachings on Love by Thich Nhat Hanh he translates Mudita as Joy rather than Sympathetic Joy and explains that while other commentators have translated as Sympathetic Joy he prefers Joy because "Joy is for everyone" This got me thinking that it may be practical to see two sides of the immeasurables (another example would be self-compassion) My thinking so far Below is how i like to think of the four immeasurables Metta: 

There have always been Masters like that all over the world. If you look for them, you will see there above lies your United Nations. Spirituality unites or actually reminds us its all one.. Union.. Yog. Ego & material nature of human beings draws lines & divides us into Nations. 

That which is formless & beyond all attributes cannot be 'sensed' or perceive using a Sense of the Body (or even an Xray or Infra red vision). That which has no form, is infinite & all pervasive cannot be measured like an physical object with 'defined' dimensions. It 'comes' as an experience. :) It's not something you can switch on, on demand; Unless you are enlightened - Then you already know that everything is infinite. At that point your senses & your body and everything else is just a virtual construct. 

Which is the reason why people traveled to spread the word. Its also the reason why the missing years of Jesus, it is said he was in Bharat, in an area called Kashmir where his name has been found mentioned as 'Isa' or 'Issa' {pronounced: Eee- Saa - h} 

India, or I will refer to a more accurate word for the region currently labeled by the British as India; Bharat by its name & history has been the center of spiritual evolution & wisdom; flavors of knowledge & wisdom have emanated from that region. Each person & place has to play a role, something special to play its karma in the universe. So, while Americans always fight off alien invasions courtesy of their Hollywood machinery and brilliant influence on world pop culture, silently the spiritual flavors of ancient wisdom have been reaching the corners of the world over centuries or more. 

Now things are much better for me but I still have negative thoughts about people from time to time, and I "get stuck" in these thoughts. When this happens what I try to do is to: 

I could say more but I wanted to share what has worked in my own experience. I hope this will help you in some way Kind Regards, Tord 

I've done some research by reading books about early Buddhism and practices for laypeople (for example "The Buddha's Teachings on Prosperity" and "The Buddha's Teachings on Social and Communal Harmony") but am having a hard time "translating" the information that I've gathered into something that would fit well inside a diary application Grateful for help with this! Kind Regards, Tord 

What Internet-based Sangha groups are out there? For the Plum Village tradition there is a list on plumline.org Are there any other lists of online Sanghas you can share? Grateful for help and with kind regards, Tord 

This way of thinking about them splits each of the first (metta, karuna, mudita) three into two parts, one for one-self and one for everyone else In Buddhism we don't want to make a harsh distinction between self and others but from a practical point of view this can (for example) help us to remember to have self-compassion. One downside is that there is a larger risk of not seeing our suffering as the suffering of others and the suffering of others as our own The last (upeksha) i have divided into two parts where the first is inner peace for oneself and the other is non-discrimination Question Is this (above) a practical way to think about the four immeasurables? (Practical in the sense of getting closer to living in line with them). Are there other ways to think about them that you can recommend and that can help us achieve living with them on a daily basis? (Please provide references to books or other materials if you can) Grateful for help and with kind regards, Tord