I was recently offered a job in which I was sought out as a candidate and I hadn't originally applied for the position. At this time I was made aware of a salary I was not interested in, and in the interest of everyone's time I expressed that I made a salary of $X and would not be interested in leaving unless the salary was noticeably higher. I realize this is not how these things are typically done (first time for me). Anyhow I was asked to come in for the interview after having expressed this request and was subsequently offered a salary of exactly $X. While on the phone with HR I expressed that the salary requirements I had put on my application ($x + 20) reflected what I was hoping to get given the difference in benefits however I would be willing to negotiate for additional vacation time etc. They came back to me stating flat out they are "unable to be flexible on salary or vacation time". Does this mean my offer is a final offer and I should make my decision accordingly or should I write a formal counter offer? 

Three business days out is fine. It will not raise any eyebrows. Now I will answer your question more generally. You should schedule the second interview as early as you are comfortable setting it. Some benefits of scheduling the second interview earlier rather than later are: 

I work in an office that relies heavily on Google Calendar scheduling. It is a technical group, and no doubt (almost) everyone understands that the options you outlined are available to them. Even so, here are some reasons I often find myself emailing invitations before the calendar meeting is setup: 

It shows that you are confident and enthusiastic about the position. It limits the window during which the interviewer(s) can choose to hire someone else, or during which a new candidate can apply. If your first interview went well (it did; they asked you back) you will be fresher in the minds of the original interviewers, if they participate in the second round. Limiting the amount of time between the first and second interview limits the amount of time their favorable impression has to change. It may also feel more "natural" if you are fresh in the interviewer's minds. 

I have been recruited by another company and requested to come in for an interview. I am considering going in for the interview however I have no intention of leaving my current job for at least 3 months due to Bonus payouts. Should I mention this fact prior to coming in for an interview or wait until they actually offer me a position. 

Our typical annual review process is coming up in which we get to meet with our supervisors and discuss our performance. I am at a point in my current job where I have received nothing but positive feedback for several years however I feel like my career may be suffering since I am the opposite of your "squeaky wheel". Getting to my question, I would like to discuss salary increases and career paths with my manager however I am unsure of when the most ideal time to do this would be. I have consistently gotten yearly increases and bonuses during the review (as has most of the company to my knowledge), I am concerned that if i try to address my concerns around the same time any increases would get "bundled" and thus I would end up losing out of the full potential. A good portion of my salary (>25%) is from bonus which I have yet to been informed of. I don't want my negotiations to just come out of my potential bonus. I don't however want to annoy my supervisors with coming to them with this discussions right after this yearly process has taken place. One of the primers for this was that i was recently moved to a different role within the company (they explained that this was meant to be a positive reflection of my skills). However this new role is not as beneficial for my career outside of the company as it is what i would consider non-transferable skills that i am now learning, where previously i was learning things that would be widely used by many companies. I am concerned about investing my time in this position without the possibility of growth within the company. Two things I hope to have addressed with my discussion: 

If your team lead was simply working at a faster pace than you, I would give different advice. But it sounds like your team lead is picking up work that has already been partially completed by you. In my mind, a pattern of this behavior is not OK by the team lead (justification below). 

And to answer the question directly: At least in my office, no, it is not considered rude to issue an initial meeting invitation through the scheduling application. However, there are often good reasons to send a preliminary email (detailed above). 

Yes. As some comments pointed out, you only want to bring up another person's actions for discussion if they are affecting you. But when your team lead completes a task you have started, it is affecting you. Specifically, it's reducing your productivity by retroactively making the work you began redundant. This reduces your team's overall velocity. Your manager should want to hear about anything reducing the team's velocity. I think it is fair for you to be demoralized by this situation, but you will be better served by voicing this as a problem/opportunity that affects the team, rather than you as an individual. A word of warning: One thing you should be aware of is the risk that your team lead is not working overtime only because he enjoys it, but that he is working overtime to cover for a deficiency (real or perceived) in your output or quality. Hopefully, you can test for this by approaching your team lead the next time he has taken some work that you started. Just ask him, from a point of genuine concern, if he felt your progress was holding things up. Another piece of advice: If your team doesn't have some sort of work tracking software, get some. There's no reason not to be tracking the state and status of your deliverables. Part of that state is, who is planning/assigned to work on something, and if they've started it yet. We use Jira, but there are a bazzilion options. Tracking software will make it more difficult to accidentally take over a task another team member has started.