Using current technology (and by that I mean experiments and telescopes that are available now) we have not detected an "Earth-like" planet and we would probably be unable to detect life on Earth even if observed from a distance of a few light years. Therefore there is currently no prospect of detecting life on an "Earth doppelganger". I elaborate below: 

There is obviously the practical problem that we cannot observe from the Sun! But of course there would be a time of year when the Earth was on the projection of the line CD. The cartoon is just that. In practice, measurements are taken at different points in the orbit on multiple occasions over several years. Two measurements would not be enough to separate the apparent motion of the star from parallax from its proper motion on the sky. The cartoon is shown in that way because making observations at those points for that star, will give the largest measurable difference in position and therefore the most precise estimate of the parallax. 

The solar system contains very little of elements heavier than Helium - less than 2% by mass. This is reflected in the chemical abundances measured in the photosphere of the Sun. i.e. The Sun does contain heavier elements. Your question is the wrong way around; it is not that the heavier elements have not sunk into the middle, it is that the vast majority of hydrogen and helium that was in the same place as the planets when they formed, did not end up as part of the planets. In fact, even this is only partially true. The mass of planetary material in the solar system is also dominated by the hydrogen and helium in the gas giants. So the conundrum is only why the smaller planets don't have a similar composition to the Sun. The answer to that is temperature and gravity. A small, hot planet just doesn't have the gravity to retain fast moving hydrogen and helium atoms, unless they are trapped in some compound (like water!). Thus, the small planets close to the Sun are depleted of light elements. 

As pre-main sequence (PMS) stars contract towards the main sequence, their cores become hotter. Lithium is turned into helium by proton capture reactions. These are initiated in the core at temperatures of around 3 million K, so much lower than for hydrogen burning. At the same time, PMS stars, or at least the type of low-mass pre-main sequence stars that are being referred to here, are fully convective and this mixes material inside the star rapidly and effectively. Thus the sequence of events is that the PMS star contracts; the core reaches $3\times 10^{7}$ K at some point before the main sequence; Li is destroyed by proton capture; the Li-depleted is completely mixed with the rest of the star. In this way Li can be rapidly and totally destroyed on a timescale that depends on the mass of the PMS star. It is as short as 10 Myr for a star like the Sun, increasing to about 100 Myr for a star of $0.1 M_{\odot}$. That is the basic picture, but there is a wrinkle for stars with $M>0.4M_{\odot}$, where the core becomes radiative rather than convective before they reach the main sequence, but after Li burning has commenced. The radiative core pushes outwards and its base then drops below $3\times 10^{6}$ K. This means that although Li destruction runs to completion in the core, at least some Li can be preserved in the outer layers of such stars. Li is therefore an extremely complicated function of age and mass. But for the purposes of identifying low-mass PMS stars we can clearly say that anything that shows strong lithium signatures is probably younger than 100 million years if it is below about $0.5 M_{\odot}$ (or equivalently is a K- or M-type star). If you want much more detail, see my review article on Pre-main sequence Lithium depletion. The H$\alpha$ emission of PMS stars is connected with their youth. It can arise in two ways. The first is associated with accretion from a circumstellar disc. This is caused by gas falling from the disk onto the star and heating up. The H alpha emission can be very strong and very doppler broadened ($>300$ km/s). As pre-main sequence discs only survive for 10 million years or less, then this is a very clear signature of a pre main sequence star. On the other hand, young stars that have lost their discs also show strong (though not as strong as accretion-related emission) H$\alpha$ emission that is caused by non-radiative, magnetic heating of their chromospheres. This magnetic activity is associated with convective, rapidly rotating stars. Pre main sequence stars possess both these properties. Thus PMS stars must exhibit H$\alpha$ emission of some sort. 

The depth of the transit tells you the size of the planet (relative to the star) in both cases. The difference in total eclipse width tells you the impact parameter (how far from the centre of the disk, the transit crosses). This in turn depends on the orbital inclination and the ratio of the stellar radius to the radius of the orbit. A second constraint on inclination and the ratio of stellar radius to orbital radius comes from the ratio of total transit duration to the time when the planet is fully eclipsing the star. A more inclined transit has a shorter period of total eclipse but longer ingress and egress. To get a full solution then requires some estimate of the stellar mass, which leads via Kepler's third law to the orbital radius. There are also some important additional complications due to limb darkening and eccentricity that mean, in practice, this problem is not solved analytically, but by fitting a detailed model to the light curve. For instance, the transit depth becomes smaller for transits that don't cross the centre of the stellar disk, because of limb darkening. The best picture I can find is copyrighted material, but you can find it here from Carole Haswell's book on Transiting Exoplanets. The inclinations range from 90 degrees to 80 degrees. 

Yes neutrons can exist outside the atom (or nucleus). In free space a neutron will beta decay into a proton, and electron and an anti-neutrino on a timescale of 10 minutes. However, in the dense interiors of a neutron star, the electrons form a degenerate gas, with all possible energy levels filled up to something called the Fermi energy. Once the Fermi energy of the electrons exceeds the maximum energy of any possible beta-decay electron, then beta decay is blocked and free neutrons become stable. This is what happens inside a neutron star and you end up with mostly neutrons with a small fraction perhaps a few per cent electrons and protons. In the outer parts of the neutron star, the protons and neutrons can still arrange themselves into nuclei (but not atoms), but these nuclei are extremely neutron-rich (they would not normally exist in nature) and are only stabilised against beta decay by the process I described above. The very outer envelope may consist of completely ionised iron-peak element nuclei and there may be an ultrathin (few cm) layer of recognisable ionised hydrogen, helium and carbon (e.g. Wynn & Heinke 2009). Once the density reaches about $3 \times 10^{16}$ kg/m$^3$ it becomes more favourable for the neutrons and protons to organise themselves into "macro-nuclei" - long strings and sheets of nuclear material, known colloquially as nuclear pasta. At higher densities still, the pasta dissolves into a soup of mostly neutrons with about 1 per cent protons and electrons. The diagram below (from Watanabe et al. 2012) shows roughly how these layers are arranged. It should be stressed that this is based on theoretical modelling, with the theory becoming less certain the further into the neutron star you go. Testing these ideas involves nuclear and particle experiments, observations of pulsars, of neutron star cooling, of X-ray bursts, mass and radius estimates in binary systems, pulsar glitches, etc., etc. None of the details have been observationally confirmed beyond dispute, but the basic picture below fits what we know. In particular, the the crust and the n,p,e fluid regions are well understood in theory. The details of the nuclear pasta phases are still the subject of a lot of theoretical work, as are the details of superfluidity in the interior, and what happens in the very central regions (solid neutron core, extra hadronic phases, boson condensation, quark matter) is still theoretically difficult and observationally untested except perhaps to say that the softest equations of state have been ruled out by the existence of $2M_{\odot}$ neutron stars. 

Neutron stars and black holes do not have assigned spectral types since they do not have a measurable optical/IR spectrum - which is the basis for assigning a spectral type. There are many classifications for systems containing black holes and neutron stars. They are not related to the letter-based spectral types of "normal" stars or white dwarfs, but more to do with their X-ray, radio or inferred physical properties (e.g low- or high-mass X-ray binary systems). 

If we take neutron star material at say a density of $\sim 10^{17}$ kg/m$^{3}$ the neutrons have an internal kinetic energy density of $3 \times 10^{32}$ J/m$^{3}$. So even in a teaspoonful (say 1 cc), there is $3\times10^{26}$ J of kinetic energy (similar to what the Sun emits in a second, or 10 billion or so H-bombs) and this will be released instantaneously. The energy is in the form of around $10^{38}$ neutrons travelling at around 0.1-0.2$c$. So roughly speaking it is like half the neutrons (about 50 million tonnes) travelling at 0.1$c$ ploughing into the Earth. If I have done my Maths right, that is roughly equivalent to a 30 km radius near-earth asteroid hitting the Earth at 30 km/s. So this material would instantly vapourise and take a large chunk of the Earth with it, probably destroying most of life on Earth. The situation for a white dwarf is much less extreme. The density would be more like $10^{9}$ kg/m$^3$ and the energy density more like $10^{22}$ J/m$^3$ - so 10 orders of magnitude less kinetic energy density. Nevertheless that is still $10^{16}$ J, which is like a 2.5 megatonne H-bomb. 

I'll turn this around for you. The brightest star that is classed as a "halo" or metal-poor population II star is HD 140283, with a visual magnitude of 7.2 and not even visible to the naked eye. Even this is only a halo object in the sense of being a high velocity object whose trajectory will take it back into the halo in the future - it is presently only 190 light years distant. I completely concur with the other answers, but let me explain why we don't see halo stars, despite them making up about 1% of the stellar population. The disc of the Galaxy is roughly 1000 pc thick, so to see a naked eye star actually in the halo, it would be further away than about 500 pc (the Sun is not far from the mid-plane) and have to have an absolute magnitude brighter than -2.5. Such luminous objects are rare, but not unknown; they would need to be O-type main sequence stars or supergiants. But these are young, massive stars and recent star formation has only taken place close to the Galactic plane and so that is where such objects are found. If our eyes were about 3 magnitudes more sensitive then we would be able to see metal-poor K-type giant stars in the halo. 

Well you are correct and of course that kind of research has been going on. The SETI programme targeted a set of Kepler stars with evidence for a planet (or planet candidate) in the "habitable zone". The initial searches for narrow-band radio emission (at 1.1-1.9 Hz) appears to have concentrated on those systems containing multiple planets. The (null) results for $\sim 100$ system were published by Siemion et al. (2013). The observations were not sensitive enough to detect the sort of "radio chatter" emitted from our planet, but might have detected some sort of deliberate signalling beacon. A slightly more imaginative approach, which I'm struggling to find the details of, is that one can observe Kepler multiple planet systems when one calculates that two planets are in conjunction as seen from the Earth. There is then the chance of seeing communications from one planet to the other. (e.g. $URL$ ). In a more general sense, the exoplanetery discoveries have provided great impetus to the SETI programme. It is now clear that planetary systems are common and present around most stars. It is also now apparent that small planets are common. New possibilities are also being considered. Most exoplanets in habitable zones are orbiting stars smaller and less luminous than the Sun. No exact Earth analogues have yet been found. This has led to an explosion of activity investigating planetary atmospheres and habitability around K- and M-dwarf stars. 

If the star is more massive than about $8M_{\odot}$ it will progress through several nuclear burning stages. The core of the star does not become degenerate and continues to get more dense and hot through each burning stage. It ends up as iron. Once the core mass of iron exceeds about $1.2M_{\odot}$ (which is the Chandrasekhar mass for an iron composition), then it collapses and we get a type II (core-collapse) supernova. 

I'm not sure what the current status of neutron starquake theory is, but last time I looked there were a couple of ideas. The outer parts of a neutron star consist of a solid crust of neutron-rich nuclei (plus electrons, and a little deeper, free neutrons). Neutron stars are born rotating extremely fast, but they spin down due to the loss of rotational kinetic energy through magnetic dipole radiation. As a result, they are born oblate, but as the spin rate decreases this is not the lowest energy configuration. It used to be thought that starquakes (pulsar glitches) were caused by cracking of the crust and rearrangement towards a more spherical configuration. The second idea is that it could be due to changes in the very intense magnetic field of the neutron star. The magnetic field is tied very tightly to the crustal material, so if the magnetic field shifts, possibly associated with the neutron star spin down, then it will put the crust under stress, which can be relieved by a starquake. White dwarf stars also contain solid, crystalline material, however they do not spin so fast and do not have similar ultra-strong magnetic fields. I have not heard that they experience starquakes. "Normal stars" do not have a crust or any other solid layer, so there can be no similar starquake phenomenon.