Ultimately, how much you learn depends on you. Since you are interested in learning, you will learn a lot at either company. However, the different environments mean you will learn different things. I have worked for small companies (<10 technical employees) and larger companies (>100 technical employees). In all instances, I have learned a lot. At a small company, you will be tasked with a much wider range of duties, and it is likely they will be less concerned about doing it "right" as they will be as doing it "now". As a result, you will learn how to kluge your way through an awful lot of things. Obviously this is both good and bad. At a larger company, you will likely be tasked with a much smaller range of duties. They will probably be more concerned with doing it "right" (which does not mean it will be the right way, but it will be a consistent way) than they will be with doing it quickly. As a result, you will learn proper methods and processes to do whatever it is you are tasked with. That is not to say you will never have to kluge anything, just that it will be the exception rather than the rule. You must also consider that a larger company will probably have more resources available for training/continuing education than a small company or a startup. The small company simply cannot afford (this likely has nothing to do with money) to send you away for a week to do training. As an aside, you should really base your choice on culture. If you hate the people you work with, or think the company rules are idiotic, you will have a rough go. Finding a company that is a good fit for you is more important than just about anything else when it comes to job satisfaction. 

I work with a relatively small (6 people) Software Configuration Management team in what would be considered a more traditional or "non-agile" environment; however, within the past year our CM lead has instituted the practice of holding a daily "stand up" meeting for just our CM group in which we cover: 

I am currently a contractor and I have been offered a position as a federal employee doing essentially the same thing working with the same people with the essentially the same tasks/responsibilities. I would be taking the number 2 spot after the lead retires and the current number 2 becomes the lead. For personal reasons I wish to remain a contractor. Our contract has several years of work remaining so there is no immediate need for me to change positions. The person who is looking to retire soon is advocating that I take the offer which puts additional pressure on the situation, but I currently would feel more comfortable remaining where I am; the reasons being flexibility (I may want to move locations and employment in less than a year) slightly better salary and annual raises. I am aware that I am giving up job security and benefits but feel at the time the pros outweigh the cons. How can I politely decline while keeping a good working relationship? 

Go to HR immediately with all the information and trace of these requests that you have. This supervisor is more than likely committing fraud or stealing from the company and is using you as a mule. In case his scheme would go sideways it's likely you will lose your job or even get into legal trouble. Do yourself a favor and prevent situations like this by reporting it. 

This is harrasment. I am quite a direct sort of person. Whenever she starts this behavior I would simply state that since I am not ordering her around on how to look, she should not do the same to me. I would state that her behavior (petitions, gossiping,...) is offensive, verbally abusive and should stop. And I would do this in front of the people she is talking to. Maybe then she, or the others realize this is wrong. If this bullying does not stop by your own defense, contact HR, or whoever deals with these issues at your university and post a complaint with all the incidents you can recall. You might even do this immediately. 

I recently left a support contracting position after several years of working very closely on site with my government clients and other support contractors for a new position with a new company in a completely different location. I have no intention of returning to this company or location (Relocated from Florida to New York). After leaving, I am now receiving multiple phone calls and text messages a week to my personal cell phone number during work hours at my new position. The questions are for generally minor requests related to my previous responsibilities for which I was a lead for several years and are from both the clients which my company used to support onsite and my previous coworkers with my previous company. I gave a full two weeks notice and attempted to document as much "tribal knowledge" as possible before leaving while making myself available to those below me in my role for technical questions/training. Some questions/messages mostly from my previous clients who did not want me to leave, have been more personal such as mentioning how my previous counterparts are overwhelmed and I am greatly missed. I generally hesitate to respond and when I do so it is a brief objective message, where I may give a small amount of knowledge but encourage them to reach out to a specific individual who may know the answer still working for the project. I find this behavior slightly unprofessional and disruptive when coming up to speed on a new position. what is the appropriate professional way to handle these requests? 

You don't need to be the lead politician, you don't necessarily need to lead anything. You do however have to have some basic communication skills. Having a programming job most of the time does not mean you are behind a desk 24/7 and are allways left alone. IT and developers contain a higher-than-normal percentage of quiet, introverted people. It's best you brush up on communication skills and learn to communicate clearly in the professional environment. A very good read that may help you is How to win friends and influence people ~Dale Carnegie. Using and practicing the principles in this book will get you a long way. 

Seeing as this really ís an extracurricular activity, I would expect that any participation is voluntarily. This should also mean that anyone signing up is doing so to achieve something and to make a difference, rather than just hanging out, wasting time. So, you could remind them that to make that difference some goals should be met. Meeting these goals and getting results will give the people their sense of achievement, and will strengthen their engagement. If this kind of thing is not voluntarily you will get people that are not interested, don't see the point, and would rather go home. 

First of all, as mentioned in the comments, do not lead with the technology you want to use. If you want to move away from an existing system, regardless of what type of system it is, you have to justify its cost. The best way to do this, is to start with a cost/benefit analysis. Gather information about how much time is spent using the current system, as well as a strong estimate of how much less time will be spent if the system is changed. You may not know the salaries of the people using it, but your boss will, and he/she can use the hours to come up with a cost associated to the time spent. It is possible that time is not an issue, in which case try to attach a cost to the overbooking, and legibility issues that are side effects of the current system. Once you have a dollar amount tied to the current system, figure out what a replacement system would cost for the same activities. If the savings is enough to justify investing in a new system, then you can start suggesting technologies to use. 

An offer means nothing until it is a signed contract. Contact them ASAP in order to set a date to sign the final contract. Contact them using a more direct means of communication than e-mail, i.e a phone call. This way you might keep your present job just in case they tell you they backed out. 

The way you phrase it, both the football match and the company event introducing the new exec don't seem to be too serious. I would say, don't sweat it, just talk to whoever is organizing the football match, and simply ask if they would be ok if you cancel this short-notice. If they won't be, I'd just skip the introduction of the new guy. I think this would be the 'nicest' way of dealing with the situation. 

In general you should only refer people that you know are decent candidates, since their performance has an impact on your image. In this case you have pointed out that you don't know these people, which is the right thing to do. It's up to HR now to figure out if they are good candidates or not. They should realize that you cannot vouch for their skills. I would not think of the response you got as a passive-aggresive note at all. I would just see it as a light-hearted comment.