Who is doing the regarding? I'm thinking of the Honor Harrington novels. Most of the series follows her career from starting out to command of Home Fleet. The nation she is part of, the Star Kingdom of Manticore, recognizes that she's very, very good at her job. Their opponent in a very long war, Haven, also recognized her ability. However, in the last books of the series Manticore comes into conflict with the Solarian League. The Solarian League used to be the 1000 pound gorilla. They recognize the locals think she's some pretty hot stuff but all she was doing was beating up on neobarbs (short for new barbarians), that's not enough to make her a problem for Battle Fleet. (Never mind that that war pushed their tech to well above what the Solarian League can field, and that in the Solarian system connections mean far more than ability when it comes to getting command.) 

Air conditioning: This one is very labor intensive to construct. You need a long enough buried tunnel and a means of moving air through it. Buried pipes work well but would be very hard to construct with the technology of the era. Tunnels carved through the ground and protected with arched brickwork are more labor intensive but less technological. (Note that there are examples of such tunnels being carved for reasons of bringing in water, thus they certainly can be done.) In a perfect situation there's a nearby mountain that can be used, dig a deep enough trench up the side of the mountain, build your tunnel in it and then fill it in. This will set up a natural air flow and not need any pumping mechanism, otherwise you'll need servants or perhaps draft animals to move the air. I doubt the king will want to live next to high enough terrain to do this, though. The key here is that deep enough underground (and that doesn't need to be all that deep) the temperature is basically constant year-round--it will be the average surface temperature. There are almost no climates in which this temperature is warmer than you would like your castle to be. You need to make the tunnel long enough that the surrounding ground has enough thermal mass to average out the temperature over the year. (And note the flip side of this--it also provides heating. Unfortunately you can't set up a system where one tunnel provides both passive heat and passive cooling, either you use two tunnels or you use forced air for one of the two modes.) Think of the benefits to the King--not just the comfort but what will his enemies think when their diplomats pay a visit and find at least the throne room cool when it's unpleasantly hot outside. 

(More a comment but it won't fit.) 1) Revisionists aside, it was a close thing whether the bombs were enough to cause a surrender. Thus all the demonstration answers don't work. 2) There was a very good reason against a demonstration--we knew there was a chance Little Boy would fizzle even if the mechanism worked perfectly. At the time we did not have the computing power to figure out the odds of this happening. (Now we do, it was a few percent.) If we announced it and then it didn't go boom we certainly would have failed. 3) Something to keep in mind: The bomb really was a great bluff. We didn't have a high enough production rate for them to be militarily important. 4) In the big picture I think nuking at least one city was a very good thing--it showed us the horrors in a limited scenario and thus kept later wars from going nuclear. Had we somehow avoided Hiroshima and Nagasaki the Korean war likely would have been nuclear and involved far more bombs. 

I disagree with the Everest answer--people have climbed Everest without oxygen. You can't spend long in the death zone but some people can go there. Likewise, while Antarctica wasn't explored at that tech level I don't believe it's inherently inaccessible to that tech level. Nobody went there because they had no reason to go to the extreme effort, not because it was impossible. Instead, I suggest an environment too hazardous to be approached at the tech level. Take a volcanic island (Hawaii, perhaps??), beef up the volcano and redirect the lava. Your atmosphere plant is on the mountain, there's a moat of lava around the mountain. (The moat is lined with something that won't melt at lava heat and is enough of an insulator that the rock on the other side won't reach the melting point.) Lava keeps pouring from the volcano into the moat, it keeps spilling over the side in once place or another and then cooling. The tech level you give can't cross a lava lake, the tremendous winds the plant will generate (in order to pull enough air through it to do the job it's going to be moving a lot of air) make balloons a suicide mission. Even if they knew there was something interesting they can't get there. 

Why are you bothering with Jovian planets with fusion reactors? Your world is 1,600 solar masses, you can have some genuine stars orbiting it. I would use some big, bright stars placed fairly far out so the heating was as averaged as possible--the problem is not merely to provide some light, but to provide some moderation to the weather. A single sun-sized polar-orbiting sun-sized star would provide Earth-normal light when overhead and eventually cover every spot assuming the super-planet is rotating but it would take 25 days/orbit and many orbits to cover the whole thing. A ring of stars would help but if you want a stable orbit you can't really go using multiple rings. I suspect you want something like a 60 degree inclination. 

I'll say yes because you don't actually need something as comprehensive as you are describing. To see how to do this look to history for our guide--specifically the decimation of the new world due to old world diseases. Populations crashed, some areas were completely depopulated and that's without a lab being involved. The key is diseases. You don't need to engineer superbugs, just beef up things off the shelf. A good starting point would be smallpox. Change it enough that the current vaccines do not work, do what you can to increase the lethality. Now look around for other nasty bugs. Breed for resistance to vaccines and drugs. If you can up the lethality influenza comes to mind given how well it spreads. Your bioweapon isn't one disease, it's as many deadly pathogens as you can come up with. Some people will be immune to one but that won't protect them from the next. The combination punches will be a lot more lethal than any single pathogen would have been. Now take a play from Tom Clancy--not the stupid bug of Rainbow Six but the botched job of Executive Orders. (The pathogen was a version of Ebola that had some ability to spread by air.) Your target is trade shows. You don't have the security at trade shows that you have at airports, it will be much easier to deploy your weapon. Most attendees at a trade show are going to fly somewhere in a few days. You're not going to get a 100% kill but you don't need one to bring us down. Once you punch enough holes (workers that are dead or hiding out instead of on the job) in the system the flow of goods that keep society working stops. Most of the world is now uninhabitable--even if you didn't kill the people they'll starve anyway. You'll have survivors in more primitive areas but you'll have more mouths than producers--fighting over the food will take priority over producing it. Once you have reduced the population below minimum densities the last ones will die out. 

Assuming non-scientific monsters: Something in their monstrous metabolism requires some rare element. Say, vampires require a tiny bit of osmium. This occurs naturally only at a part per billion, they can only survive in the area where long ago an osmium-heavy meteor hit. Since they aren't aware of this need all they know is they wither and die if they move away from their historic location. If they understood they could simply buy some osmium. (A quick search turns it up at $810/oz, buying it wouldn't be prohibitive.) Different monsters might have different elemental needs, thus different habitats. 

It is the very mission of a boomer to disappear at sea. To some extent they can be trailed when their location is known (for example, when leaving base) but noise in the water can be used to confuse a sub trying to chase them. If the boomers weren't able to do this we wouldn't consider them a very important aspect of our nuclear deterrence. Magnetic anomaly detectors have been mentioned in other answers. You have to get close to use them--and they work very poorly against titanium-hulled submarines. About your best bet is a fleet chasing him with a bunch of helicopters but even that isn't anything like assured if he's got a nuclear sub, especially if he's willing to be obvious about getting away. (For example, jettison a large explosive device, detonate when he's far enough away for safety. Every sonar in the area is temporarily jammed.)