Science was also clear some time ago that our Earth is flat. If you think the example is too old, what about long-term clarity of science that there are no any planets in our Solar System beyond Pluto due to ultimate trust in modern scientific measurement tools (not to mention wide criticism of researchers who claimed opposite)? Now science found something opposite, that there is actually extra Solar System planet (appeared from nowhere?) and now we need to rewrite a lot of scientific books again. Therefore please be aware that science is constantly evolving, scientific theories constantly are superseded by new one which are more adequate and it would be very wrong to assume that all current scientific assumptions are fixed (see: superseded scientific theories). Therefore we can't assume that a single body-of-knowledge has the ultimate truth. Science means 'knowledge' and it's about questioning everything and seeing everything from the different point of view based on conclusions given the available data. 

Proof can be subjective (everybody expects different sets of evidences). Most of the studies are very limited and based on the wrong scientific assumptions that all matter is unconscious, consciousness is an illusory artefact of the chemical brain and there is no spirit, no mind and nothing other than mechanical and chemical stuff. There are many hypotheses of our existence and ultimately we can never prove something for 100% as there are always some other factors due to complexity of our reality that we're living. The problem is that a scientific theory must make testable or refutable predictions of what should happen or be seen under a given set of new, independent, observing or analysis circumstances from the particular problem or observation the theory was originally designed to explain. Therefore you can't even prove your own existence. Secondly non-physical spirit world can't be measured using physical instruments, because it doesn't make sense to do that and it goes beyond that. However there are certain scientific studies which proves otherwise (that mind is produced by the brain), for example Consciousness as a State of Matter (see: video) by Max Tegmark, Professor of Physics at MIT which explains that consciousness can be understood as a state of matter (perceptronium), capable of giving rise to self-awareness and subjectivity. 

I've dropped out of three stable relationships back to back in 4 years, even though the women involved were very much in love with me, and were in quite a lot of misery when I left. Rather than get the motivation to put my back into making things work by relocating or changing my life or whatever was required, each time, I took it to the point where firm commitment was needed and then backed out because I didn't see why it is worth it. A voice inevitably rings in my head that such effort is better expended in meditation and a life of service and purity rather than on silly selfish samsaric satisfaction. Anyway, I'd also see exactly how the relationship would fail a few years down the line, or where the cracks would appear and lose my energy. I have had at least one very stable shift in my consciousness since at least 3 years now, which has reduced my mental/emotional chatter to nearly 0-5% of what it was, and I don't get attached to anything including partners the same way anymore. I've been almost coldly unemotional about victory or loss in love and death, and most other things that would make people ride emotional highs and lows. I don't really care to define this change as an awakening or as a kensho/satori or whatever - I think these are useless definitions that don't matter -- still, it is a change whose vast effects on my life I can't deny. I can feel an all encompassing love and compassion for everyone yet a detachment from everyone. Which kind of complicates romantic life - do I really love my current partner any more than the rest of the world including exes etc. Confiding these feelings with the partner has never helped of course. Worse, they would very soon sense that I am not really bound down by anything, and resulting insecurity would lead to conflict. Sure, I can still get angry but it is a powerless anger, and if I reflect on the anger or whatever mental feeling I have even for a moment, it will vanish instantly. If I choose to, I can always see the pure heart in anyone and fall in love. There was a period of intense thoughtless equanimity in my life, about 6-8 months after the awakening that lasted for several weeks. My mind had a vastness that left me in awe. At this point a bomb could have exploded next to me, and I would have observed it without a flutter, as if it was very normal. There were several other brilliant characteristics to this period, but the most important was a profound sense of balance I had between the ultimate truth and conventional truth. I could perfectly balance my inner life and my outer life without conflict no matter how heavy the samsaric context. There was an ever present wisdom that enabled this. I didn't really care what I did with my life, there was no "I" - I did whatever was appropriate, I reacted to life perfectly yet effortlessly, as if I wasn't there, life just flowed and I with it exercising only the gentlest of effort to produce the wisest action possible. This seemed like a stable reality until it ended, and since then I've really yoyo-ed between ultimate truth and conventional truth. One moment wanting a relationship and the next day or week wanting to be a monk. My ability to lapse into universal love means I have even strayed to infidelity, due to deeply loving several people, and continuing to love to this moment everyone who has entered my life. Without the perfect wisdom that I had for those few weeks relationships feel like an accident waiting to happen, so I've now sworn off all relationships until I figure out what exactly to do. Any ideas? 

By meditating you are increasing the flow of kundalini (life force) in your body's meridian system (body's channel network). This helps you to removes all kind of physical, mental, emotional and spiritual blockages you can have. This process opens emotional highways to areas that have been hidden for you. The purpose is to become more sensitive to energies around you by developing abilities that allow you to travel in your own emotional evolution and be spiritually connected. The sound is basically a vibration where certain hearing ranges can be perceived by your brain and translate into auditory perception. When you are meditating, you are getting into your higher aspect of your being where your consciousness raising and expands and you can basically feel that vibration of the sound through your light body (that is why it can be so intense). 

Maybe mentioned NMR scanning was not the right tool to measure something out of thin air and giving subjective "prove" that nothing survives after our death based on the failed experiment. There were many attempts using different methods which were actually successful. For example Russian scientist Konstantin Korotkov photographed a person at the moment of his death with a bioelectrographic camera and his Kirlian photography shows the life force of the person leaving the body gradually. 

People are believing in reincarnation concept, because it makes perfect sense. Based on above mentioned facts and by connecting all the dots together, one can easily come into same logical conclusion without need of blindly following mainstream knowledge. When you come into realization that consciousness is not only illusory artefact of the chemical brain, but it's omnipresence beyond time and space (where time and space is illusionary construct, even according to Einstein), you will start seeing everything from different angle and your mind's perception will change forever. 

Our current neuroscience beliefs state that our memories are stored chemically in the brain and disappear at death, therefore you can't simply attain enlightenment by neurosurgical means, because our mind is not physical. Think of our brain as an interface to our non-physical mind (consciousness). So enlightenment is not something that can be invoked physically, the same as cutting Einstein's brain won't give you any intelligence gains, no matter how our neuroscience would progresses. Enlightenment can be achieved only by a state of mind of your spiritual progress. As our neuroscience accelerates, we can only enhance our brain circuitry to process more data (like photographic memory, abstract thoughts, etc.), as our current brains only handle an narrow amount of the information that is constantly being fed at the unconscious level, but it's nothing to do with attaining enlightenment.