I know that Mankiw's book is for first-timers to microeconomics, but 1 appears to oversimplify the subject of Sunk Costs. Is 2 correct? And does 2 refute 1? I do understand 2's subtlety: 2 means that Sunk Costs should motivate you to try to determine the reasons for the past decision, which may or may NOT justify resuming a past action; 2 does not mean that high Sunk Costs oblige you to resume a past action thoughtlessly and always. 

Foreword: I ask NOT about the whole question; so I quote only the following part of the answer. Source: p 153, Question 7c, Principles of Microeconomics, 7 Ed, 2014, by NG Mankiw = Chapter 7, Question 6c, Principles of Microeconomics, 4 Ed, 2008, by NG Mankiw 

Is the bolded (independent) clause too presumptuous? I doubt its truth. Even if hand in hand means any positive correlation weaker than 100%, the bolded can be false. For example, despite being in view of inflation in prices, a greedy employer can simply refuse to increase wages. Then no inflation in incomes exists, and so inflation DOES reduce ? 

A cynic would attribute the disparity (and the failures to gentrify) to indifference or inattention, (or worse) disdaining neglect or ignoring, by the politicians and rich of the poor in the poor areas. I exemplify with cities whose disparities I have witnessed, followed by links to the maps overlaying location with income, but I exclude downtown areas which always appear rich: New York: (Lower) Manhattan vs. The Bronx and Brooklyn (e.g. Bedford-Stuyvesant, Bushwick) <Google search: 1, 2> London (Boroughs): Hammersmith & Fulham, Kensington & Chelsea, Westminster vs. Hackney, Tower Hamlets, and the southern boroughs like Lewisham, Croydon. <Google search: 3, 4, 5> Toronto: Midtown (along Yonge St. subway line, like Lawrence Park) vs. Jane & Finch, Rexdale <Google search: 6> Vancouver: West & North Vancouver, West Side, South Vancouver vs. Downtown East Side, Surrey <Google search: the Vancouver Sun has many maps.> 

1. Are the bolded clauses true absolutely? To wit, capital loss is identically (and NOT just near) 0? 2. Why are the bolded true? 

$URL$ Very interesting little model. Government infrastructure spending increases wages in the short run by increasing the capital supply, but lowest wages and raises capital income in the long run by boosting the return on private capital. Is this result valid? 

A true labor shortage is when no labor is available for a task at any price. Surely this occurs all of the time if you consider markets that don't exist or could never exist, but has this ever happened otherwise? Has there ever been a situation where a particular type of labor existed, and then dissapeared, leading to a situation where none of the labor in that sector was available at any price? 

Return on assets = net income/assets. ROI = an informal term roughly corresponding to return on starting capital, or net income/starting capital. Starting capital is any money invested in the business. Let's say you take out a 500k mortgage on a home with a 50k downpayment. That means 550k of assets. Net of everything you make a $10000 profit from rental income or whatever. Your ROA is 10k/550k because even though you don't own the home free and clear, the house is still an asset. ROI is a more informal term comparing how much you invested versus the return. In this example ROI is 10k/50k because you only paid 50k for the home. 

Iran is dumping oil onto the market at about a dollar a barrel. This is boosting the global economy. It is only a temporary phenomenon and the total oil production will begin to fall any time now. Oil is the sole determinant of long run global growth, and real energy prices always rise before recessions. 

It would undoubtedly be India, as enormous segments India's tertiary educated class come to the US to work as programmers for 120k. $URL$ 

The growth of developing countries has been accompanied by rising resource prices and crimping of growth in the First World. This does not mean that anyone is stealing resources per se. It shows that resources are scarce and constrain growth, and one countries' demand makes it harder for other economies to buy oil. The sort of commodity price behavior that we see during rapid growth in the Third World does provide support for a mercantilist, zero-sum, resource constrained view of growth. This does have elements of colonialist/resource imperialist model where the First World invades oil producers to privatize the resource rents. 

Please help me dig deeper than the maths, which I already understand and so ask NOT about. Accordingly, I ellipted the mathematical proof with the ellipsis above. What's the intuition behind the last (reddened) equation for profit? I ask only for intuition; please omit any formal arguments or math proofs. 

Sources: p 289, Principles of Microeconomics (7 Ed, 2014) by N G Mankiw p 259, Modern Principles of Economics (2 ed, 2011) by Tyler Cowen, Alex Tabarrok 

1. How does excessive consumption in local institutions cause a $\color{darkred} { \text { downward trend in taxation } }$? Excessive consumption ought to be boost tax revenue? 2. The last sentence seems to contradict the anti-growth ideology. Please clarify? I am guessing that the anti-growth ideologues want to avoid $\color{green} { \text { greater fiscal expenditure } }$; so why do they reject a growth (or overgrowth) in consumption? 

Abbreviate 'Social Value' as SV. In some other resources such as this, the SV curve is known as the Social Marginal Benefit curve. The following quotes explain [1.] why the SV curve is the demand curve shifted upwards, but they don't explain [2.] why the SV curve is NOT the supply curve shifted downwards. Here's my rationale for [2.]: Assume $SV > 0$. Because SV benefits society, the suppliers of this SV can consider the SV supplied, as follows: Suppliers' true cost $=$ their original costs $-$ SV, $\qquad$ for all quantities supplied. So the new supply curve must underlie, and be parallel to, the old supply curve. Source: pp 179-180, Modern Principles of Economics (2 ed, 2011) by Tyler Cowen, Alex Tabarrok 

Please explain the last sentence (that I bolded). I don't understand the significance of the 10% and −4%. The foregoing discusses NEGATIVE interest rates, the maximum of which must be 0%. So why bound the interest rate above, with a POSITIVE number (10%)? 

Is 1 intended to convey that RC's issuing bonds to pay for its repurchasing RC's stocks? What's wrong with 2? Did Cravath intend to convey that a RC ought shun bonds that require payment and interest to bondholders? Because if the RC goes bankrupt, at least it owes nothing to shareholders? 

I'm coming at this from a scientific point of view, having had no formal training in economics - most of what I know about it was from self-studying an undergraduate economics textbook. My question is, why do economists disagree so much? This doesn't happen in the sciences. For example, for the question "will a driver in a car with these safeguards survive a collision at 100km/h", most scientists will agree on an answer. It might be conditional on various things (e.g. age of the driver), but most scientists will come to the same conclusion. However in economics, it's different. Faced with a question such as "should we provide more fiscal stimulus for the economy", it's possible that one big group of economists says "yes", and then another big group says "no". To some extent this might be because of personal interpretation of what is desirable. However I would expect that economists should still be able to say something like "if you provide fiscal stimulus, this will happen, and it's up to you to judge whether the consequences are desirable", and yet it seems there's no consensus on what will actually happen. It doesn't help that when I see economics debated in the media, both sides advance what looks like reasonable arguments. Does economics have predictive power? If so, at what point does economics fail to give good predictions, and how should a policymaker deal with economists disagreeing? If not, what's the point of economics (it might as well be astrology)? 

I thought about this question during the height of the Greek economic crisis several years ago. The media was saying that Greece had run out of money, having used funds that had been set aside for a natural disaster, and they really badly needed a loan. Suppose that during this period, an alien spaceship crash-landed in Greece and the aliens proceeded to invade the country. Since Greece has no money (= cannot buy weapons, ammunition, pay their soldiers, etc), and it cannot borrow (since nobody being willing to lend Greece money was the cause of economic crisis) does it mean Greece will be easily conquered? If the answer is no, where will Greece get the money to defend itself from? I'm asking this as an economics question, so I'm not thinking of stuff such as whether NATO intervenes or what the technological capabilities of the aliens are. 

There was abundant oil supply and the developed countries were splurging on FDI and debt in the periphery Greece had just joined the Euro and was getting tons of transfer payments The Euro was still fairly high and hadn't fallen yet. Greece may have fudged its numbers a bit to get into the Euro. 

Keynesianism (what you're apparently basing this on) is incoherent and relies on arbitrary eigenvalues such as "autonomous consumption". In real life the multiplier is small and inconsequential. However, the multiplier may appear close to one or slightly above simply because GDP increases the instant the government approves spending in public-subsidised enterprises, due to the way GDP is defined. For example, let's say the government spends $1 to subsidize Fannie Mae and this is counted as a consumption item (for whatever reason). GDP immediately increases by a dollar. Now Fannie Mae spends this on some irrelevant bureaucratic expense (buying mortgage derivatives, legal fees, financial services etc). GDP increases by a dollar again. So we just achieved a multiplier of two while having absolutely no effect on the real world. As you can see, measured GDP is subject to all sorts of random problems that make any attempt to calculate the multiplier pointless. Furthermore, strictly speaking, the "multiplier" is only technically supposed to apply to government consumption, and not transfers as you are asking about. 

Probably, but it's not visible because a country is usually already in shambles before a default, and data collection for domestic debt crises is poor. Here is a list of defaults: $URL$ Here's some rate data: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ There have been many cases where countries default on only internal debt. Argentina did this. I can't find bond data anywhere. But when it defaulted on domestic debt (1989), inflation went up and the currency fell. Which is pretty much the same as an increase in external interest rates. 

More than 100%. Fractional reserve banking allows banks to create money out of thin air, and they typically leverage twenty times over or more. Despite this they still demand free money from the federal reserve and complain about not being able to hit a button on a computer to lend more money during credit crunches.