The Philadelphia Eagles hosted and beat the Atalanta Falcons on NFC's Divisional playoffs round of the 2017-18 NFL season. The eagles became the first top seed team since the 70's to host a playoff game as an underdog. The Eagles were considered the underdogs mainly because their starting Quarterback Carson Wentz had a season ending leg injury a month earlier and the team did not perform as well with the backup QB Nick Foles. How many times the top seed of an NFL conference started their first postseason game as an underdog in the history of the NFL? 

The Winnipeg Jets were outshot 48 to 19 against the Nashville Predators in the series opener of the second round of the 2017-2018 NHL Stanly Cup playoffs. Despite the -29 shot differential, the jets won the game 4 - 1. What are the top 10 worst shot differentials in the history of the NHL for a team that won a playoffs game? Please provide the shot differential, teams playing, the playoff round at which the teams played, as well as the final score of the game. To answer this question you may go back only as far back as 1956, that's the year the NHL began shot tracking. 

I believe there are penalties that once accepted automatically yield a first down. And there are others that don't always result in a first down, put depending on the location of the foul (regarding to the line of scrimmage) will yield a first down. So when does a penalty results in a first down? 

The Russian Olympic team has been banned from the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics due to government supported doping allegations. However, 168 athletes from Russia were permitted to participate in the Olympics headed by the international committee of Olympic Athletes from Russia (OAR) under the Olympic flag. Similarly, the Russian team was banned from the 2016 Summer Olympics and I asked Athletes who have won Olympic medals under the olympic flag. This question focused on why the athletes who won medals were competing as independent individuals. The OAR Hockey team has the best odds of winning the Hockey gold medal in the 2018 games. Since the answers to the aforementioned question didn't list any medal winners in team sports, I'm wondering how many times, if any, athletes under the Olympic flag competed in team sports? Please list the sport, year, and the results of each team. 

The video shows the European Championships. So it simply wasn't an Olympic competition in that video. He achieved the Olympic record in the Sydney 2000 games with 180 kg, so that number is actually correct. And as you can see on that list every kg counts, so 1 kg increments are possible and achievable. An Olympic record is only recognized as such if it was achieved in the Olympics, even if it is the world record (or was in this case, since the world record has been beaten in 2007 when Andrei Rybakou lifted 187 kg in the World Championships). 

There are always situations where you will need your arms to handle complaints by the players or any other situations preventing the kick to be taken (subs, cards, etc.). In that case you need to handle that first and raise your arm when you're ready to resume the game. For example if you blow the whistle to stop the game to show a card or after you awarded the free kick and have to handle any other problems... 

Surprisingly, Football is one of these. The only restriction is a maximum age of 23 for the men's competition. 

The clubs don't allocate that amount to away fans, but to the area they're supposed to be seated in. If away fans buy tickets for the home or "neutral" zone the tickets will not count towards that limit. I often do that with my family and get tickets for a more "peaceful" area, because sometimes it's too dangerous for families to be locked up in a small area like most away fans. Sometimes the security doesn't even care if you're wearing your team colors. Only when there is a risk (derby, fans hating each others, etc) they will deny entry to those wearing away colors. But if you don't wear any colors you can go wherever you want. On the other hand we even have matches where you can only buy tickets if you're living in the area of the home club and you need to prove it with your passport. Away fans then can only buy tickets via their own club. Those tickets usually have your name on them, so people don't sell them on eBay. This makes sure (almost) no away fan (even neutrally clothed) can get into the home areas. This is probably what you asked about in the first place. 

How many times a player from the losing team was named the super bowl MVP? Please list all these MVP winner and the year it happened. 

I almost always see the centres take the face offs in the NHL. Is this part of the rulebook? If not, why isn't more common to see other players take face offs. I can understand why defensemen don't take face offs as there's only 2 of them on ice and teams don't want to give away break aways with 1 defender. But how come it's also not common to see wingers take face offs? 

How many times a player who got in a grand slam through the qualifier round won the championship, and who are they? 

Barcelona managed to beat PSG 6-1 in the second leg of 2017 round of 16 to win 6-5 on aggregate, having lost 4-0 in the first leg. Inspired by Barcelona' win, what are the biggest comebacks in champions league history after a loss in the 1st leg of knockout stage match? 

The Los Angeles Dodgers and Pittsburgh Pirates tied 0-0 at the end of the 9th inning on August 23rd 2017. With one out and a runner on the second base, the pirates had a chance to win the game with no hits in the 9th. Dodgers' pitcher Rich Hill went on to throw a no hitter game through 9 innings. The commentators mentioned that winning without a hit is a rarity, so I'm wondering how many times it has happened in MLB history. 

How many times an MLB team has been shutout in every game of a minimum 3 games series, including the playoffs? Please provide the season and the teams in play. 

Players and specially coaches don't like playing on short weeks. It doesn't give the players enough time to heal from the previous game, and it makes it tough for the coaches to come up with game plans and do their analysis. So what made the NFL hold night games to Thursdays? 

It depends what you mean when you say the worst team, but if you're talking about a team's performance in a season, then watch this video The five worst teams in NFL history, it ranks 

The Las Vegas Golden Knights Swept the Los Angeles Kings in the first round of the 2017-2018 Stanley Cup playoffs. In those 4 games, the Golden Knights scored 7 goals, by 7 different players. This makes me wonder what's the most number of different goal scorers any team has ever had to start the an NHL playoffs? 

If no the player who deflected the ball scored the goal. If yes it's up to the officials to decide (see below). 

The shot was in time. You can find it on YouTube and you can hear and see (the clock) that the shot was taken before the buzzer went off. 

You can go for two points, if you recover the ball and score a Touchdown. The NFL rules actually include occasions like these since they were changed in 2015 (before this rule change it was only possible to recover the ball in two point conversions). In College Football it was already possible before. Rule 11.3.2: 

Touching the ball alone doesn't make the player the goal scorer. Usually there are a few points that have to be considered... 

Secondly, does the rebound count? The other question is: Was the rebound an action where offside actually counts? The Laws are pretty clear in this case: 

This article is a good reference for amateurs interested in this sport. Here are the scheduled events. Although you missed this season completely it serves as a reference for possible future races. So yes, there are races in Europe. The Riders Cup is particularly interesting for you, since that one is designed especially for athletes new to the sport. It's not exclusive to amateurs, since pros can as well participate, but it's as close as you can get to starting off with this sport. 

In unofficial matches there may be a so-called mercy rule (or skunk rule), which may end a game after a 7-0 lead or other standings. Since no official rule about this exists any longer the requirements may vary. The USATT also has some extra basement rules (they're not real rules!) which still include a skunk rule: 

According to the Laws of the Game it is for the referee to decide whether or not a match can take place when the weather is too severe. But what defines the term "too severe"? Are there any guidelines about wind speed, snow, rain fall, etc. the referees have to follow? Right now we have wind speeds of >120 km/h, which would in my opinion way over the limit, but what actually defines that limit? In our referee group we had a test for that, but that was just a small guidance for our local league (like can you see both goals from the middle line or can you run on the pitch or is it too deep, etc).