These two themes are in tension with each other, which is part of what makes them such a rich, powerful pairing. Controlling and Understanding Our Technology Many of Asimov's robot stories revolve around the Three Laws of Robotics, which are meant to be defining boundaries and keep robots' behavior predictable and nonharmful. And in many of the stories, something goes wrong -- the robots do not behave as expected; an interaction between the Laws arises which is not expected; the Laws turn out to have consequences that were not expected; etc., etc. As many iconic SF stories do, Asimov posits consequences that are always purely logical. The initial premise of beings following the Three Laws is entirely logical and abstract, and great importance is always placed on the fact that the results - surprising and unexpected though they may be - flow logically from the premise, given the right circumstances. And so the question that remains, that the stories interrogate, is: Are humans clever enough, wise enough, logical enough, to anticipate all the consequences of the technology they build? Can we deal with what we have created, or are we going to fall into a trap of our own making? Different stories deal with this in different ways - from Liar!, where Susan Calvin realizes that the consequences of the Laws force a robot to lie and distort reality in order to avoid causing her pain, to The Evitable Conflict, where humanity realizes that robots, in following their rules, have plucked away humanity's agency entirely. The Humanity of Robots Many of the stories anthropomorphize and personify the robots -- portraying them as not only machines, but actually capable of emotion, which is effectively as real as our own. This gives rise to a slew of questions about what being "human" truly means -- and if it can be artificially simulated, what does that mean? Robbie is very clearly in this vein, where Gloria realizes she cannot think of him as anything but an individual. Little Lost Robot toys with the idea of a robot gaining a superiority complex, wanting to prove itself "better" than a human. And so on. 

When the king's daughter is threatened with rape and harassment, the king takes pity on the men, and lays full responsibility on the shoulders of the daughter. And this simple aside: 

Both characters come from existing fairy-tales (I've seen them pegged as “The Enchanted Pig” and “The Princess on the Glass Mountain”), so what the story's doing is not creating new characters -- it's juxtaposing them, and allowing them to meet. Each character feels very iconic, representative of fairy-tale logic, and its portrayal of love and romance. And in most immediate ways, the two characters are stark opposites. Amira is demure; sheltered; a prize to be fought for, and locked away from the cruel world until she is won. Whereas Tabitha is scarred, trying to atone, forced into a cruel quest. Amira is forever trapped in place; Tabitha must forever trudge onwards. But when the two of them are compared side by side, when they meet and recognize each other, we see how alike they are. How their pain is the same pain. How each of them has been forced to conform to demands they never took on willingly: 

Sarah Tolmie's novelette The Dancer on the Stairs is a kind of portal fantasy, with the protagonist whisked away from our world into a strange fantastical one -- except the place she is whisked to is a guarded stairway, where she depends on charity and desperation to survive, and can get out only by growing to learn the strange culture, and forge a meaningful bond with another. At the story's conclusion, long after she has escaped, the protagonist is in an unexpected position of responsibility -- orchestrating the enigmatic coronation dance. And here, at the climax of the dance several strange things happen - a break from the culture's fundamental order; a miraculous signal; and also, this: 

Probably Four. A four-gabled house seems to refer to an X-like shape, with a gable extending in each direction: 

But each of them can recognize how the other one has been abused. When each of them tells their story, the other's immediate response is outrage and indignation on her friends' behalf. What they cannot admit in their own situation, they can fight for, to care for another. That indignation isn't against men. It's against fairy-tale logic of how relationships between men and women are meant to work. It's against ideas that women need to "prove" themselves to men, need to be protected by and from men, need to be the ones to "fix" anything that's wrong with any relationship, no matter how bad. The things that Tabitha and Amira overcome are not men, but society's expectations of women -- which they themselves have internalized. That's the story's climax, its closing insight: 

A categorical statement. Not "didn't wish to marry against her will," but rather "did not want a husband," any husband. The horror of this sub-story is the way harassment and rape are considered "inevitable," and "the woman's fault," that she is held responsible for "fixing" the situation regardless of the cost to her. (And, let's be honest -- marrying, in such a society, would be little protection indeed; maybe looking more proper outwardly, but not actually keeping pawing arms off of her.) This kind of horror doesn't need incest to make it worse, or anything else that isn't already clearly laid out. The situation itself is the horror; succumbing to it is unspeakable. 

The murderer refers to his three intended targets as "Three Blind Mice" -- in the first murder, a notebook mentioning "Three Blind Mice" is found, a note on the body, reading "This is the first." Following this, much of the story is of the murderer's elaborate construction of opportunity to catch his victims alone and vulnerable. Hence, a mousetrap. To be more specific, and more spoilery: 

Each one is trapped in their own narrative, trying to make fairy-tale ideas of romance work in practice, because they think that if the romance doesn't work "like it's supposed to," that's their own failure and their own responsibility: 

It's conceivable that with a structure like this, it appear to be a four-gabled house from its front facade, but have additional gables in back, obscured from view. That would be a "four-gabled house" with more than four gables. This doesn't seem to match up with the constant stress that it is a Four-Gabled House, or with the description of "ascending" to the fifth gable, but it's hypothetically possible. Appearing and Disappearing Gables All that being said, it seems fairly clear that the story is banking on the reader understanding the house as having precisely four gables, and the fifth gable as being magical (and inaccessible by normal means). The constant reference to "the four-gabled house", and the matching of four women for four gables, is clear. We're not intended to question the architecture here. Likewise, the story is titled "The Fifth Gable" -- telling us, right from the start, that there will be a fifth gable. An obvious implication is that the fifth gable is special, remarkable. But then it isn't referenced again until the very end. To me, this omission indicates that the fifth gable is not a mundane part of the house -- if you know there's a fifth gable, but keep calling it a four-gable house, that's because there's a very immediate reason not to count the fifth one. You call attention to this very interesting snippet: