I would think of Nietzsche here: the way melody and rhythm condition and mutate all of creation or expression. The musicality of speech would be a primary example here to my mind, but the point would be that even philosophies sing, whether celebratory hymns or pious dirges... So there is always beneath the explicit content a profound implicit sense -- I'm tempted to say spirit, but you could also say subtext. It's a question of who/what is speaking through you, the text, the world; singing through signs and phenomena. A question of different musics for different ways of feeling, thinking, living. 

The virtual could feasibly be said to name this place where factual and counter factual coincide, or the matrix of this interface. (Combray as it was never lived, conjured up now-here in glory.) The virtual is described as real-without-actuality — this is again a Proustism. It is “like a memory or dream” but wakeful. Perhaps something here is trying to move, trying to set up the conditions of thinking, the conditions of the event of thinking; the encounter which forces us to think. In the virtual every “inconceivable” encounter is incompossibly realized. Maybe most poignantly the virtual is temporization, it is the spirituality or non-substantiality of time. Though the past does not exist, we access it through a virtual plot hole (e.g., time is crystallized in music especially, but all the plastic arts deal with these delicate “spiritual” signs...) 

Maybe more of a comment, but a few quick points that might be interesting to explore. The Talmud says that an error in study is considered intentional: 

(As a side-note, the fact that the humans believe that it is possible to measure personhood by their external response to puzzles rather than philosophizing about the internal state of the AI means that the humans adhere to either Behaviorism or Functionalism. If you don't agree with two philosophical approaches, then it's possible that this entire question is moot and that it's impossible to build an AI that would reach "personhood" status.) 

And while it is true that today's onlookers are correct that 'real intelligence' (which I'm calling "Strong AI" here) does not exist currently, if these onlookers will perpertually "discount the behavior of an artificial intelligence program", that there's a real possibility that one day, these onlookers would be wrong...that "real intelligence"/Strong AI did occur. This is my fear: 

According to the 'Mario Lives!' video, researchers have been able to develop an AI unit that is able to experience emotional states, such as greed, hunger, and curiosity. If the AI is currently experiencing an emotion, it will engage in certain behaviors. For example, if Mario is very greedy, Mario will look for coins. This approach is very similar to the Sims video game series, where emotional states are also represented, and AI characters will attempt to fulfill those drives. Now, I can concede that the Mario AI is effective at simulating emotions. The media, however, has gone beyond this. Two articles, in particular, troubles me. 

I can accept the idea of Mario 'learning'. I can even accept the idea that Mario is 'self-aware' within his own environment. But I cannot intuitively accept the idea that Mario is feeling any emotions. It seems weird to think that EA programmers and German AI researchers were both able to accomplish the dreams of science fiction writers all over the world, and without anybody ever noticing. Maybe my intuition is wrong though, and maybe Mario is indeed feeling emotions (even if they are not the same emotions as humans feel). 

Good and evil refer ultimately to a moral judgment: that you have an intent to do good or evil. It’s more difficult to ascribe intentionality to lower “orders” of creatures, and especially the cultural and religious sorts of intentionality associated with the ethical act. Could a paramecium have a “consciousness of guilt”? What about a fly? Dogs certainly seem to have an internal life (at least appear to emote shame, guilt, etc.) Monkeys engage in what some characterize as war, suggesting something like the “sociocultural intentionality” (which I’m positing here as a kind of “floor” for the intelligibility of the good-evil distinction) might be present. 

Note that in Thus Spake Zarathustra (section 40, "Great Events"), in the discourse with the fire-dog, Nietzsche has Zarathustra say the following: 

A philosophical analysis, work or exposition is roughly equivalent, in the sense that as a mathematical proof constructs new functions and analyzes their behavior, a philosophical work or exposition produces and experiments with new concepts. Within a work there will generally be many inter-related speculative arguments. These arguments will generally be concerned with weighing consequences of other arguments -- evaluating the depth and rigor of the coherence between premises and conclusions. Some of these arguments will be primary and deal with key concepts or experimental conjectures; other arguments may include critical analyses of related arguments and ideas. As @Xodarap notes, many but not all arguments will be formal or informal syllogisms. (There are many variations on the "standard" syllogism, and also a number of fallacies related to improper use of syllogistic reasoning.) 

As an example, imagine that I am a boss looking to hire a new employee to a firm. Two candidates apply to the position, one a woman and one a man. The woman is superior in terms of ability to perform work, but I choose the man for a discriminatory reason, which denies the woman a chance at a job. I do not tell her this, and she never finds out. Is this situation just because I did not tell the woman why she was rejected? No. Would the situation only become unjust if she were to find out about the situation? No. Regardless of her knowledge of the situation, my decision not to hire her was unjust and discrimination. 

There is a particular philosophy that I am trying to find the proper word to describe. An exemple of this philosophy is from a short story I once read (From Jack London's short story "To Build a Fire") is where a man tries to build a fire in the winter, and in his confidence takes his boots off to warm them. Whereupon snow falls from above, extinguishing the fire, soaking his foot, and we are left to presume dooming him to death. Another example (that I cannot source sadly) is the story of a particular man who abandoned society and built himself a log cabin in the middle of the woods, and lived his entire life there. The core concepts invovled are thus: 

For the sake of this argument, I will assume that you are referring to intentional social discrimination as defined in this article (And for the sake of your debate, I recommend you agree upon a singluar definition of discrimination, becuase it is not as clear-cut as you might think). Furthermore, we will have to assume that the action that is being taken is in fact a negative one, or one that sets the individual at a disadvantage. We could argue about whether or not restrictive dress codes are a disadvantage, but for the sake of this argument we will ignore whether or not it is, and assume that whatever discrimination is taking place, it is known to be in some way a disadvantage to the one being discriminated. Finally, let's make one more assumption - that the individual performing this discrimination is fully aware that it is a disadvantage to the person being discriminated. Whether or not discrimination is happening if the person doing it is aware of their discriminating actions is a subject for another debate, so I am going to focus on this and this alone. Now, if the individual is being told to act in a certain way throughout their life, and this is based on traditions and not deviating from the individual's treatment of any other person of that type, and they are unaware of any other way to be treated, it is still discrimination, because the person performing the action is well aware of this choice, and is choosing to perform this action based on this person's status as a woman (Or any other factor that could lead to discrimination). The actor's awareness of another option is what makes this discrimination - it has nothing to do with the discriminated person's knowledge of the act. More importantly though, this activity is completely unjust if it does indeed put the person in question at a disadvantage. Whether or not a person is aware of the discrimination does not change whether this action is just or unjust. And putting a person into a situation that knowingly sets them at a disadvantage, even if it is institutionalized and common practice, is still unjust. Whether or not the activity itself is unjust is an entirely separate debate - but if the action is unjust to the person, it is unjust regardless of their lack of awareness to it being unjust. 

Replace "heap" with "non-person" and "non-heap" with "person", and you can see the similarities. Now, one way to solve to the Paradox of the Heap is to just create an arbitrary definition of "heap" and adhere to that definition ("a heap is a collection containing 10,000 or more grains of wheat"). Wikipedia doesn't seem to like this type of solution: 

It is, of course, debatable whether a Strong AI even can exist. After all, philosophical arguments about the Chinese Room and Philosophical Zombies abound. However, it is possible to imagine a world where "Strong AI" is possible and yet people adhere to a philosophical argument that denies the existence of "Strong AI". It is also possible to imagine a world where humans fall prey to the AI Effect. According to Wikipedia, 

Could this scenario occur? Or would it is possible, as soon as Strong AI exist, that humans immediately come to a consensus that it does exist? 

On the other hand, without an arbitrary definition of personhood, the evolutionary algorithm would not work. You need some way of measuring how close someone is to "personhood". In addition, the Wikipedia article for the "Talos Principle" does not mention anyone ever questioning the "use" of the evolutionary algorithm, so it's possible that humans have came to a consensus about how to define personhood. We may therefore wish to defer to their consensus. (Wikipedia calls this appeal to consensus as the "Group consensus" approach to solving the Paradox of the Heap.) So, back to your question. Is Elohim a person? My response depends on whether you trust the arbitrary definition that humanity has given to personhood.