There are many reasons that bulking diets fail but here are a few of the most common reasons: 1. Calories are not high enough and putting on muscle mass fails. 2. Calories are too high and macros are wrong. This in turn leads to putting on fat as well as muscle. 3. You are bulking, not cheating. Cheat days can be factored in, but your food choices should still be healthy. All diets, whether cutting or bulking, need to be monitored. This means that watching your insulin spikes and the type of carb you consume. 4. You are what you eat, it’s that simple. To simplify, you eat crap and you will look like crap. Harris Benedict Formula for Calorie Calculations “The Harris Benedict equation is a calorie formula using the variables of height, weight, age, and gender to calculate basal metabolic rate (BMR). This is more accurate than calculating calorie needs based on total body weight alone. The only factor it omits is lean body mass and thus the ratio of muscle-to-fat a body has. Remember, leaner bodies need more calories than less leaner ones. Therefore, this equation will be very accurate in all but the very muscular (Harris-Benedict will under-estimate calorie needs) and the very fat (Harris-Benedict will over-estimate calorie needs).” That being said, there are is no concrete number of daily calorie intake your body needs, however using this formula will give you can idea of what you do need. Harris Benedict Formula for Men - Step 1 BMR = 66 + (13.7 X weight in kilos) + (5 X height in cm) - (6.8 X age in years) Example: You are 25 years old You are 6 feet tall Your weight is 220 pounds Your BMR is 66 + (1370) + (914) - (170) = 2180 calories Harris Benedict Formula for Men - Step 2 To determine your total daily calorie needs (aka TDEE) multiply your BMR by the appropriate activity factor, as follows: If you are Sedentary - little or no exercise Calorie-Calculation = BMR X 1.2 - If you are Lightly Active (light exercise/sports 1-3 days/week) Calorie-Calculation = BMR X 1.375 - If you are Moderately Active (moderate exercise/sports 3-5 days/week) Calorie-Calculation = BMR X 1.55 - If you are Very Active = BMR X 1.725 (hard exercise/sports 6-7 days/week) Calorie-Calculation = BMR X 1.725 - If you are Extra Active (very hard daily exercise/sports & physical job or 2X day training) Calorie-Calculation = BMR X 1.9 Total Calorie Needs Example If you are lightly active, multiply your BMR (2180) by 1.375 = 2997 Your total daily calorie requirement is therefore 2997 calories. This is the total number of calories you need in order to maintain your current weight. If you want to gain body weight, you must consume more calories than you burn, pretty straightforward. So now we know that you need extra calories to gain weight. So what should these calories be comprised of? The BASICS- 1. Carbs - carbohydrates are a very helpful macronutrient when you are trying to gain lean mass. Meals should be comprised of slow burning complex carbs that are low on the glycemic chart. Some good examples of low glycemic carbs are brown rice, yams, and oatmeal. Others may include whole wheat bread, whole wheat pasta. 

There are generally two accepted way of doing this. Cyclic ketogenic diet or a "standard" 40/40/20 diet. The 40/40/20 diet have been used by bodybuilders for 50+ years so it is really not anything new and does have a proven track record. It simply works! You will find many ways of doing this online and it will all be based on you knowing your body fat percentage and TDEE, again, many calculators online to help you here. I opted for a Cyclic Ketogenic Diet myself which have been working extremely well. The best explanation for this diet is here Cyclical Ketogenic Diet: The Best Ever Bodybuilding Diet?. Mark also runs his own website with some excellent programs. 

While there is no specific exercise that will do this general good aerobic conditioning will help. So, keep going to the gym and stay healthy and you should have long, happy sex for years to come. From WebMD: 

Supplements are for people working on the last bit of perfection in their physique. Any normal gym rat will not notice and huge difference. One need to understand that most supplements are simply crap and that almost no one in the Ads for them actually take them but supplement with AAS instead. 

Protein - For bulking a good rule of thumb is 4g-6g of protein per kilogram of lean bodyweight. You should take in a good portion of your protein in the source of real meals, avoid intaking too many shakes. Examples of food with high protein bioavailability is egg whites, lean steak, and chicken breast. Fats - EFA’s (Essential Fatty Acids) are extremely important in any diet. Examples of good sources of fat are flax oil, nuts, salmon, olive oil. The separation of Carbs and Fats - It is often when you eat items and with what you eat them that is more important than what you are eating. Remember that when you take in certain carbs you can spike your insulin levels. If you are taking in fats when your insulin is spiked you are allowing the basic laws of physiology to act out, and you allow for a higher propensity for fat storage. Separation is key. The sample diet will give a good example of how to separate them. Supplements - Glutamine: Helps prevent catabolism. Best used in dosages of 10grams daily, 5 grams before cardio and 5 grams at another interval, but not after workout as it fights for absorption with the glutamine peptides in whey. Creatine: Unlike while cutting, creatine can be used while bulking since the water retention from its use will not be an issue since you are “bulking”. In the body, creatine is synthesized from the amino acids glycine, arginine and methionine. Taking supplemental doses of creatine monohydrate can increase muscle creatine and phosphocreatine (PC) concentrations by up to 40%. These increases can lead to improvements in muscle energy production and recuperation. Cheating - Cheating is essential. Why? Remember, the body runs on homeostasis and it likes to keep balance. After eating so well after a week, your body begins to adjust and lean mass gain / fat burning over time will not be as rapid. The other extremely important aspect is mental sanity. So many diets crash and fail because people don’t give themselves a chance to breath. Shoot for a cheat meal, not an all out binge. A fast food value meal can be 2,000 calories. Eat that 3 times on one day, and you’ve consumed 6,000 calories. And that’s not good in any case. Cardio - Cardio works the most important muscle of all – your heart. Not only that but doing cardio 3 times a week will help keep the fat you will gain in this diet to a minimum. The proper cardio for burning fat is done by staying in your target heart rate for fat burning which is 65-70% of your max heart rate for a period of 45-60 minutes. 

This is really not as complicated as to require an enormous answer. Bottomline: Calories in, calories out. Calories out (your deficit) needs to be greater and you will lose weight. Get your body fat measured and then have your TDEE calculated. This will tell you EXACTLY what you need to eat in terms of caloric value. Just eat less than that (-500 from TDEE is a gerneral rule) and you will be all set. Bodyfat, TDEE, -500 Calories, it really do not need to be more complicated than that. If you get that down you will be 80%-90% on your way. 

Take one week to record everything your eating and then figure out how many calories that is. Get help to figure out your current body fat level and from there you can get your TDEE. If you are not used to these things it will help a lot to get the help from a professional to get these values correct. When you now have your TDEE, meaning you know how many calories you need to tick, you will increase your caloric intake above this and you will gain weight. 

Let me start by stating the obvious, you are eating to little. If you are not gaining weight you will need to increase your caloric intake and what those calories consist of could depend on your fitness goal somewhat. 

Here I am showing you how I do it and I know the question is only about which activity multiplier to use but it seemed easier to do it this way. Note about Body fat: You will need to get this one as close to the actual value you have as this will all be based off that. I am using the Katch-McArdle formula. Different websites refer to the value you get as either RMR (Resting Metabolic Rate) or BMR (Basal Metabolic Rate) but it is the same thing. My weight: 72.2Kg Body fat: 10% Formula Lean Body Mass: (Weight x (100-(Body Fat)))/100 ((72.2 x (100-10))/100 = 64.98 Formula: BMR = 370 + (21.6 x Lean Body Mass(kg)) 370 + (21.6 x 64.98) = 1773.57 This mean that if I were to never get out of bed, not even to go to the bathroom simply being alive will cost me 1773.57 calories per day. In order for this to be correct I will now add a value for activity multiplier which is simply a way to add calories for you moving around, working, and going to the gym. I am adding 1.55 which means I am moderately active. This value is called total daily energy expenditure (TDEE) and for me this is 1773.57 x 1.55 = 2749.0304. You will notice that a lot of sites will tell you to start with about +500 calories over maintenance mode (This is 99% of the time to much) but I started at maintenance mode itself and added 50 calories/week until I found my perfect value. Activity Multiplier A paper on metabolism used a definition of "vigorous exercise" as expenditure of 14.1 to 16.3 kcal/kg of ideal body weight per day.1 Using the rounded figure of 15 Calories per kilogram of body weight, then "vigorous exercise" for a person weighing 150 pounds (68 kilograms) corresponds to 1020 Calories per day. If walking at 4 miles per hour burns about 300 Calories per hour, then you would need to walk 3 hours and 24 minutes to burn off 1020 Calories. The activity factors for the Calorie Restriction Calculator are: 1.200 = sedentary (little or no exercise) 1.375 = lightly active (light exercise/sports 1-3 days/week, approx. 590 Cal/day) 1.550 = moderately active (moderate exercise/sports 3-5 days/week, approx. 870 Cal/day) 1.725 = very active (hard exercise/sports 6-7 days a week, approx. 1150 Cal/day) 1.900 = extra active (very hard exercise/sports and physical job, approx. 1580 Cal/day) The activity factor lightly active corresponds to walking 2 hours per day, moderately active corresponds to walking 3 hours per day, very active corresponds to walking 4 hours per day, and extra active corresponds to walking 5 hours per day (20 miles). More strenuous exercises, such as climbing stairs or running, burn more calories per hour. Most people who exercise from 30 minutes to 45 minutes per day are in the "lightly active" category. You can use the CR calculator to determine the number of calories for each level of exercise for your particular weight by subtracting the calories for a specific activity level from the calories for the sedentary option. REFRERENCES: Nutritional regulation of the insulin-like growth factors. What is moderate exercise? 

Here are some replacement exercises, however, as stated above, it can not be replaced entirely due to the complexity of the exercise itself. Lat Pulldowns (compound, overhand grip) Pull-Ups (compound, weighted, overhand grip) Bent Over Barbell Rows (compound) Seated Cable Rows (compound) One-arm Dumbbell Rows (compound) Pullover Machine Kneeling Cable Bent-Over Pullovers Decline Cable Pullovers Hyperextensions 

I have no idea why everyone is advocating a higher rep amount as this is counter intuitive to building muscle. Yes, you read that correctly, building muscle. The fact is the more muscle mass will help burn fat faster (Muscles require more energy) so increasing muscle mass at the same time would be much more beneficial than doing light weight with many reps. 

No. Why? Because your are combining carbs and fat and this is a sure bet to spike insulin levels and convert all those carbs to fat. Forget this combo. No. Why? There are a million plans online you can find and most of them (at least now) subscribe to some sort of LCHF (Low Carb High Fat) idea which have been proven in literature to have amazing effects on blood sugar and other health factors. Google Musclehack TSPA and you will, in my subjective opinion, have a very solid plan. 

Cut down on long distance training The most important part is to cut down on the total amount of workout one week before the race and sometimes two weeks, depending on how you feel. Cut the training in half or the total distance by about one third is a good rule of thumb. This will give the body a good opportunity to relax without going into “sleep” mode. Keep the speed Still workout at the same speed as before only cut down on volume as this is a good way to keep the edge of the capacity you have built-up before during your normal training weeks. Easy workout but do not rest To take one, maybe two, days of before the race is good and will help the body but resting for several days in a row will have the opposite effect and will make the muscles tighten up and you will lose the flow of your workout. It is better to do a very slow and not so long ride before hand just to have the body move around a bit and keep your feeling of still working out. You can call this ”active rest”. 

This is not a good plan, well, at all! Simply cutting out all carbs from your diet will have a huge impact. 

Doing a 5-day split with different muscle groups being exercised each day compared to a 3-day split where one works out the entire body makes little difference in terms of muscle building in the long term. Naturally, this applies to the non-professional who is not on a elite level where the slightest detail can make or brake the winning of a competition. If what you are saying, assuming I am reading it correctly, you are splitting your entire body on 3-days which is too little to make significant improvements. you will need to have either a 5-day or 3-day split. Many programs doing this can be found online, i.e THT5.2 Program 

Sample Diet: Based on the Harris Benedict formula above, our friend here needs 2997 calories a day to maintain his current weight. So in order for him to gain 1 pound a week, we need to increase his calories to right around 3500 a day since that will yield 3500 calories over his maintenance numbers needed for the week. Meal 1: Pro/Carb 8 Egg Whites, 1 Scoop Of Whey Protein, 1 cup oatmeal 50g protein / 54g carbs / 5g fat Meal 2: Pro/Fat Lean Ground Beef, ¼ cup swiss cheese, green veggies 55g protein / 2g carbs / 20g fat Meal 3: Pro/Carb Chicken Breast, 1 and a half cup Brown Rice 55g protein / 64g carbs / 3g Fat Meal 4: Pro/Fat 2 Cans of Tuna, 1 Tbsp Full Fat Mayonnaise, Veggies 60g protein / 2g carbs / 13g Fat Meal 5: PWO Nutrition 2 Scoops Whey Protein / 80g of Dextrose 40g protein / 80g carbs / 0g fat Meal 6: PPWO Boneless Skinless Chicken Breast, ½ cup Brown Rice (Measured Uncooked) 50g protein / 70g carbs / 3g fat Meal 7: Pro/Fat Lean Protein of your choice, 2 Tbsp Natural Peanut Butter 50g protein / 5g carbs / 18g fat Meal 8: Before Bed 3 Scoops of Whey Protein, 1.5 Tbsp. Flax Seed Oil 60g protein / 3g carbs / 21g Fat That turns into approximately 420 grams protein, 250 grams Carbs, and 83 grams of fat. This is roughly 3500 calories 

Already some good suggestions but I'll add what I did as I, and many more I am sure, have had this problem numerous times. First time I had this problem I lowered by rep range to 2-3 reps for 3 weeks lifting heavier weight. I then returned to the previous weight and low-and-behold I easily pushed through. Second time I started using a spotter. I simply asked a random guy in the gym each time and lifted until he had to lift it himself pretty much. Did this for a few weeks and then tried it myself and easily pushed through. Third time (Which is what I am going through now) I am using a Smith Machine and it seems to be working. Its a bit too early to tell but figured I give it as advice anyhow.