So, you're only allowed to use weapons made from trees, and if you want to try to kill an attacker who is trying to kill you, you will both be effectively naked. Given such restrictive laws of combat, I will presume that the Hague Conventions on warfare (in particular the 1907 convention) do not apply. What we have here is a situation where personal weapons will either be melee-style objects or missile weapons, but this does not preclude heavier weapons. Also, while the commandments - and God - enforce the rules against the use of non-wooden weapons in combat, the commandments do not specify that non-wooden objects may not be used to produce the entirely wooden weapons, so long at the tools are not used as weapons themselves, and do not remain as part of the weapons in any detectable amount. This means that aside from combat, we have the full range of modern human technology with which we can prepare our weapons. Melee Weapons Timber may be used to produce spears, clubs and maces, and with lamination using tree-based resins plus heat treatment, may be used to produce cutting blades which, while not as sharp as a metal knife, are sharp enough for use against combatants who must be effectively unarmoured. These weapons may be anointed with tree-based toxins. Since shields are prohibited, dual-weapon use may be common, with one weapon being used to attack while the other is used to defend. Since the use of each weapon is interchangeable, and each may be used to both attack and defend as opposed to being primarily defensive as in a shield, this should be permissible. Missile Weapons With the application of technology, there are a number of missile weapon systems that can be made using no materials other than those found in trees of varying species, those being bows, crossbows and blowguns. What may have begun as a simple self-bow could through the ages have evolved into a longbow, a recurved bow and even a modern compound bow. Timber could be laminated using tree-based resins to maximise strength and springiness. From the bow we can derive the crossbow. The lock mechanism would need to be strong, but could be made using laminated wood, and the bow is just a bow mounted on the stock. Given that combatants must not wear armour, the blowgun becomes an effective weapon. This is a simple wooden tube through which a sliver of hardwood wrapped in a tree-based fibre can be blown. All of these missile weapons can be anointed with one - or more - of a number of tree-based toxic substances. Heavy Weapons Trees can supply timbers which may be used to build trebuchets and other catapults. The counterweight of a trebuchet may be of the hinged-counterweight type with the counterweight bucket filled with wood, or using tree-derived rubber as an energy store, and being used to propel logs or wooden spheres which may be solid or hollow and filled with a variety of interesting tree-based toxins or tree-derived flammable oils. Toxins The following are tree-derived toxins which may be used to enhance the lethality of the tree-based melee and missile weapons: 

In Anne McCafferey's Pern books, humans retreated into underground cities to escape Thread, which was an organism like a highly corrosive string that fell from the sky from a rogue eccentric planet for 50 years each 250 years. Since it would devour animals and vegetation, but not stone, people had to live in stone dwellings. Of course, the dragons in the series helped make sure that thread didn't fall to ground, but they weren't infallible, hence underground cities. 

Not having any idea about Vivio's origins, the only reason why a human-seeming being may be the same six years after age six is that for some reason she has reached - or has nearly reached - her full potential at age six. If, for example, she was actually some sort of robot/cyborg, or a humanoid alien with a different life cycle, or she has some sort of genetic disorder meaning that she will neither grow nor mature any further, or just magic. That said, if we're talking about anime, any of that is possible... 

While asking another question about Jormungandr, the Snakebot of Doom, a point was made that it is so big and hot that it might produce its own weather effects. To that end: Jormungandr is 446 metres in diameter, weighs 1.486 billion metric tons, has a body that is cylindrical for 7480m, and then tapers down to a point over a further 669m, the tail matching with a similarly shaped mouth. Its armour is made from Tungsten-depleted Uranium alloy plates with a smooth surface coating of Boron Carbide, at the surface appearing to be overlapping scales around five metres long and half a metre thick, much like the scales of a snake. Most importantly to this question, it is driven by shape-memory-alloy 'muscles' that have an operational temperature of around 97°C/207°F, and it has a similar surface temperature in air due to its cooling requirements, but the skin temperature would be much lower in water. In order to power its huge demand for energy, it is equipped with six hot-fusion reactors, each of which is capable of producing enough energy to power its shape-memory-alloy muscles or its entire complement of rail guns. While it is rolling sideways, when steamrolling a city, it moves at around 5kph / 3mph. However, it is capable of slithering in a serpentine manner at up to 20kph, and can roll into a hoop and travel at around 100kph on a level surface. It is also capable of travelling underwater, at up to 30kph rolling or 15kph slithering. In its travels from its construction site beneath the highest point of the Antarctic ice cap to the sea, it rolled at high speed, then travelled along the mid-Atlantic ridge (an area with high levels of geologic and thermal activity), and then surfaced off New York City, which it is presently flattening. The question: In each of its movement regimes, both above and below water, what effect might Jormungandr have on local and global weather patterns? 

Print holographic documents, like advanced versions of the holograms you see on credit cards. Depending on the angle at which you hold it, you see different content. If it is made for two human eyes, a single lens camera won't be able to capture a meaningful image, not in a single photograph, and if the text is small enough, a video recording may not have the necessary resolution. 

Inspired by JDługosz answer and the works of Greg Egan, I've come up with an idea that approaches the stated goals. As far as we can tell, our universe has three dimensions of space and one dimension of time with an opposite eigenvalue to that of the spatial dimensions. In Greg Egan's Orthogonal universe, time has the same eigenvalue, so the speed of light is dependent on its frequency, and it is possible to be living either forwards or backwards in time relative to another, as well as being able to travel infinitely fast. To take this idea a step further, we can imagine a universe where we have two time dimensions, both with the same eigenvalues as the spatial dimensions, with a very low (average) speed of light such that the life-forms that live there can significantly change their own time-vectors. We then have a universe in which beings aware of their own existence can have the ability to change their own 'futures'. In the event of injury, these beings would have the ability to back out of that future and head off down a different timelike path, in which the injury does not take place. This is not to say that injury or death is unknown or impossible, just that it is an option that need not be taken, and most creatures would evolve to not take that option - those that did, wouldn't get to evolve further. Inanimate objects could be broken and non-aware lifeforms on the order of bacteria or moulds would of course be able to be injured or die, as they have insufficient processing capability to plot a safe timelike path back from injury. However, any lifeform with sufficient brains and size - and believe me, with this kind of advantage, most lifeforms will have evolved sufficient brains and size - will be able to back out of almost any injurious or potentially lethal situation. This is not to say that actual death or injury could not occur, just that in general, it won't (at least not without being reversed). If sufficient injury was delivered sufficiently quickly to an entire organism, the organism could be terminated so fast that it wouldn't be aware that it needed to back out of that timelike path, however, the equipment needed to do this would likely be large and obvious to anything with more than half a brain, making it unlikely to work more than a few times unless very cleverly disguised, on anything approaching sentience. It would also most likely be a technological device, and hence it's inventor could be said to have invented death. The physiological state of being unaging is not such a stretch of the imagination - some organisms in our universe also have that trait. This universe would have an interesting biota. There would be no predators that preyed on large organisms, as most potential prey would be smart enough to be able to back out of a predatory encounter, and since autotrophy is cheap - just emit light in a controlled way - most organisms will supply their own energy needs, and consume minerals or primitive organisms only to obtain raw materials. Some additional features of this universe would be that electricity would be impractical, and photonics would be more likely to be used by both lifeforms and technology. Emitting light would result in an increase in an object's kinetic energy, not a decrease as in our universe. The universe itself would tend to get hotter rather than colder. There would likely be no degenerate matter or black holes.