Electronically Network Utilize your network. Do you have any former classmates from college or former colleagues that have moved on to some of these "bigger and better" markets that you'd like to enter? If you worked with them on class projects so they know you were a hard-worker and smart, that always is a bonus. Give them a call or email, reconnect with them on facebook or linked in, etc. Ask them about where they're working now, what kinds of skills their employer is looking for, how they'd recommend getting your feet in the door, what kinds of projects they're working on, etc. At some point, you may even wish to ask if they'd be able to give you a tour of their office or if you could take them out to lunch the next time you're in town visiting. Take A Vacation and Network in Person If at all possible, take a "vacation" to one or more of your target markets. If you can coincide your visit with a professional group event where you'd have networking opportunities, all the better. Set up some lunch dates with people you know or have networked with to learn more about where they work. You may even want to stop by and visit the companies you are most interested in, in person, to get a better sense of their culture. Strike up conversations with strangers, you'll never know when you happen to talk to someone that happens to be married to a hiring manager at one of your target companies (yes, that happened to me once, it does happen!) or have some other useful connection. Let people know you're just checking out the area as you're thinking of relocating there. Strategically Decide Where to Apply Some companies, especially smaller companies, may not have a budget available for flying out candidates from all parts of the country for an interview, let alone paying for relocation expenses, and they can't be sure you'll like the climate, traffic, etc, so there's slightly more risk involved in interviewing a non-local candidate. Consider: Are you willing to front any of those costs yourself? Or do you only want to consider companies that will pay for your out of town interview or relocation expenses? If you can find out beforehand what attitude the company has about relocation, it may be a non-issue, or you may need to specifically address in your cover letter why you're applying despite their "local candidates only" blurb on the job description. It's not you, there's just too many awesome candidates Java and .Net developers are pretty much both a dime a dozen in hot markets, and I know nothing of new york, but in the bay area it's a down economy right now and there's just a lot more people looking for jobs than there are jobs available. Somehow you have to differentiate yourself from all these other people who would probably also be fantastic candidates (many of whom may be local too) that you're competing against. Leverage what you have, and market yourself well--why should they hire you over all those other guys? I'm sure there is a reason, it's just pinpointing what makes you shine so you can sell yourself well. Take a Short-term Contract Another option to consider is applying for shorter term contract-positions in your target market. They may not pay relocation, and they offer less long-term stability, so you may just end up putting most of your stuff in storage for a while until you decide whether you're staying there for good, but that might be the foot in the door you need to make networking in person in your target market affordable and give you time to make good contacts who can hook you up with an interview for permanent positions at other companies. And if you're really lucky, perhaps you'll land a contract-to-hire gig. 

One thing you can do that I don't see mentioned is just take some time off and/or work from home until the bruise heals or can be covered up with makeup. In general I wouldn't recommend taking time off because of a black eye, but it is an option. Depending on your job I think working from home would be a good option. I don't know what your work policies or situation is so I don't know if you can get time off on such short notice or work from home. I also am not in a position to judge if a request for a week off work without notice will be viewed less favorably than just going to work with the bruise. Personally I would go to work and either tell an obviously false ridiculous story, or just tell the truth. That being said I don't know as much about your unique situation as you do. 

One popular solution to overly bright lighting for computer work is to reduce the percent of the fixtures that are switched on. In some offices, this may be as simple as wall switch that allows half of the fixtures to be turned off, while leaving the other half on. In others it might actually require having maintenance unscrew one of two bulbs from the ballast nearest your desk. If many of your co-workers are bothered by the intensity of the light, it may be easy to get them to agree. Don't automatically assume "it's not an option" without actually asking your boss or maintenance whether it would be an option to solve the problems of eyestrain (often the cause of headaches) from excess lighting while doing computer work. At my husband's work, enough people on his team were bothered by the brightness of the light that they successfully petitioned to have the lights over their desks turned off. Finding other ways to block the light from your computer screen or eyes, such as building a monitor hood to block light from glaring on your screen, or wearing a billed hat may help as well. The angle of your monitor to the bulbs can make a difference as well, especially if there are diffusers on the bulbs overhead. Try turning your whole desk 90 degrees or move the screen a foot to the left or right to see if the lighting is less bothersome that way. 

If you wanted to prove your greatness then you should have done it by uplifting everyone. Once you proved you were a threat then the opposition would have mobbed you. Instead of dancing around them all and making them look like fools you should have sent perfect passes to your teammates so they could be the hero and score. Same bit on defense you should have played zone defense and been a wall for any individual player. Even though you would prevent their forward progress still let them pass the ball away to their teammate. That way opposing players have a chance to have fun too. Of course if the score is close then score some easy points to keep your team in the lead. This way you still show off your skills but you do it in a positive way that shows you want to make the team shine instead of focusing the spotlight squarely on you. I think this kind of thinking will lead to a much better apology along the lines of: "Hey I'm really sorry for acting like a jerk out there on the field. If I had to do it over again I would use my skills to lift the team up instead of show off. My selfishness ruined the game, and I won't make that mistake again." As pointed out in the comments a great closing line would be to offer to buy the next round or two of drinks next time you all go out. After I gave this apology I'd also make it a point to give specific praise to your colleagues whenever you get praised. When your boss says, "Great job doing XYZ" try to respond with something like "Thanks I think that turned out really well too. Janice really helped make it all possible by doing XYZ." This will show that you appreciate the contributions of others, and won't try to hog all the glory like you probably did on the soccer field. 

I would sit down with your boss and let him know that although you love working there, you just can't afford to keep working there indefinitely if you aren't getting paid, and see how they respond. I wouldn't give them a full-out ultimatum that they pay you "or else", it's more a courtesy to let them know that they have a problem they need to solve if they really value your contributions and don't want to risk losing you. Your living expenses don't pay themselves. Benefits are worth little if you're not getting paid and going into debt. You do not owe them an obligation to stay around because you are "hard to replace". Begin updating your resume and sending out applications to other companies, regardless of whether they promise to pay you the money they owe. If your company still hasn't come through with the back-pay they owe you by the time you have a solid offer in hand from another company, it's time to jump ship, and I'm sure they will not be terribly surprised at that point, even if they're disappointed you won't work for free indefinitely. 

I clearly don't know what exactly happened, but based on your description my assumption is you spent the game taking the ball away from the other team, dribbling around everyone, and scoring goals. Your colleagues probably think you were acting like a showboating jerk. Your team probably feels this way because you hogged the ball, and the other team probably feels like you were running up the score for no reason. Like almost everyone else said if you want to repair this relationship you should apologize. However it doesn't seem to me like you realize why you should apologize. If you don't understand their point of view and how you should have handled the situation better any apology is going to sound contrived and may reinforce their belief that you're a jerk. For example this isn't productive: "I'm sorry that you feel bad about how I acted during the soccer game. I told HR that I was really good and would ruin the game. Guess I was right..." In my opinion you should have used your skills to enhance the game, instead of dominate it. I know hockey is a different sport but I don't know soccer well enough to pick out a good example. Wayne Gretzky was the greatest for lots of reasons, but I think it is germane that under "Style of Play" in his Wikipedia article they list this quote from Sports Illustrated: 

At my husband's work his team does a lot of team building events. Recently, one such event (on the clock during normal work hours) involved carpooling to an Asian restaurant to learn how to make sushi. This got me wondering how I would handle such a situation, if I had been on that team, since I suffer from some food allergies, and would likely experience headaches from the airborne allergens if I attended, or worse symptoms if I ate anything that was cooked on cross-contaminated equipment. How should one respond to such a situation? 

Your skills sound marketable to me. So I would be inclined to ask whether by "programming skills" you meant something more specific, like desktop application programming skills or skills at writing algorithms? Last time I checked inordinate amounts of websites are using SQL (typically but not always MySQL) and either ASP or PHP, so I would be hard-pressed to think web-programming skills are not marketable or in demand, or that you haven't gained considerable domain knowledge from your years of experience. Consider opportunities where you are. You could certainly have a conversation with your boss and convey your aspirations, and let him or her know how s/he could help you reach some of your domain expertise goals. Granted, business concerns may come first, and you may not be able to only work 100% on your favorite part of the job, but when your boss is trying to decide whether you should do X and Joe, your coworker should do Y, or vice versa, if s/he knows what you would like to be doing, it may help sway the decision making process to align your assignments with your interests. Decide what you would like to specialize in. If you feel like your current position is pigeon-holing you into a specialty you're not interested in continuing longer term, start by evaluating what other specialty you'd prefer to pursue. Considering what languages are popular in your area, or what languages and skills are in demand on job listings may help narrow down the list of choices. Would you rather be a C# programmer? A PHP programmer? Learn Java or C++? Become a database guru? Etc. Build skills in your desired specialty. Once you've picked an area you'd like to focus on, you should find a way to build up those skills. If your boss isn't interested in using those languages in-house, you may want to consider a project outside of work. It doesn't need to be a demanding project, but something to get that other language back fresh in your mind. Perhaps you could join and contribute to an open-source project. That's a great way to get your foot in the door to working with a new or different technology, with the added benefit that your source code there isn't proprietary, so you can use in in a portfolio for future employers. You could also consider joining a professional development group for people who are interested in the technology you're interested in, if there is one in your area. Or even just start reading a couple books on it, or look for university extension classes for professionals where they teach that language to brush up on it. Sell your experience for all its worth. In the end, what you're looking to show is that, even though you don't, for example, have 3 years experience programming C#, your new desired career direction, that you have seven years of experience programming in other languages where you have learned all kinds of transferable skills (abstracting and breaking down problems, maintenance of existing code, working with teams, learning new/different technologies etc etc etc), plus you've recently been tackling learning this awesome new skill that's what they're looking for, which makes you a much more awesome candidate overall. Or perhaps, just finding an outlet for skills you don't use at work would be enough to feel fulfilled. That's your call. 

He was a great shot but his passing set him apart. He owed much of his greatness to his ability to uplift his teammates (also from Wikipedia). 

I think you have gotten a lot of great feedback related to the specific questions you asked the other candidates, but I don't see any real answers that address your stated question: How do I tell if a set of interview questions are too hard? One obvious way you can answer this question is by soliciting feedback from other developers. You said that you are the only developer in your organization but that doesn't mean you don't know or can't meet other developers. You can ask for feedback from friends who don't work at your organization. If you don't know anyone else that slings code for a living then you could go to a meet up and try talking to someone there about the task. Finally you could consider running these questions past a recruiter. Of course there may be a conflict of interest there if that recruiter starts sending you applicants who perform amazingly well on your test but don't appear to know anything else... Another direction you could go is search for interview questions online. This does two different things. First it might give you ideas about the style of questions other people are asking. Secondly you can compare the relative level of difficulty between common questions and the questions you're asking. You might think that this route might encourage cheaters since these questions are "known" but anecdotal evidence seems to show that even though FizzBuzz is incredibly well known a significant number of people still fail when asked. Finally, I would argue that "too hard" is really relative to the kind of person you want to hire. Don't dumb down your questions because you feel bad that people aren't passing. Instead set your questions at a reasonable bar to screen out people who aren't going to be successful in the position. I'm certain that a position at Google where the applicant will be designing advanced search algorithms isn't going to have simple questions like "What is one difference between a POST and GET request?" Instead I'm sure they are asked advanced algorithm and machine learning questions. Having questions that are too hard for people who aren't going to be successful, but demonstrate an understanding of the principles they will need to be successful is ideal. So my advice is to not worry too much if the questions are too hard. Instead worry about what are the basic principles you are trying to screen for that a candidate needs to be successful. Once you've isolated that the only real hurdle is making sure your questions are clear. That being said in my opinion there is real value to finding out if a person will ask for clarification before building a grand solution that solves the wrong problem. 

On the one hand, waiting till your alma matter acquaintance suggests the idea, might lead to it never happening. On the other, being pushy and putting him or her in an awkward situation gets you no further. Having previously been in the awkward position of having a few multiple former classmates, not all of whom were all-star performers, persistently ask me to forward their resume to my boss, I would hesitate. You might want to ask your contact whether s/he thinks you'd be a good fit for her company. If she has any reservations, ask lots of questions, and give him/her some ammo to sell him/her on the fit being good. Do all of that before suggesting s/he approach his/her boss, so you get a glowing recommendation rather than "apologies in advance boss, another classmate asked me to forward you their resume, I don't even know this guy!". Even if she tries to be polite, if she's curt and enthused in her language on one forwarded resume, and glowing in another, the boss may realize this was sent "just as a favor" and not follow up. Your acquaintance certainly doesn't want to risk tarnishing her reputation by endorsing an unknown quantity that turns out to be a bad hire, so make sure s/he has gotten to know enough about you to feel confident recommending you. You could broach the topic by asking whether s/he gets people asking to forward their resumes all the time? Is that super-awkward? "well, then I probably shouldn't ask, should I?" ;-). Ask her/him whether it's better to apply through internal channels (like forwarding her resume) or through the formal channels (it depends on the company!). Give her an easy out if she's really uncomfortable with the idea of forwarding your resume, but at some point, if you don't ask you will not receive. Consider, also, other alternatives. Would it be just as good to take her and her boss out to lunch sometime so they can get to know you better? Introduce you to someone in the department you're looking to apply to? Etc. 

I really think that the phone interview will just leave you with a Sword of Damocles hanging over your head. While the video interview might be a bit more intimidating for you initially it will allow you to nullify what seems to be a big concern of yours. Always remember that you are interviewing them as much as you are interviewing you. Finding out if they will react negatively to your appearance is something that you should discover as quickly as possible so you can make a more informed choice. At the end of the day you want to work somewhere where you can be both happy and successful. A video conference can be one easy way to separate the chaff from the wheat. 

I personally think that you should go for the Skype call with video. I'm concerned that if you choose a phone interview because you're worried about your appearance you won't have an opportunity to resolve that fear. Best Case with Phone Interview If the phone interview goes smoothly you're probably still going to be concerned about how they will react to your appearance. Worst Case with a Video Call The worst that can reasonably happen is the interviewer makes an off color comment or you get some vague rejection later from an HR type saying they aren't interested in hiring you. Both of these outcomes are actually a gift even though they might not seem like one initially. The off color comment shows you that this isn't an environment that you'd feel welcome in, and no one has time to waste in a hostile work environment. The vague rejection letter lets you focus on other companies that truly value what you can contribute. Best Case with Video Call The interviewer is completely unfazed by your appearance and you move forward in the interview process. Now you've eliminated your appearance as a concern, and can concentrate on how you can add value to the organization.