Panniers - like pulling sails through the wind. I now use a small roll bag mounted to the front bars (backpack would be faster, but I don't like carrying things on my back). Body position - Upright body postures may be more comfortable* but it increases your frontal area (i.e., how much wind you push). I have been fixing flexibility issues and have dropped my cockpit a couple inches down and extended it by an inch. This lets you present less of your chest to the wind (i.e., smaller frontal area). Width of your handle bar also impacts your frontal area. I keep the width the same as my shoulders which actually feels best on a low slung cockpit. Tires - Puncture proof tires roll slow. I am running performance tires set up tubeless so that I can still get some puncture resistance while going fast. This provided a really noticeable reduction in rolling resistance. Wheels - regular box section wheels add noticeable drag at higher speeds, I went to some moderately aero wheels this year (and matched the correct tire width to the rim for least aero drag). Clothing - anything even slightly baggy is like dragging along little speed sucking parachutes. I once again wear tighter road clothing as I used to many years ago. 

Riding at 30kph average for 3 hours, in a hilly area is a solid effort. Assuming your pack riding skills are sufficient, you will also likely do fine in in a club ride that averages 30-40kph (but see the pack riding primer below). Club rides will have a faster pace than what you are riding now, but you will also be working a lot less (about 30% less) at any given speed because of drafting. Now of course this assumes your listed average speed is an honest average speed. That is you started your timer, rode 90 km, then stopped the timer and found you averaged 29.5 kph. If by "average" you mean when you took the time to look at your speedometer you were often doing 29.5kph, then it is harder to assess. Short primer on pack riding. It is hard to give a definitive whether or not you will be dropped because solo riding and pack riding are very different disciplines and club rides also come in many different forms, from very competitive "A" group training rides with a drop policy (i.e., you are essentially on your own if you get tired or get a flat - very advanced groups), to others focused on sustained pace (what you likely do now) with no-drop policies. If you join a no-drop ride, then the answer should be "no, you will not be dropped." Riding in a "fast" group Because you explicitly asked about getting dropped I will assume you are looking at joining one of the faster club rides that may have a drop policy. In this case your pack riding skills will be just as important as your base fitness. If you feel comfortable in a group you should have no problem holding tight to a wheel, where you can will get a good draft and will be able to sustain higher speeds. Riders that feel less comfortable will often allow big gaps to form or ride off the back to feel "safer." This will require a lot more energy for a given speed. You will also be able to read the pack, and keep a good drafting position as the group surges. If you get taken by surprised in surges you can find yourself dropped quickly. Assuming your pack handling skills are sufficient, riding in a fast group will also require two types of fitness, endurance fitness and peak output. The endurance fitness is what you are doing right now and will help ensure you can put in an effort for 3-4 hour duration of the club ride. The peak output fitness will be important to handle pack surges. Often competitive club rides will have sections where there is either an all out sprint or it is "common" knowledge the next x kilometres will be all out effort. If all your milage has been at one consistent speed, then you might find these types of surges difficult to handle, even though your base endurance fitness is excellent. If you find this happening, it isn't necessarily because you lack fitness, but you may simply not have all the right fitness components. Supplementing your distance training with interval training can go a long way. Many novice riders make an number of tactical errors that make it harder to finish the ride. A common mistake is try to take long, long, pulls to "prove" how strong they are. Keep you pulls short (i.e., under a minute) to ensure you have lots of energy and don't build-up a lactate debt. As you do more club rides you can start trying longer pulls if that is your thing. Another common mistake is putting in too much effort, too early. Many fast rides will do the hard efforts on out-and-back sections. This means you can get temporarily dropped and catch back in as the group comes back from a hard effort. If you are unsure if you can sustain repeated high intensity intervals, it may be best to opt out of effort and catch back in after everyone has finished tearing each others legs off. You would be surprised how refreshed you can feel by skipping an effort or two. If you feel comfortable in a group, have no problem hold tight to a wheel and can sustain repeated bursts of speed, then you there is a good chance you that you can hold in on an advanced group ride. Other Types of Group Rides As eluded to earlier (and in other answers) not all club rides are created equal. Some rides are focused on building base fitness and camaraderie. These groups are usually focused on riding a consistent pace (no surges) and usually have a "no drop" policy. These types of rides are a great if you are new to pack riding. Many clubs will also have multiple different rides on any given day so you can do some trial and error to find the one that best suits you. I suggest chatting up your local clubs, ask about their club ride policies and see which one best jives with what you want to do. 

Some creative internet searches should bring you to where these are available for purchase. As Stack Exchange does not make product recommendations I have avoided direct links to the products. 

If it happens in the fog, you will likely have to add tension/elongate the housing by loosening the rear derailleur adjuster. If the shifting improves, then half the hypothesis has been verified (H1: cable housing contraction in colder weather). If after (1) the weather warms up and the shifting goes off again, try tightening the rear derailleur adjuster (effectively shortening the cable housing). If this fixes the shifting then consider the second half of hypothesis verified (H2: cable housing expansion in warmer weather). 

The "sharpening a knife" sound you describe is likely the rotor lightly touching the brake pad (as mentioned in @Jackson's answer). This can happen if the rotor slightly is out-of-true (i.e., slightly warped) and the caliper isn't perfectly aligned. The sound can also come and go depending on how warm the rotor is. As you add heat the rotor (e.g., from braking) this can cause any out-of-true deflection to be more pronounced causing it to touch the brake pad with more force and hence a more pronounced sound. In terms of you only hearing the noise at speed, you may have braked earlier adding heat which increased the rotor deflection. When you hear the sound, stop, spin your rear wheel and look to see if the rotor is running true or has a deflection. Look to @Jackson's answer for some remedies (i.e., caliper alignment, are the pads fully retracting, getting the rotor trued). Having a rim and or tire that are not running true should not impact the operation of your disc brakes. 

Are you using cable disc brakes? If so, is the rear caliper mounts to the chain stay or the seat stay? If it is the chain stay, the brake cable will likely dip down then run along the chain stay (see picture). If the brake caliper doesn't not have a cable boot (most systems except Avid BB7) water can enter and get trapped in the cable housing. If there is water in the cable housing, when it is freezing out your rear brake will quite literally freeze up. 

Many will suggest that you size down when in doubt, this likely comes from observing that professionals (e.g., road riders) tend to use smaller frame sizes. This is done to get the rider in a more extreme aerodynamic position, these positions are generally not that comfortable and not advisable for most riders (remember the pros have access to daily physio sessions to constantly undo the effects of these positional contortions). Ideally, you should be looking at your body proportions when making this decision. For example, I personally have longer legs, shorter torso and longer arms than average (BTW - no average person exists). While my legs are longer my femurs are relatively shorter (i.e., lower legs are relatively longer). This puts me a bit taller and forward on the bike as such a frame with more stack (i.e., size up) tends to work better as long as the frame's reach dimensions are reasonable. My slightly longer arms means I tend to use standard stems. For frames with longer reach geometries this may not work out however work out as well. Below is a good summary of how short/long legs impacts your proportions and therefore whether you may want to size up or down. 

Assume you used your power meter at the race, you should look at your estimated power curve (first figure). This shows how much power you can put out on average over differing durations. If you look at the 1 hr mark, your FTP is around 250 watts. This may be an underestimate depending on how hard of a continuous effort your were putting in. Your overall average wattage for the ride (230 watts) is not what you want as the activity was longer than an hour. FTP is the maximal work you can do in an hour. 

Technical Skill - This can include descending, switchbacks, riding drops (even hucking the odd drop - I have had to resort to this in many a race and even in a cyclocross race or two (a good way to get cheers from the crowd is launching yourself into a sand pit!). You should also work at carrying speed through corners and over flat rough terrain. The more momentum you can carry the faster you will be for a given fitness level. Endurance - Being an endurance sport, this is a critical component. Believe it or not it will help you with (1). It is very hard to concentrate on technical sections if you are coughing up a lung and bleeding from the eyes. Short term power - This is used to get up short steep climbs, to surge through technical sections and get you up those difficult step-up climbs. 

Aluminum has gotten a bit of a bad reputation from the early generation of frames which were overly stiff. This is less the case today as manufacturing technology fixed most of these earlier problems, and bicycle designers can create formed aluminum tubes that provide compliance (i.e., vibration absorption) in one direction (e.g., vertical compliance) and stiffness in another direction (e.g., lateral for power transfer). Aluminum frames are actually an alloy (mixture of metals) and the there are a number of different alloy composition available, with each having different metalergic properties (e.g., stiffness or compliance, strength, etc). Frame manufacturers tend to choose an alloy that suits the intended use of the frame so they will often use a mix of alloys across their frame lineup. Tubing shape also has an impact on vibration dampening. Earlier generations of frames that were famous for being overly stiff used relatively straight tubing. Modern frames often use hydro-formed tubes that have carefully crafted shapes to produce compliance in one direction and stiffness in another. Essentially the compliance you feel in a modern aluminum frame was likely intended as a design feature by the manufacturer or the result design constrains such as cost. Carbon is not a panacea for compliance either as the ride quality of carbon is directly related to the layup process (i.e., how layers of carbon fibre are compiled together with epoxy). This is a very expensive and labour intensive process, where it is easy for manufacturers to cut corners in order to save money. From the outside most (everyone?) cannot tell what, if any corners, were cut. In the end the compliance of the frame is directly related to the manufacturing process, just as it is with aluminum. Similar to aluminum the compliance you feel in a modern carbon frame is the compliance intended as a design feature by the manufacturer or the result design constrains such as cost. You will have to ride the frame to see how it performs. Now if we go back in time to the 80/90's both the carbon and aluminum frames, which both employed relatively straight tubing (earlier carbon frames had straight carbon tubes that were glued into metal lug joints), then yes as a general rule carbon was more compliant. If we compare modern frames (of similar quality - key point) from the same manufacturer with the same intended use case (another key point) then the gap in compliance will likely be quite small. GCN has a good video overviewing a lot of the points mentioned above. 

Normally, I think most racers have a tendency to be over-geared, but in your case you may find yourself under-geared. That said, if it is your first crit, just race what you have, the experience is the most important thing. I am also a bit suspect of the win off the front by a first-timer strategy. If you have the opportunity to win, take it, but don't be disappointed if the race turns out to be much different than you are currently envisioning. Anyway, some reasons why you may be under-geared: Efficiency When using a chain drive, Big-Small gearing combinations are not as efficient as Big-Big. You could be putting your drive train losses as high as 5% running such a small gear on the rear cassette. I suspect you will also be racing a cyclocross bike (which will be a disadvantage), the efficiency loss will be another disadvantage. Surges The pacing of a crit is not as constant as a time trial or cyclocross race. Often there are very fast surges, and your peak speed can be quite fast if you choose to close the gap between groups. I am not sure where you got the peak speed of 58.3 kph (a friend I assume). Speeds can change from year to year and by rider strategy. Peak speeds of 60-70 kph are not entirely uncommon, especially if the course has a downhill section or there is a strong tailwind on the day. A Note on Strategy Riding off the front on your own in a crit is a pretty tall task. Doing it at an average speed of 48 kph is pretty monumental. That would put you into the realm of a top-end professional. My honest advice is to skip this strategy altogether. Rather focus on your position with in the peloton, keep moving up, and stay near the front, but don't ride at the front or off the front. Your goal should be not to do anymore work than is absolutely required to keep a good position. Don't chase down breaks or initiate breaks. Wait... as painful as that sounds. Count your laps, know when you're 10 laps out, then start moving to the front. Sit in until you are two corners out, then get ready to go, follow anyone moving up. Don't do anything more until you are 400 m out. Then give everything you got and see where you finish, you might surprise yourself. 90% of sprinting is positioning, timing and reading the race. Standard Gearing Standard gearing is 53/39 on the front, simply because the speeds are much faster in a group than on your own. That said, even in Cat 1/2 I only ever rarely used a 53x11, even in crits where the speeds can often average 55+ kph on faster courses. A compact gearing (50/34) will likely be fine. 

Likely something under tension failed which compromised support of the tube leading to the explosion. Three main culprits come to mind: 

Yes a well sorted road bike can increase your speed, if it is done right; That said, you can optimize a CX bike to be very similar in speed to a dedicated road bike; and You need to get a number of pieces right (regardless of the bike category) to make higher speeds easier.