First, let it be known that I am following a ketogenic diet plan which disallows all sugars and (almost) all starches, which results in a very low daily carb count. Virtually all of my carbs come from green leafy veggies (and other veggies). What this means is that: Eating a "protein bar" that has more than a trivial amount of carbs is not an option. I recently read a book called "The New Rules of Lifting" in which the author asserts that in order to prevent muscle degradation (and actually promote muscle build up) after a weight lifting workout, one should consume "6 grams of essential amino acids" immediately after the work out. (Exactly how soon after I am not clear on, but that is the subject of a different question.) Between the time that I lift my last weight, and the time that I can get home and cook a proper keto meal, at least 1 hour passes, sometimes more, depending on how bad traffic is that day. What this means is that: I need a convenient source of protein to consume after a workout that amounts to at least 6 grams of the essential amino acids without this source being a common protein/energy bar or a protein shake (both of which are usually very high in carbs). 

I am interested in decreasing my body fat percentage. Right now it is hovering around 24% which is (at least) 10% higher than I would like it to be. I have started going to the gym to help rectify this, in addition to modifying my diet to include better quality foods, and little or no "snacking". My question is this: while at the gym, during my weight lifting sessions, is it better to do: 

Remember, my goal is not to bulk up, but rather to slim down. I wan to have a lower body fat percentage. Thanks! 

This is how I have achieved what you are seeking to achieve. First, while I only eat three reasonable-sized "meals" a day, I do consume small amounts of high quality food between meal times. This is what I strive for in my protein consumption: 

Yesterday, during the 1 hour I was at the gym, someone forced the lock and got into my locker. When I was done showering I came back to my locker and opened my combination lock as normal, and opened the locker to discover that everything was messed up and rearranged, with my wallet out and on top of my pants. Luckily, nothing was missing. (Not even my phone!) I took a closer look at the Master combination lock and saw that there was significant damages to the outside of it. Interestingly, whatever tool the thief used to force open the lock, left the lock in a usable state. They were able to lock it again when they were done rifling through my stuff, and I was able to open the lock with the combination. So my question for this community is: what is the best type of lock to use on the lockers in a typical gym? Clearly the Master combination lock is vulnerable (although the version I had was slightly smaller than a full sized combo lock). Do the people here use anything in particular to guard against tool-equipped gym thieves? 

First off, You should probably ask yourself this - ( Am I getting enough sleep, in general ) If you aren't sleeping at least 8 hours a night, then yes the body tends to overcompensate by sleeping more when it has the opportunity to. But it isn't about the quantity of the sleep either. The quality is actually more if not equal importance which means getting sleep in a complete dark room, as light can have an adverse effect on melatonin - the hormone secreted by the pineal gland which controls your sleep cycles There have been studies where even a crack of light can affect how your body produces melatonin and in a world where we are constantly surrounded by light be it our phones, night lights, computers and lamps, it affects our sleep considerably. Now my suggestion would be to completely black out your room the days you have to stay up late to artificially create a night time environment and also take 2 hour naps if you lack sleep. 

Crunches overdevelop the top 4 ( or crown ) of your 8 pack abdominal muscles, unless you are compensating by doing a lot of lower abdominal exercises. A sit up is also not the best abdominal exercise for core strength. Try V-Ups, Jack knifes, Leg Raises, Weighted Planks, Front Levers, etc. 

-40 meter dash x 3 sets - take a 3 minute rest inbetween -hill sprints for 30 seconds -Power leap (from a full squat position, leap as high as you can, as far as you can for 15 reps) for 3 sets. This can all be done outside. 

This will destroy your gains considerably if you think importantly about nutrient timing. If you are dedicated to your craft, you know that eating every 2.5-3 hours is optimal to maintain metabolism. Once you start missing your mark, your body realizes that it is expecting resources, but is not receiving resources due to the destroyed protein synthesis process. Thus, cannibalism of muscle tissue. 

One of the major things you will notice with alcohol consumption (more specifically liquor) is that: 

Welcome to hard work. It's what we do in order to be healthy and be fit. You know exactly what you need to do, yet you rationalize that you don't have time. There are people that have full time jobs and still go to the gym, prepare and cook their meals and do their cardio every week. Start cooking your meals ahead of the week. Use tupperware and pack all of your meals. Plan at least 2 meals in advance every day. Cook in large quantities and batch make all your food. 

Sounds like an imbalance of core to back strength, aka gods weight belt. Basically when doing any kind of multi joint or compound exercise, you need to think about engaging the core because it is the anterior wall to the lower back. What happens during a squat, when someone does not engage the core is that the back and quads over-compensates for the movement and the hamstrings and abs get weaker. Think about how much load/force is being put onto the back if you completely relax your core. Over many years the back becomes tight and overworked and eventually becomes prone to injury. Learn to balance your body, focus on front lever, body lever, leg lifts, saxon side bends, to strengthen your core. 

Even the bullet points you enumerate early on are arguable for various people. For diabetics, you absolutely want a greater amount of calories from protein and fat - taking in 40% of your calories by carbohydrates is too many for a diabetic's damaged endocrine system to handle. For athletes, the distinction becomes even more complex. What sort of athletes are we talking about? Endurance athletes, like marathon runners? Pure power athletes, like olympic weight lifters? Or some sort of mix of the two, like baseball or rugby players? I cannot imagine a weight lifter trying to source 40% of their energy off carbohydrates - there's just no way they'd take in enough raw material to replace the massive damage their training regimen does to their muscles. We also need to be clear on the type of fiber we're talking about. Digestible fiber comes from your wheat breads, your all-bran, etc. This fiber can be broken down by your system, but will generally not provide you a huge amount of nutritional benefit. It is mostly used for working out the 'net carbs' in a food by subtracting them from the overall carb count. Indigestible fiber comes mostly from vegetables, and some fruits like apples. This is the fiber that helps seal and slick your gut to make digestion of everything else much easier. Digestible fiber is very useful for cutting regimens and helps maintain a good gut flora environment, but generally people get plenty of it and it's not a concern. Proper consumption of indigestible fiber relates directly to overall digestive health, so it's basically always a concern. The reason, I think, you did not find an upper limit is that most of the theoretical problems from consuming too much fiber basically solve themselves. Overconsuming digestible fiber will mean your body spends too much time breaking down the stuff that doesn't provide it much nutrition. Your body will respond to this by inducing an acute craving for what it requires, and you will not feel satisfied until you satiate it. Overconsuming indigestible fiber could theoretically coat your gut too thickly to absorb micronutrients that your body needs (such as vitamins) from a normal concentration of it. However, the vegetables you'd have to consume to accomplish this are so rich in these micronutrients that you're going to have a much higher concentration in your gut, anyway! Here is a good article with a fiber overview and a decent number of cited sources for further reading if you want it. As always, for active people the #1 thing is to focus on your macronutrients. Getting worried about things like this is a great way to get off track and miss the forest for the trees. It's a great question, but its overall impact on your physical fitness, particularly with regard to training, is not going to be anywhere near as great as getting the right mix of protein, carbs, and fats in your diet for your training plan. 

As you say, your biggest challenge is to avoid doing too much at once. Exactly what is 'best' is going to be subjective for the most part, so what I'm going to do is give you a few stages you can set goals at and work toward without getting too overwhelmed. On the diet side: