Non duality is a conceptual tool, and like all tools you need to know when to use it. Of course you should have moral standards, otherwise its impossible to practice the Noble Eightfold Path. This requires a discerning mind. Where non duality shines is when you encounter obstacles. For example anger because you despise someone, you reflect and realize he isn't so different from you after all and apply compassion. In fact usually as people practice morality, they often becomes judgmental of people with less stringent morality because the discerning mind is very active. Same goes when you experience revolting environment (perhaps a dirty toilet), instead of emotionally repulsed, they calm the mind and accept it, allowing them to clean it without disturbing their inner peace. When encountering craving they also use non duality to detach themselves. Monks use meditation on corpses to realize that the human body is actually a living breathing corpse. The attractive human bodies are realized to be impermanent and unsatisfactory. Sure it's not mentioned in the Pali Canon perhaps because they wisely didn't want to get into a whole philosophical debate, but aspects of it are definitely already there. 

There are quite a few things to consider here to become skillful at approaching pain and discomfort during practice. Most people experience discomfort and pain in meditation from time to time - so don't let this get you down :) The body (or the mind ;) is not used to sitting still for too long and will complain in some form or another. This is balanced on the other hand by wisdom that in some situations the body complains for a reason and that perhaps you need to adjust how you sit. In your instance I don't know if you're using a cushion ... if not, sitting cross legged style without support puts stress on the pelvis and creates pressure on the legs where they connect because of the weight of the legs. You have to (1) raise your buttocks with the aid of a cushion or zafu (2) provide support under your knees with smaller cushions if you are not flexible. Another option is a meditation bench. 

There is some confusion here, in all mainstream forms of Buddhism including Theravada, Mahayana as well as Vajrayana gods are accepted as real. That is they exist and have certain powers. What they do not have however is unlimited omnipotence as described by the God of Monotheistic religions, because that would break the law of causality. Most of these gods are like you and me, not enlightened and hence subjected to the same mental afflictions and the cycles of birth and death. The Buddha being enlightened himself is titled the Teacher of Gods and Men. This is why Buddhism/Buddhists are touchy about describing the Buddhas and Bodhisattvas as 'mere' gods, because they are not at the same level of being. As shown many Buddhists accepted the term 'deity' to describe the Buddha/ Bodhisattvas, even though they are ultimately from the same linguistic origin in meaning as gods in English, because it sounds 'better'. And yes the Dharma (i.e. the Law, the Truth, the Teachings of the Universe) can be conceptualized as a singular entity, such as the Dharmakaya or the Cosmic Buddha. This might seems to be in contradiction with the concept of denying an Omnipotent God, but the dharma always follow causality and hence no such omnipotence is claimed. In fact causality itself is Dharma. 

Taking refuge in the three Jewels - Buddha, Dharma and Sangha. Developing Bodhicitta. Vajrasattva practice and mandala offerings Guru yoga. 

In Western philosophy this Buddhist views comes pretty close to the views expressed by some idealist philosophers who generally argued against a materialist view of reality. Idealism - Wikipedia Interestingly, this idealist view is being expressed in modern science as well. A prominent proponent of this is Donald Hoffman, a neuroscientist, who proposes reality is actually a network of 'conscious agents', to use his terminology. Nice TED summary by himself here - Do we see reality as it is? 

Difficulty of obtaining a free and favorable human life. Contemplation of impermanence and death. Contemplation of cause and effect (karma). Contemplation of endless cycle of suffering (samsara). 

When starting a more in-depth study of the Dharma from a Mahayana and Vajrayana perspective, what are the core (3 most recommended) Sutras (or texts), and the reasons why they are considered important, to have on your reading list in each of those traditions? 

I don't have the complete meditative experience or knowledge of the Dhamma to be able to fully comprehend the intents behind the teachings of the Five Aggregates and Twelve Nidanas, but I think I have some insights. I suspect that they are observable abstracted analysis of the complex working of the mind rather than actual entities within the mind itself - just as the body is only labeled 'form', but can be further analyzed in it's components such as the organs, or states of solidity, liquidity, gas and heat (earth, water, wind, and fire in ancient terminology). In this sense I believe the mental aggregates overlap in functions. For example, the mind and mental activities in normal daily linguistic usage can be divided into feelings/sensation, thoughts, emotions, memories. Psychologists can probably further divide them according to various theories. So Vedanā - commonly translated as sensations, is the observable feeling of pleasant, unpleasant, neutral when our internal sense organs come into contact with external sense objects and the associated consciousness. Sañña - typically translated as "perception" or "cognition." Interestingly in Chinese this is translated as 想 - "thoughts". So this is our thinking mind Saṅkhāra - 'volitional formations' mental formation etc. I think this generally the emotional response. The Chinese translation 行 has a meaning of 'action'/'execution'. And finally the Viññāṇa 'consciousness' seems to be the catch all bucket for the general 'state' of the mind. You can have a pure consciousness, defiled consciousness and so forth. As we can see, some functions of this overlaps, but the division help us focus our attention of where to comprehend things from. In the Satipatthana. The four domains are: mindfulness of the body mindfulness of feelings or sensations mindfulness of mind or consciousness mindfulness of dhammās. 

Cultivating a mindful attitude to towards negative emotions has been shown to reduce depression, anxiety etc. in a variety of studies - Is Mindfulness Good Medicine? Cognitive Behavioral Therapies (CBT) have also shown great promise to alleviate anxiety and depression - Is cognitive-behavioral therapy more effective than other therapies? The CBT approach basically states that what we think we feel. So when you find yourself 

You 'sound' experience is fairly common, I have it as a constant meditation companion in some form or other, but it falls into the same category of any other phenomena. 

In Buddhism there is no cosmic fight between good and evil. Buddha pragmatically lays the origin of good and evil at the door of each persons individual actions. Greedy, hateful and delusional actions lead to bad results 3 Unwholesome Roots AN 3.69; Generous, compassionate and wise actions lead to good results - for you and the people around you. 

First of all you are veering dangerously to nihilism (annihilism). Seeing things as empty impermanent, not self and suffering is to allow us to detached ourselves to pleasures (including the pleasures of the bliss of Jhana). It doesn't mean that everything is meaningless or there are no consequences to our actions. Emptiness in particularly used by Mahayana to mean that things are ultimately dependent originated. Things happen due to causes and conditions. It does not mean that it's all meaningless and does not matter. This is use to break your attachments to things you cling to as permanent. We should definitely not take this to mean that all actions are meaningless. If we do so we would quickly enter a deluded mindset. Secondly Mutida or sympathetic joy is the antidote to jealousy and judgement. When we see someone who is better off than we are, we have a tendency to become jealous. Especially we have judged that person as being unworthy of happiness. On the other hand, if we feel they are worse off than we are, we might start to develop conceit, or even pity, and we become unable to rejoice in their good fortune. You can be happy for the limited happiness that they may have, whatever it maybe. I want to further add that there is one powerful use of sympathetic joy, the joy of rejoicing in the merits of others, that is in their goodness. When we see others doing good things or making progress in the path, it is worth rejoicing, and in fact further aid and reinforce your own cultivation. Commonly you will see Buddhists exclaim 'Sadhu!' - meaning good or well said after seeing good deeds. 

How much of this warmth, sympathy and understanding is taught in medical school? Very little. It's all science - diagnosis and treatment of symptoms. Symptoms that present themselves in a biological machine not in a human being. Without the balance of a basic compassionate view, failure to cure every patient, will eventually take its emotional toll on the doctor. From a basic view of compassion there is no failure only a desire to help, to support and care for. In ayurvedic medicine, doctors ask the following four questions upon seeing their patients: 1) Is there a disease? If so, what is it? 2) What is the cause of the disease? 3) Is there a cure for the disease? 4) If there is a cure, what is the treatment? Sounds like the Four Noble Truths right? Buddha must have been exposed to Ayurveda in India and re-framed these questions to diagnose the human condition. Buddha could have kept quiet about his great liberation under the Bodhi tree and just live out the rest of his life in bliss and happiness ... but he chose to teach and share with others out of COMPASSION. So I think my answer is clear ;) 

Without doing so, we are not actually practicing the Buddhadharma and will go nowhere. And our claims of being like water will only be empty conceptualizations. Further more, else where in the canon, the Buddha compares a mind that is overwhelmed by afflictions to a bowl of water that is tainted: 

$URL$ As long as the Noble Eightfold Path is being practiced, mindful concentration is possible and therefor the Jhanas also known as Chan or Zen is possible. Therefore the myriad practices of Buddhism lead to the same thing and there is no separation. You can scrub clean the floor and have mental concentration to experience Joy and Peace in your heart. Or you can chant sacred scriptures while performing complex mudras. In theory, the Noble Eightfold Path must be practiced by every school of Buddhism and hence 'Chan/Zen' is practiced by every schools of Buddhism whatever their names maybe. However, as it tends to happen there are monks and schools who don't know what they are doing and spend their time debating philosophical concepts in the scriptures or running a temple like a business and not cultivating themselves and not practicing the Dharma. Even within the Chan/Seon/Zen school in China/Korea/Japan there are people who lost sight of what 'Zen' actually means and engaged in pointless philosophizing. As long you know how it work you can see the practices everywhere and not be confused by surface appearances. 

You do not go into any detail about what vipassana you are practicing but with the information on hand the following advice: In insight meditation (vipassana) ALL phenomena have the following qualities: 

The Jhanas themselves are a continuum of mental states that don't exist as separate discrete entities. They are mental states that unfold depending on where in the continuum your experience lies. Somewhat like a rainbow - it is made up of different colors that have different qualities but on close examination they blend together seamlessly. The mind moves through these qualities in Jhana by focusing on the different qualities. Generally speaking, deepening of access concentration increases the chances of the unfolding of Jhana. Once the first Jhana is established no special factors of access concentration are required to move into the second. The qualities of the first Jhana are :- pleasant sensations, joy, and sense of well-being. The meditation object of concentration (Samatha) is left behind and the minds merely abides (is absorbed in the Jhana qualities). When shifting through the Jhanas the focus just changes to subtler and subtler factors - from sensations to joy, from joy to well-being, from well-being to equanimity. So IMHO there is no dropping out of Jhana to gain access to next etc. or special factors of access concentration required. Five factors help to navigate the jhanas: