well the first line of thinking says "Event A is very unlikely. But if we suppose that there exists an entity Z whose purpose is to make event A happen, then the likelihood of event A happening is higher" Which is true, given that entity Z actually has the possibility to influence the happening of A or not. Note that this is nothing more than a truism. "How does it make sense to infer the existence of a group from a sequence of events?" Well now the question becomes "Suppose we have a series of events A,B,C,D. All of them unlikely. They all happen though; this is very weird. It can be explained by assuming that there exists and entity Z that is increasing the probability of A,B,C,D of happening" Now this is one line of thinking. But this "probabilistic approach" fails for several reasons: First, nobody assures you that the entity Z is "likely" to exists. I mean if for explaining an event that only happens one time in a thousand you claim that there exists and organization whose "probability to exists" is one in a billion, you didn't gain much, did you? Second, who decides what events needs explaining and what not? This is a delicate point and actually makes most of this kind of arguments fail. Go to your favourite cinema, and look at plaque of a car; let's say it's AB292ZXZ. Amazing isn't it? From all the billions of combinations possible, that is the one that appears right in front of you! Surely can't be just chance, can it? There must exist an entity to explain this very unlikely event! The point of the last example is that the last event is unlikely if you say "Today I'll go at a random cinema and I'll see the plaque number AB292ZXZ". It's not unlikely if you just look at a random plaque at the cinema and wonder how incredible it is that you observed that one. There is a big difference between a priori prediction and a posteriori explanation. The conspiracy theories usually try to explain the world a posteriori; they select some events in a purely arbitrary manner and make up imaginative explanations that "connect all the dots" and explain everything. Well this amounts to nothing, as the plaque example shows; you have to make some accurate predictions. At this they usually fail. To sum up, you could try to explain events by making up secretive organizations that influence our world, but as long as you can't make meaningful predictions about the future it all amounts to nothing. 

At the heart of the problem of evil is the idea that God lets evil things happen, such as wars, and does nothing to stop them. So we are at odds with God as to what is good and what is evil. It can be argued that we do not have the knowledge or the foresight or the omnipotence to make such a judgement. It also could turn out that (for the sake of argument) we are fooled into thinking God is good simply when we experience his all encompassing love and feel good about ourselves. Have there been any theologians or philosophers in the history who have adressed these issues in this way? 

I believe that Theists are reluctant to agree that everything that happens is God's will, with the knowledge and consent of God, even planned in advance. This reluctance seems to stem from the reason that this will make all the evil things in this world (according to our estimation of what is good and evil) all seem that they were planned and orchestrated by God Himself, making God the creator of evil. The problem of good and evil is adressed by other answers on this site, however I am still no sure what the reason for the objection among theists for the belief I have stated in the question. Perhaps because it leads to fatalism? One possible answer is that everything is God's will, and God, is like a surgeon, permitting pain to warn us of a serious disease within our souls, performing painful operations to rid us of the disease of wickedness within us, and getting us ready for a pain free, blissful afterlife? This is one possibility but I have not seen this opinion clearly articulated anywhere yet. If this is the answer, then we can preserve the concept of God's goodness as well as the idea that everything that happens is according to a Divine plan. 

Well technically a coin toss is not "random". Toss a coin with the same force in the same direction with the same environment and it will always fall the same way. The point is that the force with which you spin, the direction and a thousand of little things are "random", and they will randomly interact with the coin. Now, "random" is the eyes of the beholder at this level; I claim that the force I apply to the coin is more or less random because I don't have perfect control on my muscles. You could say that technically someone could train himself to always use the same amount of force (down to, say, the 20th decimal digit) so that the coin toss is not random anymore, but actually deterministic. But reality is, at some fundamental level, random; quantum mechanics is needed to even begin to understand this statement(and I'm not claiming I do) but certainly there is some some fundamental randomness in the universe. To recap: wether something is random really depends on who's judging. With more control and accuracy you can decrease randomness but only up to a certain point, because the universe is at its core random. 

Starting from the assumption that there is no absolute morality and that good and bad are stories we tell ourselves, how can I logically convince a racist person that he's wrong? There is no right or wrong to begin with! Trying to appeal to "general principles" like "everyone should be equal " and such is of no great help, because a) those principles are arbitrary anyway, 2) it is often quite tricky to conclude anything definitive from them. This is something I've been struggling with; I try to be as logical as possible with my arguments, but I always know in the back of my mind that I'm being dishonest: that what I say cannot be completely logical because there is nothing to start with. How are my arguments different than a screaming contest then? Of course the racist thing is just an example, in general this occurs every time we come close to morality and ethics; this includes murder, theft, and so on. Given that realizing that good and bad exists only in the human mind does not seem to me as a particularly bold position to take, I guess someone already wrote about this? About how to resolve this situation? Maybe you could provide some references? I admit that my question sounds like "Assume that there are no moral truths. How can we discern right from wrong?" but in my mind someone has surely realized the fact that there are no truths before me; how did they justify their moral positions then? (Without taking crazy unjustified assumptions like many philosophers do) 

There are lots of different ways people talk about a Creator or creative intelligence behind existence or try to define the concept. I'm not sure how helpful these descriptions are. If there is a Creator, perhaps if you go somewhere beautiful in nature by yourself, and ask It. If It exists, perhaps it could tell you in some way that you might find more satisfying than anything someone might tell you to believe. If there is a Creator you probably would not even need to go anywhere special to find it. One interpretation might be to say that the deities, angels, demons, devils, and so forth are elements of our psyches, perhaps other ego states or elements of part of what we might call our "unconscious minds," although it does not necessarily mean they are not conscious or powerless; it just means that you are not usually conscious of them in your mind/body/world. The words and myths could be describing processes in our brains. Prayer can also be thought of as a form of self-hypnosis. You are going into a quiet peaceful state of mind and communicating with other levels of consciousness within your mind. There can be powerful healing and insight gained from that activity. However, it does not seem necessary to me to give it a bunch of labels and words or a religion. Just appreciating music and babies, and beautiful scenery is much more meaningful for some than wordy descriptions, although -what- it means might not be clear. It seems to always remain somewhat elusive if you try to pin it down. It could be something beyond our capacity to fully grasp in our normal states of consciousness or any state of consciousness. You don't even have to call it God. It could just be a felt sense of connection with the universe and your awe and appreciation for it. That is one way of thinking of it. It seems that the character(s) and personalities ascribed to it can take as many forms as there are people.