In my opinion, this should NOT be done. Bicycles are very versatile, and one can not only use a single all-purpose bike for many purposes, but also to have/design specialty bikes, as it is the case of a Strida. And, by the way, is the case with a lot of child-carrying specific bikes and/or equipment. But, as it seems to me, a Strida is a SPECIALTY BIKE NOT SUITABLE TO CARRY CHILDREN! It has its purpose (portability and compactness), and this purpose is not compatible with child-carrying, unfortunately. My suggestion would be to increase your fleet, just in case you really WANT to carry your child on a bicycle, which by the way is an EXCELENT EXPERIENCE with no age limit! (only size/weight limit) Hope this helps, and I didn't mean to be rude or disappointing, but concerned with the child's comfort and safety. (by the way, transporting kids ALWAYS defeats the purpose of compactness, whatever "compactness" might mean...) 

Loosen the headset just a little bit, letting it tightened just enough to prevent play when braking. This solves the problem sometimes; Open it (no need to disassemble) just enough you can spin the spheres out of position. Do this for the upper and lower bearing; Fully disassemble (including remove the cups from the frame), clean and remount in a different position; If neither of these solves, replace the headset for a new one. 

Go as far as you can from the main road, on the side lane; Turn left (assuming a right-sided traffic) and start getting closer to the road edge; About half-way, straighten the bike and START TO TURN RIGHT, in an "S" shaped trajectory; When you climb the road edge, you will be turning right, then you "ride the wall" and by the end of the turn you'll be already up the road shoulder, going parallel to it. 

I've been thinking about this, too. The stem on the photo is 135mm horizontally (center to center), and although it has helped me along the years with smaller bikes, specially when mounted pointing up, I think this bike should have a smaller stem if I put a flat bar, and a yet smaller one if I put drops. Since the current stem is long and I feel the bike only slightly longer than needed, I think there is room for adjustment without resorting to extreme stem dimensions. 

Soon after the ride, when you are home and finally relax, the body might react like this. It might be related to the sympathetic component of the autonomous nervous system, which regulates acute responses to environmental stress, exercise, alertness, and the general fight-or-flight response (just for information, the parasympathetic component regulates mostly the rest-and-digest response, when the body and mind are relaxed). It is interesting to note that, most times, these are what would be called "non-discretionary bicycle rides", that is, I am not riding because I went out for the sole pleasure to ride a bike, but because I am going somewhere else to do something else, and the bike is just the transport. In these situations, since I am not necessarily "in the mood" to ride vigorously, it feels like the burden in the body is greater. I think using a bike for transport might become a burden when you have some routines. Sometimes one might feel "burnt-out" for riding everyday, sometimes one feel full of energy for the same reason. It is very interesting... I guess it might be considered normal to feel the way you describe, depending on a lot of conditions, PROVIDED that health issues are discarded. I suppose you should really see a doctor just to make a regular checkup and describe your simptoms, to discard something that deserves greater attention. Then, you could consider some environmental factors (like, for examples, the ones I mentioned) and formulate your own hypotheses and strategies to cope with them. I hope to have helped, and please send some feedback! 

If you say sliding back and forth, and 0.5 cm of play that only manifest with a moderate pressure against, I would recommend, besides the very good answer given by Daniel Hicks, that you check if your axle is not sliding in the dropouts. (Usually, lateral play on the bearings manifest itself even with the slightest pressure, and is much smaller than half a centimeter - or you meant half MILIMETER?) Obviously, this suggestion only applies if you have horizontal dropouts. And as they said, the freewheel does not seem to be the culprit. 

While commuting, you can do these (or at least a bit of these) if you choose some unusual route if you live in a hilly area. If that is not the case, I am afraid riding itself is not enough to provide significant upper-body exercise (except postural "exercise", which might indeed induce health issues if too prolongued). Hope this helps 

All my four bikes with deraileurs use shimano 8-gear cassettes. Although I have never had a 9 or 10 geared bike (I think it is too many gears, no need for that), I could say it works properly or not depending on many factors, mostly these: 

From a theoretical point of view, there are some possible methods to take water out of a fabric object, such as a shoe: 

To me (and for others, I think) the greatest paradigm shift (that should become widespread in the near future, my opinion) is the inertial-controlled compression-lockout valve (Fox Terralogic, Specialized BRAIN). These work as automatic lockouts, which make the bike stable if the rider pushes it down (like pedalling hard on a smoot uphill, or sprinting on road), but allow the suspension to work when some force is applied from below, by means of a moving mass inside the system, which closes or opens the oil valves when it moves. Of course there have been advances in compression/rebound valve design, the "full range in half a turn" adjustment dials are great, and some extra-plush, low-stiction anodized coat on stanchions make huge difference, although they are more of quantitative improvements than real game changers. At last, it is a pity that all these achievements of technology are focused primarily in high-end, performance oriented, racing sports market. But the fact is: every vehicle deserves some suspension system. Commuter bikes suffer badly due to the lack of dedicated suspension systems, be them forks or transport-oriented suspension-equipped frames. Either for commuting, transporting cargo or even going around with a child seat attached, not every road is smooth (in my city, most of the streets are definitely NOT smooth), but if you want to put a good suspension fork on a commuter, you end up spending too much, having a part that needs constant maintenance, and having serious compatibility problems with fenders, racks, etc. That could be the NEXT revolution: designing suspension systems with the utilitarian bicycle culture in mind. 

I agree with Daniel R Hicks, my bell also gets a lot dampened in the rain, and this will happen with any bell. But even so, some bell properties might influence: 

This figure illustrates a part of the lumbar spine, as would be seen if the rider was passing from right to left on the bike (left is front, right is back). 

I'd go for a regular hard suitcase (not a fancy one, lots of friction), strapped horizontally over the rear rack in the same position of the wings of a plane. Inside, I would fold the clothes the same way I would fold them to put inside a travel bag. If possible, I would prefer to create two "environments": the inside of the suitcase, clean and ordered, protected from the elements, ant the outside, where you and your riding clothes are, a world of smoke, dust, sweat and possibly rain. When you arrive at your work, then you perform a "mode-switch" with the help of a restroom, perhaps a shower. There, you invert the environments, being dressed in a clean way, with the riding clothes encapsulated inside a plastic bag. The "two-environments" strategy is opposed to the single-environment, "cycle-chic" strategy, in which one performs Slow-Ride while wearing the very same clothes that will be used during work. The main factors affecting to choose one over another would be distance, speed and climate, and perhaps you could opt for one or another according to weather or time of year (summer vs. winter, etc.) Hope this helps! 

For what I know from personal experience, experience from friends, and from discussion on forums and sites like this one, the shoes are one of the many things about bike equipment about what the answer to the question is "whatever suits you best". It is very common for riders to use a lot of very different shoes: sandals for grocery, regular shoes for commuting to work, clipless for trails or long distance, fast rides, and so on. From what you said, I'd suspect: 

I don't know if this asks the answer, but having myself either handled high-precision instruments before, and fiddled with inner rim diameter myself, before, I would consider these things: 

Yes. A strong wheel (rim, spokes, hub) and most importantly high-volume tires, preferrably 2.35 inches or wider. 

If you're talking about regular maintenance (instead of fixing stuff), then I'd say the most important thing to do is to clean the chain, and lube it after cleaning. The chain is by far the part of the bike with fastest turnover, and the right maintenance can more than double the lifespan of the chain and, most important, of the whole drivetrain. This is specially important if you ride off-road, but also if you ride wet weather where road grime is thrown on the drivetrain by the wheels. Second to that, it is important to have your bike prepared PRIOR to the trip, and that means mostly wheels: properly installed tubes and tires, with protective strip inside the rim, well tensioned spokes, and hubs. Hubs should be preferrably waterproof (rubber washings), with clean grease and right adjustment (not too tight, and with no significant lateral play). Attachment of luggage/racks can become a great problem if you don't ride the smoothest of pavements, and it might be a good idea to carry some bungee-cords to make eventually shaky panniers more firm (wrapping them around the bike), and using thread-locking products (loc-tite) in the pannier bolts can spare you a lot of trouble (I have lost countless bolts due to vibration). I'm not sure being over-cautious with air pressure does more good than harm. Messing too much with pumping and inflation can stress the valve system, and usually even not-ideal tubes can be ridden fine being inflated only once a week. Usually, you can just lift and drop the bike over its tires, from one inch or two high, and the bounciness will give you a hint if the tire pressure "feels right". Sitting over it and bouncing yourself on the saddle and on the bars will make an underinflated tire immediately show off, and it is a very natural and function-related way of checking tire pressure, after you get used to what "the right pressure" is supposed to be, and how it looks and feels. Depending on weather, another issue is brake cables and conduites. If you get too much dust and/or rain and mud, the braking power can be much reduced due to inner friction in the cabling system of the brakes, with levers becoming hard to activate. While cleaning helps, replacing everything is guaranteed to give back the best braking performance. From personal experience, I think that's it, hope this helps!