If 54D is the highway it looks like you can take a route like this to get around it. I have commuted without a shower at my destination and found that as long as I shower before I leave it usually would be OK. Just kept deodorant at the office, and changed in a bathroom stall. You'll be a bit sweaty early on but it dies down. The wet wipes are a good idea. I also like to take clothes to work by car/train early in the week to minimize what I have to carry and how disheveled my appearance is throughout the day. 

I've briefly ridden A23's on a road bike, and while I think they'd be OK for cyclocross I did find them a bit flexy (I am ~220lbs). I've spent significant time on the delgado cross rims, and I found the A23's noticeably less stiff. I think you'd want something a bit beefier for singletrack riding, especially if you are hard on wheels. In your situation I'd probably want more of a mountain bike rim that's skinny enough for the cross tires than a road rim that might be strong enough to stand up to mountain biking, but imagine the lack of good mountain bike options with v-brake compatibility does make the road rims more attractive (along with their light weight). Guess this all depends on your weight and trails you ride though - I'm a pretty heavy guy and ride in eastern PA where we have a lot of rocks/roots. A lot of people seem to like the mavic open pros as a 29er rim and they don't look much beefier than the A23's - I always assumed these folks weighed 120 lbs and were riding really smooth singletrack but I guess I could be wrong. If sticking with Velocity, maybe the Dyad would be more up your alley? They look a bit like A23's on steroids. 

According to Safety effects of permanent running lights for bicycles: A controlled experiment. (Madsen JC1, Andersen T, Lahrmann HS.) they give about a 19% reduction in crash rates. There's a copy of the paper in Scribd as pdf. Every reference I've been able to find appears to refer to this one study. 

It's almost certainly a Gran Compe SHOT LEVER two handle brake lever. This description matches quite well and there's some comments on Bike Forums. 

You're asking should you try to ride 33 miles or 65 miles when your longest training ride is shorter than either? I think you'd be much better off trying a 60 mile training ride before the event. Sure, you could probably do that on the day, but you could easily end up either failing or struggling through and feeling miserable. If you think the "supported" part will make a difference perhaps try carrying a bit of cash and choosing a ride that lets you stop a couple of times at shops where you can buy snacks and drinks. Personally, I'd carry both on the ride. A extra couple of pounds isn't going to make any difference unless you're right on the line before complete exhaustion stops you. And you shouldn't be there. 

My commuter rig is an old trek mountain bike that I've converted to fixed gear with an ENO hub/crankset. I am thinking about going geared for the winter. I have a rear wheel that I built last year and never used (found the eccentric wheel on craigslist around the same time), an SLX rear derailleur and an LX shifter. Looking for a wide range cassette so I can take the bike offroad a bit more often, but I'm hoping to keep my 42t chainring on. I'm willing to take the risk that the ENO ring can work with a 9 speed chain. The best I've found is a shimano CS-HG61 (12-36) which I think would be more than enough, but if there's anything bigger available I'd like to know. Not interested in mods/adapters. 

I suggest starting with a prototype made out of square tube and old bikes, especially if this is your first framebuilding project. Square tubing is a bit easier to work with (you spend less time mitring tubes) and the goal for the prototype is that it should be easy to build. Take shortcuts, in other words. Get something you can ride, then ride it. When things break, fix them. As far as wall thickness, I'd buy whatever is cheapest. Weight for the prototype is not critical. For a final build in chrome-moly steel the thickness will depend on tubing size and how much stress it's under. You can buy plain gauge cold drawn 4130 steel tube in a range of sizes and wall thicknesses, usually by the metre. Which ones you want will depend on the detailed design. Groups like Atomic Zombie and a lot of HPV and velomobile enthusiasts spend a lot of time just working this way, because it's cheap so you can afford to build things just for fun. This site shows a steel prototype long john bike built and ridden, then eventually CroMo final bike built. There's some description of the design process and you can see the idea progress from welding random bits onto a steel chassis rail through to riding the finished bike. One note of caution: you will need to tilt the pivot axle back from vertical to get more stability, but that design is inherently unstable. 

You're right, you want to space it between the shell and cup. You can put spacers on either side to get the chainline right. Most cranksets come with spacers (2.5 mm is probably the most useful size for you) but if yours didn't any LBS should have a few to sell you. Something like this: $URL$ (I don't know if these work with hollowtech BB's or not) You'll probably want to get an assortment of sizes if you can, and use as few as possible to get things lined up (I assume this would help maximize BB stiffness, but really I just hate having excessive spacers - makes it more likely I'll lose one when disassembling/reassembling). 

This is not easy to solve without actually having the bike to play with. It's also something I'd do fairly quickly so I'm trying to give a detailed explanation of something I've learned to do from experience rather than written instructions. I've built my own bikes, worked for a year as a mechanic, and ridden rather a lot on a variety of different bikes. I'm also regularly wrong and still learning. So... Modern derailleur systems have a lot of things that have to be adjusted fairly accurately for them to work properly. Unfortunately some of the tests that a mechanic will do are destructive, in that they will usually cut the gear cable and replace it. Generally speaking for anything more complex than tweaking the barrel adjuster they will replace the cable and outer, because those are often the problem and they're cheap. In other words, paying $5 or $10 for a new cable+outer will often save $20 or more of mechanics time. The other thing is that a cheap shifter like yours is only about $20 to replace, so often a shop will just put a new one on and not bother trying to fix it. Leave the cover off the shifter (as it is in the photo), everything should still work. If you lost that cover in the crash, buy a new shifter (or replace the cover if you can somehow find a matching one). The missing cover isn't a problem in a nice clean shed, but on the road the shifter will fill up with water and muck and stop working fairly soon. Any of these steps might fix the problem, but in order this is what I'd do: 

I found this map of Pennsylvania with dirt roads overlaid a while back. Not aware of similar projects but I imagine/hope they are out there. 

I have two sets of wheels, both laced to surly singlespeed hubs (the older "new" hubs, not the "ultra new" hubs which seem to make this process much easier). Anyway the wheelset I like better has a quick release rear, and the other has a nutted axle. After riding the QR for a year, I've found I don't really like it. I wanted to go QR for easier on-trail flat changing, but since switching to the new (tubeless) wheels I haven't had a single flat. So I'm wishing I had the nutted axle on my newer wheels, as it felt a lot stronger. What I'm wondering is if there's a way I can disassemble the hubs and get the nutted axle onto my new wheels. I haven't taken apart a hub before but as I understand it these hubs use cartridge bearings, which I suspect makes the process a bit easier. 

I would be tempted to use a slightly extra thick tube to get a little more strength, since you broke the last one. But that's a path that can lead you to completely rebuilding the frame. 

In short: it depends. Chainrings tend to be much more compatible across gear counts than anything else in the drivetrain. It amounts to "does the chain fit", and when you're talking 8/9 speed the chain width is the same anyway, so yes, that will work. The real question is whether the bolt pattern is compatible between the two, because that's where the real variation is. But it's probably obvious - look at it, try it. Pull one chainring off and hold it next to the other bike. If the bolt holes line up you're good to go. If you're asking whether you can swap the cranks with chainrings attached, that's harder to answer. The first question is whether the bottom brackets are compatible. There are several sorts these days, with the traditional square taper being superseded by larger diameter axles of various shapes. If those are the same, the next question is clearance between the chainrings and chainstay. The only reliable way to test that is trying it, for which you'll need the right tool(s) to pull the cranks off. With many modern bottom brackets that's as simple as undoing the bolts and pulling them off by hand, with square taper you need a special tool. When putting the other chainring on, watch that you're not pressing the chainring against the frame as you do the bolts up. Then make sure there's a few mm of clearance between frame and chainrings.