For about the last year, I've had a problem keeping my bike on the road. Originally, my rear tube went flat when the tire was punctured by an office staple (don't ask me how a regular office staple could have been positioned properly on the road and puncture all the way through the tire while I was riding, I can't figure that out either). Since then, every time I replace the tube, it lasts for maybe two weeks and then goes flat again. Each time, the tube gets this mysterious slice along the inner side. Here is a picture of one of these slices. It's very faint; only deep enough to puncture fully through the tube in a few places. 

This is a picture of the inner side of the tube. The slice is almost halfway down from the seam and runs across the length of the tube shown here. My patch is covering the largest hole, but doesn't solve the problem. The first time I saw this, I figured it was something to do with the rim. However, this slice (which is usually about 20cm long) appears in different locations relative to the valve on every new tube. So if it is something to do with the rim, it isn't anything that would be in a fixed location on the rim. I also thought it could be due to installation error, so I made sure a few times I had professionals at the shop do the installing. Same thing; about two weeks later it would be flat with a slice like this through it. Obviously, this has nothing to do with the tire itself, since no part of the tire is in contact with this part of the tube. Given the time it takes to form, it looks like something is gradually cutting into the tube and, after about two weeks, finally manages to wear through it. I've washed the rim thoroughly and run my fingers along it to check for slivers. Nothing. I thought maybe it was the rim strip, the edge of which contacts the tube. That's still my number 1 guess, but if that's it, why is this slice only along a ~20cm section of the tube (I've checked the rest, no slice) and always in a different place along the rim? Why wouldn't it either be in the same place or along the entire tube if it were the strip? Anyway, this mystery has me stumped and has cost me a fortune in tubes and bus fare (what with a bike no longer being my commute option). To try to mitigate it, I've tried using self-sealing tubes, which obviously didn't work perfectly (lasted an extra few days though) because they are more suited for punctures on the outer side of the tube. My next thought is trying puncture-proof tubes. If I can't figure out how to stop these slices, I figure puncture-proof tubes would be thick enough to give me a few extra weeks per tube. For the record, the bike is a Trek 3700 with 26X2 wheels and I usually pump the rear wheel up to about 45-50 psi. TL;DR: What's causing these slices in my tubes? How can I prevent it? 

@darkcanuck has the right idea with his explanation. Adjusting brakes is easiest if you've got a friend to help you or a "third-hand" tool that you can use to hold the brakes all the way in while you adjust the cable. The basic process that I'd follow for setting up brakes is: 

Finally, as others have mentioned, consider the impact of your actions on the opinions of other road users. 

Weight distribution is critical, and it is a bit of a fine balance, much like doing a track stand. I find that it is easiest to do this by staying seated and crouching towards the front of the bike. Standing on the pedals will tend to put your weight too far forward and make it difficult to achieve smooth power transfer to the wheels. Smooth Power Transfer is another important aspect. Remember that your rear wheel only has a small amount of friction keeping it from slipping. What you are trying to do is keep the pressure on the pedals strong enough to keep you going up the hill, but not so strong as to make the wheel spin. Things that can help with this are: 

An approach that can give you some confidence is to measure your existing bike(s) along the critical dimensions to see how they compare. To my mind (and apparently also to the mind of the late, great Sheldon Brown) the most important dimension to consider is the top tube length. Basically, you can get a certain amount of adjustment in "reach", the distance between your saddle and the handlebars by adjusting the saddle on the rails, and the stem you've got, but the range of variability is quite small. Seat posts can be extended through quite a significant range, and you can generally play around with the rise on the stem, as well as the spacers on the steerer to get a lot of vertical adjustment. So, download your specifications for the cross-check and we find that the top tube has an effective length of 570mm. Go out and measure the top tube of your current bike (or a bike you are comfortable riding) and if it is close to this, then you are good to go. 

Pretty much, aside from spotting it and veering around it, all you can do is run tougher tires. Belted tires are a good start, like the Schwalbe Marathon Plus for general use. 

Due to (1), I'd probably stick with 5 speeds. 0,4) Presumably by analog, you mean friction shifters. Friction shifters don't care about how many gears you have in the back. You just need a derailleur with sufficient chain wrap to regulate the chain tension appropriately (a wide range derailleur in this case, which most mountain derailleurs are). 1) You need to do some work. To quote Sheldon Brown: "Hubs originally intended for 5-speed freewheels can be converted to use 6- or 7-speed freewheels. You will generally need to add a few spacer washers to the right side of the axle, building it up far enought that the cone locknut can reach the frame dropout through the wider freewheel body. You will need to re-center the axle but probably won't need to replace it with a longer one. You'll also need to re-dish your wheel , and probably re-space your frame. If you're fairly handy, this is not an unreasonable thing to do." 2,3) Just get a modern Shimano-type 7 speed chain, like the SRAM PowerChain 850. 

Everything you could want to know about tire sizing is here, including recommendations of how wide a tire should go on how wide a rim. In your case, you will look for tires made for 26" rims (ISO 559), but generally, narrow rims should have narrower tires than wider rims. These tires will be marked 26 x decimal number (by decimal number, i mean a number written with a decimal point). Schwalbe makes a 26 x 2.00 inch Marathon Plus which would probably make a good replacement (the fatter the tire, more cushioning), as well as 1.5 and 1.75 inch variants. A bit smaller of a tire will technically reduce weight (and lower the bike slightly) and give a bit better handling. If you go down to your bike shop, they probably have a bunch of tires which work for the road well. Look for kevlar belting for puncture protection. Also, if you're pretty much always on the road, and are running a suspension fork, you may want to swap it out with a suspension corrected rigid fork, since you don't really need suspension beyond the tires on the road unless you have a back problem or something. 

My girlfriend has recently bought her first road bike. While the frame size is pretty much spot on and comfortable for her, she finds that the brakes are difficult to use and she ends up with pain in her hands after longer rides. I think the issue arises because when she has the top of the hood in between her thumb and forefinger, her fingers only just reach the levers. Has anyone else encountered this problem, and what have you done to fix it? 

As per the other responses, the main tool you need is a spoke wrench. You can use the frame itself as a truing stand. Other things to note are: 

Depends on what you want from your bike. If you're bike is a high performance, lightweight machine and you expect many years of trouble free performance in tough conditions, then wash it as frequently as you can. If it's a knock-about treadly that you use for the short commute to and from work and for getting your shopping, then wash it as infrequently as you care to. The only thing that really needs regular cleaning and lubricating is the chain. If you aren't planning on cleaning the chain too often, then ask your bike shop about which chain lubricant will last the longest. You probably want to lubricate the chain at least once a month. 

Between my girlfriend and myself, we have 5 bikes of which 3 would ideally be stored inside (the two road bikes and my duallie). However, my house is a relatively small terrace house which doesn't have huge spare rooms on the ground floor for bike storage. What is the best storage solution you've seen for keeping the bikes inside that: