Such behaviour would be more consistent with the behaviour I originally described, in that the colonial subunits are not capable of restoring a particular configuration through the process of dissolution and reformation of the colony. However, the novel also describes the Wicked Witch of the West as being "cunning", so it is not beyond the bounds of possibility that this reaction may have been a sham intended to lead Dorothy and company to believe that this dissolution was fatal, so that when the colony reformed - hopefully after Dorothy and company had left the area - it could restore its long-term configuration and personality and continue pursuing its goals with the added advantage that its enemies believed it to be deceased. 

The time: January 27th, 2017, 7:00 AM local. The place: New York City and environs. Jormungandr, the Snakebot of Doom, has just finished steamrolling New York City into something more closely resembling a gravel driveway. Now it has returned to the vicinity of lower Manhattan and is busy extracting any iron or steel that it can find in the rubble in order to convert it into steel railgun ammunition. It is currently firing the six large railguns in its tail, each shot containing about 6.8 metric tons of steel, at a combined rate of 4 rounds per second. If it has to use its small railguns for self defence, they won't add significantly to the rate at which steel is being consumed. Jormungandr's mouth is currently ingesting any iron or steel it can find in the rubble in order to resupply its ammunition bunkerage. It is easily able to resupply its ammunition faster than it can expend it provided sufficient steel is nearby. How long would the steel found in New York City and environs be able to supply Jormungandr's appetite before it has to move on to another source of steel? Consider this to be the real world, with the exception that over the evening of the 26th until the morning of the 27th, New York has been experiencing severe blizzard conditions, leading to closure of ports, airports and roads. At the time in question, neither roads, ports or airports have yet reopened. The blizzard will mean that there are more ships in the ports adjacent to NYC than usual, and that cars cannot readily leave. By New York City and environs, I mean the area with this definition: $URL$ Please account for the quantities of any man-made iron or steel within the area, no matter how large, including any vehicles, shipping, building structural members, railway track, rolling stock and tunnel shoring or lining, with a reasonable justification. The exact amount of steel in each building need not be accounted for. Small objects such as nails or bolts, unless part of a larger steel structure, may be discounted, as Jormungandr will not bother with anything so trivial. This will rule out its being interested in scavenging from wooden-framed dwellings, but steel framed dwellings are another matter. EDIT The world in this question starts out pretty much as the world with which we are familiar. However, the question is, How long can Jormungandr stay here before it needs to move on to another source of steel, and the world being built is one where Jormungandr stayed for x time, firing continuously, then had to leave to find more steel. That world may or may not resemble our own so much, depending upon the magnitude of x. I want to know X. Can it stay for Hours? Days? Weeks? Months? Years? How many of them? If Jormungandr stays for 'hours', then the world will be considerably different than if it stays for 'weeks'. Hours means that all that many of the survivors of NYC have to do is sit tight and wait for relief efforts to come to them. Weeks means that the survivors have to become refugees and travel to somewhere where they can get the necessities of life, since Jormungandr isn't going to leave much in the way of the necessities of life for the survivors to use, and how many relief agencies are going to risk coming close to a thing that destroyed US armed forces sent against it so easily? The longer Jormungandr stays put, the more time humans will have to try to come up with unconventional means to try to destroy it. The longer it stays put, the more likely that humans will discover that the birds have been bugged before it moves on. The longer it stays put, the more likely it is that some idiot may try a massed submarine ICBM launch against it. So, while, yes, this is a question about a story set in a world, the world-building aspect of the question is that the answer affects how the world changes. Please don't think that just because the question is basically "how much steel is there in NYC, and then divide by 27.2 metric tons per second" that there aren't other implications that will greatly affect that initial, known, world. 

Telekinesis is a tough one. Humans are quite good at calculating trajectories, and unless the magician does something that could be interpreted as the chance interaction of a gust of wind or a lucky/unlucky bounce, altering the trajectory of an object would be noticed. That's something that some CGI movies struggle with. Divination is an easy one, as long as the magician can make things look like a coincidence. Not being in harm's way is a good one, but a careful magician might allow themselves to take small amounts of harm so as to deflect attention from the fact that they're not taking serious damage. Headology can be tricky. It can be pretty obvious, or quite subtle. If a magician restricts themselves to the possible, it could only be detected if two witnesses to an event have significantly different recollections of an event. Making someone remember a giant purple elephant in their cupboard would be pretty obvious. As with the example story, a magician who acts to make their magic look as if there were just a whole lot of coincidences and luck happening to them, as well as ensuring that other people around them were also lucky, such magic could be discounted for quite some time, and given that the "luck" seems to rub off on bystanders, others would be reluctant to act against the magician for fear of losing their luck. Obviously, if such a magician's enemies started suffering misfortunes out of any reasonable resemblance to the normal variances of chance, people might get suspicious. However, if the magician simply altered other people's opinion of their enemies in a subtle way, reducing society's levels of popularity and respect, and increasing annoyance with their foe, the magician could see to it that their enemies were run out of town or lynched, and the townsfolk would hardly notice, and would probably think that it was their own idea. After all, "Joe always was a pain in the ass, and it's not fair to say he only tormented Rynn when he made everyone's life miserable." 

Humans in this environment would move like humans on the moon. Their bones are heavier, but their muscles are also stronger. Given what seems to be an equivalent strength to weight ratio, these stronger, heavier humans would still move with the characteristic bounding gait of men on the moon, though atmospheric drag would lead to their leaps being less of a perfect parabola, resulting in a steeper descent than ascent. Gravity operates as a field of constant acceleration irrespective of mass, the effective force between two objects being proportional to the combined mass. Lower gravity means slower falls. (It also usually means less atmosphere, since fast molecules can escape more easily.) 

The Problem: Telepathy is defined as "Transfer of information on thoughts or feelings between individuals by means other than the five classical senses". That leaves some form of communication not detectable by human senses, though not necessarily some form of communication not detectable by human technology. The question also specifies evolution of such an ability, so this would imply that it is of biological, not technological origin. Since such tropes as "psionic radiation" or "mental waves" that can be transmitted from one human to another have been not been shown to be anything more than fairy tales by science, we cannot presuppose that they exist for another species. Possibilities However, this leaves quite a large range of possibilities for communication that is not detectable by human senses. The electromagnetic spectrum covers a wide range of frequencies, most of which (with the notable exception of the visual spectrum) is not detectable by human senses. Detectable by human instruments, perhaps (I'll discuss that "perhaps" later), but detection by human instruments isn't the definition. There is also the possibility of sonic communication using frequencies not audible to humans, manipulation of magnetic fields, and emission of pheromones not detectable by human olfaction. So, there are possibilities for "undetectable" communication. Process of Elimination If a species is to communicate memories, thoughts and sensory data at a rate that allows them to think and make decisions in a corporate manner, then whatever form of communication they use is going to require a very high bandwidth. This means that whatever form of communication they use is going to have to be high frequency, as studies in data transmission have shown that the higher the frequency of the carrier, the more data it is able to encode per unit time. This then immediately eliminates pheromones (which are inherently slow) and low frequency sound. There are still a lot of possibilities remaining. Another characteristic of Telepathy is that it is long ranged. When we consider sonic communication, we find that low frequency sounds travel much further than high frequencies, however we have ruled out low frequency sound as having too low a bandwidth, so this effectively rules out sound almost entirely. When we examine the electromagnetic spectrum, we find that the highest frequencies (above the ultraviolet end of the visible spectrum) are blocked by an atmosphere similar to our own (but they may not be in another atmosphere), as is most of the infrared part of the spectrum, and some (but by no means all) of the frequencies in the infrared and microwave parts of the spectrum. Lower frequency microwaves and higher frequency radio waves are long-ranged in a terrestrial-type atmosphere, though long-wave radio is not. So, the best candidate for high speed data transmission is microwave radiation. This leaves the question of how a life-form might go about generating such radiation. The following is educated speculation. Evolutionary Prerequisites The highest likelihood for "telepathy" is in a species that is able to precipitate a variety of metals in a variety of forms. (This also requires an environment high in metals.) If such a species was using metal to enhance its neural transmission rates (electrical transmission is vastly faster than human nerves' sodium-gate depolarization system), which is in itself a highly advantageous strategy in evolutionary terms, it is likely that creatures using metal as a nerve conduction rate booster would have found that unshielded nerves would cause radiation detectable not only within a creature's own body, but in other creatures too. As faster nerve conduction is too great an advantage to give up, shielding would have evolved, most likely by running nerves through the centers of metal bones. However, the possibilities of transmission and detection of EM radiation means that not all metal nerves would have evolved to be completely shielded, some could be partially shielded and be used to detect EM radiation, while with higher voltages (as demonstrated by the electric eel), other neuron-evolved organs could generate EM radiation of reasonable power. Bandwidth We then get to the point of bandwidth. EM radiation emission may well have begun at lower radio frequencies, but it is entirely possible that mechanisms could have evolved to increase the frequency of emitted radiation. Since a system of this type could have practically each neuron driving an EM transmitter of a different frequency, high bandwidth can be achieved by rapid changes in signal amplitude and frequency that is allowed by using high-frequency EM radiation, and also by multiplexing - using many frequencies simultaneously. This could allow an evolved bandwidth many times greater than our own Wi-Fi communication, which would also be somewhat directional. Another argument for higher radio frequencies and microwaves is that smaller antennas are required. Since all this bandwidth is relatively easily achieved in evolutionary terms - simply by duplicating the relevant organs - there is no reason why the beings would not evolve to make use of this bandwidth. Since the highest intelligences of species on earth are found in those creatures with an active social life (and this ability makes for a great social life), the evolution of intelligence is pretty much a given. Bandwidth comparison If we consider the data bandwidth of the human voice (not the bitrate required to duplicate the sounds accurately, but the actual volume of data it conveys), humans may be able to achieve a data rate of perhaps a few hundred bytes per second at most, including the emotional sideband on top of the raw data. Our hypothetical telepathic aliens could achieve a data bandwidth in the order of tens to hundreds of megabytes per second. Our telepathic aliens would need very fast brains to process all of this data, but fortunately since they incorporate metal in their neural structures, this is somewhat easier to achieve. The main bottleneck would be chemical neurotransmitters - if they used them. Fortunately, there are other possibilities for cell-to-cell communication. One possibility is an electrical connection, the other is a mechanical connection. Either of these are equally possible, and neither provides particular advantages over the other. Effects Given all this data bandwidth and a brain capable of processing it, it is entirely possible that each of these beings could communicate highly detailed messages - certainly including thoughts, memories, queries and answers - with a number of its fellows. Considering that much of their brains would be involved in running and interpreting the "telepathic" communication, they may not have all that much capacity remaining for actual original thought, so on an individual basis they may not be much more intelligent than a human, quite possibly somewhat less so, however they do not really need to be any more intelligent on an individual basis given that when they have a problem that they need to solve and cannot do so on their own in a reasonable time, all they have to do is ask a few friends and share the load of considering all the options. Considering the range of microwave communication, these friends need not even be within visible range, they could be hundreds of kilometers away. Sharing of memories would happen almost automatically as individuals added them as context to the problems they are asking for help with, and the advantage of shared experiences cannot be underestimated. Detectability As for detectability by human technology, an evolved pattern of communication over multiplexed amplitude and frequency modulated radio and microwave bands could certainly be detected, but it would most likely be fantastically difficult to interpret, and to the uneducated and unsuspecting observer (who is most likely detecting "interference" on only one frequency at a time) would find it hard to distinguish from noise. Anyone ever actually listened to a 56k modem on their phone line? It sounds a lot like static. It would require extensive computer support and years of work to even begin to interpret communication like this. Social Organization Since higher frequency microwaves (that can carry more data) are attenuated by the atmosphere more than lower frequency emissions, these beings would be able to communicate faster with nearer compatriots than more distant ones, and this would give them the tendency to form regionally-restricted social groups rather than a single global society. Appearance As to what these beings may look like, I imagine them with mobile structures that would look a little like short, thick tentacles that house the microwave transmitters and receivers. They would also be very likely to have inhumanly fast reaction times given the speed of their nerves that is necessary for their mode of communication. They would most likely be able to see some frequency of visible light and be able to hear, but the limits of their vocal communication - if they were capable of that at all - may be some sort of sound that communicates little more than a threat, warning or submission to other species that do not share their mode of communication. I leave the rest to your imaginations. 

Weapons of Mass Destruction Ricin and some other toxins are effective as a toxin when powdered and distributed in the air, meaning that they could be used effectively if thrown from a catapult or trebuchet or other aerial source. This would constitute a WMD in that it is the employment of a poison over a large area, intended to affect multiple combatants. Ships It is certainly not out of the question for a sail-powered ship to be made from timber, and rigged with tree-derived sails and rigging or aerofoils. Ships may carry heavy tree-based weapons, particularly tree-oil-based fire ordinance for use against other warships. Aircraft A glider can be made entirely from tree-derived materials, with natural or laminated timber spars and ribs, with tree-based ropes connecting the controls to the control surfaces, and using tree-fibre cloth to cover the airframe. Gliders may be launched from high places or using natural rubber catapults, and can climb using thermals and dynamic soaring. Once airborne, a glider can drop tree-based weapons on combatants below, including wooden shot or darts which would be effective against helmetless combatants, or they could distribute powdered tree-derived toxins or tree-oil-based fire weapons. A glider may also carry a tree-derived stored-energy missile weapon similar to a ballista for use against other gliders. It may achieve multiple shots if loaded by non-pilot crew members. Our gliders may also have a natural-rubber "engine" and a wooden propeller, a thick bundle of rubber strands connected to the propeller and the rear of the aircraft, which is wound tightly prior to launch, and released in the event that a bit of extra thrust is required, providing a few minutes of additional power. So, as we can see, trees can produce - or be used to produce - all sorts of interesting and deadly things. Camouflage This is a little iffy, but combatants may be able to wear camouflage body paint and a camouflage loincloth, as it does not count as a shield, and body paint is technically only a stain on the skin, such as may otherwise be acquired during the course of combat. It is not physical protection, nor does it provide much more modesty than a loincloth. Communications Is a cell-phone or radio - used in combat for communication only - a weapon? As long as you don't try to physically hit an enemy with it - or hide behind it - you should be safe. Optics As an extension of the communication angle, if not used to cause an enemy physical harm directly, it may be permissible for combatants to carry optical devices such as binoculars or night-vision gear.