Depending on your bags, rack, and the severity of the problem, you may be able to solve the problem by repositioning the mounting hooks on your panniers, without modifying your rack or getting new equipment. I was faced with a similar problem, and was able to solve it that way. 

It all comes down to whether you want to be prepared for 90% of the situations you're likely to encounter, or 95%, or 98%. Each step up that preparedness ladder requires that much more stuff. 

Looks like Pinhead and others are selling through-axle kits. Do a web search on "anti-theft through axle." 

Rotating weight does not slow you down. It has a flywheel effect, that is, for a given weight, the bigger the wheel, the stronger the tendency to keep rotating at its current speed. If the current speed is 0, that means you need to work harder to overcome it (ie, acceleration is harder). It doesn't mean the wheel is always going to be slower. As pointed out by others, smaller wheels ride relatively poorly over bumps (which saps a lot of energy). One of the very few makers of small-wheel road bikes, Alex Moulton, uses suspension to compensate. Suspension weighs more than bigger wheels. Smaller wheels might have other added losses as well. I can speculate that the way the rubber in the tire deflects when it rolls onto the ground has higher hysteresis. 

Are you talking about adding a NuVinci to a conventional derailleur-geared setup? That won't work. The NuVinci itself is very heavy, expensive, less efficient than derailleur gears, and doesn't offer as wide a range of gears as a wide-spaced derailleur-geared setup. The only advantages that I can think of is that you've got one shift lever instead of two (not a big selling point IMO), and you've got continuous variability so you don't need to hunt for the right ratio. 

Yes, geometry matters. If you're happy with your bike, then you don't need to worry about it. There are a lot of different cycling disciplines and sub-disciplines: for example, within mountain biking, there's cross-country and downhill and others. Within road racing, there's criterium, point-to-point, time trial, and so on. And there are bikes with geometries, material selections, wheels, tires, and other components that are optimized for each of these disciplines. Sometimes the differences are tiny, and the sort of thing that very few need concern themselves with. Consider, for example, that a bike with very sharp handling will be beneficial in some situations (like criteriums), but if you don't need that, you're just going to expend more energy keeping your bike going in a straight line, which at the end of a long ride would leave you more fatigued. Or that some touring bikes are designed so that they handle better when panniers are mounted on the forks. Or that using a racing bike for touring may leave you with your heels hitting your rear panniers because the chainstays aren't long enough. Bike fit and geometry are intertwined, and different sizes of the same model bike can have different geometry to produce similar "feel" for the intended rider. If you were on a mis-sized bike, in addition to having poor fit, you'd also be getting geometry designed for a person of a different size. If you were buying a new bike, I'd suggest that a mountain bike probably isn't the best bike for you, since you don't sound like you'll spend much time riding in the dirt, but like I said, if you're happy, don't sweat it. 

Back in the day, when everyone used tubulars, serious riders would age them intentionally. There's no science to back this up, and no measurable benefit, but apparently no serious detriment either, as long as they're still in good shape. If the sidewalls or tread are cracking, they're no good. 

I don't have experience with that exact setup. I have used a Shimano-9 wheel on a Campy-9 drivetrain, and it more or less works. With the addition of a shiftmate, you can mechanically compensate for the differences in cable pull. It's a little fussy getting set up right, but it does work. Also, (not that you asked, just in case someone else finds this thread in the future), Mavic sells a cassette that fits Shimano splines but has Campy-10 spacing, for use on a Campy drivetrain. I'm not aware of a cassette that does the reverse, but it wouldn't surprise me if one is out there. 

Did you check to find whether the punctures were in the same places on the tubes? If you did and they weren't, it's probably bad luck. If you did and they were, you've probably got something embedded in the tire casing or possibly a spoke that's pushing against the tube. A good practice, if you're not already doing it, is to align your tire's label with the valve hole on the rim. This makes it easier to align the hole in the tube with the corresponding point on the tire, so that you can feel for embedded bits of glass, or wires from shredded car tires (notoriously problematic). 

You need to exercise judgment based on your circumstances. I generally agree with the advice to ride on arterial roads rather than side streets. But in my own town, there are some arterials I'll gladly ride on, and some I won't go near. There are many side streets that would be slow, with constant stopping, and a couple that are practically bike highways. So: is it "wise" to ride on main streets? That depends on whether you're trying to get somewhere quickly or want to take it easy. On how fast and aggressive traffic is on the road. On how wide the lanes are. If you're asking whether it's "safe," that's another question. Bike riders tend to be overwhelmingly concerned about "overtaking collisions," where the car runs over you as it passes you. These are obviously scary. They make up a low proportion of all bike v car collisions, although they do make up the plurality of all bike v car fatalities (although less than 2% of bike v car collisions result in a rider fatality). Most bike v car collisions occur at intersections. If an arterial has fewer intersections along the way, and those intersections are better controlled, it seems that the arterial should be a safer place to ride. 

Regardless of your weight, holding an aerodynamic position isn't easy: it requires some core strength and flexibility. Even strong cyclists can have trouble with it. This video (jump to about 4:25) shows how much trouble a guy who can ride at 300 W (that's strong) can have holding a tuck for even a few minutes. So what I'm saying is, don't stop working on it, but remember you've got lots of company. 

Lennard Zinn has written books on maintaining road and mountain bikes (a trekking bike probably falls under the "road bike" category in terms of maintenance). He lists four levels of tool kits based on how ambitious you want to get with servicing your bike. I think this is a reasonable approach, especially since we don't know how ambitious you want to get servicing your bikes in particular. Also, to some extent, a tool's necessity will be determined by what kind of bike you have, for instance, my road bike has no torx bolts; with a carbon bike, a torque wrench is probably more important. So any advice also needs to be tempered by the bike you're servicing. 

Unless your LBS is a bike museum, I would not expect them to have exactly the right parts, since I'm pretty sure that derailleur is 30 years old. Looking through $URL$ I see they have a variety of cable-fixing bolts for current derailleurs, and they're cheap enough you could take a flyer and buy several to see if any fit. So you might be able to find something that would fit, and that's probably fine. If not, your options are to start trolling eBay, or to have the bolt-anchoring point retapped to fit something that exists today. 

This doesn't directly answer the question (you've gotten some good advice in this thread already), but a trick worth learning is to always mount your tire with the manufacturer's label (or some visual landmark) in line with the valve. That way, when you find the puncture in your innertube, you can work back to where the tire was punctured (assuming the puncture is on the tire side, not the rim side). Sometimes there's a tiny chip of glass or tire cord embedded in the tire carcass—it can be hard to find even if you know where to look, but it's impossible if you don't, and as long as it's in there, it can keep causing flats. 

The caliper is touching the wheel because the caliper was designed for a disk to be there, but the wheel was designed for spokes to be there. With a disk-brake wheel, the spoke flange on the hub is moved closer to the centerline to make room for the disk, which would be where the spokes are now. There are only a few standards for mounting disk brakes, which determine where the disk and caliper should be relative to specific points on the bike. Unless you want to mess around with adapters, you need to make sure all your parts fit the same standard. I'm guessing your fork uses the 74-mm post mount standard. This distance is called the over-locknut distance. Almost all bikes use a 100-mm standard for the front wheel. There's a more recent 110-mm standard (called "boost"). The fact that you're getting 103 mm is probably a measurement error, but that's a 100-mm hub, and you should continue to use 100-mm hubs. Not really. It's not clear exactly what kind of rim is on that motorized wheel, but you can probably mount a fatter tire on it if you want. 

Whether it's possible or not, it's a bad idea. With any suspended system, there's sprung weight and unsprung weight. Sprung weight is the weight carried by the suspension system, and unsprung weight is the weight that's "downstream" of the suspension system (the wheels, etc). In any suspended system, the goal is to maximize the weight that is sprung, and minimize the weight that is unsprung. When you go over a bump, your unsprung mass gets pushed up, then recoils and goes down, and this cycle repeats until the energy in the system has been damped out (vocabulary aside: although we casually refer to suspension as "shock absorbers", real shock absorbers only damp out the recoil, not the initial impact). Adding unsprung mass makes that recoil much harder to damp out. If you put, say, 2 kg of rack + bag on your front forks, and another 7 kg of load, you're exceeding what the front suspension was designed to handle by a factor of 4 or so. Not so much in terms of the initial shock (which I imagine can be many Gs) but in terms of absorbing recoil. 

I rode the Southern Tier solo. It's entirely doable that way, although I'll admit it got lonely at times. 

The thing that would give me pause about this would be if there were a generational shift in technology during the intervening years, and it might be harder to get replacement parts (like the transition from 26" to 27.5" in mountain-bike tires). This would leave me with a new-but-obsolete setup, which is not something I would generally choose. OTOH, you as the buyer need to take some responsibility for knowing what you're getting, and if a bike obviously had 26" tires, you should ask about it. 

If you read the page linked to above by Daniel R Hicks, you'll see that A) the point of failure is hidden inside the head tube, and B) "Tandem fork failures nearly always cause an accident which puts both riders in an Emergency Room." 

This is complicated, because bikes steer by turning the fork and by leaning. At very low speeds, we steer mostly by turning, not leaning. Wikipedia gives the formula for figuring this out, although you need to transpose some terms, you need to know the bike's dimensions, and you need to decide the radius of your turn. Based on that formula, and assuming a bike with a head angle of 72°, a wheelbase of 1000 mm, and a desired turning radius of 5 meters, you get about 37°. A longer wheelbase will increase that angle slightly; a steeper head angle will increase that angle more; a tighter turning radius will increase it yet again. 

GCN did a couple of videos on the subject (1, 2) . In the first linked video, the presenter said that "what current research seems to point to is that is that people ride at their energetically optimum cadence when they're toward their maximum power output. However, they tend to ride at too high a cadence when they're riding at lower intensity." Also that everyone's different, leg size factors into cadence, etc. Sounds to me like you should do what your body is telling you to do. You're obviously experienced enough that you're not going to blow your knees out riding stupid-low cadences. 

All other things being equal (which admittedly, they never are), a recumbent trike will be slower. It has more frontal area, more rolling resistance, and more weight. I don't have a recumbent bike, but I do have a conventional racing bike and a recumbent trike (a very low-slung tadpole, not a delta). On a frequently-ridden 37-mile loop, my average speed on my racing bike is about 15.5 mph, average on the trike is 14.3 mph. So at the speeds and distances you're riding, the net time difference won't be that great. All that said, the trike is a lot of fun. 

Cannondale did make bikes for LL Bean in the 1980s, and this looks like a Cannondale. I think @ojs has it. 

I rode the Southern Tier last year and used a GPS app on my phone that estimated caloric output. Probably not very accurately, but it gives us a number to kick around. My distance was right around 3000 miles. Total estimated calories burned over the ride was 143,000. That would be equivalent to 265 Big Macs (540 cals per Big Mac). Not that I ate any Big Macs, but it's a handy yardstick. A Big Mac costs about $4. So that would be $1056 in "fuel" if that's all you ate. I'm assuming that you would burn about the same number of calories whether you rode a relatively small number of high-mileage days or a large number of low-mileage days (I think that technically this is wrong because in the latter case you've got more off-bike time during which you're also burning calories). Interestingly, a gallon of gas costs about $4 right now too, depending on where you are. If you're in a car and getting 22 mpg over the same distance, and filling up with $4/gal gas, you'll spend $545. Although I did keep track of my food costs at the time, I no longer have that data handy. I was not cooking a lot of my own food—mostly eating out. So my food costs were higher than they had to be. On the other hand, you could not get away with just pasta--you'd need a lot more protein and fat to keep going over the long haul. As it is, I lost about 15 lb. 

Naturally other things can go wrong, but I think these are the main things that you can rely on going wrong or needing attention. And don't forget maintenance on your body. Be prepared for sunburn, saddle sores, hotspots on your feet, muscle aches, etc. 

Interesting—Sheldon Brown's tire-sizing chart refers to the 540 size as "British juvenile or wheelchair" In any case: The 520 wheel (which his chart lists as the Terry size—looking at the Terry website, I see they sell both sizes) will pitch you forward slightly and give you a slightly steeper effective head-tube angle. I don't think that would be a big difference. And you'll need to adjust your brake pads. In theory the size difference could be offset by using a fatter tire, but in practice, I think fatter tires are not made for the 520 size. I've never heard of anyone using a wheelchair rim on a bike—the only possible downside I would imagine might be A) if they aren't available in the spoke count you want, or B) the braking surface. You might contact Terry directly and see what they think.