dukkha (= suffering, illness, death, stress, sorrow, lamentation, being unsatisfied ...) exists The cause of dukkha is taṇhā (means thirst for sensual pleasure, attachement to self and aversion) There is the cessation of dukkha (nibbana, means not burning anymore, enlightement, awakening) There is a path leading to the cessation of dukkha, the Noble Eightfold Path (Right View, Right Intention, Right Speech, Right Action, Right Livelihood, Right Effort, Right Mindfulness, Right Concentration) 

In MN 125 the Buddha compares the mind that tries to settle down in meditation with taming a forest elephant. If you pull a forest elephant out of his residence into the open, it'll rage and battle for some time, before the elephant tamer is able to tame him. The same thing goes for the mind: If you take the mind out of the world of the senses by focusing it on an object, it'll at first rage and battle, too. This is just how the mind naturally reacts. 

You won't learn this one from books, only by trying out and practicing it. The practice is to go beyond concepts like Now I'm meditating, this is good, bad, me, mine... and focus on the raw experience which is present. If you sit down to start meditating with the intention to be mindfull you might have the feeling Now I'm meditating, but in reality all you do is change postures. You should have some basic instructions, but don't get into theory too much. It won't help you, it will only reinforce your opinions and ideas. I'd suggest to get to know the framework of Right Mindfulness, which are body, feelings, mindstates, mindobjects (dhamma). The original teaching from the Buddha himself: Satipatthana Sutta: The Foundations of Mindfulness A more practical guide from Ven. Yuttadhammo (the noting technique): How to Meditate 

Ajahn Chah gave this simile in Food for the Heart (chapter: steady practice; There is also an audio version online, read by Ajahn Amaro): 

It is true that desire leads to suffering but desire ALSO leads to pleasure. Be careful not to mix pleasure & desire. The first one is a feeling, the second one is a reaction (liking, wanting to keep/experience again). It is true to some extend that sensual desire itself can feel pleasant, even though it is/leads to suffering. There are a lot of very distinct similes in the Suttas regarding sensual pleasures, where sensual desire is compared to 

By acknowledging your anxious mood as a truth (dhamma). Don't push it away, don't try to change anything, don't blame or criticize yourself. It is a truth and therefore has the 3 characteristics of reality, namely anicca (it has beginning, middle and end), dukkha (it obviously doesn't satisfy you), anatta (you cannot control it; it arises due to certain conditions/habits/situations). Why should it be different? As for how to actually deal with fear/anxiety, you could listen to this talk from Ajahn Jayasaro. He describes how fear/anxiety works. It has both a physical and a mental aspect. Fear builds up using a feedback loop. If there is a fearful thought, a reaction in the body follows, you become worried about your bodily reaction with your mind, which then causes more tension in the body ... You can break that cycle by staying with the body and watching the feelings/sensations there (more detailed in the video). Being at peace means to be at peace with whatever arises, not getting things or mind states that are peaceful and dependent on external causes. Peace means you're never at war with yourself :) 

There is a collection of similes at accesstoinsight.org. If you search for {defilements} you'll find them. You may also want to look for similar keywords like {craving}, {clinging}, {sensuality}, {fetters} ... Similes for defilements: 

I can't speak for the method taught by S. N. Goenka, I only know the part by part sweeping method (link to a detailed talk by Ayya Khema about the benefits of it), but I guess you do the same thing. As for this method it is quite usual to get stressed or tensed, because you have to be much more focused on the experience you may or may not find at the current spot you're keeping your attention on. Ayya Khema said it would be a very good sign if you get a feeling of nausea coming up when practicing it for the first time. In another context I heard a different teacher saying that it's like after cleaning your clothes your washbasin is full of dirt (because it was on your clothes). It may be similar with this technique since you have to notice all kinds of feelings or emotions. She also mentioned that if you really don't like to practice this certain method, you'll benefit the most from doing it :) 

I guess words are not enough to describe experiences. I don't know if they exist or how it is to be in a formless jhana, but I can tell you for sure that you will only get frustrated by trying to understand any experience using words or thoughts. See for yourself! 

I think it's a good question, since I have asked me the same some time ago. Wouldn't being mindful about these activities interrupt the reading/study? Yes, it does. It 's practically speaking impossible to do both things at the same time. What you can do is intentionally interrupt your activity. Like when you're reading a book, you can stop reading for a short moment and notice your body sensations or your posture and then continue reading after a few seconds. For studying a very useful technique is to do short meditation sessions in between (like 30min studying, then 5min meditation, repeat .... ). It's very useful because brings your mind back to reality and prevents it from getting lost in all those concepts. Also if you feel stressed during studying, you can stop and use that feeling of discomfort as your meditation object. 

But if we need to prevent a non-Buddhist person from telling lies or going against fourth precept, how can we do. How can we motivate him/her not to lie? I think the whole point in Buddhism is, that you can't change someone else. You can only change yourself. This is dukkha, people are doing bad things even though you're trying to stop them. Keep that in mind. You could try to make a philosophical argument telling the truth (e.g. Immanuel Kant). 

I might adjust/refine the translation, if there is some feedback. But for now, I hope a sloppy (sometimes word by word) translation is enough. In summary, what this section says is that Vibha within the Buddha's teaching can mean two things: 

When you regularly say to your self things like "meditate" or "don't do stuff for fun", then you're brainwashing yourself, that's right. You are therefore creating a view/opinion inside yourself, which is based on a judgement. The reasoning behind these thoughts is: "Meditation is good. Therefore you have to meditate.", "Doing stuff for fun is bad. Therefore I mustn't do stuff for fun."; In your practice you should try to balance the 5 faculties: Faith and Wisdom Having faith that meditation is beneficial is a good thing. But don't belief blindly in it. Balance it with wisdom. Reflect rather than suggest. Also, a problem using auto-suggestion could be that you become more and more self centered. "I" am doing meditation, it is "me" practicing. Who is "I" that should do something? Who is trying to auto-suggest? Energy and Concentration From Wikipedia: 

The first two methods refer to the practice of Asubha Bhavana (the meditation on the foulness and impurity of the body), which explicitly counteracts sexual lust and is one of the Four Protective Meditations. In this technique you examine your own body by looking at each of the 32 body parts individually. The purpose is to see the sign of the unattractive nature of the human body. 

According to this explanation it becomes quite clear that taṇhā and the second Noble Truth is more a statement about the origin of suffering. The term condition doesn't really imply that. If you ask about the pure condition of suffering clinging would probably be the proper answer (according to dependent origination). But it's practically speaking more important to name the root, because that is where you tear something out by the roots (make an end to suffering). From page 340: 

Practice Knowing the Four Noble Truths, if anyone should be interested in the cessation of suffering, he/she should practice the Noble Eightfold Path (and test if it works). Buddhist practice has 3 aspects: sīla (morality) Whether you are familiar with Buddhism or not, you should try to keep the 5 precepts. samādhi (calmness of mind, 'concentration') & paññā (wisdom) Concentration & Wisdom come from meditation and practice of mindfulness. See answer from Sankha. 

The thing I've learned from meditation so far: Don't try to be clever, just follow the instructions! Anapanasati (meditation on the breath) works just the way it should be. It was highly recommended by the Buddha himself and successfully used for the last ~2500 years now. It's really simple: When you breath out, know you breath out. If you want to develop samadhi (concentration is a misleading term, let's just call it peaceful stillness), then the best way is to choose an mediation object (breath, metta, walking, ...) and follow the instructions. 

I think the definition of clinging as strong desire is very compact and explaining. If you look at it from a point of view of dependent origination, there is vedanā (feeling) followed by taṇhā (craving) which is the key point in this chain, because before the moment of craving the mind is still free from defilements. After this there is upādāna (clinging), but it's of the same type as craving. 

But I don't think that these two qutoes say that you should behave passive and let others abuse you all the time. If you have compassion for others, you don't want them to make unskillful actions which you can prevent. 

Sounds like you're in some kind of meditation crisis. From what I've read it seems to me that you on the one hand think of meditation as something beneficial (because you want to practice it daily), but on the other hand are currently a bit aversed to meditation and yourself (when you find yourself unable to do it). And as a result you experience frustration because your practice is not as you want it to be. You should definitely check if you push yourself too hard or if you are too serious about your practice. Because if you try too hard and are too hard with yourself, a natural response of the mind is to resist and dislike. This makes it hard to meditate and you feel guilty because you can't keep up with your expectations... I've read in one comment you practice according to the technique of Ven. Yuttadhammo Bhikkhu. I don't think I'm in a position where I could give you the right advise how to deal with this. But according to this technique you would try to be objective about your emotions when they arise or are present by saying to yourself "unmotivated, unmotivated ..", "disliking, disliking ...", "frustrated, frustrated ...", "overwhelmed, overwhelmed ...", "thinking, thinking ...", "bored, bored ...". It's probably best to discuss this with a teacher. If you don't meet with one, you can start an online course with Yuttadhammo Bhikkhu at $URL$ and ask him for advice. This would probably help you with your motivation as well. 

I think this question has a great potential for misunderstanding the concept of Nibbana. Why is it important to know? There is no way to know if Nibbana is just another silly concept like God except you have experienced what this word is pointing to. If there is the claim that somebody else is 'enlightened' it doesn't really change the fact that you simply don't know if this is true. 

This might be a good time for reflection: Like "Why am I practicing? What did the Buddha teach and how am I able to apply it? Do I want to achieve something? But isn't the goal of meditation to let go and not to get?" How do you know that meditation didn't work? Only because it wasn't pleasant or peaceful enough or even physically and mentally painful? If the goal of meditation is to overcome suffering, should I expect it to be easy and pleasant all the time, just as I want it? Watch out to fall into generalizing things like "it's all like this, nothing ever worked, ..." and really look and you'll possibly remember occasions when meditation did had a positive effect. Good reference: $URL$ 

Yes, they do something to lower sexual desire. Sexual desire is a form of sensual desire which is the first of the 5 Hindrances to meditation practice. The commentaries to the Satipatthana Sutta list 6 antidotes for sensual desire: 

Your case would actually more suitable for the philosophy community (possible dilemma situation), because in Buddhism the answer to your question is quite simple (at least as I see it). From a Buddhist point of view an action is 'good', if the prior intention is wholesome. 'wholesome' means free from greed, anger and delusion. 

Also see: The Five Mental Hindrances and Their Conquest As for "bad habits" IMO the best way to deal with them is to be patient. Using willpower and trying to changes things is often a guarantee for more feelings of guilt, failure and suffering. Instead of trying to get rid of you could develop wholesome habits (meditation, sati, virtue of action, speech and thought ...) alongside the bad ones and then step by step replace old habits with new ones. 

Are you practicing metta with a particular method? From what I know, most instructions don't recommend to start trying to develop metta to someone you have dislike towards, but to start with beings you can easily develop a sense of friendliness towards. For authentic instructions you can look into the Visuddhimagga or the Suttas. A good series of videos and guided meditation from Bhikkhu Bodhi about metta bhavana: $URL$ The approach from Mahasi Sayadaw can be found in his booklet Brahmavihara Dhamma Also reflection can be useful, i.e. 

So practicing Satipatthana would be the best option for you. For a basic understanding of the practice you can read the original teachings itself, and read/listen to explanations by other teachers like these 

You should always try to be as secluded from sense impressions as possible (in formal meditation). Listening to sounds or music while sitting is counterproductive and not a Buddhist style of meditation. As I understand it this device generates pleasant sounds when it senses less movement in the head (not in the mind!) and unpleasant sounds when the activity in the head increases. This is problematic! You're reinforcing judgement, thinking it is good to have a calm state of mind, bad to have an agitated state of mind. And also mixing up bodily and mental sensations (by mistaking the activity in your brain with the activity in your mind).