The unicorn would be less perfect, being limited, for instance to having four feet, which is not always the perfect number. Say I want to kick seven people simultaneously. Then, for the instant of that whim, seven feet would be a better number to have. In the sense Descartes is using perfect perfection is always and everywhere perfect and is not situational. That means there can be at most one perfect being. Two perfect beings, neither of which had any advantage over the other in any circumstance would necessarily be two identical instances of a single being. Both would have to be everywhere equally, both would have to have the same ability and the same effect in all circumstances, etc. There would be no way to tell them apart. Nor would there be any point in both of them serving any given end, as either would already suffice. And yet the perfect being would not be annoyingly contrary to Occam's razor in being pointlessly double. Were it double, it would be so to some effect. 

I think a lot of directions in our society are converging on the notion that the world runs on feedback loops, and this notion of reducing things to an absolute basis is a fool's errand. We are enthralled by the power of deductions that simplify complexity into something we can state compactly because we are beasts of language and limited memory. But these powerful generalizations, just because they are powerful, are not 'more basic' than others. There is no absolute 'downward' in the complexity of thought, only a relative one. What is most basic depends strongly on the circumstance and the goal. That one needs food is an immensely complex statement, given the incredible biological and chemical mechanisms behind food, and the even more staggering complexity behind the mechanisms we interpret as needing. At the same time, the idea that matter curves time is comparably quite simple, though almost incomprehensible to almost everyone, almost always. You need a more pointed goal and context to get any meaningful dialog on this kind of thing. 

He owes it to them. (When this is not about money -- I am making a moral deduction.) You will do as the Good Book says. (I am either stating or enforcing a rule.) This is to be rectified. (It is your obligation to see to it.) 

There is no fallacy, just two perverse incentives in Capitalism, deriving from the fact that the utility of money is not fixed, and its marginal rate is not constant. (The same is true of power, safety, etc. when they are conceived of in terms of fungibility and rates of exchange.) (Responding to the nature of the comments, let me be clear about what I mean by perverse incentive: Capitalism, since it can state the value of objects only at the point of sale, has to use approximations of value that can be expressed a that point. The resulting gap between the approximation and the real value creates cognitive dissonance (as it should, being false). This in turn generates alternate psychological values. Those then create their own artificial utility by extension. And that gets served directly in spending decisions, contrary to the actual efficiency of money. Modern politics is capitalist. We 'pay' attention, we 'spend' time, we 'save' lives, there are 'trade-offs'. There is a capitalist construction of value throughout our planning logic. It has the same difficulty with perverse incentive that all instances of capitalism have. We assume constantly that the capitalist construction of exchange rate itself is the real representation of value. This is a fallacy. And that is far more interesting than this question. But it is not really germane to the answer, which is tied directly to a context of rating value in terms of exchange.) Capitalism often values labor according to the time invested in earning it. Of course, that is not realistic, as productivity varies hugely, and real discovery or artistry is largely independent of the time invested. But it encourages us to value our time according to the rate of earning. That means the utility of money is related to how hard you have worked for it. And in that frame of reference, the lottery can makes sense, especially for those whose labor is otherwise poorly paid. There is a small likelihood of a big payoff with minimal effort (so the utility is a small number, times a big number, then divided by a very small number, which can still be a large number.) Winning would affirm a high value for your personal effort, contradicting, perhaps, negative messages that your time is not valuable. (God rewards you even if your boss doesn't.) Capitalism also binds many of us to endless debt. Again, this is not too logical, as it injects a lot of fake money into the system disguising genuine value, and enables catastrophic default (witness Sept 2007). But it allows for money to be created out of nothing when it is needed, and can be used to stabilize markets. So it is the basis of the entire Federal Reserve system. Given that frame of reference, the utility of money may take a sharp upward turn when it enables you to free yourself completely from some given obligation -- say, your mortgage. So there again, there is logic in your investment. Even though it is not a good investment in sheer monetary terms, the utility of the money is higher than the utility of the cost. (Being independently wealthy is far better than daily living, in the imaginations of many.) Capitalism also pays premiums to compensate suffering. More intricate forms of gambling involve getting paid to do something enjoyable. So if your value for money is related to how unpleasant it was to get ahold of it, this is a reasonable motivation to spend time and money in this way. The same kind of utility computations apply to the scanners. Our culture claims that dying at the hands of criminals is far worse than simply dying. There is some extra negative value to being wronged by the criminal intent. So we keep the police armed with guns even though they kill innocent people regularly by mistake. It is somehow better to be shot by accident than on purpose, and the sense of safety seems worth the risk (to the culture in general, if not to me). It also exaggerates the value of deaths that happen together. A war is somehow worse than the equal number of people who might die slowly of a pollution problem. This is not an error, it is a choice of values. So preventing 200 deaths that would happen together can be worth causing 2000 deaths that are not grouped. Because grouped deaths subjectively cause more disquiet in the population. Disagreements about relative situational or marginal utility are not fallacies. 

First the example you give is false: the only two options are not to lie or to give up the fugitive. There are a range of other options. One among them is to refuse to comply with the process by not answering and blocking attempts at unwarranted searches, whether or not you are hiding someone. It can be universalized: if people in general refused to allow unwarranted searches, the Gestapo would still not know who was hiding people. The second form leads to this -- you should resist being a means, without reducing those asking you to mere means. If you think of them as people, not as means in use by others, then you would not bother lying to them. Kant wrote a very explicit paper about the objections that his position against lying had these kinds of political effects. One interpretation of his position is that open non-compliance is always more moral than covert non-compliance in any such situation, and choosing the latter is a form of cowardice which ends up sacrificing your more principled allies as mere means. The primary weakness pointed out in the means-ends formulation is that it says nothing in the face of two individuals whose 'ends-ness' must be chosen between. (But that is why he carefully laid out the other equivalent formulations. The idea is that one or the other might be a better starting point, but that they are all, in fact logically identical in implication. If they appear to conflict, your maxim is malformed.) To my mind, he is particularly evasive on the issue of war. He comes down clearly as anti-war (over and over again) but still avoids stating that declaring war itself is inherently immoral. The two populations whose ends-ness are at odds, in the issue of war, are never the two fighting sides, but the civilian and military populations. It is true that soldiers can accept their position and can adopt an honorable stance toward one another that would let them accept death at the hands of a rival faction when their dedication to their own principles are very strong, and no other resolution seems possible. So they can be more than mere means, and there theoretically could be a just war. Historically they just never have been so. No officer can actually abide the dictum: all but a very few soldiers under his command are playing their part as mere means, the existence of a minority who can see the situation clearly and accept it notwithstanding. Unfortunately, to my mind, the ethics itself is too abstract and too evenhanded to capture this kind of intrinsic inequality of composition. The construction does not allow for something to be immoral simply because of the real limitations of most human beings. If 90% of us are dupes, still not all of us are dupes. The duped soldiers' willingness to be there, and to make the promises they have made, is theoretically their own business; questioning it betrays their autonomy. The formulation prevents him from being clear here, and stating the ethical position that clearly represents his own political position. 

Acceleration is a proportion. Proportion is not one of the Categories. There is a reason. We obviously only find things proportional when we measure them. And measurement is subject to the shape of space, whether you take that to mean the space that is an aspect of humanity in Kant, or you take that to mean space as currently understood by General Relativity. So as given, the statement is not expressed in a form we can reasonably make any a priori deduction about, for pretty much the reason we have ultimately given it up (since gravity in general relativity is an aspect of space, and not a force per se). Equal, Opposite and Like in Kind are basic or derived Categories. So in some sense the Third Law lies at a far more basic level of logic. 

Consciousness may not be possible without time, but how are consciousness and identity bound up together? For instance, if I get amnesia, I have a single consciousness and multiple identities. Kant would assert identity outside time even more completely, as he was a Christian from a tradition of personalizing God, but leaving him 'eternal' in the Augustinian sense. (I am not suggesting you consider Christian dogma as philosophy. But think about how those before you thought about time through the prism of Augustine's notion of a God outside time.) From that point of view God should be able to have an identity, but he should not be limited by time. It is not true that he could not have consciousness (the Christian claim (and the Hindu one) after all, is that he incarnated himself, perhaps, a'la C.S. Lewis, for the very purpose of experiencing consciousness.) But as an omniscient, changeless entity, fully aware of the future, he would have no need of consciousness, knowing everything, and having come to know everything 'all at once', he would have no need to learn or to have experience. So identity and time need not be related, if you have a notion of thought and will that is 'perfect and unchanging' and not sequential. So time is only related to the one factor. Time and consciousness are related. From Kant's point of view, that relationship is almost complete, and it is not shaped the way we might first assume. It is time that is an aspect of consciousness, and not the other way around. Time cannot ultimately be an underlying principle, like existence, it has to be a contingent way of our interpreting our own experience for the sake of our limited minds. So having presumed consciousness, it would not be necessary to separately presume time. The modern notion of 'spacetime' from Einstein makes this more credible, as we know that each individual travels through time in a way that makes it slightly different, according to what speeds and other changes are involved. For there to be a single, underlying structure there, it needs to be either very complex or quite odd in some other way we have a hard time grasping. Whereas if only the composite of space and time in experience exists, and neither space nor time are absolutely real on their own, what are the odds that either of them, or both of them together, are independent of us, and do not proceed from our interpretation?