Ok so we are in a world of magic in medieval age. And i am world building, i just need to further understand the magic that i had made with limitation stated below so it can be assumed that this is world building as it will affect the world that i had made Medieval magic focuses primarily in elemental effect(Fire, water, earth and wind) and ethereal/metaphysical effect(soul, assuming it does exist) mind alteration does exist but it is rare. 

What kind of phenomenon do we need to achieve that kind of destructibility. If possible not a chemical based lasers but i'll welcome all of the answers 

Well, they exist already, apart from the 2 mentioned above this one, which acts like almost a human muscle. In fact they are being researched as artificial muscles $URL$ 

Super electronic warfare - Renders all long range targeting mute A much more effective CQC weapon and high rate armor - High yield slow moving torpedoes, heavy Particle Blasters, Auto cannons. Why fire your effective weapon out of their effective range? A wide asteroid field - you can't simply target at long range in this fied Sociology-Political-military doctrine - live long enough and play politics long enough in 2 or more sides you'll achieve it Socio-Cultural effect - developed long enough you'll probably see boarding action as a time proven method of battle 

Give or take? probably 10 seconds to 10 minutes tops, you havent specified whats the capability of the AI and I only based that timeline on how fast internet connection is inbetween G8 nations 

Hmm... i think the need for food is still there, but we will rarely need it as we can do photosynthesis. Plants still need nutrients from the soil and air from atmosphere to breath right? What i think is that, with photosynthesis we would last longer without food, say like a week without one and you can still function like you did last week. We would still need water though. As for the change though, food production won't be as top priority as much probably, but we will endeavor for it to be much more health and much more tastier. It will come to a point probably that we will consume only for "pleasure" not of "need" when it comes to that. Digestive system will probably be weaker since we don't eat as much as other animals but i could be wrong there (snakes, alligators, crocodiles comes to mind) 

NOTE: Don't assume that they have the same size military assets. Just assume their military doctrine. Resources Unobtanium - Integral part of the economy and integral part of thrustless propulsion and levitation. Abundant in nature and can be renewed by rerefining and adding a rare phlebotonium that is manufactured by alchemists. Used for power plants. Oil - Integral part of daily lives of ordinary people as it runs vehicles(Air, Land and sea). Magic/Sorcery/alchemy - Integral part of the world since the beginning of history. Most consider military magicians/alchemist as weapons first and human secondly but given a lot of privileges and payed handsomely for the lowest position available. World Rules Thrustless propulsion and Levitation is a norm and preferred way of moving ships and other manmade floating structures. Propeller and rocket are used normally for vehicles. No jet propulsion! Thrustless levitation and propulsion are limited only to large structures and ships due to machinery size and fuel weight. Standard piston engines are provided for warplanes and other planes. Fuel for this engines are exported from middle east, China, USA and Russia No guided weapons, No nuclear weapons, no cloning technology but has advanced alchemical expertise no philosopher stones! Of course we have homunculus! Magicians are used mainly for tactical reasons as there are few magicians in military. Most are in academic research, medicine, alchemy and agriculture. A single magician can decimate a city block or a battalion. Almost immune to small arms fire including high powered magic augmented sniper rifle, CQC is the recommended way or capital ship weaponry or another magician. This is due to magic Null Kinetics. China has the most magicians in their military but considered lower quality compared to others. The difference between magician and sorcerer is that a magicians magic can be replicated by science, sorcery on the other hand can't be replicated. Sorcery is unique to each person, no same sorcery can exists simultaneously but they can reemerge. 20 sorcerers currently exists. Most of it belongs to Russia, Germany and UK. only 5 of them are strategic though, 2 belongs to USA(Through intense research and development) and 3 belongs to Japan(Due to finely cultured tradition of arrange marriage between strong and useful magical blood lines) The only strategic deterrent are magicians/sorcerers who are capable of unleashing tantamount amount of damage to the enemy in a single instance. Strategic Magicians and Sorcerers can only be used once since they'll die using their magic/sorcery by being unable to escape the area of effect since satellite targeting or any trans horizon targeting is impossible due to magical phenomenon disturbance in magic oriented devices when performing strategic magic. There are 30 Strategic magicians/sorcerers at the current era. UK has the most strategic deterrent at 7 magicians. But the strongest ones belong from USA, Austria, France, Russia and Japan. Warplanes are primary targets of Magicians assigned to defend capital ships and is a proven counter against whole air wings where a single magician can clear the skies. This is negated by rocket planes who can evade their attack with pure speed and armed with anti capital ship weapons with the consequences of being hard to turn and flying one in a battlefield is guaranteed suicide mission or being POW due to it being only able to fly for 10 mins at most. The wet navy is mostly consists of small ships(Corvette to light cruisers) and submarines. Most notable Wet Navy is from Germany which consists mostly of u-boats used for reconnaissance. Gods of this world likes to inter act with the mortals through seers or descending themselves but doesn't care about their warfare. They'll interfere if their base of faith are endangered though. Kaijuus evade their base of faith. Kaijuus(Giant Monsters) are a norm and Battle Groups and squads of magician are needed to subdue them at a minimum level or multinational fleets are needed if it escalates. They escalate from tactical threat into a legit international or world level threat/crisis if not subdued immediately. IJA has a nick name Kaijuu Defense force as Japan is mostly attacked and killed most Kaijuus, no other nation can top that. What kind of tactics would their military do under similar nations or analogous from our world TL;DR What tactics will an Aerial Navy used in conjunction with magic as a tactical and strategic resourc and how will they act during a world war and a world crisis level giant monster?