Your hub looks like a serviceable cup and cone types, so you will be able to fix the problem. You will have to disassemble the hub, but it is not a difficult procedure. You will need some special tools - a chain whip and cassette lock ring tool to get the cassette off, and possibly a cone wrench. There are many resources available online that can guide you such as this Park Tool Company article. You may need to simply adjust the bearings, but you should check the amount of wear on each bearing component and replace if necessary. 

Update - because apparently neither Fuji nor Performance can help. If a replacement really cannot be found, you could try finding a machine shop that will do custom small orders. A competent shop with a small CNC machine should be able to create a binder using the damaged one as a pattern. 

Sounds like you have the second problem. When the brakes are released the springy housing is moving the brake hanger causing you to have too much slack in the system. The fix is is to get the cable housing under control so that it cannot flex and move around. The housing may be a little too long or not anchored the the frame properly. You can try fixing the brake housing to the frame or seat post with a zip tie to hold it in place. A zip tie around the seat tube end if the hanger to make the housing enter into it straight might work also. Ideally, there should be a little tension in the brake cable when the lever is released so that the housing is held in line. This tension is supplied by the return springs of the calipers. Check the calipers to see if the return spring force is too weak. There are typically adjustment screws on the calipers or a array of holes on the brake bosses that the end of the spring fits into for adjusting spring tension. Update after reply from OP in comment: 'I have shifter-type compressionless housing ...' Shifter cable housing should NOT be used for brakes. The forces generated by brakes are much higher than those generated by shifters and derailleurs and the housing may fail. See this answer. 

Covering it in solvent. That probably is not good for whatever finish the frame has. You might as well cover it in mineral spirits. Leaving a light coating on oil all over the frame - which you obviously do not want. 

I have to say this first: riding a bike when part of the brake system is not assembled as it is supposed to be is potentially dangerous. The brakes may seem to work fine but if the housing or adjusters are not seated properly they may come adrift and leave you with a non functioning brake. Brake and shifter barrel adjusters are necessary to fine tune caliper engagement and shift indexing. I do not recommend removing them as one day you will wish they were there. Backing a barrel adjuster all the way out will not strip the threads as there is no thread engagement therefore no damage to the threads. They can be a pain to get back in though. If you disengage the cable at the caliper temporarily so there is no tension in the cable it may be easier to screw them back in. Alternatively have a local bike repair shop sort it out. You may also want to check out some online resources on proper brake adjustment. Park tool has a particularly good set of videos on their YouTube channel. 

Cable housing are supposed to be cut with a proper cable and housing cutter tool, such as the Park Tool Company CN-10. These tools have a shearing action and curved blades that help prevent the housing being crushed. Pliers have blades that meet rather than shearing past each other thus must crush the housing before they cut it. I'm pretty sure that any similarly shaped cutter would work though. I've cut cable housing with a Dremel and an abrasive cut-off wheel. This tends to melt the inner lining though, requiring some clean up with a small drill bit. 

Buy a pre-built wheel of a known quality brand such as Mavic or DT Swiss. Use an online custom wheel site such as wheelbuilder.com. Pick from one of their hub-rim-spokes options. You can contact them and see what they recommend. Work with your local bike shop, they will be able to recommend some specific options also. 

As you may know kinetic energy is ½mv² where m is mass, v is velocity. You have more mass on the bike with the addition of motor and batteries. A bigger concern is that energy increases with velocity squared. For 100 Kgs of bike, motor, batteries and rider: 

You are correct that there should be some space between the lever and handlebar when the brakes are fully applied. I think I can assume that you have set up the calipers so that the pads are the correct distance from the wheel rim - a few millimeters (or a bit more if your wheels are a little out of true), as you say that adjusting the cable causes the pads to rub on the rim. If the lever hits the handlebar there must be excess slack in the cable somewhere. You say that adjusting the cable at the caliper or using the barrel adjuster does not improve the lever travel. If you pull the lever, does the caliper move immediately, or if there cable slack being taken up before the caliper moves? I'm guessing that something is binding in the cable run somewhere causing the caliper arms to retract to a certain point, but there is still slack cable between the caliper and lever. You can check the cable run between the lever and caliper, ensure the housing is properly seated, unhook the caliper and check the cable runs smoothly in the housing. Apply tension to the cable by gripping it with some pliers and check the lever pulls it immediately. You could also choose to replace the cable and housing, which is a common thing to do when tuning up a bike. You can check if you have set the brakes up properly be checking out some online resources. Park Tool Company has some great brake adjustment videos on their YouTube channel. Here is the V-brake video. Update based on new info in comments: The problem seems to be: one caliper arm is retracting less that the other and then rubs on the rim. You then find you need to slacken off the cable to stop that non-retracted arm from rubbing. The solution is, of course, to fix the non retracting caliper arm. It's a common problem for the V-brake arms to get sticky and not retract symmetrically. 

Shimano chains are joined with a special pin that is driven through with a chain tool. SRAM chains come with a PowerLink or PowerLock. I don't know if all Shimano or SRAM chains do but many have the maker and model stamped on the outer plates. SRAM 9 speed and below use reusable PowerLinks, 10 speed and above use one-time-use PowerLocks. Shimano and SRAM chains are interchangeable, as are KMC and other aftermarket brands. If your newly installed chain 'fell apart', you may not have joined it correctly. 

The min and max pressures for a tire are written on its sidewalls. Funny that the Bontrager table does not have an entry for AW1 Hard-Case Lite 700x32c, however, I notice that the pressures for AW1 Hard Case and AW2 Hard Case Lite for each of 20, 23 and 28 mm sizes are the same, so you should be safe with the specified pressure for the AW2 tire: 55-100 psi, 3.8-6.9 bar. 

Flangeless front hub shells. Standard OLD for front hubs is 100mm - which these would be with bearings and axle installed. The array of holes at each end are for attaching spokes. 

. There are other guides available. These are easy enough to find by googling. To address your specific problem: because you say you feel excessive resistance at the shift lever, I would initially check that there is no impediment to the free movement of the shift cable and derailleur. There may be a problem in the cabling, at the rear derailleur, or in the shifter itself. The derailleur auto upshifting (to smaller sprockets) after downshifting (to larger sprockets) may indicate a bigger problem with the shifter. If the chain is only upshifting one sprocket it may be that derailleur is not moving the chain far enough and the chain is falling down to the next smaller sprocket. If the derailleur auto-shifts several sprockets I would suspect that there is a problem with the shifter and it is not holding on to the shift cable properly. Things you can do to diagnose the problem: 

Switching to a clutch rear derailleur will help retain the chain. It's hard to say whether a 1x drivetrain would work better. Don't forget that with your 2x you have the front derailleur helping to keep the chain on the rings. 

'27.5' refers to the rim diameter, It is the same diameter as '650b' or ISO 584. The inch measurement tends to be used for MTB wheels, '650b' for road wheels. You obviously have to fit tires for the correct rim diameter. '2.8' is the approximate tire width when mounted on a suitable width rim. The inner width of your rims (distance between flanges) determines what range of tire width you can use. There are a few tables available on the internet that give general tire width ranges for different inner rim widths, but none I found cover the plus size range. You can probably use tires that are narrower than 2.8". To make sure, measure the inner width of your rims in millimeters (a ruler is accurate enough), You should be able to find the rim width range that any model of tire is compatible with on the manufacturer's website. An approximate rule for minimum tire width is no narrower than the outer width of the rim, preferably a little wider. 

Yes, that is possible. Apart from adjustments to the front derailleur in @Carel's answer, you will have to purchase some shorter single chainring bolts as your double chainring bolts will be too long. 

I'm reasonable sure the Vero Cranks were square taper, which means you have a threaded bottom bracket shell. I don't know for sure that a threaded bracket to 386 EVO adapter exists. 

Before suspension forks became commonplace, all mountain bikes were designed for a rigid fork. Fork length was sufficient to give good clearance between the crown and tire. Suspension forks need to be longer than the minimum length rigid fork as obviously they need to compress without the tire hitting the crown. As suspension forks became available, frame manufacturers designed frames with higher headtubes to accommodate the longer suspension forks. Over the last few decades common fork travel length has gone from 20mm to over 150mm, and headtube height has increased accordingly. If you look at modern frames and frames from around 1990 it's easy to see how frame geometry has evolved. So, one can say that a frame with a moderate to large headtube to axle distance is designed for a suspension fork. Modern mountain bike frames are designed for suspension forks with a specific travel and headtube to axle distance that results in a desired head tube angle. XC bikes have less travel and shorter headtube to axle distance, downhill bikes have more travel and hence longer headtube to axle distance. There are still bike frames that are designed for a shorter rigid fork: many fat bikes and minimalist rigid single speeds for instance. I believe the term 'suspension corrected' comes from the early days of suspension forks when the previously typical rigid fork length used was shorter than contemporary suspension fork length. To replace a suspension fork with a rigid one, a longer 'suspension corrected' fork was needed to preserve head tube angle. Note that modern bike suspension is designed to 'sag' slightly with a rider on the bike. A replacement rigid fork needs to be the same effective head tube to axle length as the'sagged' suspension fork, i.e. slightly shorter than the uncompressed length. What you really want to find out is what headtube to axle length and head tube angle a given frame was intended to have. If you know the brand, model and year, do some searching on the web, you might be able to find out what model fork it originally came with and what the length of that fork was. If you know the intended use of the frame (XC, enduro etc,) you can look up common head tube angles and use geometry to estimate the headtube to axle length. 

Assuming you are asking about the design and proportions of the bicycle frame which affects steering and handling; and the relative position of crank, seat and handlebars... There is no 'good' or 'bad' geometry, only geometry suitable for a specific purpose. To give an extreme example: a tri-bike geometry would be a disaster for down hill mountain bike (and vice versa). 

For derailleur gear equipped bicycles you just need to get a chain compatible with the number of gears ('speeds') on the rear sprocket cassette. More gears require a chain with a narrower outer width because the sprockets are closer together. Generally speaking derailleur chains are available in 6, 7 and 8 speeds; 9 speeds; 10 speeds and 11 speeds. Just for completeness and to address the measurements on your current chain: 

To answer the question as asked: You'll have a Shimano Nexus gear hub, so you need a sprocket compatible with that. (Any reasonably competent mechanic should have been able to tell you that!) Sheldon Brown has a page on Nexus and Affine geared hubs which includes info on sprockets: $URL$ You should be able to find Nexus sprockets at most major online bike component retailers. E.g., at Universal Cycles: $URL$ To be sure about what you are buying, I think you will have to get the wheel off to look at the existing sprocket to compare with images of new sprockets at inline retailer pages. Don't be too scared of getting the wheel off, it's a straightforward process. Park Tool has a great YouTube video detailing the process of replacing a single speed chain which includes removing and re-installing the wheel: 

There is a number of things that can result in bicycle gears 'auto shifting'. The gear indexing could be out of adjustment, so that the chain is either getting caught by the next biggest sprocket causing a down-shift, or falling off onto the next smallest sprocket causing an up-shift. If the indexing is off enough to cause auto-shifting the chain would be making a lot of noise though. Cables and housings may be dirty, worn or loose which causes the input at the shifter to not appear accurately at the derailleur. There are many articles and YouTube videos available that will teach you bike mechanics (my personal favorites are from Park Tool). However, if you are not experienced with bike mechanics you will probably be best taking your bike to a good local repair shop. Ask the tech to explain what their diagnosis is and their recommended fix. Update based on extra info: New bike with ~200m very likely needs a post break-in tune up including adjustment of the gear indexing to account for cable stretch. Bike shops in the US at least (the extent of my personal experience) commonly do this for free,