There was a Cricinfo article which discussed the number of balls in an over, and which suggested (emphasis added): 

However, it has to be said that if playing with a cricket ball, it would be extremely unwise not to wear shoes - even a relatively slow delivery could cause serious damage to one's feet. It would also reduce one's effectiveness as a fielder, since one would not be able to use them to stop even moderately-struck shots. In your situation, the tournament organiser likely considers he/she has a duty of care to all players in the competition. This would include wearing appropriate protective equipment - pads, abdominal protectors, gloves, etc. - and at the very least, shoes. I don't think you can reasonably expect him/her to allow you to participate in the tournament without shoes, unless you sign a disclaimer that absolves him/her from all responsibility for what happens to you. Even then I would not be hopeful. If you wish to progress as a cricketer, you'll need to learn to wear shoes whilst playing. 

Forget about a run-up. Get them to stand side-on on the crease. For now, their bowling action can consist of just rocking back on their back foot, followed by rocking onto their front foot to release the ball. Tell them to look intently at where they want the ball to go - it's probably easier to get them to look at the stumps rather than a point on the pitch, at this stage. Demonstrate it as one smooth continuous action, rather than lots of bits joined together. Remember simplicity. You don't want them to have to keep thinking "what bit do I have to do now?" 

Duckworth-Lewis can be applied at any stage: the tables allow for the calculation of the par score after each ball, so a team could theoretically win on D/L after just one ball of their innings. However, in order to prevent teams winning on the basis of such a small "sample size", to borrow a statistical term (for instance, winning on the strength of hitting the first ball of the innings for 6), playing regulations (such as in international cricket) specify that a minimum number of overs must have been completed in each innings for a result to be decided. As @Orangecrush states, in 50-over ODIs this is set at a 20-over minimum, and in 20-over T20Is at 5 overs. As the ICC Playing Conditions state, in section 12.4.2: 

It means that the ball, when hit along the ground, will travel quickly. The "speed" of an outfield can be affected by two major factors: 

In the wake of the Trent Bridge Test of 2013, a match noted for a particularly high number of controversial umpiring decisions, the ICC observed that the number of correct decisions had increased from 90.3% to 95.8% through use of the DRS. Their press release declared: 

No, age-group teams up to U19 cannot play first-class cricket. This is clearly stated in the document ICC Classification of Official Cricket, on page 3, in the Notes to the First-class Matches section: 

Whether the two forms can co-exist remains to be seen. On the one hand, several players have demonstrated that it is possible to perform well in both forms, introducing T20 versatility into their Test game. On the other hand, some are concerned that young players' focus on T20 hurts their development of the qualities, such as watchfulness, needed for Test cricket. 

Despite much confusion amongst the media, the players, and the public, the actual principle is relatively simple. When an interruption causes one team to have less resources available than the other team, the target is proportionally adjusted in the ratio of the resources available to each team. For instance, if an interruption reduces the resources of the side batting second (Team 2) by 50% in comparison to Team 1's resources, the target would be reduced by 50%. As you correctly mentioned, resources are composed of both wickets and overs. The D/L method does not add or subtract wickets or overs; it simply calculates what the target should be, given those resources. While the principle is simple, it raises plenty of questions for discussion. I would strongly recommend reading the FAQ linked above, as they clarify many common queries. Test Matches do not use the Duckworth-Lewis method because the number of overs per innings is not defined in a Test Match. Furthermore, a draw is a perfectly acceptable result in a Test Match. 

On a free hit, the batsman is not out even if the ball hits the stumps. Therefore, the ball is not dead, and the batsmen can run although the striker has been bowled. The batting side would then win, since they have completed the one run they need to overhaul the fielding side's target. 

The only instance where the batsman may strike it again legally is when he does so solely to protect his wicket, as described by Law 34.3: 

Gloucestershire County Cricket Club, one of the oldest first-class counties, have never won the County Championship (arguably the foremost domestic cricket competition in England and Wales) since the competition started in 1890, meaning that as of 2014 they have gone 124 years without winning it. 

The first tri-series Test tournament was held in England in 1912, between England, Australia, and South Africa, and was won by England. The first tri-series ODI tournament was held in Australia in 1979, between Australia, West Indies, and England, and was won by West Indies. There appears to have only been one T20 tri-series (all the other tournaments in the list had more than three teams) so far, held in 2010 between Kenya, Uganda, and Scotland, and the hosts Kenya were the victors. 

However, according to Law 2.5 (Fielder absent or leaving the field), she/he may not return without the consent of the umpire (which will be given as soon as possible). If she/he does so and touches the ball while in play, the umpire will award penalty runs under Law 2.6 (Player returning without permission): 

Neither party has inherent right of way. The bowler is not obliged to change his/her path to avoid the batsman and the same is true for the batsman. In the situations you describe, the relevant Laws would be Law 37.3 Obstructing a ball from being caught, which comes under the obstructing the field mode of dismissal. 

Wides and no-balls are known as bowling extras and are counted against the bowler (think of the bowler being at fault for them), and therefore an over that includes any bowling extras cannot be a maiden over. Byes and leg-byes are, by contrast, known as fielding extras (think of the fielders being at fault - the wicketkeeper failing to take the ball, for instance) and do not count against the bowler, so a maiden over may include byes and leg-byes. A maiden over, in short, is an over containing neither any runs off the bat nor any bowling extras (wides and no-balls). Tom Smith's Umpiring and Scoring (one of the foremost, possibly the foremost, reference books on umpiring and scoring in cricket) has this to say: 

A no-ball will not be called if a fielder leaves the field or fails to takes the field. Law 2.1 (Substitutes and runners) specifically states that a fielder may leave the field, thereby leaving fewer than 11 fielders on the field: 

The batsman that is out of his ground has not had his wicket put down, therefore he is not out. The batsman that has had his wicket put down is in his ground, therefore he is also not out. 

For reference, the completion of a run does not make the ball dead. None of the events in Law 23.1(a) had occurred, and neither had both sides "ceased to regard it as in play", as stated by Law 23.1(b). 

The BCCI's position The BCCI's opposition to the Decision Review System has been linked to three main factors. 1) The technology is not 100% accurate BCCI president N Srinivasan said in December 2012: 

Most achievements in cricket depend to some extent on other players. Runs scored depends on the bowler faced, and wickets taken depends on the efforts of the fielders. Therefore it's reasonable to use catches taken and stumpings made to evaluate wicketkeepers. In addition, byes conceded is a useful measure: lower is better.