Given the broad nature of the question, what follows is more of a (roughly chronological) potted history than a comprehensive account of dishwashing before detergents became widely available. All highlighting is mine. SHORT ANSWER Among other things: sand, fats, ash, alkaline salts, cuttlefish bone, horsetail, mare's tail, soapwort, hay mixed with ash, running water, hot water, wire scrubbers, cloth, baking soda and sugar sand (maple sap debris). Note that, in medieval Europe at least, cutlery was limited to a spoon and a knife, the knife being a personal item which was often just wiped clean after meals. Also, the 'plate' used may have been a trencher made of bread which was consumed after everything else had been eaten. 

The use elongated or long dice has been noted for a number of cultures and they seem to have been associated with particular games over many centuries. Archer St. Clair in Carving as Craft notes that these 

Although it is highly unlikely that we will ever know the true cause of Titus’ death, it would seem that, on balance, it was most likely a natural one. We should beware of taking ancient sources too literally. The Jewish Encyclopedia states that almost all the accounts of Titus in rabbinical literature are ‘purely legendary’. At the same time, Roman sources are heavily biased against Domitian, though we cannot totally discount the possibility that Titus’ younger brother helped him into his grave a little quicker than might otherwise have been the case. Other sources: The Oxford Dictionary of the Classical World Domitian's Rise to Power by Kathleen D Toohey A History Of The Roman World From 30 BC To AD 138 by E. T. Salmon 

Both the methods used and the range of crimes 'meriting' execution changed under the Nazis. Dark History says: 

Photograph of an amputation on April 18, 1847 during the Mexican-American War of Sergeant Antonio Bustos by Belgian surgeon Pedro Vander Linden (who is holding the leg) (via Wikimedia) This photo may well also be the first one of an amputation. Other photographs of the Mexican American war can be found here, all using daguerreotype photography. Maybe the next 'major historical event' to photographed was the Great Exhibition in London in 1851. The picture below used a different photographic process (Calotype). 

Source: Suetonius' Lives of the Twelve Caesars' (trans: H. M. Bird) 2. A fever or disease, possibly the same as the one afflicting Rome at the time. Anthony Everitt, in Augustus: The Life of Rome’s First Emperor notes that 

The photo below was found among some other WWI photos. It seems to be from a book (rather than an original photo) and has been (firmly) glued onto a piece of board (so impossible to see any text on the other side which might help with identifying the uniforms). I'm mostly interested in the two officers bottom left and bottom right. 

SHORT ANSWER It's hard to tell as there is no context for the picture (e.g. is there text above or next to it?). The artist may not have intended any particular meaning, but I've listed some possibilities at the end of the long answer. LONG ANSWER There are many such strange illustrations in medieval manuscripts, especially in the margins (known as marginalia). In many (maybe most) cases we simply don't know what they mean, or even if they were supposed to mean anything at all. This from Collectors Weekly: 

Source: Hunt Janin & Ursula Carlson, 'Mercenaries in Medieval and Renaissance Europe' If one accepts El Cid (c.1043-1099) as a knight (he was certainly a noble and and C.M. Yonge claims that he was knighted by King Ferdinand I of Leon), then he would be another example: 

“A British view in 1774 of how authority was being challenged in Massachusetts. Before a “liberty tree” on which the Stamp Act placard is tacked upside down, a tarred-and-feathered Tory is being forced to drink taxed tea while in the harbour the Boston Tea Party goes on. A gibbet hangs from the liberty tree.” Source: Stanley Weintraub, Iron Tears The above image also illustrates how the Boston Tea Party was commented on along with other issues happening around the time, rather than in isolation. The tarring refers to the aftermath of an altercation involving a British customs officer, John Malcolm, in January 1774. This next British print makes no direct mention of the Tea Party but is clearly a result of it: 

On the international stage, maintaining good relations with the United States was seen as essential to the country’s long-term security. Ömer Aslan, in The United States and Military Coups in Turkey and Pakistan, notes that 

Other sources: Exchange of Notes between the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the French Republic extending the Agreement of February 14, 1961, to British Visitor's Passports issued in the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man (pdf file) Traités et accords de la France 

Having taken the crusader’s vow and raised an army of thousands, why did Stephen II of Blois forsake the enormous prestige associated with crusading and risk shame and accusations of cowardice by abandoning the First Crusade? Then there is also the fact that the cost of crusading was enormous as crusaders bore most (if not all) of the military and other expenses. Why did he basically throw everything away by leaving? Stephen was apparently close to his wife Adele, daughter of William the Conqueror and sister of Henry I of England, but even she felt he had not fulfilled his vow. Perhaps regretting what he had done, Stephen did later go on another crusade and was killed in the Holy Land in 1102. None of the online sources I’ve seen give a clear reason, but I can think of a number of possible ones: 

CAPPADOCIA, TURKEY The underground city of Derinkuyu, which may have housed as many as 20,000 people, is perhaps the most obvious example of an underground river being made use of. When exactly it was built is uncertain but it may have been before 1200 BC. Wikipedia, though, citing the Turkish Department of Culture, gives dates of 8th to 7th centuries BC. The city needed water like any other city and had wells supplied by an underground river. 

Some of the evidence of this comes from surviving inventories of peasants' homes. One of these, that of Richard Sclatter of Worcestershire lists bed, chair, tressle table, benches and chests in 1472 (note 'chair' is singular). There seems to have been only a small change over the next hundred years or so: 

Perhaps one reason for the reluctance of many professional historians to state without reservations that entrance was free is that there were many events at the Colosseum, most of which we have no specific information on. Another reason may be that ancient sources don’t explicitly state ‘entrance to the Colosseum is free’ (perhaps because it was taken for granted). Suetonius, though, comes pretty close (referring to Titus): 

(from Reuters, 17 Oct 2007) Of US involvement in the 1987 coup, either direct or indirect, there is little evidence. Sankara’s close ties with Qaddafi amounted to little more than rhetoric, a fact which would not have gone unnoticed by the CIA; in any case, coup leader Compaore was also close to Qaddafi. Also, the US had long sought to weaken French interests in the region so any attempt to remove an anti-western president would have to have been balanced against the fact that the charismatic Sankara was threatening those French interests. Although Blaise Compaore has long denied being involved in the killing of Thomas, Prince Johnson (currently a senator in Liberia) has implicated himself, former Liberian President Charles Taylor and Compaore in the coup. Johnson was part of a Taylor-led group which arrived in Burkina Faso to plot the overthrow of the Liberian president Samuel Doe. In 2008, in an interview given to AFP and Radio France International, Johnson said: 

In the years following his father Yisugei’s murder, Temujin and his family had endured much hardship. His mother Oelun 

"Mummified head of Seqenenre depicting his battlewounds" The mummy can be seen in the Egyptian Museum in Cairo. The mummy of one of Seqenenre's sons and successors, Ahmose I (died about 1524 BC), has also been positively identified. 

It is unclear what period this statement refers to (and there is no citation), but in the next paragraph it says 

Nothing more is heard of either Hunold or his wife, according to T. Hodgkin in 'The Life of Charlemagne'. Other sources: Rosamond McKitterick, 'Charlemagne: The Formation of a European Identity' Dale Evva Gelfand, 'Charlemagne' $URL$ 

Source: Heather Platt So why did Brahms move to Vienna? The excerpts below give a fairly clear picture. First, this from Britannica: 

"Fleet of triremes made up of photographs of the modern full-sized replica Olympias" Source: $URL$ HELLENISTIC PERIOD For the Hellenistic period we know much less but there is the Syracusia which 

General Jean-Charles Pichegru' defection to the Royalist cause appears to have been down to disillusion with the republican movement, coupled with a hefty incentive. Pichegru, though, favoured a constitutional monarchy rather than a return to an absolutist one. 

There were other sources of information for Germans not inclined to tune in to the BBC. Johnson & Reuband state that information on the mass murder of Jews