Here is an example provoked by Anton's Cayley graph reformulation. I thought of this example before, but for some reason I miscounted. To review: You can obtain a family of examples for Anton's question by looking at the Cayley graph of a presented finite group $G$ with cubic relators. (And quadratic relators, if you want to make some of the elements involutions.) The question is how large $\text{diam}(G)$ can be as a function of $|G|$. Up to a constant factor, it does not matter whether the relators are cubic or bounded in length by any fixed $k$. In Anton's new posting, he argues that this Cayley graph construction is actually equivalent to all examples, up to a constant factor. For example, suppose that $G = S_n$ in the Coxeter presentation. Then the relators all have length 2, 4, and 6. It is well known that the length of the longest word is $n(n-1)/2$. This violates the proposed upper bound $\log |G|$. 

Meanwhile, the GNU Scientific Library does have elliptic function routines. If you have elliptic functions, then again, your integral is not all that simple, but it is elementary. I don't know whether GSL or equivalent is available for your software problem. If it is, then an elliptic function formula is probably by far the fastest (for the computer, not necessarily for you). 

Our department has had a lot of discussions about resources. I rather like the following ideas and good practices that have been implemented or proposed here: 

The most popular resource among the students at the MathPath summer camp seems to be the web site Art of Problem Solving. (I also highly recommend summer camps such as MathPath, although that particular one is for ages 11-14. In my impression, the four most venerated choices at the high school level are MathCamp, Promys, Ross, and Hampshire. It may be challenging to get into these; the AMS maintains an extended list.) 

I have thought about this question before, but at the moment I can't remember links or references. Nonetheless, many years ago I thought of a sketch of an argument that should eventually work to prove that it's always possible. Namely, start with any smooth embedding of $S$ into $\mathbb{R}^3$. This surface has some conformal structure, and any other conformal structure is described by an ellipse field well-defined up to a scale. Then it is intuitive that that you can match the ellipse field by "wrinkling" $S$, in other words by making $S$ locally wavy in the long direction of the ellipses. More rigorously, $S$ is replaced by a graph of a function that is locally sinusoidal. You don't even have to match it exactly; approximations are good enough if you can encircle the desired conformal structure in Teichmuller space. There is a similar trick for a different purpose in the video "Outside In". Of course it's messy to make all of the required transitions between the patches of wrinkles on the surface. Moreover the surface is not flat, only flat to first order, and a function cannot be graphed rectilinearly, only approximately so. I think that Garsia's paper uses the same idea or a similar idea, but he slogs through all of the approximations to make it work. 

My view of virtual knot theory: An R-matrix is a tensor with four indices that, in a natural sense, satisfies the Reidmeister relations. Actually it is enough to consider the third Reidemeister relation, and assume that the R-matrix has an inverse. This definition is motivated by the problem of constructing link invariants: Any link can then be read as a word in R matrices, and the value of this word for a given R-matrix is a link invariant. But now you could ask, what are all possible words in an R-matrix, and when are two words symbolically equivalent? (This is a possibly stricter condition than being equal for a particular R-matrix or even all R-matrices.) It's clear that if two words come from two presentations of a link, then they are symbolically equivalent. However, there are also words that don't come from links. By definition, an arbitrary R-matrix word is a virtual link or, if it has free indices, a virtual tangle. So the question of classifying virtual links or tangles is the "word problem" for R-matrices. My theorem gives a solution to the word problem. I show that every virtual link has a unique minimum-genus representation as a link in a thickened surface. The interpretation as a link in a surface is not really due to me. Rather, the new result is the uniqueness theorem. It yields an algorithm to determine when R-matrix words are symbolically equivalent. But, as with word problems for groups, you can always imagine an R-matrix that satisfies extra relations, and ask the question again. One interesting case is Louis Kauffman's "virtualization" move. My solution doesn't work with this extra move. It is an interesting open problem, again due to Lou, whether there are two inequivalent links that are equivalent as virtual links together with the virtualization move. 

There are a bunch of different notions of length/depth in ring theory: Projective length, Artinian length, local depth, etc. If we take length to mean Artinian length, then Charles is right: The Artinian length of a finite-dimensional commutative algebra is just its dimension. Every such algebra is a direct sum of local ones, and you can chip away at each local summand of the ring from the bottom end, one dimension at a time. The local algebras that have a description that looks as nice as $\mathbb{F}[x]/(x^n)$ are the toric ones. These local algebras are $\mathbb{F}[\vec{x}]$ divided by an ideal generated by monomials and a basis of monomials. You can make a diagram of the exponents of the monomials that aren't killed by the ideal. If the ring has $n$ generators, then the diagram is a stable stack of blocks in the $n$-dimensional orthant. For example, the algebra $\mathbb{F}[x,y]/(x^3,x^2y,y^3)$ has a basis of seven monomials: 1, $x$, $x^2$, $y$, $xy$, $y^2$, $xy^2$. The diagram of these monomials looks like this: 

In any of these cases you could ask whether the closed convex hull of a compact set is compact. I thought at first that the answer might already be no in the construction 1. The hope was that you could make a convex hull that includes $L^2(A,R)$ for some small region $R \subset X$. If that happens, then it is not compact. But I am not sure that it does happen. 

The question is not phrased to our taste at mathoverflow, but the user has a point that this particular Wikipedia page is under-developed. As David Speyer suggests, it is a very different problem for very large primes than for small ones. For small primes the simplest algorithms described in Wikipedia are probably the most appropriate. If the question is instead about the theoretical time complexity, see this review article. 

Barbanchon proved that 3-colorability of planar graphs is NP-complete and the number of 3-colorings of a planar graph is parsimoniously #P-complete after dividing by 6. This is a really nice hardness result that immediately implies a sparseness result, since the average valence of any planar graph is less than 6. Although I do not really know, I suspect that his construction can yield some uniform upper bound on the valence of all vertices. If you just want NP-hardness and bounded valence, it's easier than planarity. The standard method to show that 3-colorability is NP-hard is to first show that 3-coloring extension is NP-hard by replacing 3-SAT clauses or even logic gates with partially colored subgraph gadgets. In a typical scheme, if the colors are red, green, and blue, red and blue represent 0 and 1 in a Boolean circuit, while green is the "control" color. As a final step, all of the precolored vertices are identified together into a complete graph on 3 vertices (a triangle) which is called the palette. The three colors of the palette are arbitrary and are logically called "red", "green", and "blue"; and then coloring the rest of the graph can be equivalent to any coloring extension problem. It is not hard to generalize this to $k$-coloring with larger $k$: You have a larger palette, and you can force all of the uncolored vertices of the graph to be (notional) red, green, and blue and not really use the other colors. Circuit satisfiability is easily NP-hard for circuits with bounded valence. The valence is automatically bounded except for fanout, and you can make the fanout at most 2 locally with a cheap step such as inserting NOT gates between partial fanouts. So, the only remaining issue is that the valence is very high at the palette itself. It is not hard to replicate the palette with a bounded-valence gadget and then spread out the use of the palette across many copies. Of course, as John Machacek points out, if you have a sufficiently severe bound on valence, then a coloring must exist or can be found in polynomial time, e.g., by the greedy algorithm in the baby Brooks theorem. (The baby Brooks theorem say that the chromatic number is at most the max valence plus 1; the more serious theorem reduces the upper bound by 1 except in the case of a complete graph or an odd cycle.) 

Here is a quote from the translated interview, with a little emphasis from me: "It was Størmer that presented it to the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters in Oslo, of course. As opponent Harald Bohr was the obvious choice because there was nobody in Norway that had any real competence in that field." Elsewhere in the interview, Selberg says, "There were others that were helpful in their way, my brother Henrik and Professor Størmer, in particular." He also talks about reading Størmer's lecture notes when he was in grade school, and meeting him when he first came to Oslo as an undergraduate. It is not clear whether the University of Oslo formally required an "advisor". But we can conclude this from the interview: On the one hand, Størmer was Selberg's undergraduate mentor and the communicator of his PhD thesis. On the other hand, by the time Selberg filed his PhD thesis, he was really an independent mathematician with several great publications, with no one else working in his field in Norway. Selberg is not very charitable on this point. The arrangement with Bohr was more striking than Will's comment suggests. Bohr would ideally have come to Oslo for the thesis defense, but since he couldn't, he received Selberg's report in absentia in Sweden, and "Størmer read Harald Bohr's report." It's clear enough that Bohr wasn't Selberg's advisor either. Selberg generally has more to say in the interview about what he read than who he met. The other guy on Selberg's committee was the Skolem, who as Selberg points out worked in logic rather than number theory. In fact, I only found evidence of one other well-known mathematician in Oslo in that period, Heegaard. But Heegaard retired in 1941, and decades earlier he had left Copenhagen in a huff because they had hired Harald Bohr! So probably the right answer is that Størmer was Selberg's nominal advisor, if he had one, but he was actually self-advised as a graduate student. Selberg gives little room for other possibilities in the interview. 

One of the standard proofs of Poincaré duality, at least for those manifolds that have handle decompositions, provides a reason for some of these naturality properties. Every piecewise linear manifold, or every smooth manifold, has a handle decomposition, and many but not all topological manifolds also do. (Amazingly enough, the only exceptions are in 4 dimensions.) A handle decomposition gives rise to two different CW cellulations on the manifold, one using cores and the other using co-cores. Then this proof of Poincaré duality posits that the CW chain complex of one cellulation is identical to the CW cochain complex of the other cellulation. You can extend this coincidence of chain complexes to both of your examples, the Mayer-Vietoris sequence and the exact sequence of a pair. Obtaining identical chain complexes also gives you other information, for instance that the Bockstein maps are the same. 

Despite the popularity of this question, the only good answer that it can ever have is to point to the vast literature of hard sphere interactions. If you go to Google scholar and ask for "hard sphere interaction" with quotes, then you will see thousands of papers, mostly in physics but some in dynamical systems. Also "lorentz gas", again with quotes, matches thousands of papers. Of course you can't expect very many explicit orbit results that you sometimes get for one circle. Much of the rigorous attention is concerned with proving ergodicity without intermediate conjectures. This is still apparently open in many cases in which you would expect it to be true. Anyway, the literature is so vast that I don't think that you can reasonably expect a survey of it as an MO answer. 

Also, I don't know a lot about the subfactor end of this, but I would suppose that $(G,\omega)$ does give you a subfactor. I'm not sure how much that by itself says about Morita equivalence though. 

I don't know that you can make a good distinction between the Riemann uniformization theorem, and the theorem that a surface has a constant-curvature metric in the same conformal class. Each of these results is a relatively easy corollary of the other one, and you can view them as the same theorem. The old methods of Riemann and Weierstrass give you one difficult proof of the uniformization theorem. Ricci flow is another, beautiful proof of the uniformization theorem. I find it conceptually easier, but it's still a formidable proof. The Ricci flow proof requires various non-trivial results in differential geometry and parabolic PDEs. Your proof #2 is indeed a proof of a much simpler fact. I think that the main lesson of this proof is the great distance between the existence of a constant-curvature metric on a surface, and the bijection between all such metrics and conformal structures. 

First of all, the question is a small matter that only a journal editor should take seriously. There are much deeper reasons that a paper might be well written or poorly written. Even among the concerns at this level, it is more important to use concise, regular, correct grammar than to follow particular journal conventions. That said, in my opinion it's okay to say "above" and "below" to refer either to an equation, or more often to a paragraph of the paper. E.g., you might say "By the above discussion...". But it may be clearer to do something else for equations. If you just say "above", it may not be clear if it means immediately above (or previous) or something else; but if you say "immediately above", that's a bit strained. My rule is to say "this" equation if it is immediately previous, and otherwise to number the equation even if I only explicitly cite it once. If the equation is not explicitly cited, but is just part of the narrative, then like you I wouldn't number it. But there are authors who number every equation. For paragraphs, I sometimes say "above" and "below", if the cited paragraph is in the same section and subsection.