Update: One possible benefit of saturated fat is that it is less likely to degrade. You do have to be careful about how you cook and store polyunsaturated oils, because oxidized polyunsaturated oil is associated with health risks (e.g. high-temperature frying can degrade canola oil). However, monounsaturated fats also make olive oil more stable, so when doing high-temperature frying it's hard to say whether you should follow the prevailing advice and go for an oil high in monounsaturated fatty acids (e.g. avocado oil), or if you should embrace recent research that indicates saturated fat is no worse than monounsaturated fat, and grab some butter. 

Your muscles can only hold so much creatine. Many dosage strategies will get you to that maximum level, but some--including creatine loading--will get you there faster than others. 

It sounds like metatarsalgia to me. If you check out the symptoms section that article they match what you described. Running and jumping increase the risk of metatarsalgia, and anything that increases impact on your feet makes it worse. The article lists wearing shoes without appropriate padding as a risk factor, so your vibram's lack of padding may be contributing to the problem. Being overweight also increases impact, which contributes to the problem (I don't know if this is an issue for you or not). I imagine that running on high-impact surfaces like concrete would also increase your risk (grass and asphalt have more give). Distributing more weight into the ball of the foot also makes it worse. According to Arnheim's Principles of Athletic Training: 

In a wide angle seated forward bend (pictured below), on the other hand, I do feel the stretch in my inner thighs, and it doesn't affect my outer hips. 

According to this article on Livestrong, your brain burns ~20% of your body's energy (pretty impressive, considering it only accounts for 2% of your body weight). Here's a more acedemic source to support this (Thanks matt!). However, according to Livestrong, this is not really due to thinking: 

Based on this position statement from the American College of Sports Medicine, the answer to both questions is yes. According to the ACSM, sets of 15-25 reps (using light loads) are most effective for increasing muscular endurance, and have also been shown to increase strength in moderately trained people. High rep sets may also supplement a conventional training programs: 

So it's not like your six pack morphs into a beer belly, but it's possible for some of the protein from your muscles to be converted into fat (perhaps elsewhere in the body), if you're eating more protein than you need. However, you can see how saying it's a "slow decrease of muscle through lack of use, and increase of fat through bad eating habits" is a pretty accurate simplification. 

It sounds like you've got a few things going on here, and I would suggest seeing a physiotherapist to get a personalized assessment and treatment prescription. What I'll say here is only a guess, so take it with a grain of salt. The calf muscles are major players in skipping. When they contract, you foot goes into a plantar-flexed position, helping to power your jump. Most of these muscles attach into the Achilles (a.k.a calcanear) tendon. After skipping, these muscles can become tight, putting tension into the Achilles tendon, which can cause pain and tendonitis. A tight Achilles tendon, in turn, puts you at high risk for plantar fasciitis. Plantar fasciitis causes pain right around where that plantar aponeurosis label on your diagram points (check out the plantar fasciitis link for more details about symptoms). Tight lower leg muscles can also cause shin splints, which cause pain in the tibialis anterior area. Shin splints can also be caused by more serious problems like stress fractures in one of the lower leg bones (skipping on concrete could do that), so if the pain persists, it's worth getting checked out. The knee pain could be due to a number of things (check out the stuff under the "Medial" header). It could be related to the impact on the concrete floor, or to overpronation (tendency to roll the foot inwards), which is also a risk factor for plantar fasciitis. Based on all these guesses, I would try the following: 

Got my hands on the full text of this article, and based on a study that compared different creatine dosing strategies, the author came to the following conclusion: 

For a decent estimate, figure out the total number of minutes you spent walking and the total amount you spent running, and multiply each by the appropriate number of Calories/minute (Here is a site with some speed vs. energy expenditure charts). If you don't know how fast you run/walk find a measured track (they're usually 200 or 400m) and time yourself. Many smartphones have good enough GPS to give you your running speed too. This calculation is a little bit of an oversimplification since your energy expenditure will remain elevated throughout the walking interval. If you're willing to put a bit of money into it, get a GPS/heart rate monitor. The good ones combine a number of factors to estimate your caloric expenditure. I have an older one, and although the GPS can't handle being under any tree cover whatsoever, it's an awesome training tool for running on the road. I think this next bit is negligible, but for completeness: even using a GPS/heart rate monitor wont factor in the calories you burn due to an elevated metabolism after exercising. This study compared the calories burned after running continuously or with high-intensity (anaerobic) intervals. The people who did the high-intensity intervals burned about twice as many extra calories in the nine hours post-exercise: 64 vs. 32 additional Calories. Since the subjects were all 21-year-old males, these numbers probably aren't generalizable to the general population, but they at least give you a ballpark idea. 

I pulled out my copy of of Arnheim's Principles of Athletic Training to see what it had to say. I'm only going to give you the stuff related to strengthening/stretching, but it also lists a bunch of other therapy stuff you should be going through concurrently--if you want to give yourself the best chances of recovery, you should see a physiotherapist for rehabilitation. First of all, it says that after a groin strain (which includes a psoas strain) exercise should be delayed until the groin is pain free, so make sure you don't get started up again too soon. Once you're ready for exercise, your program should focus on gradual restoration of the normal range of motion. It also says that until normal strength and flexibility are regained, you should wear a protective brace like one of these. Here are a couple stretches for the hip flexors.The lunge and assisted stretch will target the iliopsoas. The stretch with the ankle held will target the quads (the rectus femoris works with the iliopsoas as a hip flexor). When doing the lunge, try to keep your pelvis neutral; if you tilt it anteriorly (forward), it takes away from the stretch. If your other hip muscles have become tight due to lack of use, you should probably stretch those too. Exrx has quite a comprehensive set of stretches for the hip muscles (right column). The book has a sample injury management plan for a basketball player--not exactly the same as ultimate frisbee, but the running and direction changes are similar. Two to three weeks after the injury, they recommend doing resistance training once a day (10 reps, 3 sets). When doing normal weight training you're supposed to leave at least 48 hours between workouts, so once you become stronger and start increasing resistance, I would stop doing this daily. Always remember that it shouldn't hurt. A cable standing leg raise would work the iliopsoas (See ExRx for more options). Just like with stretching, you should target the other hip muscles as well--you probably haven't been using them as much due to the injury, and training the iliopsoas alone would create imbalances (same ExRx link as immediately above, just scroll). Other muscles that help the iliopsoas are the quads and abs, so you may want to focus on them as well. To get back into running, the book suggests you start in the pool: 

Since you work so much longer and harder than usual at tournaments, it's not surprising that you're feeling some soreness (see this Wikipedia article on delayed onset muscle soreness for more info), but I can think of a couple things that might help your calves and knees hold out a little better: 

Bound angle pose (pictured below) is supposed to stretch the inner thigh muscles and groin, but I can't even get to the point of feeling anything in in those areas because something in my outer hips is so tight it prevents me from getting my knees down toward the floor. 

I'd never heard of this before, but I did find other studies to back it up. This study from 2005 found that vinegar (and peanuts, if you're interested) decreases glycemic load (i.e. it slows down the entry of glucose into your system). This other 2005 study replicated these findings, and found that vinegar also increases feelings of fullness.This study from 2009 supports both of these findings (along with similar effects for cinnamon). An older study links these effects of vinegar to delayed gastric emptying (i.e. food sits around in your stomach for longer). So, it sounds like vinegar supports weight loss by keeping you full for longer. Because it lowers glycemic load, it can probably also help decrease risk for obesity-related disease like diabetes and heart disease. 

Summit Medical Group has some great rehabilitation resources. Here are some strengthening and stretching exercises they recommend for people with low back pain. 

Lactobacillus: Improves digestion, reduces symptoms of lactose intolerance, improves immunity via improved mucous secretion (PDF1) 

Baker's cysts often stem from other conditions, such as swelling due arthritis or knee injury. The prevailing opinion in the sources I've read is that there's no known way to prevent Baker's cysts from occurring; however, treating the underlying condition could help prevent cysts. For example, this site suggests that if the Bakers Cyst is due to knee arthritis, strengthening the muscles around the knee can help. According to the article, "the stronger the muscles get, the less force goes through the bones making it less likely that the knee will swell which therefore prevents another knee cyst from developing." If you do strengthening exercises that target the quads, hamstrings, and gastrocnemius (calf), you'll hit the main knee-strengthening muscles. ExRx is a good reference for finding exercises to target specific muscle groups. Rehabilitation should always be done under the guidance of a physiotherapist/doctor to target your specific needs though. Pushing the knee too hard or in the wrong way could just cause more inflammation and another cyst. 

Water provides quite a bit of resistance, so it helps you build strength. Three to six weeks after the injury, you may be able to get back into jogging: 

Saturated fat is essential for the body to function properly, but that doesn't mean you need to eat it. It is well-established that for most people, the only two fatty acids that are essential in the diet are omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids, which are both polyunsaturated fats. Your body can make all other types of fats from these as it needs them (saturated fats, cholesterol, etc.). Because saturated fat can be made by your body, there is no additional benefit to getting it from a dietary source instead. The Institute of Medicine of the National Academies supports the notion that there is no minimum requirement for saturated fat itself, however it also reports: 

The top hits on a Google search will tell you definitively: no, muscle does not turn into fat. It's sort of true, but it's not that simple. Your muscle is always being broken down and built back up, using amino acids as building blocks. When you're weight training, there's usually more synthesis than degradation going on, so your muscles grow. When you stop exercising, there's more degradation, so your muscles atrophy, releasing amino acids back into the blood stream. There are also amino acids from your diet in your bloodstream (dietary protein is broken down into amino acids before being absorbed). The amino acids in the bloodstream can have a couple different fates: 

Some components of fitness improve both your performance and health, and others only improve your performance (power training, agility training, etc.). I would say the most essential components of a fitness program are the ones that improve your health. These are generally listed as: 

So, the most basic exercise program should include some cardio, some resistance training , some stretching, and some attention to your diet. Cardio and resistance training contribute to weight loss. During cardio, you burn quite a few calories, and weight training causes an increase in muscle mass, which raises your metabolic rate so you burn more calories at rest. Different people have different opinions about which is more important for weight loss. I'd say diet is more important than either though. It can take over 20 minutes to burn 250 calories, but less than a minute to eat them all back. 

This website covers all the methods for accurate body fat measurement that I know of (well, besides autopsy, but I doubt you want to do that). The most accurate ones require expensive sophisticated equipment, so they're not really practical for the average person. The methods that I'd say are the most accessible are: 

Here's a visual of where I feel the tension. I realize the position of tension corresponds to the gluteus medius, but that muscle shouldn't be stretched in these positions... should it? 

I can't give you a definitive answer, but I dug up some info that might help you decide how concerned you should be. Joint heat may be a sign something is wrong. Heat is one of the cardinal signs of inflammation, so hot joints could indicate something in there is starting to act up. Inflammation could be exacerbated by high-impact cardio, especially if you're overweight (I don't know your BMI). You don't seem to have other typical signs of inflammation though (pain, redness, swelling, loss of function), so it's hard to say if you should be worried about it or not. I found this article that compares the heat distribution over normal to inflamed joints. Check out page 495 for images of the heat distribution of normal joints and page 496 for inflamed joints. You'll see that the centers of normal joints are actually cooler than surrounding tissues. However, you should take this with a grain of salt because the measurements were taken on subjects at rest, not after exercise, and heat distribution might change a bit when you work out. I couldn't find any research that directly compared to the temperature of muscles to that of joints during exercise, but from this thermogram from a study examining heat changes of the thigh after exercise, it looks like the area behind the knee does heat up quite a bit during exercise; however, this may not be representative of the state of entire knee joint. If you look at the images of from the study linked above, the healthy knee was much hotter behind the knee than in the actual joint. 

Wow, what a research project. I found a couple review papers on probiotics (PDF1, PDF2) that summarized the functions of the Lactobacillus and one of the Bifidobacterium strains you listed. A lot of the research in the first study is based on animal studies, but the second one bases its conclusions solely on human studies. Probiotic.org also has a lot of info, but their referencing is a little sketchy, so I only referenced them here if I had to. Bifidobacterium (previously known as L. bifidus) 

If you're doing power training (training to apply strength quickly; important for many sports), you should incorporate some faster-paced sets. These sets should have relatively low reps: 

That is, BCAA's may stimulate muscle growth. According to this article, timing is important: Leucine can stimulate muscle protein synthesis for a short period, but with chronic supplementation, the body quickly adapts, and muscle protein synthesis returns to normal after 2 hours. This well-cited blog post summarizing the latest research on BCAA's reports that BCAA supplementation has been shown to decrease muscle fatigue and soreness during running, as well as increasing the oxygen carrying capacity of the blood and decreasing muscle damage during athletic training. However, the author cites a study that reports that supplementing with casein and whey protein works better for resistance training than supplementing with BCAA's. It is worth noting that you don't have to get BCAA's from supplements, they occur naturally in protein-containing foods. In fact, amino acid supplementation has some major disadvantages: