eBay: $URL$ Open in Chrome and use 'Google Translate'. 'Fahrrad' is your keyword. P.S. Most German people speak better English than some English people do!!! 

There are two types of rear dropout, ones that are vertical and ones that are horizontal. With vertical dropouts you put the gears in top at the back and low at the front. Then you put the wheel in. Then you put some weight on the seat and fold the quick release lever over, applying whatever adjustment needed to get the quick-release tensioned correctly. The lever should fold up rather than down, forward or back as you don't want passing vegetation or other cycles to come into contact with the lever. Horizontal dropouts require pretty much the same procedure however you have the problem of making sure the wheel is equidistant to the chain-stays. This is best done by having good eyesight and holding the wheel in place whilst you fold over the quick-release lever. More generally you have a time penalty each and every time you lock/unlock your bike. You may want to consider investing in a cable loop to go through your D-lock and around the back wheel. These are affordable and need be not that bulky as someone is less inclined to saw through it to get your back wheel than they would be if they were able to get your whole bike. It will deter the casual rather than the determined thief. The other option is to get a set of replacement quick-release levers with Allen key or 'special key' heads. In the UK these need not set you back more than fifteen pounds for the simple Allen key versions: 

Now drill a vertical 1/4" hole through the top beam and the end of the vertical beam. The hole needs to end up intersecting the horizontal 3/4" hole in the vertical beam. Having the horizontal hole already in place gives you a target to aim for when you make this vertical hole. Using a long drill bit makes it easier to aim. Counterbore the hole in the top beam. Insert the bolt with a washer. On the other end add another washer and nut. 

Besides the above concerns, this design was driven by the available materials. I happened to have some old fence posts, approximately 3.5" square. Four of them were 6 feet long after I cut off (most of) the rotten, termite-infested parts that were underground. The other two were pressure-treated lumber, approximately 8 feet long. I also had a number of 2x4s of varying lengths. Conveniently, I determined that I could hang each of my bikes from a hook screwed into a beam 6 feet off the ground without the bottom tire touching the floor. If you ride larger than 56-cm or have a long wheelbase bike, you may need to make your bike rack a few inches taller than mine. The bikes hang on hooks screwed into the bottom of each of two parallel horizontal beams. They hang at an angle, with some overlap. 36-inches of separation between the horizontal beams allowed the bikes to hang without bumping, but since your mileage may vary I encourage you to make your own measurements. List of materials: Frame: 

Since you may need a big gear to power down big hills, let's look at the effect in gear inches of changing from 53 to 50. 53/13*27=110 50/13*27=104 (27 is arbitrary figure for comparison) So you will be losing 6 'gear inches' at the top end. Your next sprocket is presumably a 14 tooth, 53/14*27=102 If you went for a 49 then 49/13*27=102 Therefore, you could go smaller still, with 49, to effectively lose only one big gear. The amount of teeth on the chain rings and sprockets is always going to be a compromise of weight, reliability and range. Going smaller saves weight, which we like. When your rear cassette is due for replacement you could get the 14-28 one (with a new chain). This will drop your big gear down to 49/14*27 94.5 - some mountain bikes can manage that. If you lack top-end gears then you could put your 53T back on. Hopefully you have got a good cadence already, and, unless you have huge hills to power down, loss of some of the big gears should not be a problem. As noted by @Daniel R Hicks you will need to adjust the front derailleur to be 1-3mm above the outer chain ring teeth, outer cage parallel with the chain-ring and cable adjusted accordingly. Although it is very 'macho' to have big chain ring and miniscule sprockets, realism is helpful, think whether you really need to have the biggest gear and go for it. 

Step 5: Attach the hooks to the bottom of one horizontal beam. I put the first one 5 inches away from the end, and then spaced them 10 inches apart. This was wide enough for me to hang my bikes without bumping, as long as I alternated one with the front wheel up and the next with the front wheel down. Step 6: Attach the hooks to the bottom of the other horizontal beam. Place these hooks so the bikes on this side hang between the bikes hanging on the other beam. For me, the first hook went 10 inches away from the end, with the remainder spaced 10 inches apart. A 7/32" drill bit makes the right sized hole for the hooks to go in snugly. Step 7: Add the planks to the top. I just laid them on top, where by accident they fit snugly between the two 2x4s that are nailed across the top beams. If the planks move around when I'm getting boxes down from there, I'll glue them in place. Because I used lumber on hand, the cost of materials was about $12 (mostly for the hooks). Then I spent $18 more for some spray to treat the termite-infested end of the fencepost; if I did it over again I'd probably ask my neighbors to see if any of them had an old fencepost that was pest-free. Oh, and though I forgot to mention it earlier, you should wear safety glasses before pounding on things and maybe a dust mask or respirator if you're going to drill pressure-treated lumber or spray bug killer. 

There are differences of opinion regarding what you are asking here. Some people are insistent that a road bike has to have proper road pedals, others think that for non-competitive riding over short distances the mountain bike style pedal is just fine, so long as you don't go all day in them and expect to win the Tour de France in them. Let's look at the difference in shoes first. Road shoes have a huge cleat on the bottom of them that makes them not suitable for walking in off the bike. Meanwhile, mountain bike cleats are embedded in the sole and you can walk all day in shoes with them, just so long as you avoid polished wood floors that don't need to be scratched. Cycling shoes have an upper and a sole. If you look at the market leading Sidi shoes the same uppers are available on both the mountain and the road versions. The soles are also remarkably similar, or at least the upper part of the sole. They have different rubber attached to the sole and different holes in them for the respective cleats. Because of the different soles, with more rubber on the mountain variant, the best option for town riding is to get the mountain shoe. This is because you can ride them quite easily without being fully clipped in. With road soles this is not so easy to do, particularly in the wet, as you have to clip in properly before putting in any power strokes to get across that junction. They are also one-sided so you need to be adept to get into them. By contrast, you don't have to clip in with mountain bike pedals at all (if using Time Atac) and the cleat is always there for you as they have the cleat on both sides. For where you are now, consider getting the mountain shoes, they have the same uppers and stiffness to the sole, if you pay for it (e.g. Sidi). You can also get more pliant shoes such as the Shimano affordable models that are stiff but not super-stiff. These can also be more presentable off-bike. Remember that whatever pedal system you use the pedal, big or small still attaches to the same size hole in the chainset. Shoe stiffness with glass fibre or carbon fibre is huge so the platform size is not the be-all-and-end-all. There is another choice to be made with the actual pedals. Shimano are the market leader with their SPD system, this has been earned not because it is a better pedal system. The other pedal system to look at is the Time 'Atac' range. This uses a smarter spring system that allows your feet to 'float' a lot more naturally. The 'Atac' pedal system is patent protected, the designer was the guy that designed the original road 'Look' pedal cleat system and I think it has a lot more going for it than the clunkier Shimano efforts. Have a good look online for opinions regarding pedal choice/reliability and remember that most people defend their pedal system choice less than objectively. Generally shops will only stock the Shimano pedals or the 'Crank Bros' pedals and people that buy these will swear they have the best system. 

I am looking for something similar to a saddle bag but that mounts to the seat post and not the saddle. I have a rear mounted camera that attaches to the saddle so want a bag that I can mount lower down on the seat post. I want to keep tubes, CO2, multitool etcetera in there. I have searched and can't find anything. Thanks 

and someone commented that my power readings were a bit "optimistic" I asked why and he basically thought that if I'm getting 600W I should be doing a lot more than 30 MPH. He says he can cruise at 30 MPH at only 250W! In the end he seemed satisfied that the difference is that he weighs 74KG, I am a bit over 100KG. On another video someone commented that he would fly on a carbon bike with a nice groupset. It seems to me that weight of bike / rider and groupset is going to make very little difference cruising on a flat with no gear shifts. Am I suddenly going to end up cruising at 40MPH at 600W when I loose 10KG? 

I have used Speedplay pedals for ages and I think I am on my third set of pedals. I have the new aero walkable cleats and at the weekend I replaced my old knackered cleats with a new set. Now that I am on the new set of cleats my left leg (the one I un-click at lights) is popping out of the pedal. It also doesn't feel right and is not a very solid click feeling when I click in and out. When pedalling it occasionally feels like it half pops out. My foot then feels like it is at an angle. After this happens I can fairly easily just pull my foot off the pedal without twisting. On my old cleats I had similar issues but I assumed it was because the cleats were knackered. I have only had these pedals since January last year so I've only done about 6000 miles on them. I have not had to replace the bearings or anything in there. This is 6,000 miles of commuting through London so many stops at lights. I am going to buy a new set of pedals but I Was wondering if I have any options for fixing my existing set as a spare. I have looked but can't seem to find any replacement pedal bodies for Zero pedals. Is there anywhere I can post the pedals to that will service them? I am in the UK. 

I have got a bike with one but I would not use it without a secondary lock to a fixed object. Neither would I use what you are looking for, and for the same reasons! It is a solution looking for a problem that is not practical in the real world. You don't want someone taking you bike away so they can strip it for parts. Note that the Raleigh people could have put their immobiliser on the bottom bracket if they wanted to, or even in the hub gears. The advantage of the steering lock is that a thief on a bike with locked steering is likely to crash. 

The Topeak rack systems all fit pretty well, I have sold a few in my time and not encountered any problems. I don't believe there are any bolts for fitting that could be potentially put in wrong to compromise the rail/fit, but the fit on them has to be snug because you would not want it rattling away. You do have a compatible bag/rack combo b.t.w. I am not sure you will find anyone on here able to confirm the same problems you are having, and these things are subjective anyway - some people just put up with a problem like this. What I suggest is that you try your bag on a different rack. You can go into a bike shop for this or you can scout around the bike racks and see if there is another rack you can borrow. Topeak are usually very good on warranty issues, so if you do find a problem then it will most likely be sorted by them. 

Begin by using the spade drill bit to drill a horizontal 3/4" hole a little more than half way through each vertical 6-foot beam, centered 2 3/4 inches from the end of the post. Use the chisel to square off the side of the hole that will receive the lower washer. 

This rack (barely) stands up by itself, but becomes stable when you have at least one bike inserted into each side of the rack. 

Step 1: Make two large frame members, out of the fence posts. The 8-foot long post sits horizontally on top of two vertical 6-foot posts. Join them using draw bolt joints, as pictured here: 

I tried making a bike rack like the original poster's sketch, but wasn't satisfied with the result. The bikes aren't very stable because the rack only holds the bottom part of the wheel. It works much better to make the slots vertical instead of horizontal, so almost the full height of the wheel is supported. I happened to have some six-foot long 2x4s and some 30-inch 2x4s. I butted them together and nailed them into a box, with the two long pieces forming the top and bottom of the rack, and the short pieces vertical. The bottom piece rests on the floor. I spaced the vertical pieces at varying distances to accommodate different widths of tires. 

It was challenging to get the lower nut onto the end of the bolt, inside the horizontal hole. To do this I wrapped some tape around the end of the screwdriver, sticky side out. I used this to position the nut at the end of the bolt, while I tightened with the socket wrench. When I discovered that the horizontal hole was too small to get a wrench on the end, I jammed the screwdriver between the nut and the edge of the hole and managed to keep the nut from turning while I tightened the bolt. Step 1 was by far the most time-consuming for me. An experienced wood worker with better tools might find this easy, but it took half of my construction time (1 of 2 days) to figure out how to do this and bolt the fenceposts together. Step 2: Nail the two pieces together using 36-inch 2x4s. To hold them in place during assembly, I leaned one of them against the wall, and tied the other one to a ladder using some old inner-tubes. The result resembles a long, narrow table 6 feet tall. I put one 2x4 at floor level, another 2x4 in the middle, and a third 2x4 on top of each end of the horizontal beam. The lower 2x4s go on the inside; if the long diagonal went on the inside it would create more interference with the bike that hangs next to it. Step 3: Nail a diagonal 6-foot 2x4 cross brace across each of the narrow ends. This increases the stiffness of the frame by a surprisingly (to me, anyway) large amount. Step 4: Nail a horizontal 2x2 at floor level to connect each of the legs for stiffness in the long dimension. Originally I used 2x4s here, but they interfered with a couple of my very long wheelbase bikes. The 2x2s provide just enough clearance for these bikes.