You need to be clear to him why you wish to do things the way you want to. As a manager, he will have different goals to you regarding what is delivered to the client (be they interbal or external) with factors such as maintainability, technical architecture constraints being just two of many. You need to understand what his priorities are and if you are determined to sell your approach to him, you need to make sure it fits in with these priorities If you are attempting to sell your approach simply as "makes development a bit easier" then any manager worth their salt is going to push back on that. Coding standards are there for a reason and sometimes, the development phase is slightly more painful than it feels it needs to be simply because getting it right upfront makes everything from that point on so much easier 

How much holiday entitlement do you have left? You will probably have to try and schedule interviews for the same day and take the complete day off as a holiday. If you are actively looking to leave your current employer, taking a day off to interview (even for 1 interview) is a worthwhile investment I am not sure what your problem with the "dentist appointment" idea is though. It is a tried and trusted method. Especially if your employer does not allow you to take half day holidays 

I empathise with you as it is exceptionally difficult to get others to develop any sense of urgency or responsibility when a) it is not their main job and b) they are not paid for it (regardless of how well meaning the company is and how attached to its principles they are) I would list down what you would like to see change and then offer them an ultimatum in the most non-confrontational way possible. I fully appreciate that may be difficult with family members being involved but you should try as best as you can to make it clear that you are concerned for the company's future as well as your own (ie: you are not doing this out of greed but that yo8u want to see the company do well) You need to say that as an "employee", you should be able to clarify your job role/duties and instigate protocols. If they are employing/paying you, you should be empowered to sort things. At the end of the day, it sounds like your heart is in the right place but (and you don't mention how old you are, I'm guessing 20s) you cannot sacrifice your career development to work in that sort of organisation If after explaining all this to them and they still don't see it/refuse to see it, then you have to walk away. Best of luck! 

I would keep the letter/email purely on point as a thank you. As you have been through several rounds of interview and been invited in for a visit, I would say there is no need to reiterate your candidacy. They obviously have liked what they have seen so far and consider you a very desirable candidate otherwise you would not have progressed this far. 

It is a fact of working life that if you are in the office before a boss arrives, they do not know if you have been there 1 minute or 5 hours. But if you are still working when they leave, the perception is that you are "putting in a shift". Unless you have a time management/clocking in system, there is no real way to combat this perception All I would make sure I do is send as many emails as possible between 8am and when your colleagues arrive so as to soften the assumptions and make it clear you have been in since 8am If it escalates past gossip, then it is the responsibility of management to communicate to your colleagues the change in your working patterns, so it may be worth communicating your change to your manager proactively. This will also ensure people do not try and book you for late meetings 

May I flip this slightly in reverse too and mention that your behaviour (you being the company as well as the manager) towards the leaving person has an effect I've left a company recently whereby I handed my notice in, mutually agreed my leaving date with HR (4.5 weeks notice rather than 4 to help the company out) and looked forward to working as I usually did and contributing. The next day I went to a meeting with my manager and several other senior people. As I walked in, my manager said to me "What are you doing here?" A little stunned I said "I'm invited to this meeting aren't I?". He said in front of everyone "I assumed now you are leaving you don't care anymore" What do you think happened to my motivation right then? Perception is reality and I knew there are then, the narrative of my last few weeks had already been written regardless of what I did. Needless to say, and I'm not proud, downing tools was a phrase that could have been used to describe me. And after I left, apparently lots of problems were attributed to me and the "well, once he handed his notice in, he stopped fixing things and contributing", even problems that had been around months and months Everyone always thinks this is one-way but it isn't. 

What is there to gain by correcting the grammatical mistake of your colleague? Is this colleague an equal or senior or junior to you? I would not mention it and should the items you consider to be errors continue to happen, then I would say something in person. This depends on the type of mistake (spelling? punctuation? incorrect phrase used?) and if this person also emails clients/external people 

Treat this as you would a business transaction rather than interview Ask to see financial projections, business plans etc and then try and find an impartial person to review them if possible. The answer to your question is that you put the onus on the person to provide information and then use every available resource (web, library, business registras etc) to validate it. Where does he work at the moment for example? Is this a full-time thing for him or a sideline? Also ask what other recruitment avenues he has tried/is trying. To have such a wonderful business plan and decide you will follow the hiring process of "chat to people you bump into in coffee shops" does make this smell slightly suspicious. 

Personally, I think you are being too nice to the agencies and I would not consider it my problem to maintain. I would even say if asked to represent me, I would say "I will say yes to other agencies too because I understand there are quotas on the number of CVs you can submit". I appreciate this does not directly address your question of proof which I think you will struggle to get an answer from ANY agency about. If the company/hiring manager is using multiple agencies, then it is up to him to decide which agency first sent them the CV if they receive several copies of your CV and subsequently hire you. If one of the agencies is just trolling, then they know that if they send your CV in, they will probably only get their cut if they were the only agency to send in your CV. I had a situation where an agency contacted me about a role and I sent my CV to them. My wife (unknown to them) worked with the hiring manager and after a week or so asked if my CV was on his desk. It turned out they had 5 CVs but could only submit 3 and literally threw them up in the air to see which 3 came down first. My wife described me to the hiring manager and he asked me to come in for an interview on top of the 3 he had been sent. I got the job and the agency phoned me up to congratulate me and subsequently badgered the company for their commission!!! Needless to say, they did not get paid! 

There is a difference between accepting a job offer and starting a job. Why would you be forced to take one of the other two? There are plenty of posts on here relating to accepting a job offer and then subsequently accepting another and letting the first company down (not ideal admittedly, especially in a small/incestious industry). Make sure you are not creating a time pressure that doesn't have to exist. I would drop the manager an email thanking him for the interviews and just ask if there is a date for a decision to be made as you are looking to plan your diary for the coming months 

If someone from your company challeneged or questioned you about your answers (assuming your answers were of the nature to require challenging), what is to stop you just saying "No, that isn't me"? If they go through all the trouble of mapping the information to your provided first degree relatives information, just say, "That cannot be me, I did not answer with the real information, just a character sequence that I know I will re-use seeing as the purpose of that is not to identify me but to group future surveys to me" As @MaskedMan mentioned in a comment, it may be that there is no malice in this 

IMHO, I will agree with the people who say this approach is a terrible way to foster team spirit. If the meetings are useful and the actual act of getting together build team spirit/gets things out in the open that would not necessarily be the case in more formal meetings, then speak to HR about getting a budget assigned for it. Then it could be the turn of the person to go and collect the items that have already been ordered and paid for if you still wish to have some sort of shared responsibility aspect. Otherwise, you may as well announce everyone has to go down the pub on a Friday lunchtime and here is the list of who will be buying the entire team drinks on which week! (slightly flippant comment I know, but the principle is the same) Also, if someone decides to go "cheap" or doesn;t participate at all and then gets a bad review, what's to stop them saying to HR that they feel singled out for not participating in this "unofficial" activity? It is dodgy ground and the cons far outweigh the pros. 

If she asked you how she felt about it, she should have been prepared for you to answer how you wanted. It sounds like she is very insecure. Without knowing the structure of the company and how/if you can escalate your concerns above her, it is difficult to advise If your appearance does not affect your ability to perform your duties, you need to ask her why she is commenting on it. If you meet clients and are public facing, then she is well within her duties to mention your appearance but needs to do this in a far more formal and structured way. My approach would be to have an honest conversation with her and ask why she was offended by your reply to what you thought was a genuine question within her "open door policy". This will at least ensure you are not imagining things (it may be the past few days have been busy/stressful for her in or out of work - we often assume we know why someone is acting the way they are when in reality, we more than often do not) 

RETORT AWAY!!!! In all seriousness though, he sounds quite insecure (purely based on your description - I'm not a psycologist). I think you just need to ignore him and shrug him off when he makes attacking statements as he is probably looking to be seen as the alpha male within the group When he is snooping, simply say "OK? Are you not busy at the moment? Looking for work?" in a fairly loud work so that colleagues/superiors hear Don't be too despondent though. Most offices have a mixture of personalities. It is for management/HR to manage these clashes so you are well within your rights to express your concerns to your direct manager/HR department with a calm, measured manner. 

My background is that I was interviewed for a place on a project team within my company. I essentially passed the interview and was about to be offered the job when someone the people who interviewed me worked with on a daily basis asked if the casual mention of a role was still open. So I was turned down (I know all this through a friend who works at the company prior to me joining) I then received an offer to join the company but on a different team, which I accepted. Over the past 12 months, without sounding boastful, I've performed very well and exceeded all expectations/been a mentor to many people The project team is looking to expand again yet no one has come and speak to me about joining My specific question is: how best should I phrase an email to the project team manager (who originally interviewed me) that I want to join the team, or at the very least, be considered for the role should an interview be required again. The role has not changed one bit from the one I was going to be offered Or is the fact that they are not beating down my door (we work on different floors and don't really see other teams that much) be a hint? Many thanks 

There are far more ethical ways to stay sharp on the technical side of interviews using things such as mock exams and example technical interviews from the internet With regard to the non-technical side of things, it's my opinion that if you are attending an interview for a job you know you are not going to take, you will behave completely differently to an interview for a job you covet. So in this sense, it is an unrealistic practice I agree with the other answers also that it takes an interview slot away from people genuinley interested in the vacancy 

I've dealt with very similar characters to your manager. My opinion and approach would be rather to push back on this (as you do not know what external influences are pressuring them to request the scope creep items) but document each one and the effect it has had on your ability to deliver. This will help you should you be 'thrown under the bus' at a later date. Rather than push back, all you can do is make the manager aware of the effects of adding the additional functionality. If they are the project sponsor/client liaison, you have no control over them and their ability to amend the requirements. All you can do is be flexible and make people aware that time spent re-prioritising or re-engineering stuff to fit in the new items is time that could have been spent delivering other items. This is far far FAR more frequent than you probably think. If the requests are contradicting the client requests, you could set up a working group to review and sign off each request before it is considered accepted and ready to work on. If the client is party to this group, that is the stage at which these requests get flagged as not required. This does still require your time though