There seems to be an equivocation between "rational" and "believes only in things which are 'true.'" This is not at all what "rational" means: 

I am going to focus solely on Bostrom's argument for the simulation hypothesis, as opposed to metaphysical skepticism in general. First, note that Bostrom himself doesn't find this overwhelmingly likely: 

Nanotechnology and problems with super intelligence were the two most likely reasons the experts gave for human extinction in the next century. You might also believe that that humans will go extinct before becoming "post-human" simply because post-humanity isn't possible (e.g. it simply isn't possible to simulate a human mind on a computer chip). The second fork of the trilemma seems harder to argue for: perhaps people will view this as unethical, or perhaps simulations will be extremely expensive, but it seems harder to argue for this. 

So, roughly, if you didn't exist and someone else did, it would be that other person marveling at the unlikelihood of their existence. Wikipedia has more. Nick Bostrom is the philosopher most strongly associated (in my mind) with these investigations. Some interesting consequences are the doomsday argument and the sleeping beauty problem. So roughly, I don't think the question you should ask is "how likely is it for me to exist?" but rather "how likely is it for someone like me to exist?" If you ask the former, I think the answer is, as you say, "miraculous". 

This is a heavily debated issue and you are not likely to receive a conclusive answer. The question as phrased amounts to "Which view is correct?", but there are strong arguments from either side. I think you will benefit from doing a little research on the topics of Paternalism and Consequentialist Libertarianism, which are the general terms used in philosophy to refer to either standpoint. I have included descriptions of these views and links to places to start below: 

The answer is (B) all sensuous mental processes are sensuous contents. At this point in Ideas, Husserl has qualified his expression as phenomenological description. In the context of apprehending a phenomenon, the content of consciousness is equivalent to act of consciousness. This is because: 

My answer is a bit long, so I'm going give you the short answer first. Virtue is a necessary condition of achieving eudaimonia. However, this is different than the answer to the question as it was formulated at the end of your post, "Is there an argument that a good life can be lived without being good?". One could easily argue that a person can live a good life, independently of virtue, simply by providing examples of individuals who have a "good life" but who are not virtuous. However, if you are using the phrase "living a good life" to explicitly mean "achieve eudaimonia", then an individual cannot achieve eudaimonia without virtue. As you seem to be aware, there are multiple conceptions of eudaimonia. The three best documented views are those of the Stoics, Artistole and Epicurus. I will quickly summarize their views as relevant to your question: 

Your specific question (about abortion) has been discussed a fair bit. In general, people seem to agree that when the mother's life is threatened it's OK: 

I'm interested in sources discussing the obligations we have to be "beneficent", e.g. through charitable donations. Famine, Affluence and Morality is one of the more famous articles of this type. SEP has an overview as well. I am more interested in utilitarian-based reasoning, and things discussing what the "common man" can or should do, as opposed to things like medical ethics. 

I'm looking for references on population ethics, preferably those with a mathematical bent. Broome's Weighing Lives is a good example of what I'm looking for. 

There is a view known as "reductionism" which is often attributed to the Vienna Circle. The strictest form of the view (which is the one most attributable to the Vienna Circle) is that non-reductive statements are in some sense meaningless. From the paper you have linked though, I think you may be asking about a weaker form of reductionism: 

By the definition of the problem, , and similarly since it is just the marginal over heads and tails. This leaves us with . So does that mean the thirder position implies that the prior probability of getting heads is 1/3? I.e. that even before the coin is tossed, we should assign a probability of 1/3 to heads? 

I emphasize "morally relevant" since it is a question for biology to list the anatomical differences, which is of course an important thing to do, but off topic here. Phrased this way, this is the argument from marginal cases. Essentially, the claim is that so-called "marginal humans," such as those with severe cognitive handicaps, have mental capabilities similar (or inferior) to some non-humans. Quoth Singer (from Animal Liberation): 

If a sensuous mental process were to contain sensuous contents, then they would have to be distinct. The sensuous contents would have to be a separate experience which preceded the sensuous mental process, which means that the sensuous mental process would not be a sensuous mental process, but a reflective intentional mental process. This is clearly a contradiction, so it must not be the case that sensuous mental processes contain sensuous contents. This stuff can get confusing and just to make sure that this is not misunderstood... According to Husserl's phenomenology as expressed in Ideas, sensuous mental processes ≡ sensuous contents 

Historically, people with a political agenda tend to select the "philosophical angle" of the thinker whose work is most sympathetic to their objectives and social conditioning. The list I have provided is meant as a starting point and is by no means exhaustive. Hopefully, these will help you to find the "philosophical angle" that works for you. 

Composition. (you guessed it!). The phrase people generally use to describe the fallacious reasoning involved in the fallacy of composition is the untrue statement: "What is true of the part is true of the whole". So, if the "part" is the failed attempt in your example, the "whole" would be the set of all attempts. Just because the part entails failure, it does not follow that the sum of all parts entail failure. Ad hominem - An ad hominem argument is one that is used to discredit a claimant's assertion based on some unrelated negative attribute of the claimant. This is like thinking because someone is wrong once, that they are therefore always wrong, and attacking a claim with an unknown truth value on that basis. This would apply to your example if the particular conclusion drawn is that the subject always fails at making an argument. E.g. "I made a math error, so my math will always be wrong" 

I don't think I fully understand your example about CH (it seems to me you could indeed go quite wrong assuming that CH is true with probability 1/2...) but I would encourage you to check out The Philosophical Significance of Cox's Theorem. It highlights some domains in which Cox's theorem could be plausibly said to fail. (One of which is, as you say, when the law of excluded middle fails.) On the other side of things, Quantum probabilities as Bayesian probabilities demonstrates a link between Bayesian probability and quantum probability (a domain in which the distributive property doesn't hold). So this idea is quite robust, even in the bizarre world of QM. 

Dennett talks about this as "Skyhooks" vs. "Cranes" A Crane is something which can build great complexity, but it rests on simple, fundamental principles. This is like evolution. A Skyhook (a crane hanging from a helicopter) is something which can build great complexity, but it rests on no firm foundations. This is like creationism. Some of the criticisms you bring up have been brought up by others who say that Dawkins doesn't differentiate well enough between these two in his Boeing 747 Gambit. He may not have presented the argument perfectly, but others have made it more rigorous. 

I found that Diamond and Koopmans have booth done some interesting work in this area. The blog post Kill the young people has a discussion of Diamond's paper, and Koopmans' "Stationary Ordinal Utility and Impatience" can be found here. Basically, they investigate the idea of "impatience" (valuing things which come earlier more) and show that under some reasonable conditions, population ethics must be impatient, a very counter-intuitive finding. It is often mentioned in the context of environmental ethics. 

Human being is freedom. The external world is filled with in-itself being. Consciousness is the only anomaly, and consciousness only manifests itself through human being, insofar as we are aware of it. So, the starting point for an account of human being is in the account of the being of consciousness. We know that the being of consciousness is the consciousness of being, and it will follow that the being of consciousness of humans is the consciousness of being human. This consciousness of being human entails a consciousness of consciousness, and the immediately apparent features of consciousness. Conscious is infinite which means that the options for manifestations of human consciousness are infinite. The feature of having an infinite amount of options for the manifestation of one’s consciousness is what Sartre calls freedom. So, we have determined that the human being is freedom and that humans must be aware that their being is freedom. This does not mean that human beings have an essence of freedom. “Man does not exist first in order to be free subsequently; there is no difference between the being of man and his being-free” (BN: 60). Freedom is the reason that human beings do not have an essence. “Human freedom precedes essence in man and makes it possible; the essence of the human being is suspended in freedom” (BN: 60). The freedom of human being manifests itself as the limitless choice of human action. No matter what the situation is, a human being can always choose to act and his action will define his being. Even in extreme situations of coercion (such as being threatened with death), a human being still has the ability to choose his action and to choose the conscious attitude with which he apprehends the world. This ability to choose is actually an inability not to choose. Sartre tells us that “we are a freedom which chooses, but we do not choose to be free” (BN: 623). We are not free beings. We are freedom itself. Citations refer to this translation of Being and Nothingness 

A harder question to answer would revolve around defining 'truth'. We might suggest that to assert "X is true" means something like "it is useful for one to believe X". We could point to an increased sense of community among believers, for example, as evidence that belief in a divine being is useful and therefore true. This is a (poorly phrased version of a) tack that James took. 

Confucius is sometimes considered to have promoted a form of social contract theory. He would be an exception, having been born into poverty in rural China. 

While it's a big area, John Dewey has to be near the top of this list. Experience and Education probably serves as a good crash course. Since you specifically mentioned ethics, his book Moral Principles in Education may be of interest. The basic summary is that education should teach not just things like algebra but also "how to live a good life", which would include education about ethical reasoning. 

Yes, of course. This idea is most famously discussed in Nick Bostrom's Are You Living in a Computer Simulation? Note that "Roko's Basilisk" is doing no real work for you here – you don't need any esoteric forms of decision theory to accept Bostrom's argument. 

Dissenters from this argument generally embrace the view that the question is misguided: ethical value doesn't come from having some set of capabilities, but rather arises through a shared contract etc. Carl Cohen defends this view, for example. Entire books have been written about this, if you are interested to continue researching it. On other fronts, you might be interested in the work that Varner, among others, has done to describe the likelihood that various species feel pain which can be roughly summarized as "vertebrates feel pain; insects possibly not so much". And Dan Dennett expresses some uncertainty as to what extent non-humans are conscious, but of course he is quite skeptical of most accounts of human consciousness as well.