Bicycle chains with higher model numbers (and slightly higher prices) are often nickel-plated or half-nickel-plated. What are the benefits of nickel-plated chains over non-nickel-plated chains? How durable is the plating--does it wear off, or do its benefits last for the life of the chain? 

I've noticed that a lot of commuters come to a complete stop at traffic lights but go before the light turns green. They start riding as soon as the light in the intersecting direction turns red. I usually get annoyed and assume that this could only reinforce negative opinions held by motorists, but I've suspected that there must be some valid reason for the early start. This is a separate issue from taking an Idaho stop at a quiet intersection or blatantly running a red light. For rolling stops and blatant running, there is a significant saving in effort from not completely stopping, and there is an understandable, if not necessarily justifiable, tradeoff between efficiency and legality. There doesn't seem to be the same tradeoff for early starts at traffic lights. In this case, the saved time is only two seconds, and there is no saved effort (since they have already come to a complete stop). I've seen enough people do this that I'm sure there must be some logic behind the early start. Are commuters really desperate to save two seconds, or is there (as I suspect) some deeper reason for taking an early start at traffic lights? Does this behavior just hurt relations with motorists, or are there safety benefits that make this something that should be pushed for legalization (as with Idaho stops)? 

Next time do nothing special.; just keep riding. Your internal state will cleverly decide when you will enter the flow state again. Interedtingly, if you watch out when you will enter flow, it won't. Happy riding! 

I have tried the first two, and I like Zensah more. Zensah is one size fits all. Like their sleeves, the cap is knitted. The fit is excellent. it is durable, too. Assos is good too but .ite that sizes tend to be smaller. Excellent fit. The fabric is thinner and lasts for 2 to 3 seasons. Now I have switched to Casco Speedairo helmet and no longer need a sun hat. The helmet has excellent ventilation but do not expose my head to the sun. I bought it for the visor though. 

Using the "approved" chain is probably better if all else is equal, and it may be worth a slightly increased cost for more peace of mind. If you already have the mountain-specific chain, there's no harm in trying it. And if the mountain-specific chain is far cheaper and you aren't picky about shifting performance, it will probably be adequate (but no guarantees). The "mountain bike specific construction" of the HG-X chains seems to be as follows (quotes from Performance Bike, High on Bikes, Amazon, and Competitive Cyclist): 

No. It's best to throw out the damaged tire and replace it. Any attempt at patching the tire would leave a major weakness at such a major cut. A blowout would present a safety risk, so it's best to just get a new one. 

And when it comes to the rest of extras, my opinion is that the only extra worth looking at is extra gears. It may point to a groupset which is newer (those tend to have more speeds as time progresses). If it is a "granny gear" and you are not into climbing, then it is not worth getting. 

Often thinking about this phrase while braking and can never agree with it. Without any doubt using both brakes provides more efficient braking, even when braking down the mountain. I can confirm it empirically every time when braking by one hand, when, say, right hand is busy eating a banana. Braking by both hands is faster and gives more control over the bicycle, it feels like you have more threshold to balance until brakes block the wheel. Sorry for not having any more scientific explanation, but empirical proof is enough, I think. Most modern brake sets will give less power to the back by design and there's little danger to block back when braking with both brakes. 

Cycling is a varied experience including many different reasons to ride, such as commuting, fitness, or racing. Experience is further shaped by the type of bike and environment. The book Bike Snob tries to distill what cyclists have in common and presents the definition of a cyclist as someone who chooses to ride a bike even if they don't have to. The book further argues that there's no such thing as "bike culture". However, it also summarizes (in a humorous fashion) some of the types of cyclists and how they often view each other. Even though there's no uniform bike culture, many individual people have their own philosophy. You may be able to find some biographies or autobiographies about cyclists who describe their own attitude toward cycling and how it changed them. Of course, there are many groups of like-minded people who might share an approach to cycling. One website that often gets cited online is Velominati, which declares a list of rules for road cycling which they claim to be philosophical. This type of "philosophy" seems to be more about creating a sense of belonging than about any inherent truths about cycling--people want to be able to feel "in the club". Given the variety within cycling, any universal philosophy would be limited to the vague notion of self-powered locomotion. 

Preparation Take some basic tools with you, such as tools necessary to replace and/or patch a tube and a chain breaker. Taking some basic medicine to fix sores is also a good idea. 

With some customization the partial change is possible. Get a rear sprocket cassette which mounts on Shimano freewheel but is designed for Campagnolo - they are available. So, you can use your old wheels. Crankset, chain, derailleurs must be changed completely, cross-compatibility with Shimano (with chains in particular) there happens but is neither flawless neither recommended. Be careful with cranksets - your Campagnolo crankset may be incompatible with bottom bracket in the frame, therefore it would need to be replaced. Levers - it is technically possible to use Shimano ones, but don't. Just for one simple reason - Campagnolo levers are more comfortable and replacing levers is not such a difficult task technically. Brakes - these will work whatever they are, Shimano or Campa. 

My daughter's bike has a threaded headset, and I don't know what tool I need to adjust it. As you can see from the picture, there are the following parts in the stack: 

Claim the right-most lane that goes straight (don't go into the turning lane). This is probably the safest option (at least for fast riders) because it makes the cyclist very predictable for drivers. Ride in and take the turning lane. This is usually pretty safe at intersections where the turning lane is empty and where there's a wide lane or bike lane on the other side of the intersection. From the perspective of drivers, the cyclist is just sticking to the right-hand side of the road. Note that this is legal in some states but not others. Ride in between the non-turning lane and the turning lane. This works pretty well when traffic is stopped, and you can stop on or near the lane line. Turning lanes are often wide enough to leave room for cars who are turning to pass. Note that this is legal in some states but not others. Go on the sidewalk and wait at the crosswalk. Uncomfortable and inexperienced riders seem to prefer this option, but weaving between the road and sidewalks seems very unsafe. 

I think this hip pain is an indication of fatique, which will diminish through ptactice. I experienced this once. I had been cycling for more than 20 years and was skillful with out-of-saddle ride. I did this every now and then for say less than 1 km for fun. Last September I challenged myself to a total of 10 km climbs (8 discontinous climbs stretched over 36 km) out of saddle. The gradients varied from 5 to 10. The following morning my hip joints hurt. Then I realized it was fatigue. After a week I rode the same route again to test. This time there was no more fatigue. I think practise and rest and practise, and the pain will go. My experience. 

This is very good question as it touches one of the most common safety issue which most cyclists ignore. If you are on the road without bike lanes, you must stay after the car, just like another ca would do, not the right/left side of a car. The reason is the safety. If you stand on the right side (or left if you are in left-sided country), the car which is on the side of you may or may not notice you and may decide to turn right/left. This is dangerous as you can be easily hit this way. Also, even if a driver notices you, the car usually moves cautiously until you are not aligned with it anymore, which slows down the whole traffic. 

Recently I replaced my 6800 groupset with a Chorus one. I am using a Mavic Ksyrium SLS wheel; that means I had to change my freehub body to a Campagnolo compatible one. Surprisingly, the new freehub has a different sound when coasting, and the noise is so much more reduced. I supposed the difference in the two freehub bodies is to accommodate different brands of cassettes. I had never like my Mavic wheels, but now they are so much more lovely. Not my knowledge to explain why, but it proves that the noise is not a matter of high- or low-end hubs. 

I use two bicycles daily: one with all cables internal, including those on the handlebar and one where only top tube cable is inside, other cables are outside. While riding it makes zero difference. While cleaning the bicycle I find the internal routing handier, because the surface is featureless, thus easier to clean. When changing the cables, I finish the bike with outer cables in less than a hour, while the bike with the internal routing takes several hours and sometimes massive amount of PITA with things like accidental cables lost in the tube. To summarize: cable routing makes no difference for riding, internal routing is slightly better when cleaning the bike, external is way easier to maintain.