You need a cable cutter. All of the companies that make tools for bikes make them. Here are a few options: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ As some of the other answers/comments have pointed out, it's a good idea to stick an awl (I use a fine-point nail set for finishing nails) in to the cut end of the housing after the fact to clean it up. For the inner cable, the cable cutters will cut it cleanly with no prep or clean-up needed. If you're going to use a pair of regular wire cutters, then you'll want to use the solder trick mentioned in other answers. That being said, you really should replace the housing when you replace the inner cable. It's rare for the cable to be worn to the point of needing replacement without the housing also needing to be replaced. Alternately, you can use a Dremel tool with the cut-off wheel. Some people swear by this approach: 

I needed to replace my old fixie frame with something lighter, and with a standard BB shell. So I came across this one online. The seller bought it off a friend who stripped and painted it, so any knowledge of its provenance won't come from there. What drew me to it was the fork. Clearly quality steel rather than piece of pipe bent into shape like you see on cheaply built single-speed frames. It has a serial number on the BB shell (Y5K2698), but googling for this only points weakly to it being Japanese, possibly built for the American market, possibly in 1985. But I suspect it's rather more recent than that. There are no bosses for shifters, cable stops or eyelets for panniers or fenders, only one set of bidon cage bolts on the downtube, and the seatstays attach to the side of the seattube rather than under the seatpost clamp. The dropouts are semi-horizontal and about 20mm deep. No engravings on the dropouts as far as I can see [edit: dropouts are marked as Tange, so I guess the whole frame is tange steel]. Purpose-built for fixed or single speed I would guess, due to the lack of bosses or derailer hanger, but curious that it has forward facing horizontal dropouts rather than track ends. Here's an image of the whole bike, and here's a gallery of details (sorry- I should have stripped it for proper photos of the frame only, but I just took some snaps on my way out the door to work!). 

Sounds like there's been some good progress since this question was asked. I've found the following options. My use case is a 5 mile commute Mon-Fri with some approx 50% commutes requiring transportation of a tiny mobile office followed by walking that office around a city. Here are the options I've found (UK). Ortlieb Pannier Carry System 

Arkel: £154 Reviews aren't great which is a bad start. When wearing it as a backpack the dirty side would be on your back. It doesn't look waterproof. It's very expensive compared to other offerings (at least in the UK at the moment). I can't tell why it's this expensive because (despite the current weakness of the pound) the Arkel website states it ships from the UK. Vaude Cycle 22/28 

SJS: £25. I already have two Ortlieb classics so this would be great, but I can't see how this would work day-to-day. Sure it looks solid and comfortable but I'd need to carry that around too? Carradice CarraDry Rucksack Pannier - Grey - 27 Litre 

Aside from the rear spacing needing to be roughly consistent (you can probably fit a wider hub into a frame with a margin of around 10mm without much ill-effect) you'll need to worry about the chainline, which is the correct alignment of the rear sprocket on your Alfine or Nexus hub and the chainring (possibly what you're referring to as the crank – or crack – spacing). Never heard of Hercules bikes, but if it were a multispeed bike with 2 chainrings, then you have some wiggle room. I've converted a few 10-speeds to singles and fixies and have usually been able to find a combination of crank, bottom bracket and spindle size to provide a chainline within an acceptable range. You also have both the inside and the outside of the crank bolt holes to work with. Again, not knowing what a Hercules is, you may have to replace the crankset (if it's a one-piece BMX crank or a cottered crank then you'll definitely need to replace it). The expensive (or, if you're up for the challenge, difficult) part of this is going to be building the wheel around the hub, unless you can find a pre-built wheel with an Alfine/Nexus hub in the right wheelsize and rear spacing. Here's a guide on frame spacing that will come in handy: $URL$ 

I have a Cannondale Supersix Evo and I've had issues with tires rubbing in that exact spot. The frame will accommodate a 25mm tire, but the clearance is very tight, so you really have to pay attention to keeping the wheel trued up. I've also found that the stock wheelset (Mavix Aksiums) flexed enough when I'm cornering hard to cause a little rubbing even when the wheel is near-perfectly true. For a little while, I put some protective tape on the chainstays (I used ISC Racers Tape), but I eventually just switched back to 23mm tires. I like the ride quality of the wider tires, but replacing the protective tape periodically got to be a bit of a hassle. To answer whether or not it's safe to ride, it LOOKS like it's just through the paint. If that's the case, cover it with some protective tape to prevent it from rubbing into the carbon, and you should be good to go. 

SJS: £53. This looks promising. The mounting equipment is on the opposite side to the straps so not digging into your back. Also in favour of this arrangement is the observation that the side away from my rear wheel doesn't tend to get as dirty so my back should stay as clean as it can. I can't see any sign of a rigid frame so packing it carefully is probably required to make the backpack comfortable. The silver coating looks to be retroreflective which is very desirable. It seems quite large; could be a good thing but on panniers this tends to result in heels knocking on the bag, hitting the bag going through narrow gaps, and losing your keys down the bottom. Arkel Bug 

The other answers rightly point out that being able to pull up on peddles can help improve power output but completely overlook low speed bike control. To help with balance when the bike is stationary it is very useful to be able to pull the forward pedal up just slightly and apply a tiny amount of pressure. This can allow you to stay clipped in and immediately accelerate rapidly when a traffic light turns green (because proper cyclists stop at red lights). And that applies to a fixie or a freewheel. Toe straps and cleats both allow this kind of pedal control. 

Does anyone know if an Ultegra 6800 left crank arm will work on an Ultegra R8000 crank? I'm looking at upgrading my road bike, and I'd like to move my current crank-arm power meter over to the new bike rather than spending even more money. Thanks! 

The only time that there's really only one right answer is if the frame and seatpost are dissimilar metals (aluminum/steel, titanium/aluminum, titanium/steel). In this scenario, you should ABSOLUTELY use an anti-seize compound. Something like Park's ASC-1 is perfect for this. The anti-seize compound has zinc in it, which acts as a sacrificial metal to prevent the frame and seatpost from corroding and bonding to each other. For other materials, you can still use anti-sieze compound, but you don't need to. A thin layer of grease will work in most cases. In the event that you're having problems with a seatpost slipping even when clamped, then go with an anti-slip compound, like Park's SAC-2. 

When comparing BB types, a significant factor to consider is the longevity of the bearings, and serviceability. Outboard bearings have the most longevity but are essentially unserviceable. When they go, or when the splines are too damaged by bad installation/removal or inferior tools, then toss them and buy replacements. Outboard BBs are used with Hollowtech (Shimano) and Ultra Torque (Campagnolo). Then there are press-fit BBs, in which the cups (or a sleeve into which the cups are fit) are pressed directly into the BB shell, which is now made without any threads. These need specific tools to install and remove, but are preferred for high-end bikes. The BBs with the least longevity and least serviceability are ISIS (ten-splined). These are also a pain to remove the cranks from, since you need a special attachment on your crank puller (similarly with octalink, incidentally). The reason these have such little lingevity is that the diameter of the spindle means that the bearings contain much narrower balls. I'm not sure what gauge, but if you've ever taken apart bearings on a bike, there are three main sizes: BB, wheels and headset, in order of size from largest to smallest. The BB should have the largest because there is significantly more torque applied to the BB that anywhere else on the bike. The headset for example endures comparatively little. Isis BBs have to fit the bearings and the thicker spindle in the same shell size, and so they use smaller bearings that can't endure as much torque. As for the most serviceable: older bikes, before they invented cartridge BBs (of which all the above except outboard bearing style are examples), had loose bearings (or at most inside one-sided cages) sitting between the cups (the sides that screw into the BB shell) and the cones (raised smooth edges on the spindle itself). These cup-and-cone BBs are analogous to the internal design of the wheel axle and bearing setup. These require frequent (every 1000km or so) disassembly, cleaning and reassembly as they get fairly full of crud. On a recent clean of an older fixie I run, I found that I had split several of the bearings into chunks, explaining the crunchy feeling of my rotation. As loose bearings are readily available, these older style BBs can be continued to be serviced right up until the cups and cones themselves get too degraded on their inner surfaces to function properly (pits in the grooves for example, where the ball bearings will naturally sit in, and which come about through over-tightening) will mean that ball bearings will wear out quicker. Square taper BBs, as the commenters note, come in several incrementally different types. The main difference between ISO and JIS is the length of the tapered section of the spindle. ISO is shorter. The angle of the taper is the same (I believe), so you can fit an ISO crank on a JIS taper (and I have done this) but the cranks sit a couple of mm further outboard than ISO > ISO or JIS > JIS. Conversely, you could fit a JIS crank onto an ISO BB, but depending on the spindle width, it may rub against the BB shell as it would sit a few mm inboard. As far as ease of installation, longevity, ease of crank installation and interchangeability, I would definitely suggest that outboard bearings, either hollowtech or ultra-torque, are the best balance of cost and benefit. 

Always Cycling: £62. This looks pretty good. The pannier mounting brackets looks sturdy. Worth noting it looks like the lower fixing requires a horizontal tube at the bottom of the rack to clip onto. These days not many racks (including mine) have one. The part which would touch your back is hidden underneath the zippable cover whilst riding so although conversion between backpack and pannier might be a bit messy, once done you should be fine. Doesn't look very visible in the dark, and doesn't look very waterproof, but it does come with a waterproof cover in a zipped pouch. Looks like it has a rigid frame as well. I own another normal Vaude backpack which my Dad gave me and he wishes he never did it's such a well designed and well built bag. Conclusion so far I'm on the fence between the Vaude and the Carradice. Both seem reasonably priced and very practical. Carradice seems a little large but extremely well designed and therefore more suitable for being on a pannier. The Vaude looks more suitable for being a backpack. I'll update this answer if/when I purchase one/both. 

The reason to avoid using, say, the larger front chainring with the larger rear sprockets (or vice versa) is nothing to do with loss of efficiency or anything like that, but because of a phenomenon called . If you're in the smaller chainring, which is more inboard, then you should be on the more inboard rear sprockets, the larger ones, and similarly, when your in the more outboard chainring, the larger chainring, you should be on the more outboard, smaller sprockets. Cross chaining happens when the chain has to cross from being inboard at the cassette, to being outboard at the cranks. Cross chaining puts quite a lot of stress on your chain and gears, can lead to a noisy, squeaky drivetrain (chain rubbing against the inside plate of the front derailer, for example), and causes your chain to wear quicker. Quicker chain wear then leads to quicker cassette wear, and quicker chainring wear. This is why gears are positioned as they are, to encourage you to use the bottom 7 rear gears with the smaller front chainring, and the top 7 rear gears with the larger front chainring. This means that the middle 4 rear sprockets (on a ten speed bike) can be used on either front gear, while the bottom 3 and top 3 should be used with the corresponding chainring. A typical change-up (based on a 53-39 front, 11-23 rear setup) will go like this: Start off low, maybe 39-21, change the rear up until you get to maybe 39-15, then shift to the larger chainring and at the same time, do what's known as a , which is shifting the rear gear down 2 or so sprockets so that jumping from the small to the big ring isn't such a massive increase in gear (53-15 compared with 39-15). This way you find yourself in 53-19 with a good, steady cadence. Then simply proceed up the sprockets as far as you need. A change-down might go in reverse, or you might simply change to the smaller ring when you get down to the middle sprocket if you know you're going to be slowing for some traffic lights, or getting prepared for a climb. I see too many cyclists simply going into lower gears in their rear sprockets while leaving the front in the big ring. It's a good idea to stick your head between your legs every once in a while to see where your gears are. Without those fancy indicators on your brifters and shifters, you can forget which ring you're in!