You can post your code up on a public repository using a free GitHub account. However that should be supplementary to presenting it on a resume. You probably have limited if any work experience in programming so you should use a Projects section on your resume. The restaurant system would be one project. Use about 4 bullet points to describe what you did and the technologies you used, and shows more than just listing a url or the code. Such as: 

I've got about 15 years experience in software engineering with a great deal of experience working with a variety of companies. I've worked with startups especially in the past 6 years, and recently have encountered something odd in salary talks when engaging a new company. These are new small startups with 5-7 ppl, usually 2 cofounders and about 4 dev capacity people. They are well funded at this point usually. What I've encountered is these cofounders assume all tech people on the team will be paid the same salary. This might work if everyone has the same experience or role but often I'm sought because of my experience and ability to deliver and then assumed to be paid the same generic rate as someone 10 years my junior professionally. Or, the founders think they are being generous but fair by not paying anyone more or negotiating one or another. That they are supporting a flat and equal structure of peers. The founders are often young themselves so may not understand how pay often rises with experience. This is not the case with larger startups usually once their hiring process becomes more formalized and isn't just one guys assumption. And obviously bigger companies have this worked out. How can I work with these situations and explain that experience is often reflected in salary and paying 15yrs experience the same as 5 isn't always assumed or might be negligent to the more experienced candidate. 

You are underestimating your time in the Air Force. You probably learnt a lot of skills that are directly relevant to engineering: Solving technical problems caused by everything from bad hardware to bad configuration. You learned how to work under extreme pressure and still deliver good results (I assume you did, or else the planes would have fallen!) You learned how to deal with politics, and still do your job (this is based purely on reading books my ex-servicemen, but it seems the armed forces are not immune to politics). Now you don't experience writing software, but that shouldn't matter. The biggest problem with CVs is the "Meh" effect. The recruiter looks at your CV and goes "Meh." Most CVs look alike, and there is nothing to separate them. Now if a recruiter sees your CV, with your 13 years experience, and next to it is some pimply kid who worked at McD, who do you think will be called in for an interview? You still need to have good technical knowledge to get the job, so make sure you are strong there too. As to what to write: Write about technical challenges you solved. Something that showed how, when faced with external pressures, like broken equipment, politics and time pressures, new technology, you still managed to complete a project on time. Give examples, so the interviewer has something to talk about. If you want more specific advice, feel free to contact me privately. 

Recently I was conducting a job search and working with a recruiter I know, who submits my resume+credentials to various companies we discuss. Some of these companies are small, such that I'd never discover them on my own, and the recruiter is a useful connecting agent. Other companies are larger, well known names that I could likely have gone to their website and applied quite easily. They probably get enough interest as well that they aren't hurting for candidates. For these well known companies, what is the value of the company working with recruiter referred candidates instead of just candidates without one? I'm thinking that the recruiter candidate obviously comes with an extra initial cost to hire (upwards of 10-15% of a year's salary?), and thus the independents would be cheaper to review. From my perspective, I wonder if going into an application with a recruiter becomes a hindrance, in that I'll need to be that much better a candidate to justify the extra expense. Is this a fair assumption, or do company hiring budgets expect recruiter fees? 

I'm sure an explanation is given to the people fired. And each company has a rumour mill that usually knows what's going on. Rather than being worried, you need to find out the rumour mill. 

My second advice is to keep a low profile. Do your work well and go home. Keep building your skills in the background, and keep your resume up to date. That way, even if you are fired, you can be confident you will find another job soon. And the third is, don't think about it so much. You say you enjoy the work. So why not enjoy the time as well? Nothing lasts forever. Start saving money regularly, so that even if you are fired, you won't struggle financially. Edited to add: After reading JeffO's answer and his point about the 15% figure not being accurate, another point came to mind. Your company might have a macho attitude (let me guess: Its a video games company?) In these macho companies, you are expected to just get on with it, with none of this sissy 2-way communication. So the company is taking decisions, but doesn't feel it necessary to communicate why to the engineers. Which makes me think people like you are assuming the worst and having panic attacks. If so, the best thing is to quietly keep working. It's a problem of communication, not random firings. 

I think specific titles on a resume are less interesting than details about what you did, so you shouldn't worry too much about that. Everyone who has been in the industry long enough to be reviewing resumes as part of their job has seen bad developers with senior titles and great ones with junior titles. Just describe what you did on your resume and you'll be fine. 

Don't. Nothing good will come of telling your boss that he killed your motivation. You can tell him that you feel frustrated or that you're disappointed that someone else was chosen to lead the latest project, but you will not accomplish anything by telling him he quenched the last bit of your motivation. What he's likely to take from a statement like that is that you've given up on this company and that there's nothing he can do to make you happy so he shouldn't bother. If you do leave, I personally recommend staying neutral in your exit interview. Why burn bridges if you don't need to? Save the venting for your friends, stay professional while you leave. 

I've worked for a startup tech company for the past year. It has 4 people. The startup started to run out of funding 3 months ago, and we took on a BtoB consulting gig with a partner company that would pay our 4 salaries exactly. It would take about 60% of our time and allow us flexibility to reconsider a pivot for our original startup in the other time. It kept paychecks coming too. Around the same time, we came across a side freelance gig that we as a group would do in the off time, each of us a different role for it. It would be paid through the company, though one of us personally found the gig on the side. This was considered a side project to normal high priority work, and to get it done when we could. We're all used to side projects so this meant in the off hours of the work day or at home. The question I'm asking, is whether it is appropriate for the company to accept all the freelance contract pay or if it is more ethically inclined to split the payment amongst workers in addition to normal salary? We're paying paid salary for one role we do, and the freelance gig is in all ways a side project with some significant hours. We are not a consulting company by nature. The founder has suggested he might use the freelance gig to pay down some of the company debt, some of which he personally seeded. ie, it goes in his pocket to recoup company debt. Aside from ethics, is it even legal for a company to have employees doing side consulting work beyond the scope of their job role, and not paying them for it? Is there a limit to what is considered within the scope of excempt from overtime, full-time salary? 

I can sympathise with your situation. A lot of advice on resumes is written for experienced programmers looking for a better job. In that case, you really need to target your resume, as senior engineers earn a lot, and companies are very picky about who they hire. So while targeting your resume maybe good advice in the general case, it may not work in your specific case. The reason being that for new graduates / people with little experience, companies know that they will have no experience, and will have to be trained/mentored anyway. So they just look at rough details on your resume. It has been a long time since my first job, but I remember the fact that since I was going to be paid a lot less than experienced programmers, my resume didn't matter that much. The interviewer looked at it, but spent most of the time talking about what subjects I took, and asking me questions on those. So in your case, just sending a generic resume maybe good enough. My advice is: For jobs you really want, like the Googles/Facebooks of the world, make sure you target your resume. For all other jobs, just send a bland resume. The sad truth of the matter is, it is a probability game. Even excellent programmers get rejected for minor things, and all you can do is keep applying.