Weight is erratic and should be checked after doing numbers 1 and 2 to reduce its randomness. I can weigh 5~10 lbs heavier with my clothes, food eaten and water drank when my day is done. Also, you need to accept that weight loss happens slowly and is usually observed one month if you weigh yourself but will be seen 2-3 months by other people just by looking at you. Also, since you're already counting calories, there could be other foods and drinks that are not being taken account. So, to really ascertain if weight loss is happening, you should stick to a diet and/or exercise plan for at least 2-3 months. Also, recording your weight and calories properly is a must. Remember, it's a slow process and it'd help if you can find fulfillment in following your routine instead of focusing on the results. TLDR: 

One pound of weight loss a week is safe. Try to get a fat caliper to measure your body fat percentage and multiply it by your bodyweight to get how much your fat weigh. Body fat percentage is a much better information than Body Mass Index (BMI) which just uses your weight-height ratio. 

I've had a shoulder operation a little while back, and now I'm barely allowed to use my arm the coming 6 months. This is standard procedure for this type of surgery, as it needs time to heal. I'm a triathlete doing sprint distances and Ironman 70.3, on an amateur level. I won't do any triathlons until next spring / summer, but I need to keep in shape. My biggest problem is I can't swim. As that is my weakest discipline, that is a problem. I don't expect to do any technique training the coming 6 months, but is there anything I can do to keep my upper body strength and core muscles in tact, without using my arm(s)? I would prefer if it doesn't require a gym membership, but if that's what it takes I'll get one. For now I can't run as the movements are not good for my shoulder. I guess I can start doing easy runs in a month or two, so that shouldn't be too much of a problem. I can bike, as long as it's indoors on a spinning bike and I keep my body as if I'm on a chair. 

From the numbers you've given, you're eating 720 calories + the dinner you're having. And the rule which everybody seems to have agreed upon on is that you lose weight by expending more calories (through exercise, walking and just by simply living) than what you eat. Strictly speaking, protein, fat or carbs won't dictate whether you'll gain weight or not. It's calories in vs calories out. But having a proper and balanced diet will help you achieve that goal since, there are foods that fill you up or satiate you more but gives less calories for the same amount of satiety. Examples of these are unprocessed foods with fiber in them. Given the height, weight and age you've given and using this Calorie Calculator, your Basal Metabolic Rate (BMR) is around 1500~1600 calories. This means that based on your height and weight and other factors, your body expends 1500 calories just by the virtue of you living. Let's say you're eating dinner with 500 calories, that still just puts you on 1220 calories and an apple or banana, would put you around 1400 calorie intake. This calorie intake is less than what your body is expending without taking exercise into account. You shouldn't be gaining weight though you should kind of just break even. And with exercise, you should be able to shed weight. It could be just simply walking or light exercise, jogging for 30 minutes burns around 200 calories. Also when you're tracking your weight loss, you should remember that it's supposed to be a slow process. 1 lb/week of weight loss is recommended and not too much higher than that. There are things you should remember when weighing yourself: 

Difficult question. If you go through the book "supertraining", you will notice that each parameter you change can have an effect on your training and its outcome (moment you do the iso-hold, speed at which you train, including bodyweight after heavy strength, ...). You can easily imagine that you are fatiguing some muscles when doing one exercise. In a superset, it is probable that the second exercise will be affected by the first one (this could be the intent : fatiguing some muscles in a first exercise to make sure you are using some other specific muscles in the second exercise) and maybe you will compensate in some way, ... So to have a well-balanced training and because it is impossible to quantify/assess every training parameter and outcome, mix it up as you suggest. Switch regularly the first and second exercise in a superset, for example. Well-designed variation is key to avoid compensations, imbalances and injuries 

So your objective is to build muscle, in this case glutes. To build muscle you need to stress those muscles the proper way. In this case, the proper way would be adequate repetitions (8-12) and adequate series (4-5) therefore defining the weight to be used depending on the exercise. That is up to you to define. The exercise selection you provided is adequate altough you might want to experience with some sprinting-focussed training (so ... sprinting, jumping, ...) or other glute-focusses exercises like clam-shell, ... A second parameter you can play with is the kind of muscle contractions. To build muscle, focus on eccentrics (eccentrics tend to increase hypertrophy) so do slow tempo on the eccentric part and then fast tempo on the other parts (isometric and concentric). For a squat, this would mean something like 4 seconds on the descent, 0 seconds isometric, 1 second concentric, 1 second pause and do that all again. Now in training, routine usually is the enemy so mix it up. Change the tempos, do 1 week eccentric, 1 week isometric, 1 week concentric Third thing is having the right frequency of training too much or too little and you won't get the gains you want. Again, up to you to determine that. Also pay attention to all the other training you are doing. Performing aerobic exercises during/near your strength training have been shown to impede the signaling pathways for strength gains. Finally, make sure you are actually using your glutes during the movements and not using other muscles. This requires self-awareness and focus on your part. Or you could use other exercises to fatigue the muscles around your glutes then perform the glutes-focussed exercises to make sure they are actually doing the work. Using electrostimulation during exercises could help a little but this is expensive and not 100% certain it will work. 

I have a BMI of approximately 25 (87kg, 1.87m), which is just about where I want to be (I look too skinny if I'm lighter). As this is the weight I've been for quite some time, I consider this to be OK for a relatively flat Ironman 70.3 race. Obviously, I'm not trying to win it, my goal is 5:30 for that one. However, I have an extremely hilly Ironman 70.3 race one month later (2600 m elevation on the bike leg, and 1100 m elevation on the run). In order to get an OK time there, I would need to lose some weight, maybe as much as 5 kg. The power to weight ratio is obviously quite important here. (If I can finish at around 8 hours on this one I'm super happy). How should I proceed, in order to get the best possible results on both? I would prefer to keep my weight until the first race, but I'm not sure that's a good idea. I guess I would lose a lot of muscle mass in my legs and thighs if I lose more than 3 kilos in only one month? Any suggestions / help would be greatly appreciated!