As a Parisian speaker of French, I may overhear the problem since I intuitively sort out the quality of sound according to the spelling and the context, but I don’t feel that so many confusions occur at the end of words. In French, since the final syllable bears the stress, it is least able to lose distinctions. So, the phenomenon jlawler points for Vulgar Latin should not happen in French. Indeed, the /e/-/ε/ distinction is largely lost in the middle syllables of words or phrases, when I feel it is still clearly made at the end. Clearly, some people may make confusions, especially in less frequently used words (e.g. the distinction between lé, fabric or wallpaper strip, and lai, lay [as opposed to clerical], two very infrequent words, is sometimes heard the wrong way round). But I have never been aware of a confusion on poignée/poignet. The other example you bring in is, not by chance, a future as opposed to a conditional. Well, for the future tense, the link sent by jlawler is very interesting: the French future and conditional are crafted just as explained for Spanish, but, unlike the conditional, the future (at least in France, and for many decades) is being replaced by a new analytic form; in oral (France) French, one wouldn’t say “je ferai” but “je vais faire” in at least 90% of the cases. If you absolutely have to say it, you will pronounce “ferai” just like “ferais”, at least in Paris, hence the current misspelling (always the conditional form misused to note a future). But context normally tells you when it’s a future, and in general it isn’t. Now, since the future tense has dropped out of the oral language, I guess many children first discover it at school, at least for some forms, and at about the same time they learn that the digraph -ai- is pronounced /ε/: this is one of the few consistent rules of French spelling, and the future (and perfect) 1st singular forms are exceptions. (The Wikipedia article says that j'ai, quai, gai should be pronounced with a closed /e/, which sounds awkward to me.) Curiously, the future and still more the perfect are two tenses that are practically out of use. By the way, I don’t know why we are taught to pronounce a closed /e/ in these forms (chantai, chanterai): I think very possible that at some point it was decided by grammarians in order to help distinguish the forms in oral speech, one or two centuries ago when they still were in use. But conversely, if you take perfectly usual forms as present perfect of the 1st group and imperfect, j’ai chanté vs je chantais, the distinction always is very clear to the ear. So I don’t think that the distinction is being lost. We must also note that this /e/-/ε/ opposition has no counterpart, in final open syllables, for the other medium vowel sounds, closed and open o, and /ø/-/œ/: in final positions you can only have the closed /o/ and /ø/ (with the only exception of the donne-le occurrence of final “e muet” in a stressed position, pronounced /œ/, or metalinguistic occurrences when you have to name a word like le, je, ce). So, being asymmetrical, it may be especially weak. The same may occur with the long e/ä opposition in Standard German (/e:/-/ε:/), which has no equivalent for long medium vowels (there are no long open o or ö), and maybe therefore is not consistently maintained. A last question: has “France a higher population of immigrant second-language learners than Francophone Canada”, as TKR says? I am not sure how much these new dialects take part in this evolution, which I think has begun many decades ago. 

The book to go to is "Phonetic Symbol Guide" by G. K. Pullum and W. A. Ladusaw. Page xxii is a summary of the principles the IPA (association) uses to select the symbols for the IPA (alphabet) and if you wonder about a specific symbol you can look it up in the same book. Most of the symbols have their own separate histories, for instance one of the principles is that letters taken from the latin alphabet is to stand for the most common (as in number of languages, not number of speakers) sound for that letter. However the {r} is used for the alveolar trill, which isn't really that common. 

Why would an organization want to create a language? For what purpose would it be used? Who would pay for it? If you're thinking of a language that would suit as a lingua franca, we already have one, it's called English. Best is not the issue here, a language needn't be "good" in order to be popular. Just making a language, by committee or not, won't make it be used as a means of communication. It must have something extra, like a community of some sorts, which for instance Esperanto has. Having some organization decree that some specific language is to be used instead of some other language rarely ends well. It has been used as an important and integral part of indoctrination and wholesale destruction of local and indigenous culture for centuries. Did you know there once were "schools for the primitives", in at least the US (american indians), Australia (aborigines) and even my own country Norway (sami). Kids were taken from their parents and punished harshly for using their mother tongues and/or keeping to their parents beliefs and customs. Another tried and tested technique is a little more direct: genocide. Both methods have proven to work splendidly when the goal is to replace one language with another. What organization in its right mind would risk that blemish on its reputation today? Besides, the purpose of linguistics is not to create language but to study it. While there are linguist that dabble in language construction, it is generally not to create the final and best language to replace all other languages, just as botanist aren't in the business of making the one, true plant to supercede all other plants. Linguists do not weight features up against each other and attempt to prove that, say, three tenses is better than five. Linguists describe, they do not prescribe. 

I graduated as a computational linguist. The cognitive sciences really weren't alluded to much at all at my uni. so can't help with the compare and contrast. So, what a computational linguist does: Not being exhaustive here... computational linguists work with corpora, work to make corpora, design tools for corpora, like POS-taggers, word sense disambiguation; and design natural language parsers, work towards machine translation and text categorization eg. "is this spam or not", and I'd say the first word net sorts under CL. I have a feeling computational linguistics (CL) might be to linguistics what AI is to computer science, developing methods, which when they are commonly in use, are no longer considered to be part of CL/AI. Which is okay, since CL/AI is already working on the next big thing. So, basically whatever is bleeding edge language data crunching at the moment. I'm assuming the reason your advisor wants you to do some CL is because you'll need to know the tools, corpora and methods. Then there's getting a better understanding of what's easy and not easy for a computer vs. what's easy and not easy for humans, which should be relevant to cog. ling. indeed, and finally, it's an obvious suggestion since CL is basically going all CS on poor, unsuspecting language data: it's fun! :)