Arthur Conan Doyle was a believer in the supernatural. My source here is from the Muse magazine, published by Cricket Media, in the October 2011 issue, page 6, by Doug Stewart. 

In the Artemis Fowl series, the fairies speak a language named Gnommish. We know that the Book is written in this language, in spirals. And we also see some Gnommish words, such as D'Arvit. Has Eoin Colfer developed this language in any way, other than making up a few words? 

You can see the different in the names: A graphic novel is a long, unified, story, whereas a comic book is lots of comics. 

But XKCD has messed up the Internet. Now there are a lot more results for 'died in a blogging accident' - 250k of them. I tried a search using Googles fancy tools, to exclude results that contained 'xkcd' and searching before the comic came out, searching for the exact term "died in a blogging accident". It... didn't work so well; no results were found. Without searching for the exact term, though, results in a bunch of irrelevant results. So... what was Randall referring to here? What were his two results? Or did he just make the number up on the spot? 

The last 5 lines are all talking about the subject's relation with a woman. But I fail to see how the first line is connected. What does the line about faith have to do with the rest of the verse? 

This is referencing the plot of the second chapter of The Adventures of Tom Sawyer, by Mark Twain. In this chapter, Tom tricks the other boys into doing his work for him: 

But even in that quote we see that they don't treat the cat well - they 'hang me up by the tail'. And we see earlier, as well, that the cat and children don't get along so well: 

... The article goes on to describe more about the centuries afterwards, but let it suffice to say that there were many Jewish bankers. Let's skip to the section on 19th and 20th centuries. The article describes many well-known Jewish bankers, such as the Rothschilds, the Mendelssohns, and the Bleichröeders. These families all made large loans at times, and were fairly famous. All of those families have Wikipedia articles, as well as articles in the Encyclopedia. I'll quote from the beginning of the Wikipedia articles: 

I'm having trouble seeing how the chorus relates exactly to the first verse in particular, and the rest of the song as a whole. How does the verse lead to the chorus? 

Who were its founding members? See my first quote - it looks like Tolkien and Lewis set it up themselves. 

A graphic novel is longer and is usually a single story; comic books are shorter and are often multiple stories. From Dictionary.com: Comic book 

There's already a question about what the neon god is. But why does it say that 'the words of the prophets are written on the subway walls'? What does this signify? 

In the beginning of "The Boscombe Valley Mystery", while Holmes and Watson are on the train, we see this line: 

In chat, @BESW taught me that there is a certain way that Kokopelli - a Native American god - must be depicted. In Kokopelli's Flute, Kokopelli is shown as both an old man named Cricket and an actual cricket. Is the way the way he is depicted in line with the respect that is required when depicting Kokopelli? 

Here's a video of a dog barking at a crow. The crow is just staying there, while the dog continues to bark. 

And does some other stuff that may not be so nice. But, we can explain why he did these things - the car crash that killed Emma's parents was an accident. He explained that he couldn't turn himself in because of his wife, who got a head injury and doesn't remember what happened. He then takes in Emma as a foster child, even though he never wanted a child around, in an attempt to make things right. He doesn't even get angry when she burns his posterior half off. He takes the key and number, and tries to take the money, because he feels he deserves it - he did take care of Emma for many years. My theory here is that he has slightly unhinged by the death of his wife, if you feel like that's a stronger argument. He accidentally knocks Mrs. Krishnamurti's head on the concrete, and takes her and locks her in the basement - she will interfere with her worries about Emma not being at school (she's the teacher). Drinkwater even gives her a whole lot of sandwiches (okay, they were meat and she's a vegetarian, but he gave her food), and even the newspapers that she asks for. He only tries to poison her because Feather suggested it (this is complicated and requires knowledge of the book), it didn't sound like he was planning on killing her (although I could be missing it). And he says that he never meant for anything to happen like that, that he didn't mean to hurt anyone (around p. 88 IIRC). He does attempt to hurt Koko at the end, though... Through all of this, we also have to consider that he had just lost his wife, and that he was very good to Emma before all of this. He does exhibit some alarming qualities before this, though, like screaming at his wife with his eyes closed while driving the car. This is probably slightly convoluted, sorry about that. The point is: can we consider Darien Drinkwater to be objectively evil? 

This seems rather clearer:' lady'is a 'quaint old word', and both men and women work. In addition, this young boy seems to be wearing a dress in this illustration: 

I added the lyrics to musixmatch.com, so you can view the lyrics. But is this song referring to anything in particular? I.e., the Holocaust (it's Jewish music, BTW). If so, is there anything in the text that shows this? 

I took this to mean stories such as Laura Ingalls Wilder's Little House on the Prairie series - a true story told in a way that reads like a novel. "How Nnedi Got Her Curved Spine" doesn't seem to fit that. Am I missing something here? Misunderstanding the definition of creative nonfiction? Or what? 

"Listen Nations" is one of the songs on the album Miami Meets Toronto, in which the Miami Boys Choir and the Toronto Boys Choir (both started by Yerachmiel Begun) sing together. The song is about the suffering of people, and the nations of the world not caring. The chorus is: 

I get why it was necessary to have a wife there; it improves the ploy. But why did they need to have Bartholomew dress up? Couldn't they have gotten a real woman to do it? 

From the context, it appears that the quote is saying that everything progresses - what was good for the ancient people is not necessarily good for us now. For instance, a house is for people today, and we're fine with that. A cave was for the cavemen, and he was fine with that. What your grandparents used is not necessarily what you want to use. 

Doing a bit of Googling turns up a Google Books result, which gives this cover: Which says 'Illustrated by Olga Ley' on the front cover. It appears as if this version is from 1962 (at least, that's the date of the edition on the cover, as well as what Google Books says). 

In Art Spiegelman's Maus, he represents different people from different countries as different animals. For instance, he represents the Jews as mice, the Germans as cats, the Polish as pigs, the Americans as dogs, and the French people as frogs. How were these choices representative of the different countries? I mean, the Jews/mice and the Germans/cats is easy - they were hunted like cats hunt mice. But why the others? 

It appears so. Since nobody else answered with an explanation of how everything fits, I decided to go ahead and post my own. 

This exactly describes what is happening, in-universe - he is taking drugs on those occasions. But Watson is saying that he does not see him taking the drugs, although they had been together 'many weeks'. So - was Doyle actually writing him as taking drugs then, and Watson somehow failed to notice, or was he not (out of universe) taking them and that was a later decision? 

It features this really cool scary guy, who I'm assuming is Anubis, and makes a cool profile pic for the Twitter. But... why was the decision made to change the style? 

Also - who else would it be? Is there any other giant king that we know of buried right there? It seems entirely possible that it was time who had it carved. 

How does Effie Trinket's name - either her first or last - relate to how she is portrayed throughout the series? 

How similar are the fictional and real towns? Was it directly modeled after the real town, or simply inspired by it? 

I was recently listening to the One Voice Children's Choir's cover of "This Is Me" by Keala Settle: $URL$ Part of the chorus goes like this: 

I know some Egyptian mythology and stories, but I've never heard of a story like this. Then again, I'm hardly an expert. Is there any Egyptian story like this? Did Michael Northrop base his story off of anything? 

"The Five Orange Pips" opens with two rather large paragraphs. The first one describes that there are a lot of good cases. The second, however, goes into detail about one of these cases - 180 words that are almost entirely unrelated. 

Black features fairly prominently in "Black, Their Regalia" by Darcie Little Badger - it's in the title, and black is fairly prominent throughout the story. The Apparently Siblings play neoclassical alt-metal fusion and look goth, wearing black a lot. For their saving-the-world dance, they wear black. When they meet the Plague Eater, it's described as "...ground crumbled, and darkness enveloped their world, a darkness so absolute, even phosphenes vanished." In addition, in the copy I have the story is printed with a black background, and the whole thing feels rather "dark" in color. 

During the events of The Heroes of Olympus, Gaea opened up the Doors of Death so that the monsters could come back easier. However, I could find no mention of how they got back without the Doors. But we know that they come back, as the Furies and the Minotaur regenerate. And if there was an easy way to get out of Tartarus, it wouldn't be such a great prison, and we see that it is used as a prison for the Titans. How do the monsters get out of Tartarus normally? 

In The Host, Melanie's aunt Maggie and her daughter Sharon, who Melanie was trying to find when she got caught by the souls and tried to jump down an elevator shaft, are shown to be quite bitter and angry - never really interacting with Wanderer and always keeping a distance from everyone... except when there's an argument when Kyle brings Sunny to the caves. Do we know why they are so bitter? 

In the January 2004 issue of The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction, they ran a story called "Nimitseahpah", by Nancy Etchemendy. 'Nimitseahpah' is the name of the Paiute statue that's part of the story: 

What is this all about? Is there a reason for this crazy weather, or is it just to enhance the creepy feeling of the story? 

The short story "How Nnedi Got Her Curved Spine" by Nnedi Okorafor details a story about a woman named Nnedi, who, while in the woods, was taken in by intelligent baboons and taught their first written language, which she then took back to her people, thus introducing writing to them. Nnedi Okorafor writes at the end of the story: 

Just from that Wikipedia blurb, we see that it's a newly homeless person, up against an ex-army officer, who wants to kill the homeless people. And Penguin Books has this to say: 

I recently learned, while listening to the flow of wisdom, music, and monologue that flows from lauir, that there's a type of poem called a 'Grook'. Quoting from the Wikipedia page: 

Cluny is described as being a very large rat. Beetles are generally... quite smaller than a rat, especially one the size of Cluny. Why does Cluny have stag beetles' horns on his helmet? Wouldn't they be tiny? Or are stag beetles larger in Redwall? 

But... this doesn't help much. What does it mean by 'precise use of language'? Or 'rhythm and rhyme'? What defines a 'Grook'? Is there a set of rules that will define a poem as a 'Grook'? 

In The Fall of the House of Usher, Edgar Allen Poe has several spots where he talks about the gloomy, cloudy, atmosphere: 

This seems like it should have some sort of significance - the phrase 'the eyes are windows to the soul' comes to mind - but I don't know what the significance could be. So: Is there a significance to this? If so, what? 

There will be many unmarked spoilers for Kokopelli & Co. In Attack of the Smart Pies by Larry Gonick here. Just a warning. 

So maybe the Inklings were founded in April 1940, although that could be referring to when they started regularly meeting. Update: Doing some searching through Google Books, I found this from The Inklings by Humphrey Carpenter: