Your definition is faulty - it is a coalescence of two different possible meanings of "object". If you accept the phrase "Object of a preposition" (not all accounts of grammar do) then the definition "that receives an action in a sentence" doesn't apply to it: you would need to distinguish "object of a verb" (or "of the sentence") from "object of a preposition". 

Because home is not only a noun: it is also an adverb. This is not predictable: it just happens to be a fact about English. 

I would describe it as a adjective functioning as complement, rather than as predicate (I don't think you can really call "flows" copular, even if it has been inserted by the translator). This is a rather poetic construction, which leads me to 

The tables of Mongolian letters in both Bright and Daniels The World's Writing Systems (ISBN 0-19-507993-0) and Campbell's Concise Compendium of the World's Languages (ISBN 0-415-11392-X) show distinct forms for vowels A and E only initially, so the issue of distinguishing A and E doesn't seem to arise at the end of the word. The sample glyphs for U+1820 and U+1821 in the printed Unicode standard do not seem to me to match closely any of the glyphs shown in either of those sources. However the sample of Mongolian in Bright and Daniels (an 18thC blockprint) does show a number of words ending in a glyph which in Campbell's table is the final form of A/E (confusingly, that particular glyph does not appear at all in the accompanying table in Bright and Daniels); and one word (which occurs three times) has this final glyph doubled, with a tiny space between. Normally one would expect that the penultimate letter would take a medial form, so I'm guessing that this is the purpose for which 180E was introduced. 

Van der Merve, Naudé and Kroeze (A Biblical Hebrew Reference Grammar) give the incomprehensible מֵימֵיוֹמֵי as the construct for מַיִם; but looking at other entries in the table, I believe this is meant to say מֵימֵי וֹ מֵי, i.e. "meymey or mey" 

Certainly. There is no necessary connection between languages and the technology (called 'writing') which is used to represent them. Some languages have conventionally been written in several different scripts: any language can be written in any script. 

I don't see why morphological formation is relevant. Just as with very and really, the subject has substituted another word of similar meaning: it just happens that outside contains the same morpheme as out. [I don't know whether or not it is relevant that out in this sense is rather restricted in its use: it can follow a verb of being, going or putting (when I was out, I'm going out), or an adjective of weather (it's cold out, it was wet out) but not very much else. So the subject has substituted a possibly problematic word by a more straightforward one.] 

Yes, and no. There are many different sign lanuages in the world, and they have a tree of descent just as spoken languages do. But there is very little connection between the sign language and the spoken languages of a particular area For example, ASL (American Sign Language) is said to be derived from French Sign Language: both are utterly different from BSL (British Sign Language), both in vocabulary and grammar. 

I don't know enough to work out whether this is actually the answer to your question, but Hewitt says (Georgian: A Learner's Grammar, p. 135): 

"How do you go about deciphering a language without any spoken basis, no native speakers to converse with, or another other leads to go on besides ones provided by context alone?" You don't. With no inroads such as you've mentioned, all you can do is play a game of decipherment; but basically any solution you find will be something you have invented: you have no way of checking your rendering against anything else. (See some of the wildly varying "translations" of Etruscan texts over the years - and that was a real language, with some context available for the inscriptions). 

It seems to me that your argument about the simultaneity of articulatory gestures in speech is mostly irrelevant, because the hearer does not perceive these various gestures, but the (single) resulting auditory stream. It is true that in general each such gesture will have an effect on the stream (though in some cases barely detectable) but there is no reason to posit that the hearer reconstructs the articulatory gestures. In sign language, on the other hand, the simultaneous gestures are directly perceivable, and decomposable. It is true that vocal speech does not in practice consist of a linear string of independent signals, but that the phones are spread along the speech stream and both overlap in time, and alter one another. It is true also that suprasegmental features can be independent of segmental ones, and thus give a limited degree of parallellism in vocal speech. But this seems very different from the immediately visible (multiple) parallellism and decomposability that is possible with sign language. 

Your first example, שותה shoteh 'who drinks' is regular. ישן yaśen, 'who sleeps' I haven't an answer to: it just appears to be irregular. צריכ ẓarik, 'need' appears not to be a verbal form at all, but an adjective meaning 'needing', though Segal and Dagut's dictionary says "should, must (as prs. tense of הצטרך)" (hitztarekh - the hitpa'el from the same root). I think this means that it functions as though it were the present of that verb. They do not list לצרוכ liẓrok at all, but they don't necessarily list all infinitives. Your last, פגוע pagu'a, is a different form, the passive participle, seen in ברוך (barukh) = 'blessed' and כתוב (katuv) = 'written'. The active פוגע (poge'a) means 'who strikes/offends'. So in summary, one is regular, one appears to be irregular, one is a functionally different form which just happens to be used in a similar way, and the last is a different but parallel form. One more point: I strongly advise that you don't think of the infinitive as the 'basic' or 'dictionary' form. We are used to doing this in Indo-European languages, but it tends to be unhelpful in Hebrew, because it sometimes omits a consonant of the root, as לשבת lashevet, from ישב yashav = 'sat' . Treat the 3sg perfective (or 'past', if you're talking about Modern Hebrew) as the basic form, and the infinitive as one of the derived forms. 

It is a metaphor, expressing pitch by reference to SPATIAL ELEVATION, and while it is widespread, it is not universal. Other cultures use "sharp/heavy" or "small/large" for our "high/low". But those two metaphorical frames, at least, still conceive of low pitches as "heavy" or "large", attributes which would tend to line up with "low" rather than "high". See David Huron's notes on the question. 

As curiousdannii says, the verb, in English and French is transitive; in fact, ditransitive. But in a larger sense the answer, as usual with "Why" questions, is BECAUSE THAT'S HOW IT IS. Languages are full of redundancies, half-statements, inexactitudes, and downright illogicalities, because they are created by people doing what people do, not by logicians, theoreticians or any other variety of ician. But as it happens, in this case there is no illogicality as far as I can see, and the only slight redundancy is that the prefix in a sense duplicates the preposition. But if you dropped it, you'd have "tribute", which is a different word. 

Weakening of consonants (typically stops > fricatives > approximants > nothing) is a process which has affected many languages at many times. It's particularly noticeable in French because, as you say, the orthography predates the change; but the same is true for certain patterns in English (most words that contain 'gh', for example, and for non-rhotic accents such as most dialects of England, 'r' after a vowel). What is slightly unusual in French is that final consonants have often been lost except where followed by a vowel - it's much more common to find consonants lost between vowels, and indeed this happened in French earlier, eg Lat. credere > Fr. croire. But the fact that the process has mostly affected only word-final consonants means that it is a different process. 

There can be syntactic clues (for example, people whose native language is Slavonic (other than Bulgarian/Macedonian) have no definite or indefinite articles, and often underuse them in English; but this may or may not be noticeable, depending on the person and the quality and length of their learning English. And of course those are not the only languages without articles. I don't notice any specific syntactic patterns in this clip: I find his English pretty idiomatic American English. However, I do notice a phonetic pattern from time to time: syllable-final consonants are sometimes omitted (for example "Do[n't]" at 1:41 and "insi[d]e" at 1:47). This is a habit I associate with Chinese and - probably more relevantly - Spanish speakers. On that basis (only) I would make a very tentative suggestion of a Spanish speaker. 

It's one of many kinds of compounds, and is not even exocentric (its head is "learning"). As it happens, it is exactly parallel to "machine stitching" (recorded in COHA in 1917) and "book learning" (in COHA from 1835). 

I take it to mean that (7) implies that the fact that Paul has been thinking about moving out is not new information. 

It's an arbitrary convention, pretty well limited to Romance and Germanic languages, and a few in the Balkans, because most of those have definite articles which distinguish gender. Most other languages I can think of, both within and without Indo-European, either do not have definite articles, or the articles do not reliable distinguish gender, so other ways have to be used to learn the gender of nouns. In most Slavonic languages there are no articles, but the gender of most nouns is apparent from their ending (also true to a lesser degree in Latin). But in many languages (eg Welsh, Hebrew, Amharic) neither the form of the word nor the definite article gives you much help in determining the gender. 

Many languages have constructions like this - we can say vessels of silver in English - but it is more widespread in Hebrew. Is this what you mean? (Examples from van der Merve, Naudé and Kroeze, A Biblical Hebrew Reference Grammar) 

Also, I would tend to use morphology to refer to the structure of a derived or inflected word and not to a compound. 

The basic answer is "because there are". Languages work the way languages work: we can explain how something has come about in a language, but why questions are nearly always unanswerable. Your question is about two different things: the kinds of grammatical distinction made in a language (such as plural, or objective case) and the mechanism by which these are expressed. But my answer still applies in both cases. To take number: in all European languages, most of the time you cannot say anything without clarifying whether you are talking about one or many (in some languages, one, two or many). To speakers of Chinese, Japanese and many other languages this seems unnecessarily fussy - but while it puts an extra burden on the speaker it arguably makes the hearer's job easier (I recall when I was studying Japanese I was confused for a moment by the phrase yama no naka ni, which I translated as "in a mountain", and wondered what kind of house was inside a mountain. Of course it meant "a house in the mountains"). Conversely, in Japanese and some other languages it is almost impossible to speak without conveying the relative rank of the speaker and the hearer or people spoken about: these are built into the grammar of the language. To an English speaker this is a great complication in the language. On inflection particularly: as a matter of fact, English has less inflection than most European languages, but this does not mean that English is necessarily "simpler" than those languages: complexity seems to appear in other ways (for example, in the use of prepositions, the idiomatic meanings of English's wide array of verbal "tenses", and in the phrasal verbs with which it abounds). I don't know very much Chinese, but my impression is that while the lack of inflection makes some aspects of the grammar "simple", others (such as the use of aspectual particles) have their own complexity. 

('ve-shinan-ta-m': "and shall-chew-over you them") Georgian has a set of prefixes and suffixes which combine to show the person and number of the subject and object For example: 

In the particular meaning of argot, the words are more or less synonymous, though I think argot is now much less common than jargon in this sense. As you say, argot has another meaning, that of street slang. 

I'm not sure if you are asking about Modern or Biblical Hebrew: your transliterations suggest the latter, but I'm not certain. What you are calling the "first person singular in the present" is actually a participle, which varies for number and gender, but not person. In Modern Hebrew this is thought of as a present tense, but historically it is simply a participle, construed with the copula. 

In any language (or most languages, anyway) there are sounds which speakers of some other languages will regard as different, but in the specific language they are regarded as variants of the same sound: usually, most speakers of that language will not even be aware that there is a difference. A group of sounds which are not distinguished in a language are referred to as a phoneme, and the different realisations of that phoneme are its allophones. Your example, of [l] and [ɫ], is a case in point: for most English speakers the choice between them is entirely occasioned by the phonetic environment (what sounds come before or after them), though this choice varies for different dialects of English. The standard test for whether two objectively different sounds are the same phoneme in a language, is to look for oppositions: words in which both occur, and are regarded by the speakers of that language as different sounds. However, that test is not the whole story. [h] and [ŋ] are not found in contrary opposition, yet are clearly not the same phoneme; the explanation, as Aspinea says, is that in English they are each limited to environments which don't happen to overlap. An interesting case in English is the dental fricatives, [θ] and [ð]. Many English speakers do not even notice until it is pointed out to them, that these are different sounds (the fact that they are both spelt 'th' often misleads people). They are different phonemes, but there are only a few minimal pairs: "wreath"/"wreathe"; "sooth"/"soothe", and (marginally in the modern language) "thigh"/"thy". 

These are clearly formed from "It depends", "Do you think so?" and "I haven't been", but while they may not be formal English they definitely occur and any practical grammar of English needs to account for them. By the way, from your description, it sounds as if you are regarding a sentence as a string of words (when you say "either before or after a verb") That approach to NLP simply doesn't work: you need to consider structures, not just the surface string. 

Since we do is equivalent to we have singers, there is no test by which it is possible to tell which of these is what is ellipsed. (The correct choice became we when some grammarian decided a couple of hundred years ago that English grammar was supposed to be Latin grammar. The ordinary English has always been than us. The OED says " With a personal or relative pronoun in the objective case instead of the nominative (as if than were a preposition).This is app. the invariable construction in the case of than whom, which is universally accepted instead of than who. With the personal pronouns it is now considered incorrect.") 

I think I must be interpreting the question differently from Greg Lee, because my answer is that (at least in English) they must be a grammatical category, because they are different in syntax from other verbs. Of course the individual modals are defined lexically, but what allows us to use a collective term like "modal verb" is grammatical. 

They do not specifically discuss the pa'ul (passive participle), but the form גֶלוּי (galuy) appears in the table, and they do mention that the "original י replaces the ה" in other contexts (specifically, before a suffix beginning with a consonant). 

No. To some degree you're asking about the precise scope of the two terms, but as they are commonly understood: 

The word (which I have never heard before, and appears to be used only by German linguists, not in English), is said in Wiktionary to be derived from Latin 'confingere' " zusammenfügen, zugrunde". 

There are a number of different goals that the constructors of conlangs might have, such as ease of learning, regularity of grammar, minimal inventory of phonemes, or philosophical hierarchy of knowledge. Conciseness could be such a goal, but I do not remember encountering an actual conlang where it was (John Lawler mentions a fictional example, in Heinlein's Speedtalk, and Vaclav Havel's play The Memorandum turns on a conlang called Ptydepe, in which the most common words are the shortest, and the least common the longest). As John Lawler says in his comment, redundancy is actually very common in real-world languages, and for a good reason: because speech is often used in noisy environments (in the communication-theory sense of "noisy" as well as the everyday sense). Extreme brevity would be likely to lose much of that redundancy, and it is not clear exactly what would be gained to offset that. So the simple answer is "Because that was not one of Zamenhof's goals". He was much more concerned with regularity, and with ease of learning.