Your definition of "molesting" and "pederasty" are likely based on your personal beliefs, so I do not know if this is helpful or not. There is a reference in the original Conservapedia article to this article in the Economist That article examines Keynes' own sex diaries: 

There's lots of research into this, and it's not that simple. In fact, there is even research into how people overestimate how simple it is! Much of the research into the illiptical machine read-outs is aimed at improving the models, so they are more accurate, (or, as we see below, selecting the best models, so they are the ones you see in gyms) so we might predict that old machines would be less accurate than new ones. In 2013, the US Navy looked into this for their training: *Accuracy of Calories Expended on 7 Commercially Available Exercise Machines: Validation for use a Cardio Alternatives for the Navy Physical Readiness Test They found the accuracy depended on the amount of exercise: 

In conclusion, even if the study was accurate, the article's headline about "Trump supporters" or the questions summary of "Trump Twitter followers" are over-generalisations of the studies sample. Those claims are incorrect. 

But the reason given wasn't that we were running out of Helium, but that there was a privatisation of the Helium supply by the USA (and corresponding reduction in stockpile), combined with delays in bringing up new factories and outages with existing ones. 

It is difficult to give a straight answer to the question, because if we define peace as the absence of war (example), we still have the problem of the nebulous definition of war. Does war include guerilla wars, civil wars, insurgencies and other forms of conflict? Does war have a clearly defined start and end date? For example, when did World War II end? While the Japanese ceased-fire and announced surrender in August 1945, signed the paperwork in September 1945, signed the peace treaty in 1951, and were no longer occupied by the US in 1952. Some argue that some countries never signed a peace treaty, but just stopped fighting, so are technically still at war. [Reference - not a strong source, but this isn't controversial.] Notwithstanding that, I am taking advantage of the looseness of the quote in the question, which uses a very broad "some sort of war", to include Civil Wars and Rebellions. The following conflicts overlapped each other, leaving no days where the entire world was at peace. 

So, a doctor testified in an affadavit that Armstrong was receiving chemotherapy, providing strong evidence that Armstrong was indeed sick with cancer as claimed. (Side note: Armstrong later confessed that Andreu's testimony was accurate during the recent Oprah interview.) 

Given the strong partisan nature of the book, it would be better to see the original stories, which I haven't found online. (The Parade Magazine article has been cited elsewhere as "Ubell E.. Should infants have surgery without anesthesia?. Parade Magazine April 12, 1987: 18-19.") At the Second International Symposium on Circumcision, San Francisco, California, May 2, 1991, Dr David Chamberlain presented "Babies Don't Feel Pain: A Century of Denial in Medicine" 

A Reuters article, Trump's tax cut won't be the biggest in U.S. history looked at this claim in early November, 2017. They do consider various definitions that might be used. Corporate If it were measured only by percentage points off the top corporate rate, it would be the largest: 

No, it is not true for all scenarios. This idea was examined by Britney Gallivan, who came up with a mathematical model for the limits, and used this knowledge to fold a large piece of paper twelve times in January 2002. She was a junior in high school at the time. Reference: Historical Society of Pomona Valley 

[Reference: Basic understanding of patents, and the possible lack of plans is mentioned in the original article] 

No, it seems the opposite is true. Higher education is correlated with entrepreneurship success. All the examples you give are of entrepreneurs in the tech industry. There is a relevant report from the Kauffman Foundation, called Education and Tech Entrepreneurship, May 2008, Vivek Wadhwa, Richard Freeman, Ben Rissing. This report was limited to U.S.-born tech entrepreneurs, building on a previous report of U.S. immigrants. 

Blackle actually cite a real reference to backup their claims. Credit to them! On their About page they quote a line from a Energy Use and Power Levels in New Monitors and Personal Computers, Roberson et al, Environmental Energy Technologies Division, Ernest Orlando Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, UCLA. The quote is: 

At the beginning of the 2012, I predicted that we would see a number of false debunkings of the Mayan Calendar Apocalypse, which would depend on their own misunderstandings of the Mesoamerican Long Count Calendar. I believe my prediction has already come true! I have now seen several viral claims that the cycling of the Mayan calendar has already happened, and that those who think it will be happening in December have forgotten to take into account leap days. 

The term narcotic is imprecise and, in the US, has implications of "illicit". I am putting issues with the criminalisation of drugs aside, and I am focussing on heroin and cocaine in particular, as example narcotics. There is an additional long-term complication to these narcotics - death due to overdose. According to a CDC report (key table), there were over 7.476 deaths due to cocaine overdose and 2,090 deaths due to heroin overdose in the United States in 2006. While those numbers might include (a) double-counting if both drugs were involved, (b) deliberate suicides and (c) deaths that would not have occurred had the drug been decriminalised - e.g due to impurities, (d) deaths that would not have occurred if the drugs had been consumed within the purview of a medical facility, it is clear that the statement that there are no serious complications to narcotics is inaccurate. 

So, no, McDonald's burgers do not have an unnaturally long lifespan. They have a similar lifespan to other commercial and homemade burgers. Whether they are abnormal or unhealthy is an unrelated question! Note: Neither experiment was documented in a peer-reviewed journal; I think it will be hard to find a journal that would publish such an experiment. 

I can't work out whether the Platypus counts. The story goes that when the first Platypus specimen was sent to England, it was perceived to be a fake (Ref) by the scientist, Dr George Shaw, who examined it with a pair of scissors in an effort to expose the fraud (Ref). (The unreferenced web-sites I have checked differ in a few minor details: was it more than one naturalist who was doubtful? Can the scissor marks still be seen in the British Museum's specimen? I can't be sure.) If one bloke from a museum in England can be counted as "general scientific consensus" (and perhaps, in 1799, he could!) then the platypus must count as a cryptid! (There's a similar story about black swans, but I found even less evidence.) 

If the question is "Do SAT scores correlated with income in USA?", the answer is Yes, for SAT Math scores, according to an Honors project. (Caution: Honors project may not be to the same standards as peer-reviewed articles.) 

I tried to read this report which looked at meta-analyses on breastfeeding research, which seemed very relevant, but was unable to confirm from it whether this stood up to further review. 

A good way to evaluate whether an attribute has a strong genetic component is to use twin studies. If there is a strong genetic component, we would expect that identical twins would have a more similar expression of the attribute than fraternal twins. Using twins means that most of the confounding factors, such as upbringing, education and socioeconomic factors are close to identical. 

the author argues that the effects of the Peter Principle can be explained by a regression-to-the-mean rather than poor promotion practices. More importantly, for this question, he summarises some of the evidence (with references): 

Of course, what its components would be worth (or rather what its outputs are worth) in its purest form is a nonsense method of valuing anything. There are various ways of defining economic worth, but it is clear that none of them are going to value a average, unspecified tree at $193,250, when its replacement and market price cost is so much lower. On the other hand, particular trees may be valued at higher than that price. 

Yes. This was an easy one! The claims were referenced. I randomly clicked on the second link which claimed: 

I read this as saying it won't unblock your nose, but it will make it feel like your nose is unblocked, which may help you feel better. It also may help with coughing: 

The Reddit comment, and the toolkit list is maintained by a user called kcimc, which is presumably the same Kyle McDonald as the script writer. Some clarifications: 

I love the answers that surprise me. I had never doubted the effectiveness of orthotics. (To be fair, I've never needed to care.) I thought it was part of evidence-based medicine. I went to find the evidence to show this. However, the literature seems more divided than I expected. When there is controversy about the effectiveness of a treatment, I look to the Cochrane Collaboration, who produce high-quality meta-analyses of smaller studies to draw more robust conclusions. There was a recent such analysis done that sounds (without knowing the details of your father's medical history, nor having the skill to understand it if I did) perfect for this question: 

Overall There are plenty of studies of various aspects of the effectiveness of produce washes. It is clear that pesticides are not the only reason to consider them. The results of the studies are somewhat mixed and almost contradictory, which may be due to the large number of differences between the situations. In the absence of a formal review of the literature (which I have looked for but didn't find), we might turn to organisations that evaluate such risks: The US FDA Recommendation is to use running water. 

While I don't attempt to give precise numbers, I think these examples are sufficient to show that it is "often". 

However, it isn't that simple, when you start digging. If you look at secular giving, the relationship disappears or even inverts. When you take people out of the religious context, the difference disappears: 

The 2005 paper shows they are still working establishing this association (e.g. by continuing to try to remove cofounders, such as smoking, and work out the best measures of periodontal disease) and reviews some of the criticism it has received. 

Here are some historical films that featured kangaroo boxing from 1895 and 1896. While rare, these events still happen. In 2013 a bout caused controversy. It is reasonable to believe that the video is not faked because its contents are not impossible or even unlikely. 

Dr Stanley Liew Choon Fong, Specialist in Endocrinology, Raffles Hospital claimed, in response to a question about water therapy: 

As to the question about whether lactose intolerance can be interpreted as "abnormal", I reject the categorisation as having a moral component that the data cannot support. It is not abnormal to be taller than 6 foot (1.83m), despite that describing a minority of people. It is not abnormal to not be born in Asia, despite that describing a minority of people. It is not abnormal to have a phenotype that allows the production of lactase into adulthood, even if those adults are in the minority. 

So, despite looking at 11 different studies, they were unable to show that hypnotherapy worked. Unfortunately, they were unable to pool all the data together to figure out if there was a statistical difference. (The full article explains that 

Short answer: Yes, but it wasn't as forceful as described, and his view has changed a lot in the past five months since this video was recorded. The Wall Street Jounal reported in June 2016: 

Wikipedia does a reasonable job here too, explaining more of the background. Now that you are totally scared off from aspirin, please try to remember that these are generally either low risk or minor. The benefits of aspirin for occasional use, or where the stroke/heart risks are heavy, is probably warranted. However, these are serious considerations before popping them every day just for their prophylactic effects on Alzheimer's. 

In the sense that the food is passed through the mouth twice for further digestion, it has some similarities to chewing the cud. 

Yes, humans are more predictable than random chance. It is known as the "Blue-Seven Phenomena", because when asked for a colour and a number from one to nine, these perform beyond expectation. This 2015 encyclopedia entry surveys the research. One large sample of Japanese university students found: 

Both the original paper and the subsequent one were published in Medical Hypothesis. This is a journal that, by design, includes: 

First, they checked that water removed pesticides. They found all but three types of pesticide were "significantly reduced". (I don't know what that term means in this case.) Then they tried comparing the washes. 

This wasn't terribly useful, just showing that you could measure objectionable, rather than criminal or dangerous, acts to measure the power of hypnosis. 

As a former resident of Queensland, I looked with interest at the third link provided in the question. The claims are extreme, so I believe it is valuable to address their claims directly, line by line. 

Yes, if you close the lid before you flush. This topic was report by Karl S. Kruszelnicki, a noted skeptic, science reporter and popular-science author in Australia. He cited Dr. Charles Gerba, a microbiologist from the University of Arizona, who has published on the topic.