Upper Limit on the size of the head Technically humans have two brains: One in the head, another(smaller, much less powerful) in the stomach. The second brain basically regulates function of the digestive organs, or something. Maybe it can be thought of as an outpost of the first brain, a small outcropping of nerves that need to be "where the action is," i.e. a field operation. Now imagine that evolution decides humans need to get smarter, but the head is already big enough to cause childbirth difficulties(this is the case). The solution is that the second brain gets bigger, and is used for "multi-threaded computation." Here would be an example of Multi-threaded computation: Such tasks would comprise situations when the primary brain can give the secondary brain a simple problem and a time allotment, and the secondary brain can solve it all on its own, without using the incredible faculties of the primary brain. An example is counting, or arithmetic: It's very simple to do(theoretically at least), and it does not require very much real-time data transfer between the primary and secondary brains. Basically, the primary brain sends some simple information(what's the prime factorization of 23856293698273325739248573029876129384762983462138741241234612394872649876219834?), where the number of nerve impulses needed to send the problem is relatively small compared to the complexity of solving the problem, and then the secondary brain works on it, and works on it, and works on it, and then sends back: The answer is 2*3*5*7*11 etc. etc., which is also a relatively small number of nerve pulses relative to the complexity of the problem. Now, imagine that the secondary brain gets bigger and more powerful as the need arises until it's fair to call it an actual brain as opposed to just a nerve cluster in the stomach. Disclaimer -- When you assume human brains are basically just squishy computers, it will be much easier to think about them, and also a whole lot more incorrect. 

How about slower moving projectiles? Wouldn't an ice arrow be deadly enough? Or how about a "paintball round" that's filled with something extremely reactive, like hydrofluoric acid? 

No, not with current technology. Modern skyscrapers are limited by logistical factors, such as concrete drying on the way up to the top of the building. In terms of structural stability, we could build buildings 2 miles high. But raising this to 4 miles doesn't make a difference, many other factors prevent us from reaching this height first. Edit: yes, you could build the skyscrapers with less material, and you could make them skinnier. Elevators would use less power. It would definitely make things easier, but you can't just assume that everything doubles. 

Assuming they don't land on the polar ice caps, in the middle of a desert, or during winter and an ice age, they can survive up to 430 million years ago, the approximate time period of the evolution of woody trees. So long as humans have wood to make spears, they can out-hunt any other predator in existence. Of course, I wouldn't say their survival is assured, but it seems likely. There are always animals to hunt, and there will be many, many more in a pre-human world. 

Democrats v. Republicans -- The parties may be "at war," but they both agree that third parties such as Libertarians or Marxists in power would be far worse(I'm not taking a stance here about whether that is correct). Their combined influence and agreement on this is more than enough to effectively silence third parties(though if both parties' leaders are highly disliked, a third party may gain some traction). Catholics v. Protestants(in pre-enlightenment Europe)-- They may have considered each other heathens, but they both considered everybody else to be heathens as well. If there was ever a serious threat posed by a third religious sect, say Eastern Orthodoxy or Islam, they would have united temporarily(as Western-European Christians) to crush it. The Kuomintang v. Mao Zedong -- They were bitter enemies, but they were united in national identity. Considering the Japanese to be rebels against Chinese dominance of the east(which could kind of make sense in a twisted way), the KMT and CCP united temporarily to crush the third faction, and only resumed warring when it was deemed that the greater threat to their society was defeated. 

I don't know if you would consider this reason "cultural", but a practical reason might be a limitation on the knowledge in your library. Mining might be impractical if lacking the interim knowledge (example - how and where to find ores, how to safely handle them/processes/byproducts, and even what they look like). This can be either because that knowledge was lost, or because on this planet the geological signposts are somewhat different - ie, some different trace mineral in this ore here, its a different color than expected, so didn't get identified... oops. Modern metalworking knowledge often skips these steps - assuming equally modern detection, or sometimes pointing out historical deposits, neither of which would necessarily apply to a people on another planet with knowledge and no tech. When I've looked, there's a lot of bog-iron and copper nugget level work, that is, what one can easily find and recognize, and a lot of advanced processing and the underlying cause-and-effect, and the in-between is a little sparse - not least because it is pretty complicated stuff, tangled in with all the chemistry, dyes, medicines, and a lot of risks and dangers. For the rest of the tech branches you mention, there's a fair amount of hobby-knowledge, and that and a bit of reverse-engineering may be enough to get them started - but hobby-level metal-working starts with processed metals and shapes it, or one builds a mechanical smelter and forge but works with purchased materials or already-identified ores. It's not nearly the same thing as walking out into the wild with nothing and finding ores, mining it with no tools, and processing the ores, managing to separate and name and safely work with chemical components and reactions, manage health risks from said processing, its byproducts, and its waste materials, and all the stuff that happens before we get to what we would consider raw materials. The thing is, your library is going to be an enormous help - and an enormous hindrance. Yes, both. It will let them shortcut some parts of the discovery process, knowing the principles of what kinds of things work and how they would work - but a lot, a lot of the details are not gonna be right for this new planet. Knowing how the process is supposed to work, all that knowledge your people saved, will let people figure out ways around that difference - eventually. So, hey, we need this chemistry reaction, we've got... umm... hardwood ash was used historically, but the wood-equivalent there may not have the chemistry that lets us make lye or potash, and still less might it map on to whether that wood-equivalent is harder or softer. And whatever they found for, say, soapmaking may not be the same thing for nixmatalizing grains (chemical processing), and may again not be suitable to use as a flux in metalworking. Or to bounce off of Thriggle's suggestion of a lack of charcoal/coal/oil, if they have some but not enough, they may focus on that lack, and never experiment enough to realize that shelf-mushroom or this peat moss or the other kind of coral can be processed and used the same way - especially if they skip the exploration or experimentation where they might have found out in favor of what they already knew would work. And because of that, I don't think they'll be as far along with some subjects, like metalworking, than they might be in those subjects if they hadn't had anything. What I'm trying to get at, here, is those missing steps will mean the knowledge isn't easily usable without a lot of work and experimentation. It will take a lot of time and work to recreate these processes. But if several branches have these processes half-filled out, then even if it takes lifetimes to fill out the rest, it will still be more productive to work in that than try and figure out the other processes where the pieces missing are all in the beginning and so one doesn't know how to start. So people will neglect those branches (like metalworking) far, far more than if they were figuring out everything from scratch, because working in those already known areas gets them, well, more bang for their buck. Add in the time it takes to ensure basic survival, recover from whatever lost them their tech, to expand and support their population, to ensure a decent standard of living (important now, not so much historically, also takes time/effort), and rediscover multiple branches of technology up to current day levels - it is really not surprising some branches like advanced metalworking have fallen behind, even by quite a bit. Maybe they would catch up eventually, but that isn't so when your story is set. I would imagine metalworking wasn't completely neglected, but it may lag far behind other branches. And one of the things advanced tech does, in whatever branch, is give more flexibility to its applications, including ways to work around problems - like finding alternate solutions to things that might have taken advanced metalworking for us - ie, we need this tool, originally it was metal but now ceramics or glass can work, or else needed metalworking as a prerequisite - ie, we need these chemicals, originally discovered when refining/mining metals but now we know what they are. That knowledge gives your people alternatives, and with alternatives metalworking becomes less critical, less urgent, with fewer people working on it, and so makes (much) less progress, overall, than the tech branches that are being leaned on to fill in. 

The planet could be a giant prairie. Grass can grow, but not much else. Hence why humans have to eat grazing animals, instead of plants directly. Similarly, if humans rip up the prairie and plant crops, you get a dustbowl that grows out of proportion and destroys a everything. Or, whenever humans settle down in one place, endemic disease eventually destroys the population and forces a return to hunter-gathering. Edit: If you downvoted, why don't you take a trip down to your nearest grassland, and try and eke out a living by eating seeds, and then come back and tell me how easy it is. 

I think you have to add a sealed catheter to the guy, and a shit-tube, or else he will be living in his own excrement, which I don't imagine a person could long survive. He'll have to take vitamin d, because vitamin d is produced through the skin. Without the skin, I imagine he'll be a lot more prone to injury, since the skin cushions the insides somewhat. Molot raises a good point with keeping the blood fresh, but I see a couple of ways this could be done. Either the doctor produces it with stem cells/living bone marrow sample from the patient(a little sci-fi, but not too far off), or the tube is molded to the patient himself, and is just slightly larger than him, so not a huge amount of extra blood. As for CO2, It will bubble out(if the blood is exposed to the air at least occasionally. In fact, if you gave the blood enough surface area, you could let diffusion do all the work of providing oxygen, so he can't kill himself by taking off the mask. 

That's an interesting question, since we have absolutely no idea what conditions are ideal for developing even carbon-based life. For instance, for carbon-based life, we would expect something like an atmosphere high in ammonia or other simple nitrogenous compounds(you need some 20-30 distinct proteins for DNA replication) to even have a shot in hell at producing life, yet there is no evidence for this kind of atmosphere existing on earth; based on our current knowledge, it is exceedingly improbable that on an earth-like planet(or any planet really), carbon-based life would arise by chance. Yet, it did. The bottom line is that nobody has any idea what chemistry is likely to produce life. But why try to use science to answer a question that it cannot answer? The origin of life in your universe could be a mystery in yours as much as it is in ours. Perhaps in your universe, the panspermia theory is correct, and life arose only once, somewhere incredibly far away. Perhaps your silicon-based life was created by carbon-based scientists, whose civilization was eventually destroyed without a trace. Perhaps your universe is a simulation in the mind of a deity. There are so many ways you can go with this. 

It's not that you need more coal. Hundreds of years after the start of the industrial revolution, and the world still isn't particularly close to running out of coal, even after long term increases in consumption. What you need instead is a lack of availability of other fuels-- no oil, no gas, no hydro, solar, etc as realistic options. Because oil and gas are produced mostly in the oceans, you could have a world with minimal tectonic plate action to move land to where the oceans used to be. Hydro power and wind will be developed as soon as the coal-fired generator/electricity itself, but these technologies, as in our world, could easily be too rare/expensive to develop on a large scale. Nuclear power of course can only be developed once atomic physics is well understood. All of this leaving a world dominated by coal. There's only one problem. China and India are huge coal users in our world, but they don't have steam powered trains. They use coal for electricity generation. How are you going to prevent this from happening? Perhaps the coal in your world is very clean-burning, so there is no incentive to switch to electricity from the steam- powered model.