This means that there are coral genus that produce deadly toxins. If genetic modification is required, then it should be of a kind that enables the coral spores and organisms is expel their defensive poisons to attack people and other creatures that feed on the corals. Assuming many more corals could be equipped with similar toxic defense mechanisms could make reefs into hazardous and lethal environments. The basic mechanisms are there, if they can adapted and transplanted into the majority of corals then this could achieve the result you want in making corals deadly. This may not be what you had in mind when you wanted to make corals pathogenic. 

It seems reasonable who or whatever "locked" the solar system with an E-R bridge would make this obvious by arranging the exit point from the bridge somewhere close to the solar system. Arriving somewhere billions of light years away wouldn't help at all. Also the on-off switch controlling the machinery responsible for the E-R bridge is presumably located inside the solar system. An Einstein-Rosen bridge is a well-established concept in general relativity. It's not unreasonable to assume the technology of AD 7000 or that of even more technologically advanced sapient species will be able to generate them. 

Apparently during the Carrington Event the telegraph network could also work without needing to be powered up. A Carrington-class CME missed hitting the Earth in 2014. Now the first CME to be detected as such was in 1971. While we know there were Carrington-class CMEs in 1859 and 2014, this suggests there might have been other Carrington-class CMEs which, like the 2014 event, may have missed the Earth. Extrapolating from this data, it is possible to assume that Carrington-class CMEs occur with a frequency of approximately one hundred and sixty years. However, this might be increased to a frequency of approximately of, say, seventy-five years (this assumes there was an undetected Carrington CME somewhere between 1859 and 2104). Although the Carrington frequency of 160 years is our best estimate based on known data (this is the most conservative manner for making an estimate). Considering that CMEs are frequent, varying from one every 3.5 days to once per five days, and if Carrington-class CMEs happen on average once in 160 years, to extrapolate to CMEs with magnitudes two to three orders of magnitude greater than Carrington-class CME this will be the result of blind chance itself. Such super-Carrington-class CMEs can be CMEs that occur with a lower probability. For example, a super-Carrington-class CME that is three orders of magnitude could occur once in a million years. Certainly CMEs display considerable variability and this variability does not exclude the possibility and the probability that there will be super-Carrington-class CMEs. This information about recent CME events indicates that CMEs could easily generate massive solar storms. 

Source: Parsing the Science of Interstellar with physicist Kip thorne Thorne also wrote the book, The Science of Interstellar (2014). Copies available in all good bookstores and libraries. There is also a documentary about the movie's science which can be found here. I believe it is also an extra on the DVD. Yes the science of Miller's Planet is plausible and possible. Kip Thorne is one of the top physicists working in the area of general relativity. You don't get better than that. 

This question has attracted many good answers. There are two "places" where alien megastructures could be located and be hard to detect. Firstly, if they were located out of the plane of ecliptic. Most searches for objects in the solar system take place by looking in directions confined to the plane of the ecliptic. An alien megastructure could be in orbit around the solar system and there be very small windows of opportunity to detect it as its orbit carried it close to the plane of the ecliptic. Secondly, any megastructure might be located a long way from the centre of the solar system. In this case, their angular resolution will be miniscule and therefore hard to detect. Objects out as far as the orbits of Uranus and Neptune could be difficult to spot. Remember Clyde Tombaugh had an extremely difficult task in finding Pluto and he knew he was looking for something, in this case, a ninth planet. Astronomers might easily overlook something a few pixels wide if it was something they weren't looking for. Of course, structures pumping gigawatts of energy could be readily spotted. However, any technological civilization capable of interstellar travel may be able to avoid dumping large amounts of waste energy into its surroundings. Thus adding to its difficulty in being detected. 

With sufficiently advanced technology, without being too absolutely futuristic, the answer has to be metamaterials. You and your client step inside a "shroud" made of several layers of different metamaterials. The first layer works on the optical level by bending light around the shroud. This is effectively an invisibility cloak, but it doesn't actually need to produce full invisibility. Simply enough deflection of light around the two persons to conceal who they are and what they are doing. The deflection and distortion of light doesn't to happen on all frequencies of light just more than enough to thoroughly obscure what goes on inside. The second metamaterial layer works acoustically by bending sound waves so they are confined to the shroud and directed into an acoustic damping trap where all sound is cancelled out. The third layer of the shroud doesn't need to be made of metamaterials. This is a bog standard Faraday cage to prevent any electromagnetic signals entering or leaving the shroud. To prevent recording devices the shroud will need to incorporate high-sensitivity EM sensors to detect any such devices. Upon their detection an internal electromagnetic pulse is generated to "fry' any such devices. The sensors will automatically shutdown to avoid being fried too. Old-fashioned recording devices like the Minox camera won't be detected because any electronic or electrical activity. Mechanical and photochemical recording devices don't have any such activity. The shroud will be equipped by sufficient scanning technology to detect concealed devices of this kind. The metamaterials used in this answer aren't currently available in shops, stores or supermarkets nor can they be purchased online. This answer does assume ongoing progress with the development of metamaterials both for light and sound. The sensors and scanning technology involved are straight forward extrapolations of existing systems. With the ongoing miniaturization of technology and some well-designed folding systems the whole "shroud of silence" could be carried in a standard brief case. With one press of a button the whole thing can be open and enshroud two persons. 

The simple answer is hotter and dryer. Something like the Triassic period of planet Earth, only more extremely so. 

The requirements for a herbivorous mermaid with gills or a swim bladder which spends its life underwater are fairly contradictory. To the extent that an organism with all these characteristics would be nonviable. This is a challenge in creature design. They can be considered one by one. A mermaid with a swim bladder will stay underwater its entire life, because it lacks buoyancy and it will tend to sink. Staying underwater is easy. Indeed it is most likely to spend its life on the bottom. If it's herbivorous and feeds on bottom plants this might not be a problem. Lacking gills is not a problem. There are marine mammals that come to the surface to breathe. For examples, whales, dolphins and seals. But if the mermaid stays underwater it isn't possible for it to surface and breathe. There is no need for it to have lungs as well. Not so easy to achieve. Now to consider possible alternative mechanisms for each requirement. A possible replacement for a swim bladder is a low density body. This will enable the mermaid to float underwater and it is no longer a bottom dweller. To replace gills and lungs there could be an internal gill system. Not impossible, but tricky. The mermaid would need to "pump" large volumes through its body, through its internal gill cavities to extract sufficient oxygen for respiration. This suggests a mermaid that swims around with its mouth open for the inflow of seawater and for its expulsion from its nether regions. This mermaid would be a living submersible hydrojet. The reason for is simple. If the mermaid doesn't have gills, and it can't have lungs, then respiration is effectively impossible. The only alternative is an internal gill system. The energetics involved in a living hydrojet organism are problematic. It would need to consume copious qualities of food to generate the metabolic energy to "pump" the water through its own body and to aerate its internal gills. Herbivores tend to digest their food relatively slowly, this may weight down any mermaid species of this kind. Sinking to the bottom won't help its hydrojet aeration. There is one further conceivable step for a mermaid of this kind. That would be to abandon the possibility of it being a vertebrate. Bones and vertebrate tissues are relatively heavy biological materials (relative to seawater, that is). If this mermaid was a form of jellyfish that simply happened to have a bodyform that resembled a mythical mermaid then many of the features required for this variety become plausible. It doesn't need gills (nor lungs too), oxygen can be absorbed from its surrounding medium, or a swim bladder, due to its low density tissues enabling it to float easily in the sea. Jellyfish species don't tend to be herbivorous, but this might not be an impossibility. One major drawback with mermaids of this kind will be their tendency to collapse into a gelatinous puddle when brought on to land. No romance to be had there. A mermaid imitation jellyfish may not be what the OP had in mind when he proposed his question, but as squishy and yucky** as it may be, this does fit the bill. **: Not everybody finds jellyfish "squishy and yucky". They are delightful and beautiful, but quite fragile creatures. Not all Nature's nice creatures are vertebrates. 

Cover the material with a layer of disassemblers programmed to only disassemble disassemblers and nothing else. This will tend to make materials be immune to the fearful depredations of rogue disassemblers. For human beings and other living creatures they will have to wear garments similarly coated with antidisassembler disassemblers. Of course, this method can be used to either eliminate or ameliorate the disassembler plague. Simply, unleash large numbers of antidisassembler disassemblers to hunt down all rogue disassemblers. Sometimes it's the simplest answers, you know. Need more be said? Not really. 

Placing an intermediate mass black hole would act as a gravitational stabilizer if it was centrally placed in the open cluster. The OP is correct that the presence of a IMBH could have severe adverse effects on the integrity of the cluster itself and on any lifeforms inhabiting planets in the cluster. 

This answer focuses on only part of your BOBs, namely, their evolutionary history. There have been suggestions that six-legged animals will have evolved from a remote ancestor that was a bottom dwelling marine organism. This creature can be labelled 'benthic' which is only fancy way of saying its bottom dwelling. The majority of animal life on Earth, which includes humans, are tetrapods because our remote ancestor was a free swimming teleost fish. Its four fins eventually became four limbs. Its descendants colonized the land and that's the main reason animal life is four limbed. Bottom dwellers can have six fins or similar structures and these could evolve into six limbed animal life. It's not unreasonable to expect animal life in your construct world to be all six limbed. Although it is possible there could have been two independent branches of animal life, so there could be both four-limbed and six-limbed animals sharing the world. Hopefully this will add some versimilitude to their evolutionary backstory.