Difficult measures are needed: 3D maps of the magnetic field, seismic data from multiple stations and meteorites, Magnetic basalt/igneous maps of 1/2/3 billion years chronology. 

First query: YES there are many bok clusters without foreground stars. For density, That's an unclear field of study, confused with dark matter enigma, and the estimates of frequency of "Boks" perhaps only have about 1-2 degrees of magnitude precision. We can't say that there is less than 1 bok for every 10 stars, we can't say there is more than 1 for every 1000. The distance to the nearby and compact globules is difficult to determine. The absence of foreground stars toward globules rules out spectrophotometric distance measurements, and the distance estimation from LSR velocity (kinematic distance) is unreliable. So, listed distances are only values assumed by associating observed globules with neighboring larger molecular clouds whose distance is known. So for one thing, you will find that catalogues of Boks, and IRAS, give their galactic coordinates of longitude and lattitude, and not their distance, which they might get wrong by an order of magnitude. There are dozens of stars within 20ly, there's about 1 star every 280 cubic light years, so within 500 light years from us there are about 2,000,000 stars. I found a catalogue of 380 nearby small compact globules of which 280 are about 1ly across. IRAS Point Source Catalog, Version 2.0 has many thousand of them, they seem to be all in the 4000 parsec range, and stuff that far away becomes difficult do detect as soon as it does have a star in front of it. Within 1000 parsecs there are already 100ds of Bok clusters in catalogues, and if there were 10,000 Bok clusters nearby, the opacity of the sky could be measured, there has to be a certain ratio of dark clouds relative to stars to give the current opacity of the solar neighborhood, and perhaps someone else has information about that, it's probably that some studies have been done to measure local opacity, and mass, although that is also complicated by dark matter theories, perhaps there are so many Boks, they make up a large proportion of the local mass. There is a catalogue of actual Bok Globules from 1988, based on globule regularity, roundness, because roundness is used to determine their size and shape rather than precise factors, all their target's did not have a star in front, and they said: "Such a catalog of small molecular clouds was needed for our ongoing study of star formation in Bok globules (Clemens and Leach 1987; Clemens, Leach, and Barvainis 1988). The available catalogs (Lynds 1962; Barnard 1927) are most complete for larger clouds (i.e., angular sizes greater than S'-IO'). However, many smaller clouds do not appear in these catalogs. A new search of the Palomar Observatory Sky Survey (POSS) was made with the goal of finding the smaller molecular clouds. We have identified 248 molecular clouds with optical sizes smaller than 10'. Most of these have been previously cataloged (72%), although the fraction of clouds previously cataloged decreases somewhat (to 60%) as the mean size decreases to l'-2/ . A large number of the clouds (60%) have IRAS point sources within their boundaries or in their near environs, indicating that probing the FIR dust properties of the clouds will be productive." They catalogued 248 easily measured bok globules somewhere nearer than 5000 parsecs and beyond that it's too small to see them. someone did a survey of SO emissions from the above catalogue, and had images of this kind: 

A "one time only freak accident" is only going to be considered as a likely possibility when scientists gain a deep understanding how life actually arises and on the basis of that can rule out that life will typically arise on Earth like planets in habitable zones. We haven't arrived at that point yet. Scientists will not invoke "freak accidents" to explain something unless there is a lot of evidence that points to that; clearly such assumptions amount to making the assumption that there is no natural explanation, but that has to be justified by other evidence first. 

The ratio of oxygen isotopes of lunar rocks are almost identical to those of Earth. Lunar recession due to the tides which causes the Earth's rotation to slow down, means that just after the Earth formed, the Moon was very close to the Earth and the Earth was rotating very fast. This situation can be reached due to an oblique impact that transfers a lot of angular momentum to the Earth. The formation of the planets is known to have proceeded via small objects growing larger by colliding with each other, this means that the last stages of planet formation would have involved collisions between large objects. It is to be expected that around the time the Earth was taking shape, there could also be a proto-planet at the Lagrange point 60 degrees away from Earth in the same orbit. On the long term this is an unstable situation which ends with a collision that according to simulations is of the sort that typically leads to the formation of the Moon. The asymmetry in the geology between the far side and the near side of the Moon. (there are many more maria on the near side compared to the far side). If the Moon had indeed been very close to the Earth after it formed, then the near side would have stayed very hot due to the Earth's surface still being molten and the radiant heat affecting the near side of the Moon. An impact on the near side of the Moon would far more easily be able to penetrate the solid crust and cause magma to flow to the surface compared to the far side of the Moon. 

As pointed out here, the limit of naked eye visibility for people with extremely good night vision is about magnitude 8.5. Neptune at opposition is much brighter at magnitude 7.7, so it should be visible to people with good eyesight. Astronomer Brian Skiff, made an attempt about a decade ago, he failed to spot it. He said that it should be relatively easy to spot from the Southern Hemisphere as it is high in the sky viewed from there. But surely many other people with good eyesight who are capable of seeing faint stars of magnitude 8 or even dimmer who work at the Paranal observatory will have given this a try? 

There will be a complex system of voting to decide on the best name, and the suggestions will come from worldwide sources amidst a media frenzy for a while, the media will sensationalize the naming of the planet. It may be a 9 year old girl from a school than names a new planet if it is found. Planet nine will probably be the place holder name for a while because it sounds ok, unless the media quotes another famous source who suggests a good name. The media will play a large part on publicising all the suggested names and the naming competition, so it's very much an astronomy PR game. Probably the name of another planet would not become official for a good many years after it's discovery. the story will perhaps be similar to the naming of Pluto: $URL$ 

It is best summed up by this graph of meteorite diameter versus frequency of impact, divided by the probability of total atmospheric penetration. Typical meteorite sizes, are similar to typical road lengths and typical piece of string length. Micrometeorites (particles normally less than 1 mm in size) constitute the main part of the flux of extraterrestrial matter accreting on Earth (1–3). (from arctic samples) Over the whole surface area of Earth, there's 18,000 to 84,000 meteorites bigger than 10 grams per year. (study by P. A. Bland and was published in Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society.) 

You must put it in a spectral histogram program. same color as a shark/manatee according to one crazy program. I found this from basic blur pic from a true color source: 

Scientists cannot theorize clearly if minerals and elements are arranged in plumes and strata inside mars, and the diameters that make up the martian condensed/fluid inner/outer strata and plumes, they don't know if there is something fluid and metallic [mobile electrically charged plumes of (probably) heavy elements (perhaps including iron, the 4th most common element on our world's surface), and heat from radioactive decay]. They will know more if there is any thermally driven geological movement inside the planet, including molten iron, if they can find any small temporal fluctuations in the magnetic field. For the moment, a molten core only gives way to theories on "paleomagnetism, a latent magnetic crust of 10-125Km" deep stating that all the magnetism is left over from 4 billion years ago, and that certain zones have been de-magnetized by impact collision. Meteorites de-magnetize the crust and it may be possible to date the chronology of the weakening molten core of mars from billions of years ago, to know how long ago the molten core was magnetic, and how fast it ceased being as fluid as it was. Yt is not possible to determine detailed vertical variations of the magnetization of the Martian crust on the basis of magnetic data analysis alone, it is possible to estimate the thickness of the magnetic part of the Martian crust using other independent observations. The magnetic layer is bounded at the bottom by the depth to Curie isotherm of its major magnetic minerals, and at the top by the depth to the base of a near surface zone that has been demagnetized by impact-induced shock waves. Some studies have demonstrated that the secondary magnetization acquired by the lower crust in the absence of the core dynamo has little contribution to the observed magnetic anomalies. The measurements of the magnetic crust are the only witness of the inner core's activity, and of it's spherical geometry: