Look for a pack where the ice axe is on the side of the back. Strapping snowshoes to the back of a pack is fairly trivial: usually I rig a loop at the bottom of the pack about 4" in diameter. Run the tails of the shoes through the loop, and a bungie cord areound the body of the pack hooking into the toes. (I'm using Ojibway style wood and babiche snowshoes) If using the current metal tubing style, instead of a loop at the bottom just use a short lanyard with a mini-biner on it. We used to run cross country team orienteering. Everyone had to have snowshoes, but you didn't have to wear them. Depending on the day, snowshoes would be taken off/put on 6-8 times a day. 

Certainly lacing techniques are worth trying. Normally I don't find these very effective with a low top shoe. One technique however that may work: Lace up the fore foot for comfort, tie a square knot, then lace up the rest of the shoe. When you have a long down hill, stop and retie the top of the shoe much more snugly. It will be a trade off. Your feet will be uncomfortable for the downhill, but you won't have blood blisters under your toes. If your foot is low volume, look at adding an insole into it. You may want to experiment with a thin felt insole either above or below the insole that came with the shoe. More and more I'm wearing minimalist foodwear -- just enough shoe to protect my feet from the rocks. This requires re-learning how to walk. But I have fewer problems with my knees and back. How minimal? I use neoprene booties for backpacking, those 5 buck nylon mesh 1/16" rubber sole for running. 

Black flies (habitat: near fast flowing water) sand flies (obvious) and noseeums also fly into eyes. They aren't seeking your eyes, they just bumble into them. I've also had them get out of reach in my ears, fly up my nose, have inhaled them by mistake, and found them crawling into the crease between clothing and skin. Noseeums are basically punctuation with wings. The other two are 1/8 to 3/16" long (2-4 mm) West and Rugge in the "Complete Wilderness Paddler" have a chapter on bugs in the bush. A lighter hearted look at blackflies is here: The Blackfly Song -- Wade Hemsworth Mosquito hats work, but make you look like an alien from another planet. In most areas blackfly season is fairly short -- bad only for 2-3 weeks. Northerners usually have a few such hats that come out as needed during the rather intense bug seasons. Sandflies seem to have a longer season. If you are traveling in bug country a full suite of armour: * Mosquito hat. The ones with wire hoops help keep the netting away from your face, or the hoopless ones can be worn over a hat. * Modified light weight long sleeve shirt in a medium earth tone. (Mosquitoes are somewhat attracted to blue and white) Modify the cuffs with velcro closures and gussets so that you can make a bugproof seal around your wrist. Replace/augment the button up front with velcro too. Move the collar button as needed to get a proper fit at the neck. When using bug gunk, apply to collar and cuffs. * Nylon wind pants with elastic cuffs, and calf length zippers so you can take them on and off without removing shoes. Windpants will stop the flies, but mosquitoes will bite thorugh the fabric where it is tight against skin. Medium beige is best combination of cool and unattractive to mossies. * two pairs of socks, one inside and one overlapping the cuffs of the wind pants. Not all mosquito netting is noseeum proof. Noseeums in particular are repelled by DEET, and in general DEET seems to work well on smaller flies, but as the size get larger, the effect gets smaller, and hardly works at all on horse flies. While DEET is effective, keep it out of your eyes. Don't apply to forehead either as it runs with sweat into your eyes and stings. Applying to hair (if you still have it...) works, as does applying it to the edges of your hat. Deer flies and horseflies however do not like a greasy surface. I knew of a crew setting hydro pylons on the east side of Lake Winnipeg (Lines from Limestone Point/Kettle Falls dams) who wanted to work without shirts due to heat and humidity. They found that slathering themselves with motor oil was effective. On hearing this tale, I experimented with lard. It works. They still do touch and go landings, but do not bite. 

I don't take a tent, I just take a tarp. Easier to pitch (if you have trees) In 30 years of experience (4-6 weeks per year) I've only once gotten actually wet doing this. Old tarp. Heavy rain. I pack the tarp last thing, to give it maximum drying time. If it's dry it goes in my pack. If wet, it gets rolled up in my foam pad. In the evening the tarp alone is set up as soon as my camp chores are done. It's generally dry by bed time. I've also found that the ground under it is usually dry enough by then that my sleeping bag won't wick water. I'll spread my poncho first if the ground is really wet, then my foam pad, then the sleeping bag. If I expect the weather to consistently wet, I'll bring a bivy sack too. 

Go barefoot more of the time. When you do get an infection, rub your feet with rubbing alcohol at the end of the day. Do not sleep in socks. If the weather is cold enough, keep separate day socks and sleeping socks. 

In passing: Why is the AT notorious for this, but the pacific crest trail is not? The implication is that there is a local carrier present, so you are getting it through mouse droppings, or bird droppings. 

Edit: My bad. Poster is asking for globe -- the glass enclosure on the outside, not the fine thorium oxide ash mantle that breaks so easily. In passing: The lantern can be operated without a globe. I would hesitate to use it in adverse weather. The mantles are fragile and a strong wind or a raindrop can do them in, but for inside or on calm evenings, they are quite usable. I have used one for a week on a winter dogsled trip this way. (Coleman lantern with metal box for it.) If you are in Canada, Tom Moody seems to have repair part for nearly everything. Try this: 

If the water is sufficiently clean that you are willing to eat the fish, it's clean enough to use to bleed the fish. Dirt as such isn't poisonous. Clear water isn't necessarily safe. Two ways come to mind: 

Walk barefoot a lot. Rub your feet with alcohol. Use the 99% stuff, not the 70%. Soak your feet in brine. On hot surfaces it's cooler to run. When you walk, each foot is on the ground more than half the time. When you run there is at least some time that both feet are airborne. I got to the point where I could run to the 10 miles to work, wearing water socks on the gravel roads and barefoot on the pavement. (About 4 miles of gravel, 6 of pavement) 

If she is easily doing 10 km now, then a one shot of 15 km isn't unreasonable. Yes it will be a challenge. You may have some tears toward the end. Tips: Assuming typical alpine country, -- lots of small scree, moss tufts, but not overall very steep. 

Part of it is the distance from the sun to the horizon. In the tropics the sun path angle is nearly at right angles to the surface. Sunsets are short. The time between 10 degress above the horizon and below the horizon is also short. As latitude increases, the angle of the sun's path decreases. The time to cross that last 10 degrees above the horizon increases. At mid latitudes (40-50) in the winter the sun never gets far from the horizon. In Edmonton (54 N) I have to use my sunvisor at noon driving south. Mid latitudes in summer however here, have sunrise at Too Damn Early, and sunset at After My Bedtime, and so the times we are driving about, the sun is high in the sky. Also: Near the equator, day length doesn't vary much. If you have a pattern of commuting at 7 a.m. then possibly in Singapore that doesn't correspond to a time when the sun is a nuisance, and it remains not a nuisance all year. Where in New Zealand, you are going to facing the glare at some point in the year, and that's what you remember. 

Teach your dog to pack. 4 cups seems like a lot. Big dogs? Our dogs live outside in winter and get 2 cups. The two larger ones are 50-55 pounds. If the main ingredient in your dogfood is corn meal, and half the calories come out the back end. Many dogs do not digest corn meal well. Change brands. That alone may reduce the amount you have to carry. Figure out a calories per cup for your food. Replace one quarter to one half the food with equivalent calories from fat. I would suggest using lard as it has less scent. You can melt these together to save volume. Fat runs about 3600 cal/pound, where cereals and proteins run about 14-1600. Introduce this new diet to your dogs about a week ahead of time. If the dogs aren't working hard enough not all the fat will be digested, and you will see greasy stools. This is not a long term solution, as it is deficient in protein, and likely trace minerals. If lower volume is sufficient, try mixing fish meal with fat. You may have to hunt for fish meal, but I've found it at any place that bulk sales ingredients for livestock and poultry feed. This will give you a compact brick. It will also reek. You can make any food more efficient by adding water and cooking it. Dogs have fast digestive tracts and there are a lot of calories left in their crap. Cooking starts the breakdown process and pre-moistens the starches so that the dog gets more out of it. Cooking doesn't have to be complicated. Mix equal volumes dog food and water, and bring to a boil. Set aside for half an hour. When it's cool enough to eat, it's ready. 

I had permission to a bunch of adjacent farm/pasture/bush land near a school I worked at. I think this would be reasonable also in utility type public land: community pasture, national forest, wilderness areas, but not in lands whose function is beauty such as parks, or sites that get large traffic flows. We had an orienteering game that ran in winter. Because it was in winter, I had to have all the controls set up before snow fall. Because I had to adjust the spread of the game depending on how deep the snow was, I needed 3 times as many controls as I expected to use. Because kids were in the school for 3-5 years I had to be able to go that long without reusing a control point. What I did was to make controls out of 4" squares of UV resistant coreplast. These were affixed to a tree or fence post with a roofing nail, on the north side. I wrote on the squares with an artline 400 paint pen, AND a laser printed Avery weatherproof label. Each square had an ID and a codeword. E.g. ID A21 Codeword Rambunctious Rhino. Directions as to how to get there referred only to the ID. Return with the codeword proved that they had been there. Clues generally had two components: Part one got you to the general vicinity. Part two told you what to look for. So a simple one would be 721 654 using the standard UTM grid. That is accurate to 100 meters. Part 2 would be something like: "Double trunk birch near hill top" More complex ones could depend on plotting bearings from landmarks, figuring out how to do some form of search, doing research on the internet. If you were making a game for one use, you could skip the nails, and use baling twine. Or you could just write on flagging tape. At the end of 5 years I had over a thousand controls, spread out over 200 km2 of territory, all with gps coordinates to within 5 meters. In the fall I would take a map of a zone, usually a square mile, and would spend the day checking previous controls and adding new ones if I was inspired to some clever new clue. The school is not open any more. But a description of the game, and how it works is here: $URL$ 

In terms of planning distances I figure 5:1 for elevation. That is, a meter up effectively adds 5 meters horizontally. This is true for up and down both. In practice the up part takes longer for any but the most fit, but coming down is still slower than flat (you are picking your foot landing more carefully.) Both going up and going down you are taking shorter steps. So a 20 km loop route with a 1 km total of up and down will take about the same time, and leave the same fatigue more or less as a 25 km flat route. In more detail: 8% is a magic number in terms of gradients. Up to about an 8% grade (8 foot climb per 100 foot horizontal) you can walk normally. You have a heel strike. Your step shortens up hill and lengthens down hill. At 10% for most people, you change to a toe strike, and you are climbing, rather than walking. This is not nearly as efficient. You will find that the vertical change entirely determines your speed. E.g. when you are walking you do 3 km/hour. When your are climbing you do 1200 meters an hour up. Your numbers will vary. But the 5:1 rule is good enough for me. 

I've spoken to trappers. Wolves are a non-starter. Even in a trap, they try to get away, not attack. One trapper said that the only time he's been bitten by a wild animal it was a muskrat. While wolf attacks are rare there ahve been several attacks by cougar/mountain lion of late. In each case the person was alone. All the bear incidents I've read about have been with groups of 4 or less. Bears in winter, are uncommon. In winter I keep a fire going all night, not for wildlife, but because I get up in the night to pee or get a drink, and will sit by the fire for a bit to ease my back. Winter nights are always too long. (Central Alberta. Dec 21 sun time is 8:45 to 4:30, add an hour of twilight.)