In fact, even Sapir (in the 1920's!) criticized that approach. All intro textbooks still use those terms but in modern linguistic typological research, terms like "agglutinative/isolating languages" are no longer used/avoided. As for wordhood tests, you should read Martin Haspelmath's 2011 paper in Folia Linguistica 45(1). He addresses all of your questions, and it is a very good review article. 

It recognizes one typological parameter, the morphological structure of words. It is based on an assumption that a language as a whole has a unique character (Croft 2003, p. 46), also see part 13.1 "Morphological typology" in Laurie Bauer's 2003 textbook. 

To quickly address the first question only - about the most common donor languages, here's what Lopatin and Ulukhanov 1997 mention: 

Your question is based on a wrong assumption - the letter w in bow2 is due to a spelling convention imposed by French scribes. At first, long u was respelt as ou (like in house), and then all word-final ou's were respelt as ow - I'm sure you've already noticed how rare or non-existent English words are that end in ou. Then long u was diphthongised - the Great Vowel Shift. This stuff is pretty basic, and you can read about it in any intro textbook on the history of English. 

The answer is no. At first, not everyone agrees on the etymology of this ethnonym, or, rather, an exonym. Both Duden-7 and Kluge say that the origin of German Zigeuner is "ungewiss" (uncertain) or "unklar" (not clear). Duden online says "Herkunft ungeklärt". The authors of Etymologisch Woordenboek van het Nederlands are of the same opinion re: Dutch "zigeuner" - "waarvan de herkomst echter onduidelijk is". Anyhow, this word has been in use in German (and in most other languages spoken in Europe) since the 15th century. Also note that you might not want to use it in most situations, cf. Duden Online's remark that "Die Bezeichnung Zigeuner, Zigeunerin wird vom Zentralrat Deutscher Sinti und Roma als diskriminierend abgelehnt." Vasmer does indeed argue that it comes from Medieval (Byzantine) Greek, citing Theophanes' Chronographia, who described them as "haeretici in Phrygia et Lycaonia praecipue degentes". Some argue it is related to Ancient Greek θιγγάνω "touch" and translate the ethnonym as "untouched". My knowledge of Ancient Greek morphology is not good enough to critically evaluate this claim. Now to a possible link between Swedish "tigga" and this ethnonym. The word "tigga" is a rather old word. It is related to OE þicg(e)an "to take, receive, accept; esp. to take (food), to consume by eating or drinking"; see other comparanda; also note that the authors of Svenska Akademiens ordbok argue that the origin of Swedish tigga is "av ovisst ursprung" - not sure why. Anyhow, it definitely predates Swedish "zigenare" (note the following from an article in Swedish wikipedia "Både termen gypsy och termen zigenare anses av en del romer vara oacceptabla benämningar på dem.") 

In the first instantiation of the Minimalist Program, modal verbs were believed to be inserted directly in T via Merge (following Chomsky 1999). However, this position was later revised and now there is a general consensus that modal verbs project into a separate functional category (Adger n.d., Abraham 2002, Butler 2003, among many others), depending on the type of modality it expresses, root or epistemic, according to the Hierarchy of Projections (Adger 2003): 

Here's a summary of most common exceptions (based on Belov 2007, Borovskii and Boldyrev 1975, Sihler 1995, Tronskii 2001): word final: 

Pullum and Ladusaw say that symbol (they call it a "slashed C") represents a voiceless alveolar or dental (centrally released) affricate. The usual IPA notation is [ts] (Pullum and Ladusaw 1996, p. 29). 

I'm afraid I don't quite understand what you mean by "a given name of feminine grammatical gender used as a masculine given name." Gender assignment in given names is usually lexical, i.e. the Russian boy's name Petja is M and not F - although nouns ending in -a are usually F in IE languages - precisely because that particular name is given to boys, and not girls. UPDATE: A couple of words on gender in linguistics. Gender in linguistics doesn't mean biological gender - linguistics is not biology, after all. It is understood as a type, kind. For animate nouns (NB: animate doesn't mean alive), gender assignment is usually based on semantics. In other words, if a word denotes a male (human being), the word is masculine. For inanimate nouns, gender assignment is based on their morphosyntactic properties, e.g. all nouns taking a particular set of endings belong to gender X. That is why the first declension in Latin includes feminine (mostly) and masculine nouns, both common and proper (for a list of some masculine nouns belonging to the first declension see $URL$ Now, let me repeat it here. If a proper noun denotes a male, it is of the masculine gender. It doesn't matter whether it belongs to the first declension or not. It will be masculine. That is why "Catilina" in Latin is masculine, although it belongs to the first declension. Or in Russian, "Petja" (Pete) and "Vera" (a girl's name) belong to the same type of declension. To make things even more complicated, gender is only one type of noun categorization (see more on noun classes). There are languages where there is no masculine/feminine distinction in nouns. see a famous passage written by Mark Twain: "the reader will see that in Germany a man may think he is a man, but when he comes to look into the matter closely, he is bound to have his doubts; he finds that in sober truth he is a most ridiculous mixture; and if he ends by trying to comfort himself with the thought that he can at least depend on a third of this mess as being manly and masculine, the humiliating second thought will quickly remind him that in this respect he is no better off than any woman or cow in the land. In the German it is true that by some oversight of the inventor of the language, a Woman is a female; but a Wife (Weib) is not -- which is unfortunate. A Wife, here, has no sex; she is neuter; so, according to the grammar, a fish is he, his scales are she, but a fishwife is neither. To describe a wife as sexless may be called under-description; that is bad enough, but over-description is surely worse." 

With *gn, there is actual written evidence coming from Old Latin, e.g. gnosco (nosco) or gnatus (natus) (para 220); cf. Meiser "Anlautender Velar schwindet vor n." This process must have happened by the second century BCE (Meiser 1998, Weiss 2009), cf. still gn- in GNATEIS (122 BCE), as opposed to the very first n- NATVM (117 BCE). Presumably, the change was gn => ŋn => nn [will add more later] 

I personally prefer the definition of conversion as "the phenomenon in which one base-word (stem) may function as a member of different lexical categories" (Don, Trommelen, and Zonneveld 2000: 943, cf. Mel'čuk 1973, Plungian 2011: 149). In other words, a stem that underwent a functional transposition A=>B starts to behave syntactically as other members of class B: Class A (a lexical verb) He permitted me to do so. He permits me to do so. He will permit me to do so. etc. Class B (a count noun) I need a permit. How many permits did you have? Take this permit. On the other hand, in languages with poor morphology where word classes might not have distinctive markers we find another phenomenon, category indeterminacy (or multifunctionality). For example, in Sranan Tongo (Dutch Guyana), Voorhoeve 1979 reports that the word hebi can mean "heavy; to be heavy; weight." However, Don, Trommelen, and Zonneveld 2000 argue that this phenomenon is different from conversion. In the case of conversion, there is always one "original" stem (class A in the example above), to which you can trace the transposed stem: OED: permit (noun), from permit (verb) And the original stem is usually more frequently used than the transposed one: permit (verb), rank: 2121, frequency: 16764; permit (noun), no data (not even included) $URL$ 

irregular inflection a phonetically similar/same base German die Herz 'heart' nom.sg. - des Herzens gen.sg., cf. das Ohr 'ear' nom.sg. - des Ohr(e)s gen.sg. (Wurzel 1990 :210) English ox - oxen or mouse-mice (Bauer, Lieber and Plag 2013: 22) suppletion Phonetically different bases (historically these forms belonged to different lexemes) German gut 'good'- besser 'better' English go - went 

How long did it take John to drink a glass of beer? John drank a glass of beer in half an hour. BOUNDED For how long did John drink beer? John drank beer for half an hour. (caveat: the answer becomes bounded due to a for-adverbial insertion). UNBOUNDED “A non-progressive atelic sentence does not allow the use of an in-adverbial (17a), whereas a non-progressive telic sentence does (17b): (17a) I lived with her for two years/*in a year. (17b) I did the exercise in 10 minutes. Limitations of the test: a. certain sentences can collocate with a for-adverbial as well as with an in-adverbial (zero-telic verbs): (18a) I mowed the lawn in half an hour. TELIC (18b) I mowed the lawn for half an hour, then my brother took over. ATELIC b. the test can only be used for (a)telicity if the sentence is non-progressive, as progressive telic sentences do not collocate with an in-adverbial: (19a) ?? He was pushing the cart into the barn in 15 minutes. A for-adverbial is acceptable in this context but it has the effect of turning a telic sentence into an atelic one (cf. example 18b): (19b) He was pushing the cart into the barn for 15 minutes. c. might be problematic with non-progressive telic punctual situations; use ‘in one second’ instead: (20a). The bomb exploded in one second. d. not useful in sentences already containing a duration adverbial; 

No, there is no linguistic discipline that studies such unique features exclusively. That being said, such phenomena are a part of linguistic typology, e.g. Rara & Rarissima: Documenting the Fringes of Linguistic Diversity (2010). 

This is a really old problem and a lot of research has been written on this. There are several ways to tackle it: 

There are lots of websites that may help you. e.g. $URL$ (caveat: linguistics has been traditionally underfunded so those websites might be obsolete technology-wise or less user-friendly than what we are accustomed to) 

The term "aurora borealis" was arguably first used by a French scientist Petrus Gassendus aka Pierre Gassendi in 1621, in his treatise "Physics." For further discussion, see Siscoe, George. 1986. An historical footnote on the origin of 'Aurora Borealis.' In History of geophysics, volume 2 The phenomenon itself has been known for a long time in Europe; for example, the ancient Greeks called it "blazing skies" or "flaming sky dragons" (Hesiod, Theogony). The term "aurora australis" was arguably first used in 1741 (OED) Notice that when those terms were coined, they were used as Latin words. In other words, the Latin word "borealis" was used, not the name of a Greek god.