I see three options: Magnets or Washers You could glue together some washers or magnets in 1.25 pound (or half-pound, or whatever) increments. This could change your jumps from five pounds per dumbbell to two and a half pounds per dumbbell (or even less). This is the best method to directly replicate barbells. Adjustable Dumbbells Some dumbbells are like miniature barbells, with the ability to put plates on the end. This would put you in the same position as someone with a barbell, though you do have four "ends" to load instead of just two. Forget Microloading and Use Other Methods to Increase Strength The point is not to microload. Microloading is a method to get stronger by adding manageable increments of resistance. Since dumbbells are an inherently different tool from barbells, we might want to use a method more appropriate to this tool to achieve our goal of getting stronger by adding manageable resistance. The method I like is to wave-load the number of reps I do with a constant weight before a jump: three reps of 35 pound one-arm overhead press, then five in the next workout, then eight in the next workout, that turns out to stay challenging for three workouts, then ten reps in the workout after that, then I start doing three reps with the 50 pounder, then five reps in the next workout, and so on. The number of sets can remain constant or can be manipulated control total volume. I usually keep the number of sets constant. I find that manipulating the number of reps is good for upper-body work, since my upper body seems to do better with, and even sometimes require, a higher number of reps. My squat and deadlift do better with microloading. 

Tom Kurz says it's a misconception that most people are physically incapable of training up to a full side split: 

"Feeling a burn" during a workout just means that you're working endurance instead of strength or power. From my layman's understanding, which may be wrong, it's because you're no longer producing force anaerobically. Notice that you'll rarely experience that sensation on the first few reps, which is when (if you're using a challenging weight) you're doing the work of stimulating strength gains. So focus on lifting heavier weights only a few times, instead of lifting lighter weights enough times to feel a burn. If your goal is strength, then gauge the effectiveness of your workouts by measuring strength, not by how much "burn" you feel. Can you lift a heavier weight this workout than last workout? Great, you're stronger, forget the burn. 

I'm getting a set of gymnastics rings soon, and will be modifying my current strength workouts to use them. I'm not at the stage where I should be doing ring dips yet, but from looking at ring push-ups, it seems that the two exercises overlap quite a bit. Once I'm capable of doing ring dips, is there any point in doing ring push-ups? 

Recommendations In addition to Robb Wolf's Paleo Solution, I liked Vickery & Fries' Take Care of Yourself, which is more about medical care and general health than nutrition. Are large quantities of jerky a possibility in the field? If you're familiar with Paleo but can't eat meat, it's still likely that you could get a good deal of benefit from reading up on the reasoning behind Paleo. As noted by John C above, a lot of Paleo still applies even if you're forced into vegetarianism. Perhaps ex-vegan websites like rawfoodsos.com could point you in the right direction? Mitigating Factors Not having a freezer and not being able to eat meat cause unavoidable issues in eating right. There is only so much that can be done in such a situation to improve the food and sleep options. It sounds like your situation is inherently sub-optimal. It sounds from your comments like you'd also benefit from attention to exercise in addition to diet, but that's another question. 

Assuming barbells are out of the question because you don't have space, your best bets for size-and-strength exercises are pseudo-gymnastic exercises for the upper body and heavy powerlifting-style exercises for the lower body. What does that mean? For your arms, upper back, and shoulders: you'll want a pull-up bar and a place to do dips. (A dip station is best, but two chairs or other sturdy objects can be used in a pinch.) Three sets of each, for as many reps as you can do with good form, is fine. If you can't do five in a set, then do a couple more sets. For everything else: with the heaviest dumbbells you can lift, do lunges, deep squats, farmer's walks, and deadlifts. 

It couldn't hurt to do some squats for general strength purposes. Essentially they would buttress the deadlift. 

I would be a little anal about the issue and argue that deadlifts from lower than "official" or standard height are more accurately called deficit deadlifts, and deadlifts from higher than that height are closer to rack pulls, which are a partial movement. These are both fine exercises, but they create additional complexity. A higher start means you can lift more weight, since you're pulling through a reduced range of motion. The inverse is true of a lower start, of course. An additional concern with deficit deadlifts is the increased need for mobility and flexibility, without which you'll be starting the pull from a disadvantageous and dangerous rounded-back position. I wouldn't argue that any of these starting positions is "optimal" in a truly objective and general sense, but the standard height is to be preferred because of its universality as well as its Goldilocks-style demand for "just enough" from both mobility and strength. Veering too far either higher or lower makes either the mobility requirements too rigorous or the strength requirements too weak. If you are able to keep a safe, flat, athletic spinal position while pulling off the floor, and you're making progress, I say keep on going. You're doing a little more than standard deadlifters, and thereby getting a little stronger and demanding a little more mobility than them. That's awesome. 

I'd shoot for rep ranges that produce hypertrophy. That is, I'd do sets of 10 or 12 to make my muscles big. If they got too big, I'd stop eating and lifting so much. But that's not likely. More likely you'll like the muscles that appear. I'd focus on multiple sets of pull-ups, dips, bench press, and ab work. I wouldn't shy away from circuits or short rest periods. Squatting and deadlifting would be a secondary priority, at the end of the workout with less volume. For instance, three or four times a week I might do: 

Wow, that's a lot of volume Doing 5x5 overhead press and 5x5 bench press is a lot for one day. Doing that, and 5x5 rows, AND three sets of 15 pull-ups is doggone impressive. Even if your pressing weights are puny, that's quite a lot of work. If you can do it, awesome. My inclination is to lower the volume and make your A and B days more distinct. I'd use a primary movement in each, an assistance movement for the non-primary movement, and a handful of prehab exercises to keep the shoulders happy. Perhaps something like this: 

That said, I don't know why you'd fool around preacher curls and tricep push-downs. Get a heavy barbell on your back and squat. Strength training is not bodybuilding. Strength training is not bodybuilding. Strength training is not bodybuilding. My personal experience has been that strength training, due to its straightforwardly productive and measurable nature, has been the most fruitful method of non-martial physical activity in my life. Strength training leads inevitably to mobility, high-intensity metabolic conditioning, and all the other myriad aspects of healthful fitness training. Running just lead me to running. 

I would be concerned with the strength and load-bearing abilities of your neck, back, and to a lesser extent your legs. First I'd make sure you can deadlift at least 1.5x your bodyweight for reps without form breakdown. That would provide you with the base from which to safely focus on neck-specific work. Heavy lifting will also improve bone density in a way that few other activities can. Alongside your deadlift progress I would recommend neck-specific work. You want to make sure you're ready to sustain pressure along your spine. Two come to mind: 

"Tone" Women are generally steered towards low-weight, high-repetition "toning" exercise routines. The New York Times reviewed the science and came to the conclusion that "for better tone, try fewer reps and more challenging weights." Rippetoe and Kilgore explain the fact that the low-weight, high-rep exercise routines typically marketed to women are just ineffective hypertrophy programs. In other words, they're designed to make bigger muscles (which is the opposite of what these women want), and they don't even a good job of it: 

I followed the program poorly for four months--I skipped workouts (including a week-long vacation) and didn't eat or sleep enough. Despite not following the program well, I gained about 12 kilos. This is not out of the ordinary: most people gain 10-20 kilos by following the program for about six months. Once you do the program for several months, you can decide what you want to do: cut weight and get lean, switch to a bodybuilding program, or move to an intermediate strength program. 

First, get strong People who haven't yet done strength training should generally avoid overly task-specific exercises. Instead, they should get strong generally. As Mark Rippetoe puts it: 

The trick I've seen best results with is to tell yourself, "I'll just do a short workout. I won't do A, B, C and D like I'm scheduled to. I'll just do A and B today, because I'm tired." Once I'm thoroughly warmed up and have some fun with A and B, I usually am in the right mindset to finish the whole workout, including C and D. If not, I have to make the decision whether to push through or cut and run. That decision is best left to a coach or workout partner, but if you have to make the call yourself, then that's how the cookie crumbles. This trick doesn't work in some instances, like during the last weeks a very difficult novice barbell progression. In those cases, you just need to harden up and do it. 

To use the plank to get stronger, you should plank for strenuous but submaximal times. In your case that would probably be sets of about 20 seconds, using multiple sets (e.g. 3-6) and resting briefly (e.g. 15 to 90 seconds) between sets. Aim for a reliable 40-second hold in a month or two. I agree with Arthlete that the only option that looks really unproductive is 10 second hold/10 second rest. The other options you present would be fine. Keep your planks challenging without demanding an all-out effort from your body in every set. 

This process can take many forms. Sometimes I run or use a rowing machine, sometimes I don't. I usually do some form of arm and leg swings. I'll usually do a few air lunges, air squats, or use a lightweight stick to do snatches or overhead presses, depending on what I plan to lift later. I'll do a few movements that tell me if I'm limbered up or not, like pistol squats, Cossack squats, or overhead squats with something light. Then I'll progress from very light versions of my first lift to the heavy sets, for instance, air squats to squats with just the bar to loading the bar in increments of 20kg or so until my heavy sets. This works quite well for me and, to my knowledge, is well supported by exercise science as a near-optimal approach. 

I would bring a notepad and pen to class, and ask the coach either during rest periods or after class. I might ask for a copy of his class plan, if he has one and it doesn't contain confidential information like students' conditions. Failing that, exrx.net is the best source for finding the names for resistance training, followed by wandering around the web, describing the movement with as many synonyms as possible. 

I would probably preemptively move my Friday workout to Saturday, but I agree with Greg on the overall approach to moving workouts.