I don't think this is rude at all. It seems like an honest attempt to assess what you know. As for the fact it happened with every question, perhaps you were misinterpreting his questions, or you went off on a tangent, or maybe the two of you were just on a different wavelength. If he actually thought your answers were bad or that you didn't know the answer, he wouldn't bother to rephrase. It would be a waste of time for both of you. 

I think your problem, really, is that there is no one acting as a technical authority. There needs to be someone who is responsible for the final decision when the team is divided on which way to go. It's difficult to develop software, especially in a business setting, purely by consensus. Everyone developer will have a certain amount of bias: maybe they want to use a technology they've never used before, maybe they want to take as many shortcuts as possible because they're feeling lazy, or maybe they want to re-write an entire library because "that's not the way I would have done it". You need someone to control these tendencies. I can see why your manager is hesitant to comply with your request. When you say to her, effectively, "the team isn't listening to me, you should promote me so that they have to listen to me" then obviously you've got a vested interest. If you genuinely want the team to function more effectively, rather than just to get your own way because you're feeling stubborn, you should suggest to your manager that a role is created which has the ultimate responsibility for any technical decisions that are made. You should note the benefits this will have for the team. Tell her that you would be more than happy to apply for this role but ultimately that you will be happy as long as someone is responsible for giving the team direction that it needs. 

This, on the other hand, is unproductive. I don't know what he was trying to achieve by saying this. "Be faster and less messy" is a fairly meaningless statement on its own. That hasn't helped you. Highlighting what they perceive as your deficiencies is not necessarily a bad thing, if phrased delicately. If they tell you to work on a specific aspect of your programming, that gives you something to work towards, whether you get the job or not. Comparing you to other candidates does not help you. You have no control over who else has applied. If your code did not meet his standards, whatever they were, he probably should have just concluded the interview and thanked you for your time. 

The contract you have between you and your employer, assuming it is a valid one, usually trumps other things, such as vocally-communicated policy changes. Even written changes can be "over-ruled" by your contract, as long as they are coming from personnel who aren't in a position to make them. (By this I mean that if you are in a section of a branch of a division, and your first line supervisor says that your notice period has changed, it is unlikely he has the authority to 'speak for the company' as it were.) As it happens, however, your contract, according to you, also contains the clause that you are "obliged to obey the rules and regulations (as) amended from time to time." A large company will set policies and guidance and have those written changes communicated to its employees by HR, just as yours has done. Assuming those changes that HR has emailed everyone about have actually been incorporated into things like the company regulations and/or employee's handbooks, then you have been officially notified of the "amendments" to the notice period, and are now obliged to follow them. This is my belief as a employee of large and small companies for over 30 years. I am not a lawyer and if you think you have need to "fight" this change, I would highly recommend you seek out professional legal assistance, which is the only way you will really be sure. 

Give him explicit tasks to do. Assign him a code snippet to write, or bug to fix. When he does not, document it. Do it again. When he does not, document it. Then fire him. 

You've met with the client rep at the beginning of each sprint, or project. The two of you (or your teams) have come up with an agreed upon scope of work for that duration. That is your official list. Put it down on "paper" (document/spreadsheet, what have you) and send a copy of it to your manager titled something like "Project X - client agreed scope of work". Now let your manager manage. If/when he adds new scope/deliverables, add it to your official scope list and then email that back to him. Let this go for a cycle (or two). If he doesn't adhere to the list and you feel strongly enough (and are willing to accept the consequences, whatever they may be, including termination I suppose), you could up it a notch or ten and send the agreed upon initial scope list to the client rep, and then each time your manager adds to it, send that as an addendum to the client. That will ensure you are covered from the point of view of the client. Just know that your career at your current company may be shortened. 

I would like to reiterate what others have said: if an interview leaves you feeling uncomfortable, the place probably isn't for you. Don't be afraid to turn jobs down. You deserve to have a job you enjoy. 

It is perfectly polite to ask for him to do that. Unfortunately, as others have already said, your request wasn't worded as well as it could have been and it did come across as if you were asking for their email. That's not necessarily a faux pas, but it's reasonable for him to have declined your (perceived) request. But what's done is done. There's no use now in agonising over the wording or the level of ambiguity in what you said (as some other users seem to be doing). What I would do now is send a very short email just to clarify. Something like: 

I know people will disagree with this, but just to play devil's advocate: discontinue using it and wait to see if they contact you. They'll realise their mistake eventually. In the best case for you, they'll see they have a large amount of unused balance and they'll get a refund from the card provider, or reassign the funds to other employees, or splash out on a big team meal (just kidding - get back to work, slackers!) and they'll consider that the end of it. In the worst case for you, they'll contact you and ask you to pay back what you owe them. Do so promptly and do your best to make the process easy for them. If you do this, they won't hold it against you. Financially, this will result in the best outcome for you in the average case. Is it ethical? We all have different opinions. You'll have to decide for yourself. That's more of a question for a different site. 

You make it sound as if you think you're the most qualified for the position simply because you're older than everyone else. In my experience, senior developers tend to think this is true significantly more often than it actually is. Clearly, I don't have enough information to say whether this is true in your case but it's something to consider. 

Take it at face value, since it seems to be the first and only occurrence. Now your supervisor knows you are interested in more responsibility, so be prepared to be given it. You may, or may not, like what you get. I would also plan this as a topic of discussion at your next regularly scheduled personal/personnel/annual review/meeting with your supervisor. Keep it in his mind and he should make it a higher priority for you. The only time I would take offense, would be if it happens again, with the same management chain in place and basically exactly the same circumstances. Please trust your manager that he knows more about the other teams than you and made what he considered the best choice for a valid reason. The next opportunity may have the same outcome - someone else may be a better fit for some reason. It would bother me only if it was essentially the same as before. 

Is the pay commensurate as what you are now, plus some? If you are truly an able and capable programmer, and have interpersonal skills as well, you'll not be a "junior developer" for long. Since you will have taken the position in good faith, even if you do get treated as a (much more) senior person, it will be unlikely you'll get a raise as soon you might end up desiring. By saying treated as here, I mean you'll probably be given projects and responsibilities than a more genuine junior person would be given. You need to consider for yourself, if you will be getting an attitude because you're not being paid commensurate to all of those responsibilities. If you, right now, consider the pay raise as worth more than a junior, but at least fair to a mid-level, then when you end up being treated as one, you'll already be fairly compensated. Another thing is, if you take the position as a junior developer to a more senior one, it will be expected for you to not come in displaying a desire (hidden or not) to 'take over' ... even if you feel you could "do the job better" than the current guy, it's not what you will have been hired to do, so don't. At least until you have been in the position long enough to prove your own abilities and aptitude. As an anecdote, in my current organization, we had a web development team lead leave for another position. We hired a new senior developer/team lead. A couple years later the old lead wanted to come back and we needed his skills (they were already a known quantity as it were.) He was re-hired with the express acknowledgement that he would not be the lead. Things didn't work out so well. I know this isn't what you are planning, but plans don't last past implementation very well. People refer to positions as junior, mid-level and senior, even I do, but in real life, things are never so cut and dried. Your skills and experience add up over time to being a quality and quantity. If your S&E are beyond junior, than that is what you are. Getting hired as a "junior" person, when you are really a senior person in experience and skills rarely turns out well, unless there is a well thought out basis for your under-positioning.