He should have stopped the friend before he mentioned a name and told him that who the friend interviewed was none of his business. 

You need to learn to ignore noises. This is not going to go away, it is likely a medical condition that neither you, nor your manager, nor he can fix. And if he left, then some other noise is going to happen. Open offices are NEVER quiet. Even private offices are rarely totally quiet. Noise is part of the office environment. Clearly your anger at this distraction is more distracting than the actual noise, so fix that. It is the only part you have control over anyway. You can ignore ANY noise if you decide you want to. That this distracts you has nothing at all to do with the noise, but with your own interpretation of the noise. The meditation techniques for ignoring noise/distractions are useful. It would be worth your while to learn to meditate. They teach you how to take teh emotional self-talk out of your interactions with noise. Consider these two scenarios, which do you think is less distracting? Scenario one 

As a database person I have gotten a lot of the same stuff. Some people have to believe that any choice other than the one they personally made is bad. So you are wrong if you have a different profession, you are wrong if you have a differnt religion, you are wrong if you drive a different kind of car. These types of people cannot be reasoned with and I prefer to consider them childish and insecure and stay out of their paths as much as possible. Once you look at it as their personality problem, it is easier to take. Frankly I just laugh at the ridiculousness of these people and go on my merry way. Some of them are jealous of the private office. The only way to get them to stop being jealous is for them to get private offices or for you to give yours up. Frankly, I'd live with the jealousy instead. And the money thing is just over the top. I wouldn't even bother to respond to that just give them my patented teacher with a misbehaving child withering look. I would stop giving alot of help to the ones who are most vocal about how you are inferior. Or make them uncomfortable when they ask with a snide comment in return about them needing the help of the front end guy. I would only do this with the worst of them, the irredeemable ones. I'll never forget an auditor being nasty to a trainee because he didn't have an accounting degree and telling him that he couldn't be too smart becasue accounting was the most difficult degree there was (Yeah I know, but accountants often really think that!) and then being very embarrased to find out the guy had an MBA and a degree in physics. Sometimes you give them enough rope to hang themselves. Look for opportunities to make the worst ones look foolish in their assumptions about you. Since you say their code is not especially good, when they talk about how you couldn't do thus and so, you talk about how you did this and that in previous position instead and why it would be a better way to go. However, some can be shown that what you do is valuable and technically difficult. For those people you need to show respect for what they do and show them you know what you are doing. I do think that being quiet about your background using their technologies is a mistake. I assume your managers already know you have those skills since they hired you. So talk about how you used to do that but find this more challenging and why. Right now a big part of your problem is not the other devs, it is management. You need to talk to them about how long tasks take and why and make sure that they give you the proper lead time to do your job. You need to push out the deadline everytime they give it to you late rather than staying til all hours to get it done. You need to remind them of how much time your part of the project will take long before you have reached the 24 hours before launch stage. If you say that your part of the project will take 4 days, then make sure they are reminded about that on day six and day 5 and day 4 that the deadline will be missed if they don't give you what you need. Make sure to let them know throughout the project what you need and when and how much notice you need to have. Make sure they are told in public and in writing. It is really important to insist that you need the time and the deadline must slip if they don't give you stuff in time. We had the same problem of people wanting us to build data imports less than a day before launch and it didn't stop until we stopped enabling them. You also need to to talk to management about being excluded from things you should be involved in. 

Don't put references on your resume. It looks either suspicious or naive. Neither of which is good. They generally won't call unless they have interviewed you and then they ask you to give them the references. Usually the HR forms you ask them to fill out will have a space for your supervisor's name, since you worked for both, you can choose which one to put in there. Otherwise, don't ever lie about who your supervisor was. That is too easy to check. Often they will talk to the HR person instead of your boss and if you lie and say you worked for Y when the paperwork in HR says you worked for X , then you will be caught in your lie. However let this be a lesson to you and learn not to have people at work that you don't want contacted. If you have a boss you didn't get along with, it is as much your fault as his and you need to learn how to get along with people you dislike. If you know they will be contacting your former boss and there was a problem with him, it is better to be up front about it. Tell them who else inteh company can vouch for you, explain that you had a conflict and then explain how you plabn to avoid such conflicts in the future. But really, in your next job, it should be a priority to get along with your boss no matter what you think of him or her. 

What you do is plan the teaching time into the work estimate. This is real work and you should not be scheduled for more than 30-40% of the time for actual development if you are expected to mentor and manage interns, 

You have several problems here. First you need to get the requests to flow through your actual manager and have her set priorities. You do this by referring them to the manager or the ticket system, if you have one, every time they ask. It won't take very many repetitions before they realize they can't go to you directly. You also need to talk to your boss about this so she is aware that people will be coming directly to her. Make sure you express that you are willing to do the work, you just need someone to set priorities. If your boss doesn't want to get all requests, then the strategy is to put each new task on the bottom of your priority list and give them an expected completion date based on that. If they want to argue it they can go to your boss and your boss can tell you specifically what you need to move down in order to accommodate the request. It is your boss's responsibility to manage priorities. Next, you need a system where people, especially your boss, can see what you have on your plate. There are ticket systems that are open source and free that you can use for this or you could put up a spreadsheet in a public location (like Sharepoint or a shared drive) with the tasks you are given and the priorities set and the due dates. Even creating a paper list that you can show people will help. Next as priorities shift, you need to make sure the ones whose priorities got lowered are informed that the due date has shifted. Do not let them argue with you about the change in priority though, refer any questions to the person who set the priority, your boss. Finally, you need to discuss you actual responsibilities with your boss. If you can't get to the core responsibilities because of this extra workload, you need to work out a plan. It may be that what you see as your core responsibilities is not what your boss sees. However, it also sounds like you are not thrilled to get the less skilled work assigned to you. That however is function of you being junior and you need to accept that. It is more important to keep the higher paid people on the more complex tasks than it is to keep you on them. How well you do at these less interesting tasks will dictate how soon they start giving you more interesting ones. 

Simply say, you are resigning effective immediately or Dec 1 or whenever you want as your last date. A resignation letter should never be more than that one sentence. No other information is required or appropriate.