I do a lot of rock climbing, and do a finger specific warmup for it, otherwise I get popping and clicking in my fingers, just like you describe. I don't use heavy grippers like you describe, so maybe someone else will have a more relevant post. I use grip putty like this. Some sort of physical therapy putty might also work. I usually squeeze it with my free hand as I'm driving to the climbing gym, sometimes for a fairly long time, 10-20 minutes, alternating hands as I'm driving. It may be more than is required, but it goes a long way to loosen up all the connective tissues in my fingers. Other than putty, any medium or light resistance squeezable object would do (once on a road trip I used a plush dog's chew toy I bought at a grocery store). They're just a lot of different moving parts in the fingers, and it takes me a good long while to get them all loosened up and moving properly, but I see big improvement when I do. I also do 5 minutes of light cardio to get my blood flowing. My $0.02 

$URL$ This is a fairly good catalogue of exercises, organized by body part, with animated gifs showing proper form. You can also look up exercises by name on youtube, you'll usually find videos of people performing them (although not necessairly with good form). 

General Strategies for Tendonitis The real general advice is something you probably already know. Listen to your body, and if something hurts, quit doing it. If it hurts when you're not active, take a few days off. And if it continues to hurt after a week or more of rest, go see a doctor and physical therapist. Advice for gym climbing It sounds like you're coming straight "off the couch" and trying to do indoor bouldering as much as you can, as hard as you can. I'd recommend caution about that. That sounds like a receipt for tendon injury, exactly what you're trying to avoid. Instead, just ramp up slowly. All of the structured climbing training plans I've ever seen all assumed that the athlete was experienced and well conditioned, and in pretty good climbing-shape to begin with. If you're not up to a basic level of climbing conditioning, the aggressive kind of training I think you're trying to do will just injure you. Ramp up more slowly, focus on technique, having fun If you want to get back into the gym and you're worried about overdoing it, don't try to train for multiple sessions a day. Just warm up and do one session, then go home. Don't try to climb more than 2 or 3 times a week, and not on consecutive days. When you're in the gym on a given night, warm up and stretch first. Then climb whatever easy boulder problems you can. Focus on things you can easily onsite. Gradually work through problems you've done before, until you're repeating routes just below your limit. Then try and project one or two problems at your limit. Its time to go home for the day when: 

High stepping in rock climbing To high step, you need to lift your knee high, but also rotate your hip out and then possibly extend the high foot from that rotated position. This is going to require developing dynamic flexibility / mobility in your glutes, hip flexors, and hamstrings. This image illustrates a fairly advanced high-step: high step. What stretches to do The stretch that the OP mentions (laying on ground, pulling knee to chest) is a good start, but that only stretches the glutes, and not the other muscles. That limits the range of movement you're working to a single plane (and doesn't help with rotating the hip out, or extending the foot). I've had good luck doing the following stretches: 

I'm 6'4", 181 lbs. I can bench a pair of 60lbs dumbbells for 3 sets of 8, and lateral dumbbell raises with 15lbs, but other than that, haven't historically done much pressing 

If you eat enough food to offset the energy you spend cycling, you won't lose weight. One basic approach might be to estimate the number of calories you're spending (there are several online calorie estimate tools for cycling out there on the internet), and make sure to eat that much additional food per day. Track your weight, and adjust the amount of food you're eating if you start gaining or losing too much. If you're already eating a healthy diet, you can just eat proportionally more of whatever you're already eating. 

The benefits of anarobic work aside, doing cardio only is certainly better than doing nothing at all, if you're dead set against lifting weights. Have you thought about swimming? That would be a cardio exercise that would engage your upper body. But I'd recommend the you post a specific question about the problems that lifting weights is causing your hands, people here may be able to talk you through some of the issues you have. A surprising number of issues can be worked around, and the people on this site are fairly I knowledgable. FWIW, I know a couple dental hygentists, one orthopedic surgeon, and one carpenter that are avid rock climbers and Crossfiters. People that use their hands can still have active hobbies. 

The Nicros website has a good resource on the first two of those stretches: Nicros stretching. I can't find a great link about "ATG Squats". I have one from T-Nation that is full of blather and posturing and light on tips, but better than nothing. Here. Leg strength and high stepping I've also found that basic strength in a squatting position is helpful to fully execute a high-step. When I started climbing, my legs were pretty weak, and when I'd place a high foot, I often wouldn't have the strength to rock onto it and stand up. Sometimes this felt like a flexibility problem (my hip won't "let me" transition to the foot), but (for me) was actually a strength problem (my body thought my high leg was too weak to bear the load of my full bodyweight). I started doing a combination of bodyweight squats and (light, by most people's standards) back squats, and as the weight I was squatting got closer to my bodyweight, my high-stepping became noticeably smoother. Your mileage may vary. 

Its impossible for us to give you precise advice - this could be OK, or it could be a sign of a growing injury. if you grabbed a hold wrong, and now your wrist is behaving oddly (popping in a specific position), I'd take it as a sign that you have a very mild injury / overuse, and to take a couple nights / a week off and see if it gets better. Maybe you should also climb a little lower grades / less strenuous routes for a little while. Continuing to train on it may be OK, or it may make it worse, there's no real way for us to know out here on the internet. Supplements and taping with athletic tape both sometimes get recommended, but I've never had them work for me. Sometimes there's no substitute for proper rest. 

Trying to sweat more during a workout is an idea that's left over from sports with weight categories, like rowing, boxing, collegiate wrestling. The idea is that an athlete will put on extra muscle weight, then dehydrate him or herself right before an event or weigh-in to fit into a desired weight category. Most of the sports will allow the athlete some chance to re-hydrate before actually competing. If you're trying to lose weight, what you want to lose is body fat. Wearing extra layers (sweatshirts, sauna suits, etc) will interfere with your bodies natural cooling system, make the exercise feel harder, and make it easier to get dehydrated. You will lose water weight through the extra sweating, but you'll replace it the first time you drink any water. You would probably be better off exercising with clothing that light and nonrestrictive, and helps you stay cool. Or, if you're exercising during the winter, a light layer to keep your skin and extremities from getting frostbite. This clothing will make it more comfortable to exercise harder and longer. And exercising harder and longer will help you burn calories and lose fat. 

Those are both fairly similar programs that use basic barbell exercises to build strength and mass. Both are commonly discussed on this web site. A third option is to hire a personal trainer (the most expensive option, if its available). The most important thing, really, is to get started. Good luck. 

No one directly said this, so I thought I'd contribute (the other posters talked around this): When you do a stiff legged deadlift, you maintain your spine in a fixed curvature, and pivot at the hips. If you curled and uncurled your back, yes, you'd probably injure it. But by holding it in position, you perform a powerful isometric exercise for the lower back muscles. 

If your a normal, young, healthy person, you probably don't need to do any particular routine to prepare for working out. Most good workout programs will have you begin with weights light enough that you can handle them, and increase slowly over time. With any new exercise, you'll experience "Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness", and it can be fairly intense for the first 3 or 4 times you workout, but you will eventually get to a point where it doesn't affect you as much. If you're looking for specific programs, you might want to consider either: 

When performing a pullup, what techniques would be ideal for getting higher than chin-even-with-bar? When I perform pullups, I can get the bar to the base of my neck / my collarbone if I pull explosively in the lower part of the movement. I can do 12 pullups, and get this high on about 8 or 9 of them. But I can't pull that far if I'm moving slowly. For instance, if I start with my chin just above the bar, I can't statically pull myself any higher. So: 

I've also found that if I sit immediately after a session of long, intense cardio, I can experience a brief bout of low blood pressure (I.e., my vision narrows and I almost black out). I used to experience this when I was doing road cycling and / or mountain biking. If l rode really hard, then stopped and lay down in the grass, I'd feel the above symptoms if I stood up quickly, where as if I walked around instead (or just peddled my bike slowly for a while) I'd still feel tired, but wouldn't nearly black out or feel quite as exhausted. I don't claim to understand the physical mechanisms at play, but this was something I'd experience consistently. 

Hanging knee raises. If you have a pullup bar, hang from it, and raise your knees. Depending on your strength level, you might aim for hip height, or touching your knees to your elbows. If you're shoulders hurt while doing this, you can try using "abs straps". Planks and plank variations. You say you can do a lot of pushups, so a plank may be easy for you. Try doing one arm planks - enter a regular plank position, then lift one arm and extend it forward. Hold for 30-60 seconds on each side. More advanced gymnastic moves, like the front lever or L Sit are great goals for core strength, and are a gold standard for abs strength in climbing. If you can hold a front lever for a minute, you've probably built the highest level of useful abs strength a person could apply in climbing. 

I want to train up to do a pistol squat, and am trying to follow the general advice outlined on the Beast Skills Tutorial, but I'm trying to understand which of the 3 major styles of squats (low bar back squat, high bar back squat, front squat) would be most applicable to pistol strength. I tried to do a direct pistol progression, but found that my hips and hamstrings were pitifully weak, so I think that basic barbell squatting is a good place to start until I get closer to a level of strength where I could switch over to the skill work I'd need to master the balance / coordination of a pistol. Would one particular style of squatting me more helpful than the others for this? Looking at pictures of people on the internet doing pistols, I'd see that: