In our history, spaceflight was a spin off of the nuclear arms race that, when transistorised telecommunications became prevalent enough that extra bandwidth was required, was also used for telecommunications purposes. So without either of the two main reasons for funding development of space-faring rocketry, we would need to be looking at some other reason for going into space. Some ultimate disaster, such as crop disease in "Interstellar", might force us off the planet and into a space station. Mining rare elements from asteroids wouldn't make sense, since without post-transistor technology there's little need for them. 

We would observe differences. At the moment is an axiom of modern physics that the laws are the same everywhere. When we observe differences between the physics outside the solar system and locally, we come up with other models which might work over both scales, but there is no local evidence for these models. For example, the rotation of galaxies is different to what the laws of physics as empirically measured on Earth would be. One way of compensating for that is to introduce dark matter, another is to add another term to the inverse square law that is too small to notice on local scales. As either model does not have any effect on local scales, there is no way to prove them empirically. 

Based on your assumptions, the fusion reactor was probably a gray project, contracted through companies that were legally bound to keep the research and development highly classified, similar to classified military tech like the B2 Stealth Bomber: From Wikipedia: 

You should narrow down what you want. The answer to "is there a way for a monster to turn any creature to stone/permanently petrified?" is probably "no" because the physics aren't very plausible, and if this creature is evolved, not magical, then other creatures will have evolved to counter any physics-based ability it has. But if you narrow down what you want to happen in your story there are some options: If you want there to be some kind of monster that is real, that inspired the legend of the basilisk, then you could go for temporary petrification. There could be a monster that kills things that don't hold still. Perhaps it doesn't want other animals on its territory, but doesn't recognize things as alive unless they move. The other animals that live near this monster have evolved to recognize it and feel an urgent visceral instinct to freeze perfectly still when the monster looks at them. So the petrification is actually an evolved behavior by the animals being petrified. They may stay holding still awhile after the monster looks away until they calm down and realize the threat has passed. A hunter who observes this interaction could re-tell the story without the benefit of evolutionary insight, and think the monster has the power to make things freeze. If he doesn't see the animal un-freeze (or takes the opportunity to kill it first) then he might think the freezing is permanent. That could work as a 'real creature behind the legend' thing. If you want the power to work on humans, then perhaps humans have evolved the freezing instinct too? If you don't want the freezing to be an evolved behavior, then another option is venom. Your monster could inject venom that causes all muscles to tense. This would cause something similar to the fencing response in its victims. If the effect lasted until rigor mortis set in, then the petrification would be permanent. How does the venom get injected by eye contact? I suggest that it doesn't. The creature injects the venom inconspicuously, like with tiny barbs that numb as they go in so you can't feel them. Why do people think the eye contact causes freezing? Because the monster stares into the victims eyes just as the poison is starting to work. To check the progress of the poison. Your eye muscles are the last to be affected by the venom. The monster looks into your eyes and waits until your eyes stop twitching and hold perfectly still. Then it knows you are totally immobilized and it is time to feed. 

The Betamax era lasted 45 years. The Paleozoic era lasted 288,830,000 years. So basically as long as you like, depending what you think is significant. 

Changes to the water table. Changes in irrigation and draining of marshes led to the the tunnel gradually becoming flooded decades ago. The drought this spring means it's passable for the first time in twenty years. (flooding due to nearby marsh drainage allegedly happened to a secret passage in the 13th century church building I used to worship in, used to escape to a priest hole in the house over the road - St Cuthbert's church and The Black Swan Inn, York) 

Time is big, and the future is much larger than the past. If took the current world population and sent each person to a random point in time of stars and they then lived for a century, for less than 1% of that time would there be a time traveller alive in the universe. So you might get everyone wanting to visit 2016, but they may be a trillion other years to visit. 

There's a significant advantage to holding a sword with two hands, and your four-arms guys could do that and still hold a shield (or two shields). The advantage of holding a sword with two hands instead of one is leverage, which gives much greater strength and control. It either allows wielding a longer and heavier sword with the same strength and control as a shorter one in one hand, or allows wielding a more normal-sized sword with more quick movements and better leverage than one-handed. Your four-arms guys have all the advantages of a two-handed swordsman but not the main disadvantage: the lack of a shield. So oddly enough I think your four-armed men would do very well going into battle with a single large sword or mace held with both the arms of one side, and a shield or shields on the other side. Although you'd think using the conventional setup would be a waste of their unique traits, that wouldn't be the case at all. They'd wield the sword and shield with much greater strength and agility than other men. They'd be extremely hard to face by a man with two arms. When going up against a two-handed swordsman, you can't sword-fight with them, because their sword blows are just much stronger than yours. You try to catch their sword on your shield and then stab when they're exposed (because they have no shield). But your quad-arms have that same two-handed sword advantage...and also a shield. An even deadlier setup might be a greatsword in the two right arms, a shield in one left arm, and a light stabbing sword in the other left arm. Swing the greatsword, they get knocked hard, but catch on shield, they thrust with their sword, you deflect with your shield, and finish them with the stabbing weapon you had tucked behind the shield. 

Instead of the delimiter between symbols being silence, instead have the delimiter between phrases another word, not unlike the use of 'over' rather than silence to delimit conversations over radio. 

While the Earth's early, short term ships didn't have much radiation or micrometeorite protection, any long term ship has to protect its crew from hard radiation and micrometeorites. Current micrometeorite protection stops a 7.5mm aluminium projectile at 7km/s. That's of the order of a hundred times more energy than a bullet, though obviously if fired from the inside a bullet hits the pressure hull first rather than the shielding. Penetration depth of bullets is less than the penetration depth of hard radiation in most materials, including water which is the most likely near-future shielding. So a realistic ship might have a thin inner hull, a couple of meters of 'water' or ice for rad shield and crew use, then a micrometeorite shield. A bullet will penetrate the inner hull, but stop in the water after 30cm or so. Even without the water it would be stopped by the shielding. The water won't be very pressurised, so expect a bang and maybe a little splashing. Pseudo-gravity from centrifugal effects would mean the water would stay put; microgravity would mean the water might bubble out a bit where the bullet displaced it. If bullets can penetrate the hull of your spaceship then all your crew are already dead on a long term mission. By 'water' the load may get replaced with waste products as used, so the splash may be somewhat unpleasant. 

They would definitely take on some morphological changes. After thousands of years of breeding that is inevitable. You asked about the attempt to domesticate Foxes. Although the foxes in that attempt had unpredictable coat colors, that attempt to domesticate was not active nearly as long as "thousands of years". A chaotic gene expression would certainly be smoothed out and predictable after thousands of years of breeding. On a meta level: What is the purpose to making your story so accurate in this way? Nobody except a few experts has memorized knowledge about the specifics of Seal genetics. You can really do whatever you'd like with seal genetics and no one except those few experts will have their immersion broken. If you want to have problems with the genetics in your story, that's fine. If not, that's fine too. I should also mention that Harbor Seals are not very agile on land. They could be bred to have better land mobility, but there is an alternative critter that is already well adapted to both land and water: The Sea Lion 

In our world, dragons are smaller and have six legs - the bombardier beetle protects itself from heat partially by the reaction being in a thick skinned chamber, and mostly by ejecting the hot gas away from itself. 

Presumably they are 120 years behind us then, as most of your questions describe the state of this world in the 1990s. 

Ipomoea alba, obviously. Realistically, no Earth plants would grow without both a thick enough atmosphere or some other means to reduce UV damage, and a atmospheric pressure and temperature which allow for liquid water, which does not happen on the Moon. 

In the past few years, the USA have hacked Iran's nuclear weapons programme, and Russia appear to have hacked the USA's election. Are you writing utopian SciFi? 

So we know that a government can, through the methods used on the B-2, create a technology that no one else knows much of anything about. Why they would do that for fusion is up to your story. I can't tell you why people in your story make choices, but if you are looking for inspiration, there are a couple possibilities: Dominance through simple energy superiority and independence: Countries succeed by leveraging resources. Sources of energy have become one of the most important resources. Fossil fuels are a big deal. Countries that have it or can get it prosper. Those who can't fall behind. If your country has fusion but others do not, you race ahead of them, making yourself a dominant power. You can make fusion-powered war machines and they can't. Your electricity is so cheap that manufacturers start moving operations to your country, boosting your economy. They wouldn't make that move if fusion will soon be coming to their current location. Your street lights and electric trains run for almost free. Your citizens can charge their electric cars for almost free. Your GDP would explode. If you share this tech, then the world advances together. If you withhold it, then you pull far ahead of the others. Keep control of the reactors, but sell the electricity for money and political or strategic deals. The superpower that has the fusion tech under government control could make deals to sell the power output, but not the tech itself, to other countries. If another country wants to be able to buy the cheap power, they have to give the superpower some land (of the superpower's choosing). The superpower will build a reactor and also a military base on that land. The reactor will be on super-power sovereign territory, and protected by the base, but the small nation's power grid can connect some power lines to the output. This is a sweet deal for the superpower. They get to build new military outposts and also sell electricity. Since the small nation is now dependent on the electricity, they are close to being a vassal-state of the superpower, who can threaten to cut the power if they misbehave. 

To answer the question in the title rather than other questions in the body, the same way as we always have - applying Peel's principles of conscential policing 

Have you tried recruiting decent engineers lately? In order to maintain the technology of a galactic empire, you need lots of engineers. Uplift a species sufficiently and you won't run out of new talent. 

If all current forms of humanity are dying, then anyone with the technology to convert human consciousness into another form has the only hope. Such a technology is worth fighting for, as it is the only way to survive, even if in a different state. Post-humans will both be a goal worth gaining, or possibly in some circles worth destroying, or both (as many times what is forbidden for the populace is practiced by their masters). 

It's good to stab the ground for traction, but only up to a point. If you sink in far you are wasting energy. Once you've got traction you want the sinking/stabbing to stop, so you need a flare like the end of a ski pole, that is flat and wide to resist sinking any further. The stabby part probably wouldn't need to be very long. If the moss is more mushy, you want a multi-pronged or thicker stabby part. A longer stabby part just adds more friction and gets you stuck in the goo. 

The B-2 bomber is still classified technology, even though it is now deployed in service. People can see it flying around, but there are still many secrets to its design: