We have two Solaris servers, let's call them Alice and Bob. We also have a Solaris NFS server used by both of them, call it Charlie. Alice writes to a text logfile on the NFS server, which is then read by Bob, who acts on events in that logfile. The issue we're having is that there appears to be some delay in Bob seeing updates to the file from Alice. For testing, I ran on Alice: 

The only problem - there is no logfile. It seems the default doesn't actually have logging enabled. Anyhow, I add the following to it: 

We have two office locations, A and B. We have two ADSL2+ lines at both A and B, as well as a switch at both sites. At site A, the ADSL2+ line is plugged into a system running pfSense 2.x, that's currently acting as a router/firewall for the computers at site A. We have a single Ethernet cable linking site A to site B. We'd like to use the ADSL2+ line at site B with the pfSense box as a redundant-failover dual-WAN. I can do this by using the Ethernet cable between the two to connect the ADSL2+ modem at site B back to the second WAN port on the pfsense box at site A. However, we also need to connect the switch at site B back to the pfSense box as well. Yet we only have one Ethernet cable. What are some options that would let me connect the site B modem back to site A, and also connect the LAN at site B back to site A as well? Would some kind of tagging work? Or are there other alternatives? Cheers, Victor 

I have Ubuntu Server with CUPS, and a printer added to that server via IPP. I'd like to re-share this printer to other clients via ZeroTier. In CUPS admin, I've enabled " Share printers connected to this system". I then added the printer on a MacOS system, using the IP address of the Linux server and the printer queue name. However, print jobs do not go through. Is there something I need to do, to get CUPS print sharing to work on specific network interfaces? I edited to add a directive for the ZeroTier IP address: 

I tried to follow the guide at $URL$ but couldn't seem to get it optimal. Does anybody know what configuration I should be using? 

We have a HP DL360 server with a P400 controller, which has two 72GB 10K SAS drives in a RAID 0 configuration (yes, I know...RAID 0). The HP Model number for the drives is DG072A8B54 Recently, one of the two drives appear to have failed, and is no longer detected. In the HP iLO console, we see: 

I tried putting in the 4 x 4GB sticks in A1, A2, B1, B2 and the 2 x 8GB sticks in A3, B3 - but it complained: 

We have a moderate-traffic site (roughly 20,000 hits a day), running a PHP/MySQL app on Apache 2.2, Ubuntu 9.10 Server, from an Amazon EC2 c1.small instance (1.7 Gb of RAM). We had issues with the website repeatedly becoming unresponsive. As a dirty hack, I set the MaxClients/ServerLimit to 450. 

However, according to my local DHCP server, that device hasn't tried to claim a DHCP lease yet. I am thinking this might be because of the network drive I've selected, and that Windows 2012 R2 doesn't support it out of the box. However, is there any way to still connect to the box? Also, are there any issues you can see in the way I'm setting up this guest? 

I have a Windows workstation that has established an SSH connection to a remote server using Putty. From that workstation, I can tunnel stuff through the SSH tunnel, including a HTTP proxy that is running on the SSH server I'm wondering, is it possible to enable other computers in the same subnet as the workstation to connection to that workstation, and use its SSH tunnel/HTTP proxy? I tried using the "Local ports accept connections from other hosts" option in Putty, but I still get a connection refused when I try to connect from other boxes to the Windows workstations. What is the proper way to configure this, so that I can share the HTTP proxy via SSH tunnel? Cheers, Victor 

It repeats each line in dummy_logfile near instantaneously. So it looks like reading the NFS share is delayed, but cat reading over the NFS share is not. I was under the impression that was near-instant. Is there anything in the interaction of NFS, buffers, cache, etc. that might explain this behaviour? Does each cat somehow force an update or something? Also, doing a on Alice (the server generating the dummy_logfile) seems to be near-instant, so it doesn't appear to be some issue with itself. Cheers, Victor 

I've just installed Solaris 11 Express, and I can't for the life of me work out how to get vim to backspace correctly. The backspace key works fine at the normal console. However, under vim, it simple goes back a character, but doesn't actually delete anything. I've tried , no luck. I've tried both the included system vim (/usr/bin/vim) and OpenCSW vim (/opt/csw/bin/vim). I've tried setting the TERM to "xterm" or "xterm-color", no change. I've pasted my termcap file here: $URL$ Any ideas? =( Cheers, Victor 

I have a Ubuntu 14.10 (x64) host, and I am using KVM to setup a Windows 2012 R2 guest VM on it. I am using the command to set things up. I have setup a bridge network in as follows: 

I have an old IBM X345 server with a ServeRaid 5i card that I was running as a fileserver/test-server. It was running VMWare ESXi 3.5, with a virtualised OpenSolaris machine inside of this this (as well as other machines) with ZFS as the filesystem. Anyhow, recently, after a reboot, on startup, ServerRaid complains that two logical arrays are offline. I have six SCSI drives in the machine - four 147 Gb ones, and two 72 Gb ones. From memory, the first four drives are in one array/logical disk, and the fifth drive is in one of it's own. The sixth drive isn't used. Yes, this was running in RAID 0...shame on me, I know. I booted up the ServeRaid Support CD, and the first and fifth drive were marked as defunct. The first drive (147 Gb) was listed as defunct drive, I/O subsystem error, and the fifth drive (72 Gb) as defunct drive, physical drive not found. When I right-clicked, I did see an option to mark the drives as online again (I'm not exactly sure how this would work with the physical drive not found?), however, there was a warning about data loss if I proceeded. I'm assuming this wasn't the option I wanted to recover the disks. What exactly does the IO/Subsystem error mean? If I mark online will it blow away the disk? Also, on the Lightpath console on the server, I have an orange error light on the DASD. I'm guessing that's not such a good sign? Or is it? Could it just be the ServeRaid card? Cause if so, I can just replace that..sigh, really hoping it is. Anyhow, how exactly should I proceed going ahead? Is there any way to recover either of the defunct drives (io subsystem or physical drive not found) back to their initial state? Or can I somehow rebuild the data from the remaining drives? (I suppose I'd have a corrupted VMFS (VMWare Filesystem) after that, and then I'd have to rebuild that, and then rebuild the virtual disk images inside of that...?) Any recommendations on how to proceed? (And yes, some people are probably going to say...oh...just reformat, and use RAID1 next time...lol. Hoping for something a little more hopeful than that...haha). Thanks, Victor Ps: I've also made the Support Archive from ServeRaid available here: $URL$ (This is basically all the controller logs, and configuration information).