The Salafi Movement Wikipedia page currently quotes Zakir Naik as saying "every Muslim should be a terrorist". They cite a TIME article: Von Drehle and Ghosh, An Enemy Within: The Making of Najibullah Zazi, 2009, which appears to be replicated here, which says: 

Is this true? Or: Did John Safran get a fatwa placed on Australian television host Rove McManus? It supposedly took place in episode one of John Safran vs. God: 

I can even watch the Dalai Lama and Lady Gaga video at smh.com.au without any problems. I didn't find it particularly interesting, but I had no problems accessing it. 

The claim is repeated in the titles of articles by the Washington Post ("China bans Lady Gaga after the pop superstar meets with the Dalai Lama") and CNET.com ("Lady Gaga is now banned in China"). Basically, I'm wondering if this is actually true, or just some kind of yellow peril mongering. Question: Was Lady Gaga banned from China? I live in China, so I can just search for these articles in Baidu, the dominant search engine in China (since Google is blocked). Here's some screenshots (accessible without a proxy): 

Unfortunately, this statistic is unreferenced (or, at least, it's not directly referenced; there's a bunch of references, but it's not clear which the statistic might be in). I found a similar unreferenced claim in the article 3 Women Are Killed Every Day By Their Partners ... at the Huffington Post and in the article Three Women Are Murdered by Their Husbands, Boyfriends Every Day in America at AlterNet. Question: In the US, are three women killed each day by their male partners? 

Other sources: Information Engine; The Simple Truth; WHIS News. (There is also a YouTube video, although I can't access it from China, so I'm unaware of its contents.) I'm pretty sure this is just made up (or a hoax?). Can this be confirmed/denied? The image in the news article shows an exhausted looking woman surrounded by 17 babies. Their motor skills are too advanced for babies born "last weekend". The woman also appears to be of a different ethnicity to the babies. (Although, there might be some explanation for this that I haven't thought of.) It also seems at odds with how difficult it is to give multiple births; Wikipedia writes: 

One of the best sources on the history of the early Catholic Church is John W. O’Malley, S.J., Church historian, Catholic priest, university professor in the theology department of Georgetown University and author of A History of the Popes. In referring to his book, we must remember that O’Malley is a priest and therefore can not directly contradict Catholic doctrine, which includes that Peter went to Rome and was executed there. Incidentally, the term pope was never used during the first century, so Peter could not have been the first "pope," whether or not he was the first bishop of Rome. O’Malley says, on page 8 of A History of the Popes, no one piece of evidence states in straightforward and unambiguous language either that Peter went to Rome or that he died there. Nevertheless he believes the circumstantial evidence is persuasive. Part of that evidence is in First Peter: "" He says that, by referring to "Babylon" the passage suggests, or even indicates, that Peter was in Rome at the time the letter was written, which was probably about the year 63. O’Malley acknowledges this letter might not have been written by Peter himself, but claims it was at least written under his inspiration. He surprisingly overlooks that the reference to ‘Babylon’ is an anachronism before 70 CE, when Jews and Christians began to refer to Rome as Babylon because of the destruction of the Jerusalem temple. If 2 Peter is pseudepigraphical, which O’Malley acknowledges may be the case, and if the reference to Babylon is one piece of evidence that would place its authorship long after Paul's death, then O’Malley's "persuasive" evidence is unconvincing. Another notable Catholic source is Francis A. Sullivan SJ, author of From Apostles to Bishops. He says on page 15 of From Apostles to Bishops, that there exists a broad consensus among scholars, including most Catholic ones, that Rome most probably continued to be led well into the second century by a college of presbyters. The apostles were missionaries and founders of churches; there is no evidence, nor is it at all likely, that any one of them ever took up permanent residence in a particular church as its bishop. 

in "The Bloody Triangle: The Defeat of Soviet Armor in the Ukraine, June 1941" by Victor Kamenir, you can read in the "Battle of Dubno - June 26-27": 

An unclassified report of the French DGSE (the equivalent of CIA) dated April 2002 deals with Hamas creation. 

However, there is no clear evidence of the involvement of Shin Bet in an active support to Hamas, such as funding, training or weapon deliveries. In a book written by Shimon Perez, Boutros Boutros-Ghali and André Versaille, titled "60 ans de conflit israélo-arabe: témoignages pour l'histoire" (60 years of Israeli-arabian conflict: testimonies for history), Boutros-Ghali, a former UN Secretary-general, said in a diplomatic way: 

According to Le Monde, a French daily newspaper and one of the most important and widely respected newspapers in Europe, the response is yes: watch the video (shorter than that of the Daily News) and listen from 0:18 to 0:28. I translated a part of the article: 

For more information , refer to this French article Pourquoi Israël a aidé le Hamas à se développer In this Source:Mossad's secret wars by Yvonnick DENOEL, it is written that: 

The conclusion would then be that logical-mathematical difficulties are generally associated with spelling problems. But, bad ortograph doesn't necessarily imply limited "intelligence". Source: Corrélation entre le niveau d’orthographe grammaticale et les compétences logico-mathématiques. (short summary in English at the end of the document). 

More information on Japanese immigrants citizenship in this article: Who are the Issei, Nisei, Kibei, and Sansei? 

When you take your dog to another country, the legal requirements are variable and depend both on target country legislation (as indicated in your first link) and the type of vaccination. In Europe the vaccination validity is 1, 2 or 3 years. There are some studies on the duration of rabies vaccination, but limited to 3 years. Beyond that period, there is no evidence that the vaccination efficiency decreases. 

An (small) experiment about correlation between orthographic and logical-mathematical skills was made on 10-year-old children in 2013. The 60 children studied were finally divided in 3 groups: 

The Fels institute of government (University of Pensylvania) reported the the Judge Rendell's Address to Fels graduates. The U.S. Court of Appeals Judge Marjorie O. Rendell evoked the same anecdote than Judge Jones: