Is there evidence that shows that oral probiotics like ProBiora3 increase teeth and gum health or are like most supplements not evidence-based? 

(It would be nice to have the position of someone besides Nassim on the topic, but the excerpt is to long for a simple comment so I put it into an answer). 

Is there research that supports the notion that a vertical key layout is more ergonomic than the conventional key layout? 

On the other hand Theranos claims that the FDA did give it a clearance for it's herpes simplex virus test: 

If people are directly asked whether they consider themselves to be upper income, do they underrate their relative wealth? 

Is the amount of allergen that's needed to cause sensitatization (and thus development of a new allergy) lower than the amount of allergen required for elicitation of the allergy response towards the substance? 

Antioxidants is a fairly broad class of substances. Depending on what type of stroke and what type of Antioxidant you will get different answers: 

Is that an accurate description of the poltical realities of the time? Did the Marijuana Tax Act of 1937 pass because if lobbying by Dupont and Hearst for their commerical interests as paper producers? 

According to the FDA the question they want to answer at a new drug approval is: "Does this drug work for the proposed use?" To answer that question the FDA requires the drug company to submit studies that prove the drug to be safe and effective for the proposed use. There are a host of criteria's such as preregistration that the FDA takes into account but the main criteria for effectiveness is that there are two drug trials that show statistically significant effects for the drug. Drug design usually starts with a Pharma company deciding that there a target where they believe that a drug that binds to the target will have a positive effect on a condition. Then the Pharma company tries lot of different molecules in High Throughput Screening (HTS). When it finds molecules that bind to the target they test the drug in animal to see what it does. The test the dosage that's required to kill animals. If that step is promising they move on to human studies and go through the 4 phases of the the FDA process. The drug company usually has a theory of how their drug works but in most cases the theory will be proven wrong and the drug is not shown to be safe and effective in the clinical trials. But even if the drug is shown to be safe and effective, that doesn't mean that the theory of the Pharma company is right. Drugs usually do more than one thing. In the case of SSRI the theory based on which they were developed in that they are supposed to affect serotonin levels in the brain. Further research found out that they also have effects in the gut. The gut also uses the neurotransmitter serotonin. It even uses 95% of the serotonin in the body. Chronic inflammation is linked to depression. In vitro SSRI have been shown to exert significant immunoregulatory effects. Nobody knows for certain whether the clinical effect of SSRI's on depression shown in the studies that were submitted to the FDA are due to effects fo the drugs in the gut or effects in the brain. It would also be possible that the effects are due to a process that's yet to be uncovered. 

Google Books gives a 1981 edition of The Picture of Dorian Gray by Oscar Wilde published by Alahambra (ISBN: 9788420507910) as a hit for the search phrase: "Everything in the world is about sex, except sex. Sex is about power." The original version of the book doesn't contain the phrase. Unfortunately that version of the book isn't available to me to check it out in more detail. It's likely that the publisher edited the version in a way that made readers think that the Oscar Wilde actually wrote the words. 

Do participants experience something that feels like going back in time and replaying "prebirth memories"? Is it possible to help people with their psychological problems by exploring "prebirth memories"? Do those "prebirth memories" reflect past experiences? Do the contain information that an individual wouldn't have known if the individual wouldn't have access to prebirth experiences? Is there prebirth information storage that hasn't much to do with cognitive memories. 

What's the problem? They looked at all homeopathy studies. Most studies that are conductive are not high quality studies. Low quality studies frequently find homeopathy to be effective but the effect gets smaller as the quality of the study increases. Because of this subsequent reviews of homeopathy focus generally on high quality studies instead of trying to analyse all studies. Focusing on high quality studies seems to be the only way to get the answer: "Homeopathy doesn't work." The lesson of the affair that quite easy to get any result you want if you settle for low quality studies and run enough studies. 

I read Assanage as saying that there's a chilling effect on sources who might worry for their lifes because whether or not Seth Rich was killed for political purposes is unknown. Then the anchor asks "“But was he one of your sources then, I mean?" and Assange answers: 

Doug Westerman of the Centre for Research on Globalization writes in Depleted Uranium – Far Worse Than 9/11: 

According to the FBI data only 6% of all terrorist in the US between 1980 and 2005 were Muslim. There were even more Jewish terrorists. For the US the categorical claim "more than 50% of terrorists attacks can be attributed to Muslims" is therefore false. 

Julian Assange gave an interview to Sean Hannity of Fox news. Fox news hosts the transcript on their website. The relevant exchange starts with: 

Does massage produce that effect in the average woman who get's messaged as Caitlin MacKenna suggests? 

If we look at that claim, how does it come that people believe it? Mainstream media frequently runs headlines that make it seem like the cancer cure is found. The fact that those headline exist don't make it easy to understand why we still haven't solved cancer. There are a bunch of reasons for the current state of affairs: 1) Some of those headline actually lead to drugs that do help to cure some patients of cancer. Just in this year the FDA allowed five cancer drugs to enter the market because they believe that those drugs do provide clinical benefits to some patients. 2) Cancer cells mutate. They have many genetic mutations. If a drug manages to kill 99% of the cancer cells in a patient and the remaining 1% is immune to the drug because it has a genetic mutation the cancer grows back. That means that the ability of a drug to kill a bunch of cancer cells simply isn't enough to cure cancer. This means that pharma companies don't invest in some prospective drugs that are able to shrink the size of the cancer because shrinking the size of a cancer simply isn't enough. 

In Evidence that Food Proteins in Vaccines Cause the Development of Food Allergies and Its Implications for Vaccine Policy Vinu Arumugham claims: 

Is that an accurate assessment? Do adult sleep better when they sleep alone rather than with their significant other? 

Leaving aside the question of the effects of a high fluoride concentration in the the pinal gland, is the claim that using fluoride-based toothpaste and tap water leads to higher concentrations of fluoride in the pineal gland true? 

Negative hallucinations under hypnosis are a decently documented phenomena. In Suggested negative visual hallucinations in hypnotic subjects: When no means yes. Spanos, Nicholas et al write: 

On the other hand she had a verbatim auditory memory and a visual photographic memory. It seems that those people who can consciously remember all the details don't manage to be good at recognising the relationships between the details. Understanding the relationships between details is important to make good decisions. If you understand that a mushroom is poisonous you don't need to remember consciously the time where you throw up when you eat the mushroom. As most stored information is not stored to be consciously recalled it's difficult to count that information in a meaningful way. 

In the segment Daylight Saving Time - How Is This Still A Thing? of John Oliver's Last Week Tonight it is said: 

Here Julian asserts that according to public information multiple people hacked the DNC and hacked Podesta. Assange makes it clear that he isn't revealing any information that comes from his source about how his source got the data. He starts to point to his general policy of dealing with sources and that policy isn't to comment about how the source got the information. Given that Assange previously already said that he doesn't reveal any nonpublic information about how Wikileaks got the data, Hannity cuts that explanation off by saying: 

The effect is called Colony Collapse Disorder. Theres research that suggests that a pesticide named clothianidin is responsible for it. 

The chemical in the painkiller binds to the targets that the pharmacompany who designed the painkiller identified as good targets for reducing pain. The chemical in the painkiller binds to an offtarget or otherwise does something that the company that produced the drug doesn't expect. The patient has mindfulness about what he feels when he contemplates the decision whether or not to ask for a painkiller. The patient made a conscious decision to do something that reduces his pain. The patient gets caring attention from the nurse. The patient drinks a glas of water to take the pill. The patient has an expectation that asking the nurse for help will help his problems. The patient has an expectation that a pailkiller pill will reduce his pain because he believes in pills. The nurse suggests to the patient that he will feel less pain. The patient pays more attention to the feeling because he wants to know whether the pill works. When the person is asked, whether he has less pain, he wants to report that the efforts the nurse made has been effective or that the nurse should do something else. When the person is asked, whether he has less pain, he thinks he's expected to report less pain because he got a pill. 

HealthyHolisticLiving writes in Facts About Microwave Ovens That Will Make You Never Want To Use One Again 

Is the claim that there are health benefits to be gained by writing about achieving future goals correct? 

Is there research that suggest that color schemes like this are easier on the eyes in a measureable way? 

A more recent Cochrane analysis that focuses on the effect of Reiki on anxiety and depression also comes to the conclusion: 

Is it true that Patrick Matthew propogated the theory of natural selection before Charles Darwin to the scientific community? 

The German Red Cross has a tent where anybody who needs the services of the Red Cross can go. Within that tent they put up a sign titled "Womens-Safety-Area" to mark a specific area into which they could retreat in cases woman who wanted to report sexual assault would approach them. Given that the total visitorship of that tent despite a lot of media attention was four women the idea that this is a large-scale, gender-segregated area is false and heavily misleading.