But it's also important to the country that llama-tending not just be the work of a minority, lest they become a permanent underclass and lest the non-llama-tending people forget the importance of the SLR. So every citizen has to spend a year taking care of a llama as a form of national civilian service. It happens in middle age because youngsters are just not that good at taking care of llamas, but they also want to wait for people to get sufficiently established in their careers that a year-long absence won't mess them up too much. Many people do in fact skate by with just a day of llama-tending, but many people take their duty seriously and find it to be a life-changing experience. 

My first thought would be that everyone else went away. Perhaps we live in a relatively bad area of the universe and all the life forms that could do so left. Think about what humans are doing. We want to get to Mars, because that's the next "great leap for mankind," but after that, are we really going to stay in our little corner of the galaxy, poking around on every little planet out there as our home world deteriorates? Absolutely not! We'll be on the first ship out, once we have a ship to take us. Our technological boom is powered by the destruction of our planet, to the point that we might never be able to save it, so once a viable escape option becomes a realistic and nearly certain option, the odds are good that we'll damn what's left of the planet to finish our ship and then be off to the best planet we can reach. That probably won't be the nearest one, or the occupied one. It will be far away and it will have the kinds of elements we deem desirable in a home-world. It seems to me that most intelligent (the use of 'intelligent' to describe species that wreck their planets may be a stretch, but you know what I mean) species would probably do the same thing we humans are doing, and as you said, technology advances so quickly that once the first breakthrough in this technology is made, the rapid expedition of life from a planet is not far behind. This creates a natural separation of those-with-awesome-tech from those-without-awesome-tech, and if we assume that our planet (or whatever planet you may be writing from) is in a district of space that no one wants to live in once they know there's an alternative, it's quite reasonable to assume that the only life-forms we would have contact with in our pre-overpowering-technology stage would be other species in pre-overpowering-technology stage. It's not because that's the only age of life there is, it's just that that's the only age of life that hasn't left yet. Along this same vein, you could work in that some life-forms built up to near-overpowering-tech levels, then crashed their societies, either through destruction of resources or overpopulation or what-have-you, and now are either primitive once more, barren wasteland planets, or maybe some kind of steam-punk blend of futuristic lost technology in a less-advanced society. You could also make some kind of historical event that allowed for the evolution of life at a specific time. Like, maybe there was some kind of massive super-nova/black-hole/worm-hole/antimatter something-or-other that created a wave of magnetism or some such that allowed for the evolution of life from the elements. This wave would travel out, and as it passed over a certain area in space, it would spark life on every 1 in 100 star systems. Because life started at about the same time in the same neighborhoods of space, the life on those planets would be about the same age. As you went farther from your home-world, you'd find life that increasingly differed in age from your own species. 

It's important to the country to have a lot of llamas, like some kind of Strategic Llama Reserve. Possible reasons for this: 

For the purposes of this answer, I'm assuming that "a clone of yourself of the opposite sex" just means a clone who shares your genetic material, except that one of your sex chromosomes is swapped for a "synthetic" one. In this scenario, people don't "date themselves." Identical twins have identical DNA1, but they're different people with different personalities. Your opposite-sex clone has an entire chromosome that you don't have, and doesn't have one that you have. Realistically (ha), my man-clone is not going to be that similar to me. At best/worst, people are marrying people with similar personalities--which is already something that happens all the time. Marriage and family law Option 1 Leave the law pretty much as it is. In most countries, people can contract legal marriages without passing any kind of fertility test, let alone a "will your fiancé(e) save you from clinical depression?" test. Why should clones be any different? Option 2 The government decides people should only be allowed to marry people they can have children with. Fine, so pass that law/issue that royal decree/certify that bureaucratic regulation. Then you need some kind of system that allows people to find the people they're allowed to marry. This could be based on a government clone-registry, if such a thing exists. You could even turn it into a dating app! In our dating apps, you can set it to only display men or only display women. Building an app that only shows you people you're genetically compatible with won't be hard. If each person only has one clone, then you're looking at a society of mass arranged marriage. This is not without precedent, and generally means a society that doesn't strongly associate marriage with shmoopy-doopy romantic feelings. You get married because that's your role--to run a household and raise a family together, not because you're in wuv fowevuh. Just like we don't expect to be BFFs with everyone at work, but still decide to get along and do our jobs, these people and their clones will get along and do their jobs of raising families. This can be facilitated by clearly delineated gender roles. For example, if it's understood that women are in charge of childrearing, then it's not an issue if your arranged husband has a different philosophy of sleep-training than you, because it's not his domain. 1 Well, almost--they have slight genetic differences due to random in-utero mutations, but it's likely that clones would experience the same mutations. Even if not, the genetic differences between twins are less than an entire chromosome. Insofar as personality is determined by genetics, the chromosome swap outweighs the non-mutation. 

Seems quite reasonable. I would recommend a few changes/additions, both in keeping with tradition and to improve the model. Firstly, on coat color. I agree that the human hair and the horse hair should match, but skin tone really doesn't need to. My cat has black hair and white skin, so if she were bald from the ribs up, she'd be mismatched too, but its perfectly normal. Most animals don't have stripes or spots on their skin, despite have striped or spotted coats, so a centaur might have brown hair and white skin, or even white hair and black skin, although it would probably be more visually pleasing to keep the two colors similar. Additionally, I would think that the human's hair would extend farther down his spine, like the mane of a horse. Maybe not all the way to the second shoulders, but at least down past the first shoulders. Secondly on internal organs- Digestion: As mentioned in some of the comments, a centaur really can't survive on human-sized organs, so I recommend horse guts in the horse part. Big lungs, big heart, big stomach, but only one stomach. If a centaur is really a mix of human and horse, it should have a human-esque stomach, capable of processing meat. Classical centaurs are archers, presumably not shooting at grass and berries, so give them big, horse-sized human stomachs. This also solves the problem of low-nutrition grass. If centaurs were only eating berries and leaves, they would be too busy grazing to get anything done, like teaching Achilles and Jason to fight. Side note, if Chiron had spent a little less time foraging and a little more time teaching, Achilles might have known to wear boots into battle instead of sandals. Heart: Definitely a big horse heart in the horse chest, but I think a smaller, back-up heart should be in the human chest. Most mythological creatures are pretty hard to kill, so it makes sense that if you spear the centaur's horse-heart, a secondary, emergency heart could take over. Of course, this heart couldn't keep the centaur up and active, but it might be enough to keep him alive for a while in a comma-like state. It would eventually give out, but if he got a horse-heart transplant or something, he might pull through. With that in mind, a second, smaller set of lungs should be in the human half as well. If nothing else, it would increase the oxygen uptake and blood flow of the centaur. Brains: Of course, centaurs are assumed to have human intelligence, suggesting a human brain, but brains do a lot more than just support consciousness. People say humans only use 10% of our brains, which only accounts for conscious use. 100% of the brain is used, just not for thinking. A lot of it is devoted to little things like telling the heart to beat, the stomach to churn, and the lungs to fill. Not to mention processing nerve signals, handling balance, and regulating temperature. A mouse and a rabbit have similar conscious brains, but a rabbit still needs more gray matter because the rabbit has more body to manage. A horse is less intellectual than a man, but the horse still needs a bigger noggin because the horse is much bigger, so I advise a secondary brain at the juncture of human and horse. The lower brain should handle basic functions, the higher brain should handle consciousness and personality. Another way to do this might be to extend the brain down the spine, eliminating the troublesome second brain. Some animals already have brain extending down their brain stems (that's why, if you do it right, you can cut the head off a chicken and he'll still run around) so it's not an impossible idea. 

Everyone else has disappeared, but presumably many of them have left their cars behind. So go out and collect all the car batteries you can find, and then connect them to blinking Christmas lights. String the lights around the top of the tallest building in your area (like in "28 Days Later"). If you use efficient LED lights, they should last for about a day on a fresh battery while you explore the rest of the city. (Feel free to use your library to set up a more elaborate circuit, with more batteries, for multi-day trips.) Unlike a flag, they require semi-frequent maintenance, so you won't keep attracting people to your area if you die. You can either keep stealing car batteries, or hoard gas and recharge them in their cars. (This is how they keep the radio on in Alas, Babylon. If you don't have a car of your own, the library will tell you how to hotwire one.) 

The best way for this to happen would be for a rebel organization to have formed at the implementation of the caste system. One cell, probably in the capitol where we assume the caste system was first and most harshly implemented, gradually spread into the surrounding countryside, each new cell keeping in contact with its mother-cell, which kept in contact with its mother-cell, all the way back to the capitol. This idea is based on the assumption that pre-caste-ian society was at least tolerably equal for the two emerging castes. When the system is first implemented, many people will be reluctant to accept it. People, as a whole, are slow to change their ideas, so especially in isolated areas far from the capitol, the upper caste will probably be slow to really squash the lower caste. This gives you a chance to get a rebel network set up before the lower caste actually begins to rebel. The capitol is the perfect place for the start of the network as the caste system is no-doubt strictly enforced from the beginning, meaning that the rebellious lower-casters actually have a reason to begin forming a rebel network. As the caste enforcement spreads out, the rebellious attitude will follow it, probably on the backs of the capitol cell's preachers/recruiters. By the time the caste is harsh throughout the nation, the rebel network will be in place, providing a perfect framework for an organized rebellion. This also means that you can focus on one cell, or on the rebellion as a whole, depending on the size of the group you want your characters to be in. As the caste system becomes harsher, the lower caste will inevitably get fed up, but unless there was already some sort of network in place, they would simply form multiple, fractured rebellions. 

The main reason they wouldn't view humanity as a monolithic whole is that we aren't a monolithic whole, and we live very spread out over the planet. So wherever they first land, they'll meet whichever humans live there, and those humans will be only too happy to tell them how awful the other humans are. The aliens will side with these humans if they can offer something the aliens want. The answer that first comes to my mind is that the humans offer to give the aliens the other humans' land, natural resources, or people (as slaves). It's in the aliens' best interest to take this deal because then they can get the land/resources/slaves with less effort and expense than if they had to take them on their own, and they don't have to worry about all of humanity banding together to fight them off. 

Actually, as AndreiROM mentioned, the reason we age is because our cells lose a little information each time they replicate. We have evolved to handle this by capping our chromosomes with telomeres, sequences of repeating nonsense DNA, so that we don't lose anything important for the first many replications. It has been proposed that extending the telomeres could extend life. In theory, it would be possible to create a virus that inserted additional telomere sequences into the cell, allowing the cell a longer reproductive life and the person a longer life in general. This would have the added bonuses of flexible time-lengths (if you want a person's life extended by a longer span, give him one virus, if you want it extended by a shorter amount, give him a different virus) as well as retaining youth/middle-age. We get wrinkles and such because our cells are no longer all replicating like they used to, but with added telomere, we would still look and act like our younger selves. Note that this sort of virus will only work to slow aging from the point of infection on. It will not reverse ageing. It could be re-applied on a regular basis to grant immortality, and the virus need not be kept alive in the host. Once it deposits it's genes, it can be killed, however it is necessary for all the body's cells to be affected, so to make this actually work, the virus would probably cause either a near-death experiance (when the virus replicates within the body- it cannot be treated until the procedure is complete, and replication is what causes the symptoms of disease) or a prolonged period of mild effects. The easiest way for a virus like this to come about would be through engineering, but if you want it to be natural, explain it lightly. Really, all a telomere is is a string of DNA that the cell can afford to lose, so any viral DNA that could be attached properly to the ends of the chromosomes could function as a telomere. Presumably this virus comes from another planet, or some long-lost cave or some such, so it could be explained as the human cell's response to this particular viral code. The host cell just sticks the sequence at the end of the chromosome, the sequence does not code for any human proteins, so it functions like a telomere. This could be tied in to religion if you like. Maybe the reason the Mayans were so concerned with the future was because they knew that some of them would be living in it. The sacred caves of South America could contain the source of the virus, and the priests/priestesses went to talk to the gods, got infected, and lived for centuries. This could also be tied in to human sacrifice. Maybe the virus lives in some kind of cave creature that must be fed. Like a subterranean virus factory. Sorry, I went off on a tangent, but the point is, yes, it is totally possible for such a virus to exist, either man-made or natural, and you can tie it into all kinds of stuff if you want to give an extensive background. 

Having fertilized eggs disintegrate pretty much goes against your assumption of immortality. Biologically speaking, a fertilized egg is a living organism in its own right. What you're talking about is the mass death of the very young children of immortals. Of course, you could just let your immortal women go through menopause and be infertile after that. Alternatively, recall that regular human women are born with all of our eggs--(actually, we have them all before we're even born. In real life, these eggs degrade over time, which is why it's harder for older women to have children, even if they haven't hit menopause. If you keep either of these effects, you're capping the number of children each woman can have. Iboth these mechanisms are too much like aging for you, how about this: An egg is only viable for about twenty-four hours after ovulation anyway. After that it can't be fertilized.* So you could (a) shorten that time, or (b) lengthen the time it takes an egg to travel far enough down the fallopian tube to meet the other cell, or (c) both. [*Note: probably someone's wondering whether this means a woman can only get pregnant from intercourse within twenty-four hours after ovulation, i.e. twenty-four hours every month-ish, and the answer is no. Prior to ovulation, a healthy woman produces cervical mucus that both provides "swimming lanes" for sperm to get where they need to go and also actually keeps the sperm alive for a matter of days. It varies from woman to woman, but the actual (potentially) fertile window can be around a week.] 

The first problem is what all of these people already know. Presumably, they know that the apocalypse is coming. Given that a dome/habitat has been made, they also have some idea of what kind of apocalypse it will be. That's either really good or really bad. If it's the kind of apocalypse that starts at breakfast and is over by brunch, it's all good. If it's the kind that starts at Christmas and ends at no-one-even-knows-what-that-is-anymore-because-it-was-so-amazingly-long-ago, that's bad. See, the trouble with these people is that they all love someone. It's really easy to tell them all that they can bring one person, but they will never get past what it will do to the ones they leave behind. With that in mind, the goal should be to minimize the discomfort associated with leaving one's loved ones to die horrible deaths. First off, control information. Whatever these people don't absolutely need to know, don't tell them. Sugar-coat it. "Yes, the comet will hit in a blaze of fantastic glory and everything outside of this cool dome thing will be instantly vaporized." That's the line you want. Make it okay for the relatives that get left behind. No pain, no suffering, they won't even know it. Secondly, everyone wants to spend time with their loved ones, so allow them their freedom until, say, three days before the big bad is about to go down. Make sure the dome is up and running well before then, but don't require the specials to be there until basically the last minute. Until then, send them home. Send them home with cash. Lots and lots of cash. Basically, give these people the absolute best last days with their families. Make it idyllic, and impress upon them the fact that, if they truly love these people, they shouldn't tell them what's coming. Just hug them, kiss them, tell them you love them, and then promise you'll be back in a few days. In short, give everyone the goodbye they wanted. Of course, every special gets to bring exactly one other person with them. Really, these specials can't be the only people in the dome or there's really no reason to have the dome, so if each of them gets a plus one, not really a big problem. Except Mrs. Norman. For whatever reason, Mr. Norman absolutely is not allowed because he has some something or other that would endanger the colony. Mrs. Norman has to come, otherwise it would look bad, but she can't bring her husband. Also, these secondary specials do not get to know that the apocalypse is coming or you'll have the same problem with them. These secondaries only get to know that they are going somewhere with their lovers/best friends for a few days. Also, just a thought here, but make sure your Twitter stars can actually talk to people. I mean, I don't know who these people are, but there is that not-baseless stereotype about amazing online personalities that simply cannot deal with actual in-the-flesh-people. If the point of bringing them into the dome is to entertain the inhabitants, make sure they will actually be able to once the internet goes down. I know this creates a secondary population of seemingly useless people, but really, we don't fully understand what makes a person's genes worth keeping. It's possible that hidden in the genetic folds of "dat ass" is coding for incredibly IQ, or massive strength, or some other unexpressed trait. Every person holds the possibility of a beneficial mutation or genetic twitch, and just as you shouldn't breed two natural-bob-tail Australian shepherds, you shouldn't breed only the humans humans decided should be bred. We simply don't know enough, so even if you wanted to optimize the gene pool, you should include a few wild cards, and you might as well kill two birds with one stone. If nothing else, they can be taught useful skills. If absolutely nothing else, they'll breath carbon dioxide for your plants. For general vetting purposes, these same rules apply. Figure out exactly what you need, find the best people for the job, tell them as little as possible while conveying what they need to know, allow them to bring ONE person if they so choose, and give them the best good-bye period you can. As for what you'll want, picture a scaled down United States. You'll need a governing body, enforced by a police structure of some kind. You'll need food workers from growing to processing to cooking. You'll need sewers and weavers and builders and herdsmen and blacksmiths. The important consideration is how big the dome is. However many people it can support at maximum, figure on half that population, then half of that population is your specials. The secondaries will all be apprenticed to an appropriate occupation. If you end up with people who refuse to cooperate, kick them out into the post-apocalyptic wasteland. Moreover, let them know that if they get the boot, their loved one does as well.