(I.e., in Porteño Spanish, "MARÍA compró el diario" and "compró el diario MARÍA" were both found, while in Patagonian Spanish, "compró el diario MARÍA" was never found.) Of course this is limited to two Argentinian dialects, but it shows there is dialectal variation of focusing strategies. Interestingly it is also a bit different than what you say are Zubizaretta's original results. In your example above you say that [FS]VO was infelicitous to Zubizaretta; but your South American friend found the opposite, in accord with Gabriel's results. So that may be yet another dialectal variation; I don't have access to Zubizaretta's book to know. Also: Gabriel says that contrastive focus is treated differently than informational focus, and that phonetic stress is as important as movement for focusing constituents. Your examples above exhibit informational focus. 

Bosworth's 18381 Dictionary of the Anglo-Saxon Language gives "buttor-fleoge, Plat. (Plat-dutch) Better-flege, Dut. Kil. (Dutch, from Kilian) Butor-vilege". I don't know if it will be possible to determine if these were borrowings, calques, or cognates. These are all West Germanic languages spoken in a fairly small area that probably didn't have abrupt transitions between languages. 1 Note, The 1838 Bosworth is available online but the scanner cut off part of the page in question. The later Bosworths don't give the same cognate information. 

Onomatopoetic words do undergo sound changes. Sometimes this results in the word no longer being onomatopoetic, in which case new onomatopoeias are often introduced. Hock and Joseph in Language History, Language Change, and Language Relationship give the following examples: 

It appears to be a word in a Siouan language, though Chattaroy, WA was not founded until the early 1880's. 

You haven't mentioned, which Hebrew you mean and what format you expect. Presuming, you are interested in the Modern Israeli Hebrew and that the format is not so important, the best choice would be (Hebrew-Hebrew) Even-Shoshan Dictionary: it includes both words in vocalized form and in ktiv male; plural and smikhut forms are provided for nouns, and basic inflected forms - for verbs. There are scanned versions of the 1979-edition on the web and there is an electronic version from babylon, but it's for money. 

In other Semitic languages the situation seems to be similar, including Maltese, which utilizes the Latin script. 

Although such adjectives seem to be less productive in Yiddish, it shows a similar system. In Yiddish the genitive is generally substituted by dative with the preposition פון fun (of), although it survives as possessive for animate nouns: 

It seems to be a terminological question, because the fact that ursus and arctos are cognates is beyond doubts I guess. The only sphere where these two words come together is taxonomic nomenclature, so: The correct name for scientific species names which have identical (or repeating) generic and specific names is tautonyms. They are allowed in zoological nomenclature and forbidden in botanical nomenclature. The case of Ursus arctos is not even tautonymy in the strict meaning, i.e. no tautonomy-related articles of the Zoological (or even Botanical) Code would be applicable here. This could be called a "semantic" tautonymy and it is not covered by the Codes, meaning that it is no better/worse than any other non-tautonymous name. 

Duden and other sources state that -lich is a grammaticalized form of the Middle High German līch ["body"] (which also gave rise to Leiche). -ly, -lich, -lijk (and Scandinavian forms) are actually all of similar derivation and converge to a single Germanic ancestral suffix (see discussion on details here). The Turkic -lik appeared already in the Old Turkic times and probably was related to a similar in form and meaning Mongolian suffix (see e.g. here). So, a hypothesis about common ancestry of the Germanic and the Turkic suffixes via borrowing is at least non-parsimonious. (Not to mention, that there are no genetic links between these two groups of languages.) 

Yes, it did. hen: From Middle English henne, heonne, hinne, from earlier henene, heonenen, henen, from Old English heonan, hionan, heonane, heonone (“hence, from here, away, from how”), from Proto-Germanic *hina, *hinanō (“from here”), from Proto-Indo-European *ḱe-, *ḱey- (“this, here”). Cognate with Dutch heen (“away”), German hin (“hence, from here”), Danish hen (“away, further, on”). See also hence. (dialectal) Hence. EDITED TO ADD: To be sure, this answer addresses the "Whatever happened to "hen?" Did that form exist in an earlier stage or dialect?" part of your question. hen did not really mean 'now'. 

For the front stops, they exhibit the contrasts you mention (in addition to a plain voiced manner). EDIT: The inventory above is not atypical of North American languages, for example Kiowa also contrasts voiced/voiceless/aspirated/ejective. And many of Africa's !Kung languages exhibit extensive contrasting manners of articulation among the stops; Ekoka contrasts up to 5 manners at each point of articulation, and that's not including clicks. It's not clear if this is the kind of thing you're asking about, though. 

I don't think the nature of the written notation for the language really had much effect. Computation is basically just math and the Chinese had a firm grasp on mathematics from the earliest times. Computational devices were developed based on mechanics - gears, punch cards, etc. - long before they were based on silicon. Babbage's device didn't use any human language - it ran on punch cards, gears, and steam; Lovelace's algorithm was, well, algorithmic in nature and not based on characters, as is plain on reviewing it. I'd note the Chinese invention of the suànpán, more commonly known as the abacus, and the earlier chóu counting rods. The Ancient Chinese also independently invented the differential gear, an early analog computing device. In none of these case did the Chinese language prove a hindrance to developing mechanical calculation devices. Electronic digital computers, the kind we usually think of nowadays, have been part of Chinese technology since the late 1950s [PDF]. The authors note "By June 1985, the task force had successfully developed a personal computer, Great Wall 0520CH, which was the first PC using Chinese character generation and display technology, capable of processing information in Chinese." I don't think there's much evidence for the proposition your interlocuter made. It's mistaking the modern keyboard and ASCII input and text monitors - the accoutrements of computers - for what a computer really is. The Chinese have always been perfectly aware of alphabets and do make use of the Roman alphabet in their computing. The popular use of keyboards during the past couple decades is not fundamental to computing. Consider touch screens. Touch screens are noted for their difficulty in entering Roman letters, but they are almost perfect for entering Chinese characters.