This depends very much on where one gets ones news on climate change issues. Fox News? The odds are against it. According to one study, 72% of Fox News's reporting on climate change was inaccurate or downright false, with the inaccuracies veering toward denialism. This same study found MSNBC to do a much better job, with only 8% of its reporting on climate change being inaccurate or downright false (with the inaccuracies here being mostly overly alarmist). That said, an 8% error rate is nothing to write home about, and the superficial nature of the reporting is even less to write home about. The news media is not where you should go if you want good reporting on climate change, or on science and technology in general. I have a rather low regard for news media journalism regarding science and technology. The reporting is rather awful. Keep in mind: Journalists in general avoided STEM classes from the ninth grade and up, and when they couldn't, they took classes like Physics for Poets. 

The Sun didn't set on Bovinia, New York on May 03 when time is expressed as Universal Time. Sunsets from May 04 to August 16 occur before sunrise. (Also note that August 16 has two sunsets.) The solution is simple: Fill in the time zone. Ignoring daylight savings time, time in Bovinia New York is offset by 5 hours from UTC. Another solution is to use a different website. There are better web services than the simple perl-based script used to generate that table. 

Water is a rather strange substance. With most substances, the solid phase is denser than is the liquid phase. This is not the case with water. Ice is less dense than liquid water. A side effect of this effect is that liquid water very close the the freezing point is less dense than is slightly warmer water. That very cool water sinks. Liquid fresh water achieves its maximum density at a temperature of 4 °C (40 °F). This means that a pond or lake cannot freeze until the entire body of water is cooled to 4 °C. Only then can the upper surface of the water cool to below 4 °C, and then eventually freeze. In addition to the water itself needing to be cooled to 4 °C before freezing can commence, the water-saturated ground beneath the pond has to be cooled as well. Until then, that warmer ground will transfer heat to the pond and keep it from freezing. How long it takes before a body of water to first start freezing depends on a number of parameters. These include the size and depth of the body of water, the nature of the ground beneath the body of water, the weather leading up to the cold weather, and windiness. The question doesn't mention the depth of the pond, but it's only been below freezing in O'fallon, Missouri for about 24 hours, and temperatures had been quite balmy before that. That 24 hours span of sub-freezing weather is more than enough time to freeze a small puddle, but certainly not a lake, and probably not even a pond. The question also mentions that it's windy. For a body of water to freeze, it needs a cooler layer of water atop the 4 °C thermocline. Winds act to keep the water well-mixed. 

"Doctor! It hurts when I do this! «bonk»" "So don't do that then!" One way around the issue of an unknown initial distribution of isotopes is to not do that. One of the most reliable mechanisms for dating the Earth is uranium-lead dating of zircons. Uranium can take the place of zirconium in the zircon crystal because of the chemical similarity of uranium is and zirconium. Lead on the other hand is very dissimilar chemically from zirconium and uranium. The crystal formation process strongly rejects lead. At the time a zirconium crystal forms it will contain no lead. All the lead in zircons comes from the decay of uranium. Two decay chains lead to lead, with 235U eventually decaying to 207Pb and 238U eventually decaying to 206Pb. Those two decay chains provide two independent mechanisms to date the same crystal. Another approach is to find that initial distribution of isotopes. This is the approach Claire Patterson used in his estimate for the age of the Earth. See Claire Patterson, "Age of meteorites and the earth", Geochim Cosmochim Ac 10 (1956). He used a non-radioactive iron meteorites to establish the primordial distribution of isotopes of lead. With this as a baseline, he then used the disequilibrium ratios in meteorites to find the age of the Earth. With regard to varying 234U/238U ratios, that's a red herring used by some who don't like the results of radioactive dating in a failed attempt to throw suspicion at those dates. The 256 thousand year half life of 234U means that there is no primordial 234U on the Earth. All of the 234U we see now came from the decay of 238U, via 238U→234Th→234Pa→234U. Those decays weaken rock at the site of the decays. When the rock weathers and is exposed to water, that weakened rock around a 234U atom means that 234U is preferentially leached from the rock. 

Temperature change (blue) and carbon dioxide change (red) observed in ice core records. Image source: $URL$ 

Source: $URL$ Copyright KodachromeFan, license CC BY-SA 3.0 This is an orographic fog. (Table Mountain can also create some rather spectacular lenticular clouds.) Another example of an orographic fog is detailed in the article "Waterfall-like Orographic Clouds". The conditions needed to form an orographic fog include 

It's not as significant an increase as you think. It's important to remember what that "largest ice extent on record" means. That "on record" means in the satellite era. Data from before the satellite era (pre-1981) are rather spotty. Except they aren't. There's a nice proxy for sea ice extent, at least during Antarctic summer, in the locations at which whalers made their catches and established their factory ships (Williams 1997). In the first half of the 20th century, whalers sought species that concentrated near the edge of the Antarctic sea ice. By the early 1930s whalers had developed a practice of anchoring factory ships within 20 km of the ice edge and followed the ice southward as summer progressed. This practice continued throughout the 1930s and resumed after WWII through to the mid 1950s. The practice was later restarted in the mid to late 1970s. Every whale caught by Norwegian whalers was tagged with date, latitude, and longitude. The practice of setting up shop near the ice edge gave Williams a nice way of estimating the pre-satellite era ice extent. What Williams found was that summer Antarctic sea ice suffered a massive decline that continued throughout the 1950s and 1960s. The ice levels we are seeing now, at least during Antarctic summer, are on par with the levels seen eighty years ago. The Interdecadal Pacific Oscillation is strongly in its negative phase. The Interdecadal Pacific Oscillation (IPO) is highly correlated with a hiatus in perceived global warming and also with increased precipitation in the Antarctic (Meehl 2013). An increase in precipitation means that surface waters are less salty (increasing the freezing point) and cooler. The combination of reduced sea surface temperatures and reduced salinity makes for increased ice formation during the Antarctic winter during periods when the IPO is in its negative phase. The Southern Annular Mode is at a 1000 year high. It has long been suspect that stronger winds are one of the causes of the increase in the Antarctic sea ice levels (Zhang 2007, Zhang 2014). Winds help create polynyas, open areas of water surrounded by ice. That open water is subject to freezing during the Antarctic winter. Not only are the winds strong now, they are stronger than they have been for at least 1000 years (Abram 2014). Natural and man-made variations have collectively caused increased melting of the Antarctica ice sheet. Just as increased precipitation leads to increased ice formation, so does increased melting of the continental Antarctic ice sheet. And the ice sheet is melting (Shepherd 2012, Rignot 2013). Gravity measurements from the GRACE satellites, combined with ice height measurements from ICESat collectively show that Western Antarctica and the Antarctica Peninsula are decreasing in mass, and at a significantly greater rate than the slight increase in the mass of the Eastern Antarctica ice sheet. This influx of cold, fresh water during the Antarctic summer makes for increased sea ice production during the Antarctic winter.