Asking about "anything" is rather vague especially in this case - Adorno and Heidegger share too many things: both wrested with Hegel, both had interests in aesthetics and despised postivism and that is just to name a few. Whether Adorno took something from Heidegger or both have a common source is a rather muddled point. The problem of their common grounds has been considered more than once, a recent book of papers to look through is Iain Macdonald and Krzysztof Ziarek (eds.), Adorno and Heidegger: Philosophical Questions, Stanford University Press, 2008, 221pp. Here is a brief quote from something Richard Bernstein wrote 30 years ago: 

The Liar Paradox has rather long story, starting around 600BC, and which mentions Eubulides, Chrysippus, Aristotle and other Greek thinkers: this is an indirect proof that for them lying would have been somehow possible.In this line a further argument would be Marcia L Colish The stoic theory of verbal signification and the problem of lies and false statements from antiquity to St. Anselm (Archeologie du signe.Recueils d'etudes medievales 1982). A rather complicated case however is Plato, but there is a magistral paper on the topic by J. Hintikka (Knowledge and its Objects in Plato. 1973) The point to note that there are ambiguities in the semantics of direct and indirect construction for many greek verbs. Peculiarities of the language created a powerful illusion that telling implies exitence much as in Meinong's view. A lawyer and further an analytic philosopher would probably insist to distinguish 'intent' form 'content' and the 'accessibility of intent' in order to anounce an opinion about lying as different from uttering untruth. Some Greek thinkers might have been confused by language but without exception they all had first hand experience. 

Yes. There appears to be a consensus around teleology being present in the understanding of black holes. Checking for "teleology" in the arxiv might be illuminating and also remembering that until recently the least action principle used to bee seen as a kind of teleology. A popular essay by Matt Visser asserts: 

'Essence' is perhaps a stronger word than 'nature' and five pages later, with repeted references to JPS Rorty notes: 

Carlo Rovelli wrote a defence of Aristotle's physics which deserves to be read: $URL$ An idea which is perhaps worth reconsidering is formulated found in De Caelo (305a26): what does not move is merely mathematical and does not exist. Contemporary physics has became almost entirely mathematical and tends to obliterate the divide between mathematics and physics. The 19th c. conceded that absence of obvious contradiction is enough to legitimate a mathematical inquiry; for physics some evidence was mandatory. Today physicists tend to promote purely mathematical constructs as physics - they are cheap and mostly unfalsifiable. But they are offered only on the strength on non-contradiction. Indeed there is an attempt to reverse philosophical perspective by inverting the role of modality and existence - physics pretends to a god's like view in which the actual world is merely one among the possible ones. Possibility is a modality which, as Aristotle knew, escapes the non-contradictoriness manifested by reality. 

Antitypia or impenetrability as a defining property for matter has been known since antiquity. It was revived in early modern times notably by Leibniz who was aware that the new mechanical science is not without intrinsic difficulties. Newtonian mechanics readily uses 'material points' which is not an obvious construct. How could different masses be ascribed to zero-dimensional objects? How many of these objects can be present at the same point of space? Heavy point-like particles interact gravitationally in classical physics and they have of course impulses and energy. But the details are usually elsewhere. 

I think (1) that the IEP is not actually right in presenting Descartes' purpose and further (2) the question presupposes that he is triyng to refute somebody which is not really the case. (1) The introductory Dedication asks more or less directly the Doctors to endorse his Methode. What he presents to them is an example. He reminds them them that immortality of the soul is ultimately a dogma and the Church has asked for arguments that support it. He knows just as well as any other reader that Aristotle is not in line with the dogma. (2)"Atheist" has became a snarl word since the Reformation and both protestants and catholics used it while killing each other. Scepticism was a stance that allowed cultivated people to avoid taking sides; seen from the other side, people also wanted to know what is ultimately true - that was Descartes motivation. (Steven Toulmin's Return to reason offers a good sketch of the historical context) 

How..? By pure rhetoric: a double negation removes itself. Don Quixote sees a peasant but he knows she is a princess made to look plain by an evil magician. Classical descriptions in terms of causes are strongly anthropomorphic and the corresponding 'explanations' are narrative constructions. 

Surprisingly little appears to have been written on the purely mathematical reception of Husserl's ideas, so one might surmise that he has not received much official acknowledgement. Richard Tieszen has written numerous papers on Husserl and maths but they are mostly philosophical. There is a 72-page article in French on arxiv "Husserl, Cantor & Hilbert: La Grande Crise des Fondements Mathematiques du XIXeme Siecle". A popuar story about Husserl and Hilbert is told by Pierre Cassou-Noguès (available at diff. places). In a nutshell: Husserl in his Philosophy of Arithmetic was critical of Frege who in turn wrote a negative and influent review. Husserl definitely turned from maths and set theory towards philosophy but he still knew most of the important figures in the maths world and exchanged many letters with them. Cantor is said to have congratulated him for his Habilitationschrift. Between 1901 and 1913 he was at Gottingen, the department of philosophy housing there the mathematics faculty, that is Hilbert and Klein. Hilbert has had many discussion with Husserl but does not appear to have said anything notable (either good or bad). However many thought Husserl close to Brouwer who was not well seen by mathematicians. The exception is Hermann Weyl who for a few years has been very enthousiastic about both. From a contemporary standpoint, the most impressive acknowledgement of Husserl's ideas is due to Godel who studied them and wrote about them but did not publish anything (see Tieszen for an extensive tratment). 

The answer to the if-then question is "Yes". The text outlines two popular views which appear to present an either/or question. However this might not be the case because inventing/ discover are not a neat alternative in a neutral framework. Richard Rorty has exposed at some length how vocabularies shape the creation and resolution of problems. Following him it seems reasonable to admit that 'discovering' is the adequate word within a platonist vocabulary, while 'inventing' pertains to some other. But it would be incoherent to say in a platonistic setting that mathematic objects are invented. NB Rorty's view are in Phislosophy and the Mirror of Nature. Reading it should made obvious that there are no problems in Nature (pace Popper). 

In Plato’s Republic his view on the mental faculties is summarized by the famous Analogy of the Divided Line (6.509-11). The universe is divided in two parts, a visble domain and an intelligible one. For the intelligible there are two facultties: a higher one, ‘noesis’, and a lower one, ‘dianoia’. The parallel with Kant, who considers reason and understanding, is hard to miss. However Plato’s own comments offer geometry (mathematics) as the paradigmatic task for dianoia while the workings of noesis remain much more undefined. The arguments to connect the Platonic faculties with specific ‘objects’ are not easily dimissed and then dianoia would be exercised on intuitions (Anschauungen) and noesis on concepts (Begriffe). But this is a rather different parallel and one is lead to ask what fits better: Dianoia-Verstand vs. Noesis-Vernunft or Dianoia-Intuitions vs. Noesis-Concepts? Is there some recent work on this topic? 

Actually the whole topic (FW Theorems) derives from Bell's seminal ideas about quantum mechanics and experimental work connected to them could hint what relevant tests would look like. Another approach with experimentals proposals, mixing QM and neurology (like Libet's), has been reacently published by Nayakar C.S.M., et al (2014) Consciousness, Libertarian Free Will and Quantum Randomness. In: Menon S., Sinha A., Sreekantan B. (eds) Interdisciplinary Perspectives on Consciousness and the Self. Springer, New Delhi. 

Joyce's bon mot would not have been appreciated by any bona fide marxist. History and nightmares may be both horrible but this similarity is much weaker than the difference between real and unreal. The idea about 'waking from history' would be not only meaningless but also pernicious: it hints at some kind of unreality while marxism used to explain itself as 'historical materialism'. Having an end is another similarity but waking is something that happens more or less independently of you, while putting an end to history is the goal of a premeditated action - the Revolution. So, as the differences largerly outweight the similarities, the conjectured use would relie on a rather superficial analogy. The possibility of 'substantial work' appears to be excluded in advance. 

Schelling supposedly derives everything from the principle A=A which he restates as 'A is not equal to not-A' that is more or less 'I think of anything'. The topic was fashionable in his time (the German Idealism). 'I think therefore I am' has been discussed countless times with few authors noting that it is an implication which originally is presented as an impossible conjunction: it is not possible to think without being, i.e. ~(C&~S). Leibniz rejects the existence of identicals because they would violate his principle of sufficient reason. That is in the context of a purely relative space: in an absolute space two objects can be identical but they are found at different places. In his criticism of Descartes Leibniz comes close to state Schelling's double negation, something like 'I am because I have various ideas'. 

This has been widely discussed but an excellent place where their meanings have been unpacked is The Free Will Function Free will from the perspective of a particle physicist by Sabine Hossenfelder. She notes (p6) that the converse is 

$URL$ "PhilPapers is a comprehensive index and bibliography of philosophy maintained by the community of philosophers. Using advanced trawling techniques and large scale crowdsourcing, we monitor all sources of research content in philosophy, including journals, books, open access archives, and personal pages maintained by academics. We also host the largest open access archive in philosophy. " 

In a nutshell: to promote his political agenda Plato invented a new rhetoric which relies on imitating mathematics. Aristotle was able to 'abstract' logic from discourse while Plato offered mostly analogies. Geometry does not have a scale, so any circle is the unit circle or all circles are indeed the same. Two circles are already numerically different and, further, they are spatially different (differing by places, and/or size). Same for squares, cubes etc. It is the absence of differences that makes them 'perfect'. What fascinated Plato is the generality of mathematics, e.g. that for any triangle there is a circle passing through its vertices. Analogies are easy to construct: for any man there should be a compelling idea of justice, of a King etc. The trick does not work smoothly but its weakness was transformed into strength: there is no such things as perfect dirt or greed. Negatives entities are not Good, of course. The exemple offered by Plato in his Republic borders on farce as he entertains (seriously?) the idea of (perfect) bed. There are a serious difficulties when discussing Plato in English. Just because native speakers take 'ideas' to be mostly subjective, they are called instead 'forms' (a latin word) and for 'forms', such as the ones exhibited by mathematics, a hazy conception about some kind of 'intermediates' is supplied. The famous analogy of the divided line (Rep.) exposes how Plato sought to place his imitation as the pinnacle of philosophy.