Yes, this can lead to various repetitive stress injuries caused by how your body compensates for the saddle being too high. Different people may compensate in different ways and get different injuries as a result. As a personal story, I was on recent short/fast/light tour when at in the final stretch I was getting some knee pains (outside, IT-band related) and I still had 120 km to finish the next day in order to catch a ferry and meet the kids in time for camping. After much consternation that evening, I tried lowering the saddle by 0.5-1.0 cm (as I was using a different shoe/pedal combination than normal). This completely alleviated the problem and I was able to ride the distance the next day and make the ferry sailing. In the end the best advice is to make small changes and wait a bit to see the end effect. Record these changes in a notebook so you can look back and see the big picture. None of this is an exact science because each person has some aspect of their biomechanics that makes them unique. 

The QR system was designed before the advent of modern disc brakes, and as such there are a few peculiarities such as the one you are experiencing. You should only worry about rubbing after clamping the QR. No fork or drop-out is perfectly set. When you put the wheel in the dropout with the QR open, there likely be a bit of slack in how it fits in the dropout. This goes away when you tighten the QR. Depending on how your caliper is set this may make rubbing disappear or if you are unlucky, appear, depending on the final position of the hub relative to the dropout after clamping the QR. Note that it is also important to properly center the hub in the dropout before closing the QR, otherwise the hub can get positioned off center. As mentioned this can cause rubbing or worse if you set the caliper when the hub is not properly settled in the hub, you will likely experience rubbing the next time you open and close the QR. These problems are inherent to combing the QR system with the tighter tolerances demanded by disc brakes. I suspect this was one of the drivers behind newer standards such as thru-axels, which should be more consistent when fixing the wheel to the dropout (although I can't confirm as I don't have practical experience with thru-axels yet). The practical solution is to carefully center the hub before clamping the QR (e.g., by placing the bike on the ground then opening the QR, allowing the wheel and hub to center, then clamping the QR). if you get rubbing the you will likely need to reset the caliper position or back the pads off. The goal is to set the caliper against a stable wheel position that you can recreate the next time you open and close the QR. 

Take a look at your riding position. When I was much younger (about 10-12 years ago) I used a messenger pack all the time while in an aggressive riding position (e.g., track bike / road bike) . In that position I found your lower back supports most the weight of the bag. In a more upright position it pulls on your shoulder more. As a test, try walking around for a while with one... it sucks. If you prefer a more upright riding position (no judgement!) then a messenger bag may simply not be the right fit -- sorry pun intended, my bad. 

I believe this is a reasonably decent calibration chart as I hit 0.5% or 0.75% on the chart, the other Park Tool CC-3.2 pass/fail gauge nicely slides in at the 0.5% and 0.75% sides respectively. The conversion table is of course not perfect as some chains came with an initial stretch measurement less than 0% (i.e., the CC-2 gauge would not fit in place). As such, 0% does not represent true zero. That said, we are really interested in the 0.5% or 0.75% wear, which the chart seems to approximate well (for how Park Tools measures chain wear). As you can see your measurement of 120mm suggests 0.4% stretch. Typically I will measure the chain with Vernier calipers in three random places and take an average, then compare against the chart. I also record these measurements and regress them against the current distance or duration to get a better estimate of the current wear rate, as well as projecting service intervals. Predicting Service Life I typically take periodic measurements over the course of the chain life in order to predict my Service date. Below is an example for a KMC X11-SL chain. As you can see it will be time to change the chain at about 3,250 km. Given how much wear you have observed in 600 km you may wish to reconsider your maintenance regime or chain brand. 

As Argenti Apparatus indicated the "go" / "no go" wear gauge such as the CC-3.2 indicates that the elongation has not yet reached 0.5%. If you want some sort of measurement below that (i.e., 0% to 0.5%) you will need to use a different gauge such as the CC-2, measure the inter rivet difference via a ruler, or use a pair of Vernier calipers to measure the roller to roller difference then convert it to a percent stretch. Using Vernier Calipers My preference is for the Vernier caliper approach as I could it to give very reliable and repeatable measurements if done right. Methodology can be found in this answer. 

The best computer, is no computer at all! I am sure I will take flack for this, but if all you are interested in is speed and distance, why not go with an old style bike speedometer. Permanent mounting and no batteries. Just watch out for the roaming bands of bike hipster thieves, they may steal your whole bike to get at the speedometer. 

This depends on what you mean by "practical" and what your use case is. If you are planning on long distance commutes (e.g., 40+ km) with a high assist level, then it will not be practical as the battery housed within the wheel may not provide enough range. If by "practical" you mean easy to convert an existing bike, the answer could be yes if your bike matches their required specs. For geared bikes your will need rim brakes on the rear wheel (no disc brakes) and a rear hub spacing of 135 mm (road bikes are 130mm and will not work unless you spread the frame - difficult and requires steel frames). If you are fixed or single speed your rear spacing will need to have a standard track hub spacing (120mm). You will also need a smart phone in order to interact and change the settings on the wheel. If any of these are a deal breaker then it is not practical for you. In terms of pricing it is very competitive relative to existing electric bike or existing conversion kits. Assuming it actually ships and works as advertised. 

Bike Geek Aside As an aside, the expansion and contraction of the housing and cables will counter act each other to some degree (e.g., contracting housing will lessen cable tension, but contracting cable will increase tension). Each component will also expand and contract at different rates. My anecdotal experience seems to suggest the expansion and contraction of the cable housing has the biggest effect. Another big effect I have found was adjusting the cable tension inside, where it is warm, the riding it outside where it is cold would quickly throw all my setting off. 

Because you will be spending a lot of time riding, getting a comfortable fit should be your top priority. Fit is also a very difficult subject in cycling as there is no such thing as the perfect fit, only a balance of compromises. I personally find being too upright uncomfortable (it places all your load on your sit bones), but also feel that many road bikes are too low. 20 years in I am still working to improve my fit. Before you write off all road bikes, look at the "endurance" type road/touring bikes. These will have a taller frame stack (vertical distance from the bottom bracket to the top of the head tube) than the "race" road bikes and will be much more comfortable for most rides while still rolling efficiently. 

The "All Road" category now exists, which is essentially a tougher road bike with the tire clearances of a CX bike. The geometry and handling is typically either more road bike like or a hybrid between road and CX. Also some (but not all) "all road" bikes come with other niceties like fender and rack eyelets (thank you!). Your riding position also tends to be more upright as these bikes as they are not intended for racing. CX bikes are great too, often they used to be equipped like the "all road" bikes are now, with fender and rake eyelets (so you could use it for multiple purposes), but lately I have found mainstream CX bikes offerings are much more race focused than they used to be so they may not be as useful for general riding. This can mean more aggressive riding positions and no rack or fender eyelets. Brand dependent, YMMV. Road bikes are actually tougher than they look. I used to ride my road bike down gravel all the time until "all road" became a thing. That said, I do appreciate the current crop of "all road" bikes as they have the clearance to to run much larger volume tires which is much better for gravel and rough pavement. Depending on your intended use, a sport touring road bike could be a good choice as well. Similar to an all road bike, these typically support larger volume tires, have more upright position, will definitely have rack and fender eyelets, but will also have more stable handling than the previous 3 categories. This makes them better suited to hauling loads and potentially casual riding as these bikes are typically more forgiving to momentary lapses in concentration or balance.