Why argue with this situation, unless the time punch system is cumbersome or unreliable. I'm salaried and have to fill in a time sheet every week. For HR purposes it is sometimes necessary to have all employees track hours. Also, some types of exempt employees are required to work 40 hours per defined work week but aren't given overtime for days they work +8 hours. Even high level executives are required to submit time sheets or record hours within my organization. Just clock in and out and stop complaining. Honestly, it makes you less desirable as an employee to protest against such a simple request. 

Hand written thank you notes will get you bonus points. Don't go too cutesy. Be professional and mention specifics from the interview. Address it to the person you interviewed with, not HR. 

Based on your list of odd behaviors, I would say person has a personality disorder. It sounds relatively harmless. First, do not attempt to distance yourself from him by badmouthing him or making specific references to him in your discussions with others. They already know he a funny nut, no need to keep that part going. Second, (and this comes from my "I don't care what people think of me" side) if someone does try to put you in the same box as him, push back. Tell them you are your own person and there's no need to try to label either you or your boss. Third, realize that your boss will probably never change. His abilities as a manager in your field outweigh his odd behaviors. He has his position for a REASON. Fourth, stress with him the importance that you aren't singled out as his favorite. He may be doing these "praising" sessions to impress or align himself as your friend. Be direct. 

There is a reason why people are issued offices, and it's not just for the ego boost. Partly it's so conversations (personal and on the phone) can be private, but also typically we might have confidential documents such as performance reviews and such like around when we're not. I would say lock the door and have a slot installed for papers, if you think that's necessary. Management should be on your side on this. 

You'll have to figure out what you can live with and tell them that you need that. You told them the range was okay, apparently it isn't, and you should rectify that reasonably soon. Waiting for an offer and asking for significantly more money might be a negotiating strategy but it might also piss them off royally, and chances are they don't have the ability to offer much more. Don't be overly surprised if this is a deal breaker, but you've lost nothing if you couldn't live with what they can pay. 

The bottom line is that you could be terminated immediately upon letting your manager know of your plans. In a 'Right to Work' state you'd have little or no recourse. But the responsible thing to do would be to have a chat with your line manager and let him know of your plans. This allows for planning and preparing on his part and depending upon your role and responsibilities this could be a major undertaking with a large scope. A reasonable manager won't hold personal/life/career goals against you and shouldn't take any action against you. But of course there's no guarantee of the way that they will react. All of that aside you'll have to make a decision based on your own feelings, the expected reaction, and the value you hold on your relationship with your current employer. As for the bonus, well it's for past performance and contribution. But like many things in management/HR the determination is often subjective. Meaning your manager/HR could easily decide that you don't qualify for the bonus at all or greatly reduce it once they learn of your plans. 

Whether or not anyone has a fan following in the company, you can still register a complaint with HR. I suggest this as your next step. If this happens again, with anyone, you must stand up for yourself in the moment. Remove the hand of anyone touching you and tell them "I prefer we keep this professional, don't put your hands on me". This is clear, to the point and leaves no room for interpretation. If you don't speak up at the time you will not have as much standing when you to go to HR. Just walking away sends mixed messages. Good luck. I've been there and done that. It may not be fun to deal with however, most situations like this aren't. 

Depending on how long ago you were fired you can definitely spin this in your favor. First, did you learn anything from being fired? How to deal better with office/company politics, keeping quiet rather than speaking your mind in certain situations, being more honest/open when asked about a specific incident, etc. Second, were you able to take what you learned from being fired an apply it later on? Third, were you able to accept responsibility for your part in being fired? Not just an "I accept this" but an "I now see what I did wrong". Finally, what good came out of being fired. There is ALWAYS some good. I've been fired and sometimes it was warranted. I look back at my actions in those situations and try to not repeat the same mistakes. In other situations being fired was not warranted however, I can look at the behaviors and actions of my co-workers and/or boss to recognize the issues before they become problems again. I also see that if I had staying in some of those positions I would not have grown as a person or dropped a bad habit (smoking). Think long an hard about what really happened and don't sugar coat it to yourself. Accept what you did wrong or could have changed in your own behavior and actions. Don't place blame on anyone else. 

What you consider important and what I consider important aren't the same. If that's what you expect I won't fit in with the company culture here. I may do the work you ask of me but I'll never treat it with the same respect and diligence that I do the things that I consider fun and exciting. 

The hardest lesson I ever learned was to not answer those questions. But to ask the right question to lead them, unsuspecting, in to finding the answer for themselves. An answer given is different than a lesson learned! Explanation There are basically two different scenarios that create the single point of failure that the OP is addressing. Business This can be a conscious decision or a result of poor planning, process, or growth of the business. It can also be the result of inaction or failure to recognize and address the growing knowledge gap. Regardless of the how, the business creates the situation where they have a super dependency upon a single individual or a small group of individuals that form the core of their knowledgebase. Many companies address this by using mentoring programs, cross training, and both formal and informal knowledge sharing. From my experience the ones most successful at this also foster a teaching approach. By that I mean that you are rarely given an 'answer' to a question, but rather a discussion and pointed questions from the expert(s) that lead you down a path of learning and expanding your knowledge about the product, process, technology in play. This also offers fresh insight and perspective to the expert in that the discussion. The teaching can indeed go both ways. Employee Generally speaking you have two different types of employees that end up in this position. What I call 'The Go To' and 'The Protector'. 'The Go To' is that employee that most managers love. He\she is the one that you can assign just about any task or project and not have to worry about it. These are the people that carve out their niche in the company and become the go to person and more than likely the one that has the answers. 'The Protector' is that employee who's made a decision to protect their turf. They feel that by guarding their knowledge they are assuring their position, importance, and future in the company. Both inadvertently create single points of failure. 'The Go To' by always providing the quick answer and the 'The Protector' by not sharing any or all of the information. So in a nutshell all of the documentation in the world won't resolve the underlying problem of a single point of failure. Yes it's important and should be part of every BCP and disaster preparedness plan. But documentation isn't really knowledge sharing in the sense that someone should be able to step in and perform your job tasks without having to wade through a 200 page document before hand. Don't answer the question; empower them so that they can answer it for themselves. 

Write the information in a Word document and print it 'n' times. It doesn't have to look like a card. Print it on pink paper or whatever if you want it to stand out. I would not go about designing my own business card without documented permission, companies can get snippy about that sort of thing- technically you'd be violating copyright on their logo, for example. 

If your employment contract does not prohibit it, then it comes down to the laws in your jurisdiction, local culture and any other restrictions. For example, licensed professionals may be required to adhere to a code of ethics that prohibits such 'moonlighting' activities without written knowledge of all parties, even if their personal ethical standards and laws applicable to the general workforce would permit it. 

This being <'current year'>, I would suggest sending a Linkedin invitation to your new CEO, and mentioning in the invitation that you are looking forward to meeting them. I would not suggest otherwise approaching him or her personally before arriving on their doorstep. By the way, if you are the paranoid sort, there is always a small chance that the CEO is unaware that you were hired, did not approve it, and she or he will cancel your appointment. Less likely when your presence is a fait accompli. Sounds silly, but I've seen this (and rather worse) in startups. 

Meaningful contact is certainly a good idea! But keep it meaningful, the one line email is a bad idea and could set the wrong tone. Having interned there and having had previous direct contact with your manger also opens up the possibility of less formal communications directly. Depends upon your relationship. 

Reading between the lines your question really seems to have two different parts. Does my disability justify me working from home? Without questioning your condition and medical requirements, the bottom line here is that chronic pain has a bad reputation despite the fact that it can be a valid medical condition. The common public perception is that pain management doctors are nothing more than legalized pill pushers catering to weaklings and drug addicts. Harsh I know, but you will have to deal with that perception. If an employer is suggesting or questioning your need to work from home they are more than likely basing their concern on that perception. You will need to document everything with your manager and the HR department. Including a statement from your doctor(s) that you are sometimes required to take strong medication that prevents you from driving. You also need to be responsible about this as well. If the arrangement is that you only work from home on days when you take your medication you need to make every effort to show up at the office when you don't. In other words don't abuse the situation. How can I maximize productivity and teamwork when working from home? Addressing the productivity and teamwork, as other answers have stated, is really a question of communication and perception. If you're supposed to be working from 9 to 5 make sure you are. No letting the dog out, washing the dishes, or anything else that's not work related. Stay in contact and in the loop. Answer IM's, email and phone calls in a timely manner. Remember your co-workers can't look around the corner and see that you're heads down in an issue or swamped with work. The natural reaction is to question where you're at and what you're doing. Participate in meetings, conference calls, stand ups and so on. If a meeting is being held and your expected to be there you should know how you can connect. Phone, video conference, and so on. If the option isn't available you have every right to ask for it. 

To establish a contractual relationship, you should formally acknowledge the purchase order (and therefore acceptance of their terms and conditions). It costs nothing to be polite when doing it. Without the acceptance they're actually left hanging as to whether you're really engaged, because usually the P.O. imposes additional conditions that were not present in your quote, so it's really another offer, not the acceptance of an offer. Typically you will find a lot of boiler plate text on a purchase order that is (not surprisingly) entirely in the favor of the purchaser-- it's worth reading it and seeing just what you are agreeing to. At some point you might want to have a lawyer draft up a pro forma contract that cancels out the most egregious of that B.S. If you're in a field where large amounts of value are being handled, or safety could be an issue, you need to do that first. 

This reminds me of when I worked for a union store. The union beat us over the head with "buy union made only" rhetoric. Frankly, it was no ones business what I bought, where I bought it from or anything else about my private finances. I would typically respond with "my money, my choice" in a super sweet voice or some other short snip. But, I'm a very direct person and don't worry about what others think of me in general. You may not need to take my direct attitude. I might suggest laughing it off and say that the store was out of products made by your employer. Or, ignore the comments altogether, as it is your business what you purchase, not theirs. If you are further ostracized or poked at by the people who made those comments you may be in for a rough time for a bit. Next time either buy the items and take them straight home, leave them in your vehicle or wait until you're shopping on your days off. 

You don't really indicate your role or position in the company as far as the structure; which has a lot of impact on how you might make this suggestion and how it would be accepted. But if the company/management is comfortable with suggestions you could easily put a bug in the managers ear that this person would be helpful on the project. Doing it in such a way would also help isolate your from it. After all it's the managers decision not yours. But you have to keep in mind the politics of why he's no longer on the project. Could be that management simply doesn't want to hear his input. His observations and suggestions could easily be stepping on someone's toes and feelings are being hurt or turf is being fought over. Try to figure out the why of his lack of involvement before you step in to the middle of something.