If the defining concept of trans theory, “Gender dysphoria”, is defined as “the condition of feeling one's emotional and psychological identity as male or female to be opposite to one's biological sex,” and if the referenced “feeling” denotes a discrepancy between one’s behavioral predispositions and the behavioral dispositions deemed appropriate by one'ssociety/culture to one’s biological gender (the supposedly socially constructed gender role of one’s biological gender), then there would seem to be some contradiction between transgenderism and feminism as you have defined it (the traditional definition). If, however, with Commando, that “feeling” of dysphoria instead denotes somehow “experiencing” the neurological difference between a cis and a trans brain (see Commando’s comment and citation to a Scientific American article: “There are neurological accounts of gender (e.g. 1,) which do not commit to gender roles.”), then there need be no contradiction. However, the cited article would seem to open a can of worms. For what the article seems to imply is that there are four materially different brains (or brain types): cis male, cis female, trans male and trans female. If so, then it makes sense to reconsider whether “gender roles” are in fact social constructs or something else. (Moreover, such a scenario also addresses you “mind-body” problem by rendering it moot -- it is body (read brain) all the way down.) 

How has [or will] the prevalence of “big data” – the exploding plethora of information and computing power to correlate it – impact[ed] (i) the scientific method’s theory/hypothesis formation, (ii) the underdetermination thesis, and (iii) the realist/relativist/ constructivist debate? The question might profitably be bifurcated in terms of the social sciences and the physical sciences. 

I hope my explanation has removed some of your confusion. Elementary Logic by Benson Mates has sections on use and mention, and sense and denotation, which might be useful. 

With the superman idea, according to the following SEP article, what Nietzsche has in mind is to understand what kind of life is a well-lived life. To Nietzsche, of course, the life of the superman, not that of a Christian. Why? Some key concepts to answer the question are power, perfection and eternal recurrence. The author of the article, however, concludes that there is no shared answer on this point. The author, for instance, considers the following two proposals, and rejects them: $URL$ 

For example, let A be the positive test result for cancer and B be having the cancer. The probability of A given B will be very high (e.g., P(A|B) = .9). On the other hand, the probability of B given A will be significantly lower since the test result can be due to the false positive (e.g., P(B|A)=.2). Similarly, the probability of a person coughing given that she has cold is high, but the probability that she has cold given that she coughs is much lower. Confusion of the Inverse Fallacy occurs when a person thinks that there is no difference between the probability of A given B and the probability of B given A, thus attributing the same probability on both cases. These two fallacies are related to Bayes’ Theorem since the posterior probability is calculated by means of likelihood and prior probability. 

In other words, we are increasingly in the age of the instrumental model, not of theories about general laws of nature. In fact, the last sentence of the abstract is redolent of Richard Rorty’s suggestion that we move from objectivity to solidarity as the goal of inquiry. (It’s a shame that he failed to live long enough to see his vision begin to take hold in the culture; and maybe to comment upon whether and how “identity politics” may have hijacked his notion of solidarity.) The question I pose here is, in light of our intellectual history, what, if any, is the role of a public philosopher, a public intellectual, in the current “post truth” (read “post objective fact”) universe of discourse? 

Looking at your profile before answering, this is a very tough question. The perennial realism/anti-realism debate essentially boils down to whether and how language (formerly -- pre 20th Century -- thoughts/experience) hook up to things/objects -- whether they be chairs, numbers or theorems. Given your level of logical, but not philosophical (ontology v. metaphisics v. epistemology), sophistication, and not knowing what you want to do with the knowledge/distinction, I would say start maybe with some light CS Pierce semiotics (though Kant and Carnap would also be likely starting points), then Quine (maybe Truth by Convention and On What There Is), Wittgenstein's Tractatus (first), then the Investigations (after reading about how it came to be that evolved/devolved (depending upon your tribe/camp) from the T to the I (which strikes me as precisely describing your state/dilemma), then read either the Blue and Brown Books and/or On Certainty. Then go to Hillary Putnam, maybe his Rethinking Mathematical Necessity, from his Words and Life collection of essays. (go here for a great essay with a priceless bibliography that is roughly on point: $URL$ Bon Appetit. 

I find most students are still confused by this verbal definition of the terms. So comes my trusty Venn Diagram. 

The source of differences between Hobbes’ and Locke’ social contracts is their differing conceptions of the state of nature. For Hobbes absolute freedom is all that individuals have in the state of nature. Each can take whatever she wants from others. In the state of nature, there are "No arts; no letters; no society... worst of all, [there are] continual fear, and danger of violent death: and the life of man, solitary, poor, nasty, brutish and short." (in Leviathan) According to Hobbes, this grim picture of the state of nature motivates individuals to come together to draft a social contract. Individuals would relinquish their rights to absolute liberty in exchange for the protection and security offered by the sovereign. Hobbes maintains that the fact that life in the nation state is far better than that of natural state leads to the absolute sovereignty. For this reason, people will collectively relinquish their right to revolt. The only occasion an individual is entitled to resist the sovereign force is to preserve her own life. In other words, the contract is null for an individual if the sovereign tries to take away her life. Some scholars maintain that this right to self-preservation can be viewed as the right to revolt, but the majority opinion is that Hobbes denies the right to revolt. Opposing Hobbes, Locke argues that the people do have the right to revolt. The reason, for him, is that the state of nature is not as dire as Hobbes imagines. In the state of nature, according to Locke, people have the God-given natural rights: the right to life, liberty, and property. The problem of the natural state, to Locke, is that individuals disagree on the interpretations of the rights and on the proper punishment of the right violators. This ambiguity and potential disputes are the motivations for individuals to come together to draft a social contract. The power of the sovereign is justified (or legitimate) if and only if the power is used to protect the natural rights of individuals (i.e., for the benefits of the people). The contract is null if the sovereign neglects this duty. To Locke, the null condition is expressed by the right to revolt. 

There are multiple problems with these statements. First, insane is not a boolean state. Sanity is a spectrum. Second, I don't know of anything that says that everyone who commits a heinous crime is insane (even by this very liberal application of the term). There are many heinous crimes committed where the criminals are not insane. Gang murders, rapes, hate crimes, etc. That aside, I don't think it follows that sane people cannot study insane people. Adults can study children. Humans can study animals. Just because we don't currently have all the models necessary to accurately predict every behavior of the insane does not mean that we can never do so. We simply lack the resources necessary to provide every person with a complete sanity profile, dig into root cause analysis, and apply the appropriate safeguards. In fact, we have multiple protections in place to keep that data out of government hands so it isn't abused. And the last statement is blatantly and demonstrably false. Many heinous crimes have known motivations. Timothy McVeigh published a letter explaining why he bombed the Oklahoma City Federal Building. Osama Bin Laden published his reasons for orchestrating the 9-11 attacks. I can't imagine a definition of heinous where those crimes are not considered such. 

Obviously, when making an argument, it is in one's best interest to make their argument logically solid and not engage in arguments that your opponents will not take seriously. One way to lose credibility in your argument is to invoke Godwin's Law, which says once you've made a comparison to Nazis in your argument you've lost your debate, namely because you're out of ammunition and are using the extreme violence of the holocaust to bolster your claim. But what can you do if someone is doing something that is quite literally something instituted by the Nazi regime? Your objective is not to incite emotion from your opponent, but merely to say "Nazi policies revoked the rights specifically targeted at source countries and specific religions. This proposed policy does the same." I'd like to make the comparison because it is factual, strongly correlated both in deed and in motivation. It's not "You know who ELSE breathed Oxygen?! HITLER!" 

Not certain I really grasp the true gist of what you are asking, at least without asking you to further define [your use of]the terms "conceptual", "property" and "real", but along similar lines, you may wish to explore Immanuel Kant’s transcendental musings. According to Kant, it is vital always to distinguish between the distinct realms of phenomena and noumena. Phenomena are the appearances, which constitute the our experience; whereas noumena are the (presumed to exist) things themselves, which constitute reality, what we call "the world". All of our [synthetic a priori] judgments apply only to the phenomenal realm, not to the noumenal. Because the thing in itself would by definition be entirely independent of our experience of it, we are utterly ignorant of the noumenal realm 

Your specific point is addressed later, where it is pointed out that “talk of ‘physical information’ in the context of the knowledge argument is ambiguous between an epistemological and an ontological reading," and two alternatives are offered: The weaker, epistemological version: 

Upon revisiting your question and commentary, I was struck by your reliance on the notion of “faithful[ness]” (…it only needs faithfulness (e.g., a photo is never truly accurate because it is not comprehensive, but it can be a faithful representation of something and adequately express truths;” “Nothing needs to be comprehensive to have meaning—it is enough to be faithful,” and so on). It reminded me of James’s [undefined, possibly primitive] “agrees with” formation. The idea seems to be that a description or representation need only be faithful to what it represents/describes in order for it to be “true”, and for meaning to exist or “arise.” That it is not necessary for the word/world relationship, in order to “adequately express truth,” to also be comprehensive, and express “true accuracy.” Generally speaking, post Quine/Wittgenstein, no reasonable and reasonably informed person would disagree. However, as we know so well, the devil is in the details. In the kind of debate you have sparked by your post, the salient question is whether that representation, in order to have “faithfulness,” in order to “adequately express truth,” need also be unique and indispensable to our ability to adequately represent/describe the world at all. Ordinarily, that a symbol is faithful to what it represents does not entail it being the only symbol capable doing so (which is not to say that it cannot be thus for a particular pair at a particular time). And this may be all that your relativist frenemies are doing. Pointing out that it is generally the case, or (to use your preferred vocabulary), it is faithful to his/her experience of the world, [to say/believe] that more than one symbol can be said to faithfully represent a particular thing/event perceived to be out there. This statement is not self-refuting. And, following Davidson’s charity principle, it might be helpful to interpret what “relativists” say in this way, rather than considering [all of them] them to be “self-absorbed egomaniacs who care nothing if they tickle their own ears at others' expense” [though some, like some realists/absolutists, may very well be]. 

Let's see whether there is a solution to your question through the method of eliminative induction. Let's call your premise the duty of beneficence: 

should mean that Christians think that life (on earth) is worth living and life in after-life (heaven) is also worth living. 

I do not think a proper reaction to your criticism of Frege's posit (the reference of a sentence is its truth-value) can be made in the stackexchange format. The question, "Whether the truth value is an object or a property?" has a long intellectual history. (cf. $URL$ But your EDIT question can be answered quickly. 

Boyd makes a wrong target for scientific realism. Boyd should have focused on attacking empiricism (=anti-realism), not constructivism. P.S. I look forward to seeing a defense argument for 2N2C. 

Talking about philosophy and sex, St Augustine's and Immanuel Kant's got to be mentioned: the former for its hilarity and the latter for its consistency with theory and practice. St. Augustine, torn between his mother's Christianism and his father's Manicheanism during his formative years, is famously known for his pray: "Lord, give me chastity and temperance, but not now." Kant, despite his life as a single man, is known for his condemnation of wanton self-pleasure (= masturbation). To Kant such pleasuring is immoral since it is treating oneself as a mere means, which violates his humanity doctrine, which states that we should never act in such a way that we treat humanity, whether in ourselves or in others, as a means only but always as an end in itself.