VO2 = (currentHeartRate / MaxHeartRate) * VO2Max where: MaxHeartRate ~= 210 - (0.8 * ageYears) VO2Max ~= 15.3 * (MaxHeartRate / BasalHeartRate) 

Note: These are total daily figures and could be be broken down into small sets, performed throughout the day. Depending on your existing condition and what you're trying to achieve, I'm fairly sure you'll be able to find a weekly exercise routine and diet regime to suit. 

This appears to be a simple algebraic manipulation of the standard formula used to convert Oxygen consumption (Volume of O2 in litres [VO2]) into Kcals. Essentially your body requires Oxygen to convert the energy stored in its Sugars and Fats into ATP, to fuel your muscles, this process is called the Citric acid cycle. The METs in that line is short for Metabolic Equivalent of Task, and is just an abstract way to quantify the relative energy cost of an activity, a number of sites offer MET estimates for specific activities eg. 

But to get an accurate figure you really need to sneak a labs worth of kit into the stroller, strap on a face mask and perform an Indirect calorimetry test, while out. Or slightly more sensibly estimate your VO2 intake through use of a heart rate strap, and convert the VO2 estimate to a MET number (MET = VO2 / 3.5) for the formula above (or just use one of the Phone app's). Alternatively you could weigh yourself and the stroller, try to estimate a few numbers, covering: VO2, fractional gradient, frontal surface area, surface type, wind speed, your speed.... and plug them in series into the Minetti, Pugh and Weir formula. As the gradient and surface will likely change over the run, as will the wind speed, you'll need to break the estimation down into a series of separate calculations, for each section, to later be combined, or just not bother. 

There aren't any accurate equations, without data from an ECG and face mask based gas analyzers. The best you can do without a true heart rate and O2 measures is to estimate a VO2max figure, and convert that into a Kcal one: Kcal/Min ~= 5 calories * massKg * VO2 / 1000 The ACMS Running VO2max equation will give a number that's accurate within: +/-14.5% and the conversion to Kcal will multiply the error by a bit. VO2 = 0.2 (speed) + 0.9 (speed)(fractional grade) + 3.5 

There are many, simply Google: Heart Rate Zone alarm or alternitively Cardio Trainer and you'll get the likes of Cardio Trainer or Heart Rate and Pulse Monitor. Oh, you haven't said which flavour of device / phone, you're looking for. 

In the last few decades Heath-Carter and Rempel have formularised the categorization process, and the technique has been used is a number of anthropometric studies eg. 

Lies, darn lies and statistics... There are a half a dozen formulations of the TDEE calculation, which yield numbers that vary by as much as 17%, between formulations. Add to this the notoriously inaccurate KCal counts on food packaging, which legally only need to be within ±20% of the an Atwater estimate, which in turn is approximation, and things are muddled eg. 

Had a Google but can't find any credible academic work, but there appears to be some academic interest in this field eg. 

Most health guidelines suggest a minimum of 30 min's of activity at least 5 times a week, to maintain a rudimentary level of fitness. This is for an already healthy adult (18-64) eg. 

which would appear to accidentally / partially support Sheldon original work. For a bit of background and a list of a dozen papers that support the technique, in sports selection, see the BrianMac site. 

A quick Google brings up: Evaluating Common Weight Training Concepts Associated With Developing Muscular Strength: Truths or Myths? which on bottom of page 92 states: 

which if the same ratios hold in a real analysis, would suggest to exceed 100, you would need to have a dangerously low bodyFat %. 

There are also papers that show the methodology is not applicable to the selection of athletes in multi discipline events, or where random and / or environmental variables play a significant role eg. 

And if you look at the BMR estimation equations you'll note they have just 3 variables: Height, Weight and Age, as muscle to lean mass has been shown not to be significant. So assuming you're a human adult only one of these variable is in scope for you to play with. So simply plug your vitals into one of the formula, to obtain your current BMR, then divide this number by the mass multiplier in your chosen formula to work out how many Kg you must gain to double your BMR ;-) 

But with all statistical models you could be the outlier, in the 16.4% the model does not fit, and there are a number of factors that have been found to affect the HR to VO2 relationship, have a read of: THE USE OF GPS TO PREDICT ENERGY EXPENDITURE FOR OUTDOOR WALKING, James Michael McKenzie, 2007, p:12-13 specifically: 

Though a not dissimilar degree of accuracy is claimed by the MET tables and formula, and is even simpler: 

There are dozens of regression equations around, that have been created over the years from studies of various different demographics, simply have a play / choose one that seems suitable e.g. 

Personally I use the BioMetrIcs Android app to calculate / review the formula of a dozen of the more common estimates, but the BiranMac site is a good reference for most of the fitness related formula: 

On the weight front, start to keep a food diary, or probably easier to use an App such as MyFitnessPal. It should help you work out where the majority of your calories are coming from, and where you can cut down. Note as your activity levels will have probably been reduced to the Sedentary classification, so your daily calorie requirement may be a third lower than that of an active individual. 

Nope, not in any sense, and not even if you were jogging in a vacuum, and could convert fat & carbohydrates anaerobically with 100% efficiency, to kinetic energy. For a start you'll have Air resistance / drag, it's one of those Newtonian external forces, and it's effect is disproportionate (cube of your velocity), so the faster you move the more energy you need to expend to counter it. Sprinting 100m will consume more energy than walking it. Normal drag caused by the surface you're running on, and gravity due to the gradient you're running up / down are also external forces that will affect calories burnt. Your body will also consume the: phosphocreatine, glycogen, and glucose available in your blood / mussels, before aerobically targeting your fatty acids (fat) reserves. So duration and your body composition will impact where your body decides to grab the required energy from, and as your body requires more Oxygen to convert fats to energy, you need to consider this. Once the phosphocreatine, glycogen, and glucose are depleted a VO2 (Volume Oxygen consumed) figure can be used to approximate calories / fat burned. Which highlights another body composition / fitness factor, the more laboured your breathing and the higher your heart rate the more calories you're burning. So fitness plays a role, or VO2max as it can be quantified. Also worth a read: 

A common formula for approximating calorific expenditure is: Kcal/Min ~= 5 * massKg * VO2 / 1000 Given both devices had the duration of the session and your Weight that leaves the VO2 figure as the source of the discrepancy. The machine will just have had an assumed constant and as you were not wearing a bluetooth based face mask to capture the actual volume of Oxygen consumed, every minute, your devices will have guestimated a value based on your heart rate in each period e.g. VO2 = (currentHeartRate / MaxHeartRate) * VO2Max where: MaxHeartRate ~= 210 - (0.8 * ageYears) VO2Max ~= 15.3 * (MaxHeartRate / BasalHeartRate) BasalHeartRate = Resting Heart Rate From these formula you can probably work out both the VO2 figure the trainer assumed and the value your phone calculated for you. 

The gyroscopes, accelerometers, and the GPS you'll find in your phone or the basic armbands will only give you approximate numbers, and any app that uses the raw data will make some very approximate guesses as to things such as step length, so can be out by as much as 40%. Adding a heart rate monitor to the mix should reduce any errors in the predicted calories, VO2 figures to around 5%, and will give you something quantifiable to aim for, such as reducing your basal heart rate, or your heart rate while doing X. It will also allow you to approximate your VO2max figure. Blood Oxygen and pressure aren't really relevant to general exercise, unless you have a pre existing condition, but blood pressure should drop with weight and exercise, over time. 

Have you read the guide on the BrianMac site, or had a look at YouTube, or any ot the numerous guides downloadable from the web? 

And you're left in a position where any numbers churned out need to be taken with a large, 0 KCal pinch of salt. A 500 Kcal daily arithmetic error in quite possible. 

Not aware of any other retro fitters, but technically a bespoke system would be a trivial exercise; wondering if you've considered an alternative that may be cheaper, be less hassle to run, especially if you have no desire to capture the results from any trip computers your equipment currently carries, or a desire to issue RFID keys to your clients, and inform them of the details of their workouts. All you'd need to do is persuade your clients to have their phones with them during their visits, and to touch in / out on each bit of equipment to record a workout. Your capital outlay would be a roll of passive NFC tags, simply stick one on each bit of equipment, and then go find a school kid to customise a pair of the sample Android and iPhone NFC app's, to simply associate each tag with a specific bit of equipment, and add a bit of branding. Could even add a few very simple formula to calculate calories burnt on each bit of kit / total calories per visit.... Also on the bespoke front you could mount an RFID reader on each piece of equipment, have a supply of RFID tags and for the slightly geekier bit, find somewhere to stash / something like a Raspberry Pi around each bit of kit. Would need power and be able to reach the USB connector on the reader and any USB / serial interface on the bit of gym equipment. There are numerous example RFID projects for the PI, so wouldn't take long for an average school kid to cobble together a few routines to capture touch in's / out's on a bit of kit, along with any details a trip computer may offer, and to write the details back to a central server. But you'd need to develop a back end system to aggregate and present the data to your staff, to present to the clients, along with creating a system to issue tags to your clients. 

On estimating your VO2Max number IN your home, and without specialist equipment, you could simply use the Sorensen formula: VO2max = 15.3 * ( MaximumHeartRateBMP / BasalHeartRateBMP) where: MaximumHeartRateBMP = 210 - 0.5*AgeYears [ACMS Guidelines for Exercise Testing and Prescription] Alternatively use one of the Step tests: Queens, YMCA, Harvard, or the Rockport 1 mile walk, Cooper 12min run, Kindle's 12 min run, 1.5 mile run.... test. Unfortunately the VO2max number you get out from any of these tests is impacted by effort put in, so the numbers can fluctuate significantly e.g. 

As your fitness level is a significant factor in how much energy your body needs to perform a task, an even better way to confirm the accuracy of the Strava calculation would be to capture your heart rate after a mile, one of the free apps that uses your phone's camera, to measure the pulse in a finger should suffice, or just fall back on simply taking your pulse. Then at your leisure plug your heart rate, the split time to walk the mile, and a few vitals into the Rockport Walking test formula, to obtain an estimated VO2max score (fitness assessment score): 

Worth noting, without data from an ECG (heart rate monitor) and face mask based gas analyzers, along with details of the gradient, wind speed, and surface there aren't any accurate equations. The best you can do is to estimate a VO2 (mL·kg-1·min-1) figure, and convert that into a Kcal one: 

Go talk to your physio, as they'll be able to give you some tailored suggestions, in addition to the usual balance / flexibility exercises. Anyway a few ideas you could discuss with them: 

You'll have to ask them, as it's calculated using their own proprietary algorithm, well that or spend a few min's solving the simultaneous equation (from the values in your history) to work out the weights they've applied to your: Fat, Muscle, and Weight values to create the score: 

This was covered in: What's The Right Diet For You? A Horizon Special and there appears to be a few bits in the associated free interactive eBook. Essentially the thought is that intermittent fasting (IF) is a useful dieting technique, for people that they categorise / profile as "Constant Cravers", as the body will produce appetite suppressing ketones in the absence of food: 

It's a bit more involved than that, as in this context we're talking about the conversion of chemical energy (Fat, Sugars, ATP, PCr) into kinetic (movement in your muscles), but essentially Anaerobic phase involves the conversion of ATP and PCr in your tissues into energy (your tissues only have around 8 sec worth of ATP reserves and 40 of PCr), while to process the Glucose / Fat in your body efficiently the process requires Oxygen. The following free chapter Nutrition for Health, Fitness, & Sport, cover the subject well. 

Where MET is short for Metabolic Equivalent of Task, and is just an abstract way to quantify the relative energy cost of an activity, a number of sites offer MET estimates for specific activities eg. 

A number of academic studies have tried to apportion / quantify the percentage of body fat by compartment (bit of the body), but they all appear to have a standard error in the order of +/- 4%. This error is similar to that in the normal guestimates as to your total body fat, so similarly should be taken as a rough guess e.g. a 10% figure will correlate with your actual fat mass in the: 6% - 14% range. If your interested in a paper to read have a look at: Study and classification of the abdominal adiposity throughout the application of the two-dimensional predictive equation Garaulet et al., in the clinical practice OR: 

but per the review, not strokes rowed. Your only real option to accurately record your stroke count is to upgrade the rowing machine to one that includes a Bluetooth based stroke tracker. 

From a step count alone, I wouldn't bother as the error could be as much as +/- 40%. Primarily as your step length changes with speed, as does wind resistance and energy expended, the gradient of a walk, your body fat percentage and fitness level will also affect the calculation, but the errors these factors introduce can be reduced by aggregating several data sets. Say if you use your total steps / distance gathered over several weeks, in a single calculation, this should allow you to reduce the errors due to variations in your speed, the gradient (should appear flat if the data set is large enough), and wind speed, in an aggregated walk To get a very rough number plug a few values into the ACSM equation: 

if you can count your pulse, or have access to a smartphone with a working camera, there are free App's around that will use the phones camera to attempt to measure your pulse (or), and / or also do the maths for some of the various tests. If you don't mind spending a few pennies a heart rate strap can be picked up relatively cheaply, which will permit for a continuous rate to be logged, to allow you to perform even more tests. 

The last one is important as the metabolic equations a particular app implements can give widely differing energy expenditure figures, for the same session. I've found the Runtastic figures to be roughly half those shown on Endomondo, so you may need to experiment to find an app that has an appropriate metabolic equation for yourself, and your activities. I take it you're aware that the step counting / pedometer functionality of the Fitbit won't be a lot of use in either your Cycling or Skating sessions. If your intention is weight gain I'd suggest you also start a food diary / use the likes of MyFitnessPal, as you'll need to know how many calories are going in, as well as being spent. Make sure you keep it accurately for a period, as the odd skipped meal due to a hectic lifestyle, can leave a deficit.