Company sends the requirement to the agency (or agencies), because they thought few candidates would be interested and they couldn't be bothered looking for needles in the haystack. Recruitment agency uses all its channels to get interested candidates, and sends applications to the company. Looking at the volume of applications, company says, "Hey, maybe this isn't as hard as we thought. Why don't we just deal with it ourselves?" Company ditches the agency, and now makes a posting on its website, hoping that most of the interested candidates would get there and apply. 

If your boss agrees with this suggestion, then it would be a good time to provide your suggestions, such as distributing the administration tasks among the project managers. The plan you eventually agree on may not entirely match your preference, but make sure you work according to it. Do not show a lack of interest in doing the "boring" tasks. Since your boss has assigned you those tasks, he obviously considers them important. Showing reluctance in doing them shows a lack of confidence in your manager's judgement. It also sends the message that you will put in full effort only when you consider it important. 

No Sell his (possibly unintentional) attempts to fluster you. Every time he interrupts you, tell him this: 

I do have a fair understanding of how managers do appraisals, and I must say, your manager's assessment is not entirely unjustified. Good managers love it when employees do more than their officially assigned work. However, all of that extra contribution loses its shine when the employee doesn't do his assigned work that well. I suspect this is the problem in your case too. You have been hired as a software developer, and by your own admission, you did an "average" job. It is possible that your manager thinks you did a "below average" job. You did all the other great stuff, but realize that your manager has to justify your raise to his manager (and higher managers). Which of these statements do you think are more likely to convince them? 

If he is smart enough, he wouldn't say, "No". If he does, you will have to warn him that gossiping about his manager could lead to disciplinary action, including termination. If he still remains adamant, you initiate the disciplinary action (depending on what your company's policy and process says.) As for Jane, you could seek feedback from other employees reporting to her (not in a group, of course). If a number of them report the same issues that John did, Jane is also a problem. If not, then either John has a problem working with his manager, or (much worse) John could be a victim of workplace bullying by Jane. Once you have this data, and if Jane is a problem, you have to ask her to explain, and if appropriate, follow the disciplinary procedure. Moreover, without going into exact details of the case, it is hard to tell if Jane is bullying John (for example, John might be gay and Jane doesn't like gay people, or John turned down Jane's offer for dinner, or ... many other such reasons). If you suspect workplace bullying, you might have to seek help from the company's HR. 

If you are unable to return the laptop by your last date despite all the above reasonable efforts, you will have to send one final email to the boss like below: 

When I leave a company, I try to take the shortest possible route to the exit. So your question leaves me somewhat bemused because you want to create more work for yourself as you leave. The PC belongs to the company, they have every right to decide what to do with it. If they ask you to return it as is on your last day, then that is what you should do. To answer your question, I do find your insistence on formatting the disk before leaving rather unreasonable. Once you have left the company, why do you care if they reformat it or recycle it or donate it to charity or use it as a paperweight? Other answers have described very well why it is reasonable for a company to ask you not to format the drive, but I would say that the question doesn't arise at all. If you employ me and assign me a computer to do your work, you can expect me to not destroy any data on it without the need to give me any justification. 

Your friend's future employer asking you for a reference is a "business transaction", and you should not mix your friendship with it. If you have been asked for your opinion on their technical skills, and you don't have enough data, then simply state that. You should not call your friend "the greatest programmer ever to walk upon this Earth" simply because he is your friend. A statement like the following should usually work: 

Maintaining the human aspect of the relationship makes the "keeping in touch" easy and natural, whereas doing it only because he could be of use in future makes it cumbersome. You don't need to be working together to stay in touch. In fact, most people's network predominantly consists of ex-colleagues. Since you both still work for the same company, it shouldn't be hard to meet him unofficially during lunch time or other unofficial events. If you work from different locations, use phone, instant messaging, or email instead. Don't "pester" him too frequently, about once a month is fine. The conversation need not be restricted to informal conversations. You could tell him about your work, what you find interesting, the challenges you face, etc. You could also ask him about his work depending on how open he is with you. This could also open up internal transfer opportunities. 

Call them both to a meeting, and ask them how to implement the function. Let them discuss the merits and demerits of each implementation, and come to an agreement. Then do what was agreed upon. By the way, this is also a good learning opportunity for you. Listen actively to this discussion and ask questions when appropriate. If they do not come to an agreement, put the task on hold, and inform your manager. Let him figure out how to push the task forward. Focus on the issues, not the disagreement, otherwise it would sound like an escalation. Rather than saying, "Boss, I am putting this task on hold because X and Y do not agree how to do it.", go for this: 

Most likely, he would respond with, "no specific reason", "it looked good", "my secretary configured it", etc. Then continue with this: 

You are probably already aware of this, but just for clarity, your resume should focus on your work, and less on what happened to the product or the company. The latter part is important though, since people tend to do an internet search for such things, especially in case of shortlisted resumes. Describing your "Foo" experience as something like the below should do: 

I can hear you and the readers exclaiming, "that's a lot of hoops to jump through for a trivial issue", but the unfortunate reality is that since the company property is in your possession, you have to bear the brunt of their lack of professionalism. 

Apply to each internship position that interests you. You have actually answered your own question, perhaps without realizing it. You have no way of telling how the company would process your application internally, that is, who gets to look at it, how they shortlist candidates, and whether they will consider "rejected" candidates for other positions. It is in your best interests to apply to each position separately. Be aware that big companies typically develop a silo mentality, so knocking at as many doors as you can increases your chances of entering. It certainly won't cause you any harm, except for a minor "inconvenience" of potentially getting invitations to multiple interviews with the same company. 

People usually join the new job within a few days of ending the previous job. AND The previous employer provides the relieving letter along with the so-called "full and final settlement", which takes a couple of weeks. 

Team B manager is okay with that, perhaps because team A manager has already explained the situation to him. Team B manager realizes the problem and then he has to figure out how to fix the problem and instruct you accordingly. 

These payments do not, and should not, count as your salary. More importantly, from the Government of India's perspective3, this expense has already been taxed elsewhere. 

This usually works like a charm during the notice period negotiations, while in reality, I have received zero phone calls until now. 

Don't overthink this. There is nothing unprofessional about saying you will be returning in a few months. Make sure to include information about whom people should contact in your absence, that is adequate professionalism. 

1 I usually respond to unwanted job referral requests with some variant of the "no, sorry" suggested in Lilienthal's answer and that is usually the end of it. This particular acquaintance, however, was a special snowflake, and only changed the form of pestering. He started annoying me with requests like, "No, you don't recognize my potential.", "Let's meet this weekend so that you can better appreciate what I bring to the table.", "Please give me feedback on what you think is missing.", etc. 

"You received a job offer from a company, which asked you to join in 60 days. You accepted the offer and resigned from your current job. You were happy with this job offer, and decided not to expend any further effort to look for other offers. 30 days into your notice period, the company calls you and informs you that they would be withdrawing your offer as they have found a better candidate." 

Call them and ask if the interview can be scheduled on Tuesday or Wednesday, and say that you would find it difficult to make it on Monday, without going into the reasons. You certainly should not say "I need more time to prepare", that makes it sound like you do not have enough confidence in your skills. It could have been a scheduling mistake on their end. For example, the person who scheduled the meeting may not have read your mail, or typed in the date manually based on a misunderstanding of the day of week, or simply clicked a wrong box in the calendar popup, etc. If you find out that the Monday interview was indeed intentional (because one of the key members of the interview panel was unavailable starting Tuesday, etc.), then well, you know what to do: either attend the interview on Monday or let go of the opportunity. Do not make any mention of the mail you had sent. ("As mentioned in my email, I asked for the interview on Tuesday or Wednesday, but I have received an invite for Monday.") Even if it is not your intention, it sounds like accusing the other party of not reading their email properly, which is not a great way to start an interview process. Just focus on what you want now, don't worry about what happened in the past. 

Send the response to the same person who you had been communicating with until now. What has likely happened here is the HR person submitted the "Reject" decision to a tool, which sent out an auto-generated email. Keep the response short and to the point. Thank them for the opportunity and mention one (or at most two) interesting things you learned about the company from the interview. You may also express your interest in being contacted for any future opportunities (assuming you are interested, of course). 

I recommend that you ask. Most reputed employers store employee records and documents electronically. They can print a document and sign it without much hassle. If your Company X is not one of them, you will have to chase some people to dig out old records. They would certainly ask you the reason for delay in collecting the document. Just tell them the truth instead of creative lies. 

To begin with, unless you are hired as an executive, a company spokesperson, or other "publicly significant" role, I highly doubt the new employer would care about the "hidden" job. However, if they are hell-bent on finding out, they can do it. They would not do it through your old PF or TDS records because of two reasons: 

It is somewhat disappointing to learn that some people never realise that they need to have respect for others. You are absolutely correct, this behaviour of excluding certain team members from the conversation, by switching to another language is highly unprofessional and disrespectful. It is annoying enough in India, and I would have hoped that Indians would give it up at least when they are in another country. Moving on from the rant, what you should do is not really much different from what you would do in India. Meet one of the members of the "group" privately (preferably the "seniormost" member), and politely request them to keep work-related conversations in English only because it affects your work. You would do well to emphasise that you don't have a problem with their personal conversations in another language. If the behaviour doesn't improve, do not hesitate to talk to the manager. Your worries about the escalation causing bad work environment are not unjustified, but hey, you did not create that situation, and you gave them a chance. If they still do not respect you as a team member, the bad work environment created is not your problem any more. Last but not the least, please lead by example. I have seen many people complain when other team members speak in another language, but then do the same themselves. You don't be one of those people. :-) 

Your team is essentially stuck in a "limbo" and I am not sure there is a perfect solution to deal with it. Nonetheless, my suggestion would be that the most senior team member should take charge, and direct the team based on his/her best judgement. Leave out any work items which require the manager's or CEO's approval, let them take a call on those when they return. Make a written record of the work planned for the team (ensure that whoever takes charge mentions that the interim plan is only in place until the manager and CEO are out), put the manager and CEO on copy (even if they aren't currently checking email) and keep working on that plan. That way, when your manager returns, the team wouldn't have to tell him, "you were unavailable, we didn't know what to do so we did nothing." 

Background checking rarely happens at the resume shortlisting stage. It usually happens closer to the end of the hiring process. Keep your preferred name in the resume. When a company wants to make you a job offer, they will usually ask you to fill out a form for background checking. You can mention your past names in that form. However, I would personally suggest to let them know of your story at an earlier stage, if you feel comfortable doing so. People change their names for all sorts of reasons, the most common being married women adopting their husband's surname. Hence, a candidate having a different past name would hardly strike any company as out of the ordinary, and they would most certainly have a process to deal with it. 

The manager designates another person to fill in for him while he is away. Quite clearly, this hasn't been done in your case, or else you wouldn't be asking the question! Reporting employees ask the manager's manager how to deal with the manager's absence. If he/she too is absent, keep going higher up the ladder until you find someone. In your case, the manager reports directly to the CEO, who is also out, so that too is not an option.