The answer is clear. No run has been scored at all in this case. Both batsmen need to run and cross over in order to score runs. Now, in normal circumstances if you run two but a batsmen doesn't quite ground their bat over the line during the first run, the Umpire calls 'one short' and 1 of the two runs is deducted. So I think you are asking whether this applies here; one batsmen has completed the runs and the other hasn't. However, the 'one short' rule doesn't apply because of part 5 of Law 18: 

There is a game I played in primary school that we call 'Rob the Nest'. This is the only thing I can think of that satisfies all the criteria 

One day internationals are defined by the ICC as occurring between senior teams representing their country in ICC sanctioned matches. Under 19s cricket is clearly a very different standard and it would obviously make no sense to roll these games into career ODI statistics. Likewise, T20I cricket must be senior teams representing their country, so IPL, BBL or even CLT20 does not count as T20I nor would any U19 games. The term 'First class' cricket refers to long form, non-limited overs cricket played at the highest standard within a country. This means for instance Ranji Trophy matches in India, English country cricket 4 day games and Sheffield Shield games in Australia. Club cricket does not count as 'First Class' because it is not the highest standard domestic cricket. Essentially First Class cricket it the closest thing to Test Cricket, but typically is played over 4 rather than 5 days however 3 day matches can still qualify as first class cricket. See here for more detail. The term 'List A' refers to domestic limited overs cricket, again played at the highest standard within that country. This includes various competitions in which the games are between 40-60 overs. See the wiki page for more info on what does and doesn't count as List A. Domestic T20 cricket includes games played in leagues such as the IPL, BBL etc. As far as I know the ICC has not yet codified exactly what constitutes official T20 records, i.e. presumably a Sydney park cricket T20 comp does not count, but where is the line drawn? In practice cricket stats sites use only stats from the premier T20 league played in a given country. But again, these career stats are different to a players T20I stats. To see this in action, have a look at the stats as recorded by cricketarchive.com (which is officially endorsed by the ICC) for Mike Hussey. You can see clearly that the domestic records for First Class cricket are separated from Test cricket, ODIs are separated from List A and T20I is separated from T20 domestic. In addition, his under 19 records are again listed separately from his senior cricket records. The only controversy in this area is the 6 day 'super test' and 3 one day matches played in the early 2000s between Australia and a World team. Some people don't believe these matches should count towards career stats for Test matches and ODIs respectively however the ICC has declared that they do count. The World Series rebel games played in the 70s also are not counted in career stats of players because these were not sanctioned by the MCC (the body that ran cricket before the ICC existed). 

This is not a 'race', it is a game like football etc where the goal isn't measured by some objective criteria, but by outperforming your opponent in attempting to complete certain actions. The rules of the game (as I remember them) go like this: A hoop is placed in the centre of a square field and a number of small balls (e.g. tennis balls) are placed inside it. Four hoops are then placed at four corners of the field. Players are divided into 4 teams and begin the game standing behind their teams assigned hoop. The aim of the game is to get a certain number of the balls into your hoop. The game is started with a whistle and players run to the centre to pick up balls and return them to their teams hoop. Only one ball can be carried at a time. Players are allowed to go to other teams hoops to steal balls from them (hence the name of the game). I can't remember how many balls there where, probably around the same number as there are players. I also can't remember how many balls you had to have in your hoop at a given instant be win. Probably around 1/3 of the total number of balls or so. The game is very dynamic as you have to keep an eye on all 4 'nests' to make sure no one is building up too many balls (or 'eggs'). To win you needed to stay under the radar and accumulate eggs in a short space of time before anyone noticed. From Googling around I see variations of this game in which players holding a ball can be 'tagged' forcing them to drop it. I don't remember playing with that rule, but there are probably many variants given that this is mainly a game used to burn off the excess energy of small children so that they will be docile enough to recite their times tables afterwards, rather than being an organised sport. 

I have heard many times cricket commentators referring to players driving the ball 'on the up'. By the context, this is taken to be a difficult and risky thing to do and makes a good shot even better as the batsmen is displaying some boldness by playing the shot to that delivery. As in "that was a fine cover drive, and he was playing the ball on the up". Why is this confusing to me? Anytime that you play a drive, the ball is 'coming up'. The only exception would be a full toss, but that is an unusual delivery so it would be hardly remarkable to play any shot to a non full toss. There are many examples of nonsensical phrases in sports commentary and the viewer just needs to learn what a particular nonsensical phrase means. In this case I've never understood what is being meant by this. My best guess is that the ball is fuller or shorter than a delivery that you would normally expect to see a drive played against (one or the other, it couldn't mean both). Any ideas? 

The highly varied workouts in the Crossfit 'program' seem well suited to developing the all round functional strength and fitness required for obstacle races. If the race is very long (20 miles or so) then some additional long distance running might need to be incorporated into your program since Crossfit is more targeted at shorter burst activity with most workouts being under 30 minutes duration. 

I am an occasional (and fairly terrible) golfer. I played a round the other day and was confronted with an odd situation. I sliced a ball through some trees and onto the adjacent fairway. I still had 200-250 metres left to the pin after this shot. When I got to my ball, I noted that the trees between me and hole or the fairway of the hole I was playing were thick and high, whereas about 150 closer to the hole, the trees really thinned out. I therefore played a shot up the 'wrong' fairway to a position where I could relatively easily chip to the green through the sparse area of trees. This was a social game, so I wasn't too worried, but was what I did legal under the Laws of Golf? Is there any compulsion to play along the 'correct' fairway when possible? Also, aside from any letter of the law considerations, what etiquette issues might doing this present? 

In this case, the fact that one batsmen hasn't run at all would constitute deliberately running short. The non-striker, seeing that the batsmen isn't running but continuing to run themselves, would receive a warning for attempting to score when it is clear the other batsmen is making no attempt to run. The warning would be meaningless though, since this is the last ball of the match. So the short answer is that the batting team score nothing from the ball and the bowling team win. 

I am not familiar with the anecdote, however the laws of cricket state that the handle must be straight 

There is no law stipulating who has to take the line-out throws. To see why it is the Hooker's job, we can consider a process of elimination of the other positions. First, it should not be any of the backs, since they will be needed to execute backline plays (or defend against them) once the ball is cleared from the lineout. Consider then the forwards. The two props are the heaviest and strongest players on the team. Their strength is best utilised for lifting the lineout jumpers, so they shouldn't take the throws. The back rowers, flankers and number 8 are more nimble smaller players, suited to cleaning up loose balls that are not caught cleanly or quickly moving to support a player who has successfully caught the lineout throw. Someone has to be the jumper and obviously being tall helps. Since the back rowers need to be nimble, they are generally not overly tall. Therefore the second rowers (also called locks) are usually tall players able to be good lineout jumpers. Note that the Hooker needs to be shorter than the props in order to hang off them in the scrums, so they can't be tall and therefore not suited to being jumpers. So, by process of elimination we see that the most logical player left over to actually take the throw is the hooker. They are not needed in the backline and would be the least useful forward to participate in the lineout itself, so they instead learn the skill of taking the lineout throw.