If a replacement candidate is needed, they already have a lot of the business background knowledge making their promotion a simple decision. They often have direct working relationships with executives and senior managers at the firm. This is a no brainer in terms of promotion. 

So again, I return to my original point, what do you see or want to see yourself doing in 10-20 years from now as regardless of the current career path and what you like to do now, this will dictate what you should be looking to accomplish in the future. 

Your question isn't exactly clear. You need to identify what you see yourself doing in 5 and 10 years. If your ultimate career goal in life is to become a technology or business executive then you will want to pursue the career path that takes you in that direction. The reality of the technology industry and software in general is that managers typically don't write code. If you see yourself in 10-20 years writing code because thats what you like to do then fine, do that. If however, you really want to be running the department in the same amount of time its time to realize that you won't always be writing code. Again, this is the decision and life planning you have to do on your own, we can't provide that for you. However, I can talk about the Architect versus the Developer roles. What I think you have rightly pointed out is that it is often far easier to make the switch from a Business or even Systems Analyst position into that of a manager. The easiest explanation for this is that these are the people who review and study the organization(s) that the software aims to fix. They have the most insight, knowledge, and background which make it really easy for two things to happen: 

If it's really bad, and yes I know a lot of the big tech recruiters are, you do have a legal option. Find their corporate address either off of their website or from your local Secretary of State's Corporations Office and send them a "Cease and Desist" letter. You can find all sorts of templates online for these letters but essentially you are sending them a formal written notice to be removed from their list and to no longer be contacted by them. You also need to mention that failure to do so will require you to proceed with legal action. Also make sure you get a delivery receipt from the USPS. Either way you can send a cease and desist letter on your own, often without the help of an attorney. Its much a kin to a warning letter. If they still contact you after 20-30 days of getting the letter thats when you either talk to an attorney or visit small claims court. It sucks when it comes to this but if you are repeatedly called and "harrassed" this is fully within your legal right to pursue (in the US). Harrassment is a crime, regardless of how it happens. 

I work with a relatively small (6 people) Software Configuration Management team in what would be considered a more traditional or "non-agile" environment; however, within the past year our CM lead has instituted the practice of holding a daily "stand up" meeting for just our CM group in which we cover: 

I am currently a contractor and I have been offered a position as a federal employee doing essentially the same thing working with the same people with the essentially the same tasks/responsibilities. I would be taking the number 2 spot after the lead retires and the current number 2 becomes the lead. For personal reasons I wish to remain a contractor. Our contract has several years of work remaining so there is no immediate need for me to change positions. The person who is looking to retire soon is advocating that I take the offer which puts additional pressure on the situation, but I currently would feel more comfortable remaining where I am; the reasons being flexibility (I may want to move locations and employment in less than a year) slightly better salary and annual raises. I am aware that I am giving up job security and benefits but feel at the time the pros outweigh the cons. How can I politely decline while keeping a good working relationship? 

I understand this is relatively standard practice within an agile work environment and can see the benefit of it there; however, we do not follow any other agile processes and the meetings tend to be very back and forth and also tend to drag on. Several members of our team go too far into detail which does not concern the entire team and would be better served in an offline conversation when answering the first two questions specifically. Additionally our leads, who essentially serve as the scrum masters and run the meeting tend to ask a lot of follow up questions, which further derails the conversation from being beneficial to all which are involved. These meetings are mandatory and in my opinion a waste of time (45-60 mins a week including driving back and forth five days a week) As a participant, how can I help to make our meetings more focused/relevant/beneficial/shorter to our team? Update: The meetings have become sit down meetings where none of the three questions above are even covered. 

Do exactly as you wish. If you want a job where you can yawn when tired and dress as you wish, keep being exactly as you are, without compromise. If you feel you were unfairly treated, then screw them. You win. You avoided being treated like a monkey later. Hey this is a short answer but in a nutshell this is all you need to know. 

In Central Europe in IT it is expected that you join on a lower salary and undergo a trial period. In IT this can easily be 12 month, especially for a junior. To then expect a rise is normal. There is no logical implication that this would imply an annual rise. Since the financial crisis CPI inflation rarely has any effect on salary. The contrary. Since the crisis, the biggest effect on salaried employee living costs is consumer debt interest rates which have dropped annually. CPI inflation is much lower than asset price inflation. 

My approach to this kind of problem is to ensure there is sufficient methodology and tooling in place to make the issue technical and not personal. For example, make sure you have automated builds and smoke tests. If these get broken, have a rule that the breaker must provide food at the next team meeting. Sometimes people will just boldly challenge the status quo in a selfish quest for personal progress. In a way, this is normal. It is entrepreneurial at best. The individual is moving forward in a framework that permits it. So, change the framework. Those types of people will not be thwarted, they will make progress in different ways. So as a manager your aim is to harness that spirit and direct it in a way that is positive for the team and the aims. Part of that strategy of harnessing will is to make sure people still feel a sense of ownership. The most popular answer here thus far advocates a philosophy of renunciation of ownership. I think this may be counterproductive. Let people passionately own their area. But make sure they do not trespass others'.