I have encountered an argument that I find interesting, but cannot understand the principles behind. It is simply as the title states: Science is not a method for finding the truth, it is a method for making other scientists accept that you have found the truth. The actual truth, you found way back when you saw your initial data and started making a hypothesis. ("The truth" is here shorthand for "As close to reality as our methods lets us approach") Has anybody written anything on science as a social process? All the texts i know about metaphysics are... about metaphysics, which is not what I'm looking for. 

If you like reductionism and you have an Occam prior, the answer is yes. Given any phenomenon, the simplest explanation is best. But 'Simple' is a word in English, so what does that actually mean? Preferably in numbers, so you can compare which is simpler with a single complexity(argumentX)>complexity(argumentY) therefore Y? Occam's Razor is often phrased as "The simplest explanation that fits the facts." Robert Heinlein replied that the simplest explanation is "The lady down the street is a witch; she did it." There are two expansions on that which are isomorph to each other: Solomonoff Induction and Minimum Message Length. Minimum Message Length: The lady down the street is a witch, she did it. She did what, exactly? The shortest message (measured in bits of information) you can use to describe what happened is the Minimum Message Length. Shortest message wins. (Example: Explaining the theory of gravity and the starting state of a system is shorter than describing each position the system takes over time. Since the message is shorter with the Theory of Gravity, the Theory of Gravity is a simpler explanation that "it just happened like this." Solomonoff Induction The lady down the street is a witch, she did it. She is a what, exactly? Well she is [The simplest turing machine you can write that describes how she acts], and she did it. It turns out that with some fancy math, it can be shown that explanation that takes the simplest turing machine to develop is also the explanation that has the shortest message length, so either works. That is a QUALITATIVE measure of which argument is SIMPLER, which (in reductionism with an Occam prior) is also the argument that is sounder. $URL$ $URL$ 

The fallacy here again goes back to background knowledge and the fact that the audience knows that gun control is an issue because of the violence for which guns are used. Which means that it is specifically the "flagrant misuse of guns" that is at issue here. Since our person being discussed on both sides is a law abiding person, and the issue at hand is the breaking of laws ie: a person committing gun violence, or a person driving drunk, then accidents must of necessity be taken out of the equation since accidents happen with both cars and guns. With accidents dismissed from the equation and our background knowledge established what our argument is really trying to say is that: Restricting law abiding citizens from owning guns to prevent gun violence is like restricting law abiding citizens from owning cars to prevent drunk driving. Which is an effective statement of absurdity, clearly laying out the anti-gun control point of view. But also a statement that could - with enough research - be verified as true or false. Which to me says that it is a highly effective analogy. (Interesting note almost as many people die in car accidents as are killed with guns in the US each year, while gun accidents are in most years under 1000 deaths.) DISCLAIMER: I neither endorse or denounce gun control, that is not what this question is about; it is about the effectiveness of a particular analogy and so my response digs into the reason I think the analogy is either good or bad. NOT wether gun control is good or bad. Also thanks Chris for giving me such a wonderful backdrop from which I could place my arguments against. +1. 

I'm going to have to disagree with Chris. Any analogy is going to rely - to one extent or another - on the background knowledge of the audience it's being presented to. In this particular analogy, it relies on the audience knowing what guns are, that there is already legislation in place controlling them, that some people violate this legislation, and that they are proposing more legislation to restrict access to them. It also relies on the audience knowing what cars are, that there are laws in place specifying who can drive and what is acceptable, and that there are those that violate these laws. Since Chris did a good job of defining what the argument here actually is I am going to borrow that from him. Gun control IS TO reducing deaths from gun violence AS making it harder for sober people to own cars IS TO reducing deaths from drunk driving. However as we can see from the assumed background knowledge of our audience, they know that there are laws in place affecting the use of both cars and guns. Which means that we do have an analogous person on the gun side for our sober person, and heres why. When we say sober person, we really mean law abiding person since the law specifically states that you must be sober to operate a car. So a law abiding gun owner is, (i.e. someone who does not commit gun violence) in this analogy, equal to a law abiding (sober) car driver. The next piece from Chris's response I want to tackle is this: 

It all depends: when you say chart do you mean something that you can pin up on your wall? Or would a book suffice? If so, then there's a few books that may be of relevance. For a useful reference that catalogues fallacies and biases, I would recommend the book: Bennett, B. (2012). Logically fallacious: The ultimate collection of over 300 logical Fallacies (academic edition). eBookIt.com Unfortunately, it's not particularly useful in characterising the cognitive biases and heuristics that underpin these fallacies. Nevertheless, here is the entry for the bandwagon effect, also known as argumentum ad numeram: 

However, I was hoping for clarity regarding the additional harms that the patient is being unnecessarily subjected to. Is this also subsumed under beneficence, or would these secondary harms resulting from the doctor's inaction now be considered a violation of the principle of non-maleficence? Any suggestions or references for further reading would be appreciated! 

As in you're stating that were it not for the involvement of a third party, an abortion would not occur? Because the concept of clinician-administered abortions is a relatively recent development in the history of abortions. Ultimately, the capacity for a woman to have an abortion is not at the mercy of a third party i.e. it's a procedure that, if required, she would be able to perform on herself. 

In the United States, the use of federal funds to pay for an abortion are prohibited under the Hyde Amendment. In circumstances where the costs of an abortion are borne by private parties, the matter of a right now appears to be whether a woman can enter into a commercial contract with another party. 

I am trying to understand the principles relevant to a particular bioethics scenario. For simplicity, I will describe it as follows: 

An alternative reference that I think is more akin to what you're after is this reference: Pohl, R. (Ed.). (2004). Cognitive illusions: A handbook on fallacies and biases in thinking, judgement and memory. Psychology Press. Considerably more detail is provided for each entry. The shortcoming here, however, is that it only examines about 20 or so fallacies and biases.