Another source you could consult is Gilder Lehman's lesson plan on propaganda I realize that you asked about the effect of propaganda, and I've supplied an abbreviated list of propaganda publications, but I was interrupted while writing - I'll have to return to this later today. (In particularly I want to find the propaganda written by a woman, because I think that is cool). Propaganda played a major role in unifying the colonies and in advancing the cause of revolution over negotiation. I cannot bring to mind any British propaganda of the period apart from the song Yankee Doodle, which originally mocked the colonist's pretensions. Certainly Ministers made statements and speeches, but those were not propaganda because they were intended to accomplish the governance function, not to persuade. One could argue that the Intolerable Acts were a form of propaganda, but I find that a weak argument. Franklin's appearance in the Pit was a form of propaganda, but it really just confirmed the opinions of those who held them, it didn't seek to change opinions. (Perhaps North would have argued that it should have changed American opinions). There is probably another essay on British miscalculations which caused them to lose the propaganda war, but since I don't have time to write it, I'll refer to someone better than me who has already written it; the inestimable Mike Duncan, who in episode 18 of the Revolutions Podcast covered the ground. That wasn't his core thesis, but I think he summarizes very well the reasons why the British failed. 

Malcom Gladwell's Revisionist History mentions in passing an argument that Britain had more craftsmen who were capable of the engineering work. THe podcast doesn't explain why Britain had more craftsmen, but I would speculate that common law was more favorable to craftsmen. The podcast should give you enough to pursue research. 

You have a vastly different definition of "liveable" than the rest of the planet. You have also not thought through the implications of your... I suppose "proposal" is as good a word as any. Building tunnels to constrain exhaust fumes would not reducesmog. You propose: 

Consider the Alienation & Sedition Acts; clearly the answer was "no". Remember that the first person to criticize the government was Jefferson, who while employed a government minister, employed as a French translator in the State Department a man who spoke no French - the man's sole job was to publish a newspaper criticizing Alexander Hamilton - the first case of Federal job fraud. If you read Pauline Maier or M. Klarman, it is pretty clear that: 

Exert control - critical strategic objective, but of little relevance to your question. It is worth observing that Parliament had only been sovereign since around 1700, and had only been managing an empire since about 1750. Extract wealth from the colonies - The colonists were far better at smuggling than the British navy was at suppressing smuggling. And ultimately the colonists could ignore any interdiction and just live off the land. There were substantial numbers of the colonists who were content with the opportunity to own, develop and farm land - an opportunity that was categorically impossible in England. The only way to extract wealth was to exert strong executive control, and that requires infantry/cavalry/artillery. Develop a land policy that accommodated not only the need to resettle demobilized Naval officers, but that respected the rights of the Native Americans. Britain had treaties with the Native Americans, and one of the causes of revolution was the colonial's refusal to abide by those treaties. Unless Britain developed an effective monopoly on the use of force in the colonies, there was no way that Britain could enforce their treaty obligations. 

"most Anglo-Americans refused to be naturalized..." implies that some complied with the provisions. I can't give you the name of the individuals, but these quotes from 1822 and 1829 suggest to me that the individual in 1833 was not the first. 

Although this question may lie on the boundary between economics and history, I'm asking about the historical methods; I understand deflation and how to measure it; I'm interested in how historians approach the specifically historical side of the problem. 

Pan Arabism is connected to Arab Nationalism and aims for the unification of countries. Communism is structured on the absence of the state. Difficult to reconcile an ideology dedicated to the elimination of the state with an ideology dedicated to the creation of a state. (Apart from that, almost all ideologies are in conflict; asking why ideology A is in tension with ideology B is kind of like asking why Red isn't Blue). 

I suspect, based on the OED reference in wikipedia and on the two quotes listed that hanging goes back as far as human law, but the definition of hanging might not be precise. 

Fukuyama's Origins of Political Order examines that question in depth. I don't have a copy handy, but from memory, a strong state is one that can carry out a policy effectively. There are many examples in history of weak states that cannot implement policies due to the interference of domestic or external stakeholders. (also I'm not sure that there is a difference between "a strong state" and "a strong state in history".) At the bottom end are what we now call "failed states" - states that are unable to carry out basic state functions. At the top end of the spectrum, strong states, are able to implement difficult policies without consideration for opposing stakeholders. For example: 

Subsequent discussion led us to consider comedia del arte - note " A special characteristic of commedia dell'arte are the lazzi. A lazzo is a joke or "something foolish" or "witty".[10][9]". Although comedia del arte is later than OP's period, note that: 

You could therefore argue that Goldwater is responsible for the shift, but I think that oversimplifies the process of politics. Note with emphasis. I've done my best to be as neutral and academic as possible, since discussions of political priorities and agendas tend to get heated. I'm not so arrogant as to assume that "my best" is the same as "fully successful", so I'm throwing this open to community wiki in the hopes that anyone who can tell the story better will revise. 

Trademarks existed and were recognized before the Trademark symbol was used. When did we start using the ™ and ® symbols? 

As a broad generality, Britain is a naval power, not an infantry power. Britain is protect by "wooden walls". At the time of the US war for independence, Britain had just completed the Seven Years War and was trying to demobilize the officers from that war; Britain couldn't afford to pay half pay to their retired officers let along staff up a new military that could fight in America. Strategically speaking Britain couldn't achieve its military objectives with a Navy. Britain needed to exert control over the colonies, extract wealth from the colonies, and develop a land policy that incorporated the settlement of demobilized Naval officers. 

*I'm aware that this is a bad answer; no sources, lots of speculation. * *Major hat tip to @FrancisDavey for catching my anachronism.** 

During the 19th century, Britain dealt with Tibet through the Chinese government. After 1912, China failed to exercise effective control over the Tibetan Autonomous Region, but still claimed the territory. China never recognized a Tibetan government. 

Mark Kozak-Holland argues that it was quite avoidable. Although popular history has it that the ship was designed to remain afloat with 4 compartments flooded (hat tip to @GWLlosa), the truth is somewhat more discouraging - cost cutting measures by the company during construction actually transformed those resiliency features into one of the causes for the disaster. Obligatory disclaimer; I'm not trying to promote Mr. Kozak Holland, and I have no financial interest in his book. Devsolar asks for more details - I recommend Mr. Kozak-Holland's book as the best place to get those answers. My recollection of the talk (several years ago) is that the original plan for the Titanic involved a double hull all the way up. Cost and schedule constraints reduced the height of the double hull to half the plan. When the exterior hull was pierced, water flooded in between the hulls. What had been planned as a saftey feature to preserve boyancy flooded with water and reduced boyancy. (the actual mechanism was more complicated, but quite frankly I'm not qualified to explain. I'd have to refer to Mr. Kozak Holland's book. Best alternate source: 

Implicit in the question is an assumption that FDR needed to somehow justify an interventionist stance when OP asserts that the majority of Americans were isolationists. This affects the nature of the question and answer and deserves comment. 

This question is deceptively complex unless you understand the backdrop of the English Civil War. There is a timeline of events which is a useful overview, but unless you understand why the events are important, it is merely a list of dates. The best resource for understanding that is the Revolutions Podcast which approaches a complex set of subjects with an appropriate irreverance. To make a very long story brief, when Charles I of England was crowned, Parliament denied him the traditional sources of funds, so he was forced to explore some very dodgy sources to acquire the funds needed to run his government. (Remember under the English system, taxes are the free gift of the people to their Monarch.) Charles summoned a number of Parliaments and asked/demanded that they fund his administration (and his wars). The Parliaments refused, and Charles dismissed the Parliaments. After a fascinating bit of political brinksmanship Parliament is convened on November 3 1640. From that point they refuse to recess - this is the Long Parliament because they refuse to leave. That is why the recess in 1641 is important. The Long Parliament finally took a break. By this point it was obvious that both Parliament and the Crown had violated Wheaton's Law repeatedly and thoroughly and there wasn't going to be a peaceful resolution. In fact in 1642, the King raises his standard at Nottingham beginning the English Civil War. 

One might argue that secularism brought about the French Revolution; not all correlation is causation. Mike Duncan's Revolutions podcast covers the role of the church in the revolution fairly well. (at least at a high/brief level). There are a couple of factors worth mentioning. 

Is it correct? I am pleased to say that there is no authority that can deem a term correct or incorrect. There are no language police. (See Aside #1) If you use the term Victorian Era, you will (probably) be understood. Although Victoria was only Queen of the Commonwealth, the sun never set on her territory, and even where she did not rule, she influenced (soft power). As a consequence, the term is useful - there is an entry in both wikipedia and Merriam Webster. The term is commonly used in several contexts (gamewriting, costuming, fiction). For US only, we can use the terms "ante-bellum" and "post-bellum" to refer to portions of the Victorian era. Aside #1 I will grant that there are many language police, but they are not relevant to any meaningful endeavor. Arguably mocking the foolish is amusing, but probably not meaningful Aside #2 - The prudishness of Victorians is vastly overstated. Arguably, one of the reasons that the English largely ignored the revolutions of 1850 is that the English "liberals" were more powerful than liberals in other countries because they had a long history of funding themselves through publication of pornography. Greater funding meant that they had more influence, and consequently they didn't need to rebel; they just needed to use the funds provided by pornography to advance a liberal agenda. 

Although trench warfare is the image of WWI, not all the war was fought from or in trenches. For example, 

I believe (although I can't cite a source right now), that Spain and Portugal's colonies were organized around resource extraction - the Spanish grants didn't even specify land, but rather the labor. The English Colonies were organized around building new infrastructure. Although they didn't have the terminology to discuss it, England and France performed "capital deepening", while Spain and Portugal were victims of the Dutch Disease. 

There is no perfect answer to this question; the answer depends on particulars. (history is under no obligations to make language and terminology easy.) An oversimplified, overly general model of power vacuums in a European monarchical systems, might include three terms that apply to the situation where there is no agent exercising executive power in a society: 

Fascinating question. Revocation of voting rights of convicted Criminals is based on "civil death", which is explained further at PROCON. British common law gave the government the right to revoke voting rights. I'm not aware of the framers explicitly addressing the issue, but they did discuss a more democratic franchise. My recollection is that they discussed this in terms of the ideal of democratic franchise, not in terms of civil death. I doubt that the topic came up. 

We're down to under 100 combatants who might have been motivated to resist. Asymmetrical warfare is less effective against a force that is willing to countenance genocide. William and his cronies were professional warriors with weapons, training, armor, training, horses, training, and experience. Training is probably at least a 3:1 advantage; weapons and armor at least another 2:1 advantage. Horses probably 2:1 again. Remember that Napoleon said that logistics is a 9:1 advantage. Militia has no logistics outside the county; William takes whatever he wants and he has extensive experience in logistics. If by some chance a villager were to wound a Norman, the Normans could burn the village down and kill every inhabitant. It is perfectly legal for William to kill a peasant; it is not just illegal to resist a Norman, but it will probably also damn your soul to eternal hell. None of the numbers above are right- they're just to illustrate the reasons why conquering armies only need to be tiny. 

(note: I've cherrypicked the section on the inquisition in Spain; you'll need to do additional research to verify that the inquisition in Italy is chartered and organized the same way. The reason I've picked this section is that it explicitly states that the qualifications for the members include "licentiates of canon law" - meaning that they would be familiar with the sections on ambidexterity. If you can find similar qualifications for the Inquisition in Italy, you'll be very close to your answer.) 

Rather comical to ask whether the oldest debt is to the world bank (which was created in 1944). Edit: I woke up on the wrong side of the bed this morning and my inner curmudgeon is running rampant. I hope that OP will forgive my acerbic tone. I can either delete this answer or edit it after I've had some sleep. 

Very difficult to write a good answer; the source is an opinion, and it is difficult to cite sources to support someone else's opinion. That said, let's break phrase 1 down. 

Since you specify divorce before the law, rather than divorce before the church, the logical answer is the 1857 divorce act 

No the English Royal family does not claim divine right. One of the key issues of the English Civil War was the Stuart claim to divine right. Divine right was refuted first when they cut off the head of the last monarch to assert it, and then again in the classic Reflections on the Revolution in France. I don't have that work with me right now, but it very solidly makes the point that ultimate power in Great Britain is vested in law. 

"Start to twitch after a few seconds" implies that there are (at least) two different models of the blowpipe as a weapon. "a few seconds" is ample time to fire a weapon, if you are aware that you have been attacked. I think it is more likely that the blowpipe wielders were acting from stealth and that the victims were unaware that they had been attacked. It may be that the victim thought they were attacked by an insect, and were unaware of an attacker; they therefore did not retaliate until the toxic effects had started. It may be that the victim knew that he had been attacked, but couldn't find the (stealthed) attacker. (I'm also not infantry, but my understanding is that spraying 360 degrees with an automatic weapon is, at a minimum, foolish and wasteful.) I would like someone to explain why the toxicity for rabbits and dogs is measured as an absolute, while the toxicity for cats is in mg/kg. Which is a better model for humans? Is it possible to deliver 3mg to a human via a blowpipe?