Plants use sunlight and convert the lower energy CO2 into O2 and organic chemicals. So, given adequate sunlight or geothermal energy sources, many chemical cycles could form the basis for life. Doing it without water would be more of a problem. The polymer forming systems I'm aware of are the silicones and the inorganic polymers PN, SN, BN and SiN. Silicone is, by definition, a family of organic compounds and any ?N based life would almost certainly have organic groups on the ?N backbone. Whether B would be abundant enough to allow life to develop, IDK. Most likely P and S are abundant enough. Certainly Si and N are. Once you have life utilizing an inorganic energy source, you can then have their waste product (eg O2) form the basis for more active (animal) life. N2 is too stable, I think, for this to work. But Sulfur compounds are a definite possibility. 

No. You don't necessarily want detonation because too much of the force is lost in directions not along the barrel. And antimatter matter would detonate. Plus you'd get a lethal dose of gamma radiation, you're not shielding that without a whole lot of lead (my vest? yeah it weighs 400 pounds, but boy wait till the enemy walks into my line of fire...). Anyway, there's no known technology which would allow the stable storage of antimatter for more than seconds or minutes, so no you're not going to be carrying around bullets containing antimatter. Back to detonation, sorry for wandering. The most effective propellant for a weapon depends on lots of factors, but its burn is designed to be slow enough to accelerate a bullet through the barrel using the gasses released. Without some sort of magical force field technology, you're not doing that with antimatter+matter collisions. 

One solution I don't think I've seen anyone else bring up is to not include the location of Earth in the ship's data. If there is nothing on board that would help locate Earth, then there's no target to redirect to. Don't even have to lie, just make it part of generation 1's agreement to not bring aboard anything that would help locate Earth. You might also need an odd route so that a path can't be traced back simply, and the ship would have to avoid saving data about this early maneuvering. Not sure how plausible this sort of maneuver is. I'm also not sure how much info would need to be censored to prevent future researchers from figuring out Earth's location by looking at simple things like old movies and books, and searching for planets that might fit the description. Of course, the farther from Earth you go before someone starts trying to find it, the less likely it will be possible. You could also send off a beacon of some sort ahead of the ship that would land on the destination planet in advance and which would contain any missing information about Earth, so that after the mission is successful, future generations could locate Earth for whatever purposes. 

The problem with this type of question is the same as with the question "What can I make if I only have three things in my pocket: A rubber-band, a paper clip, and a magic wand?" As soon as you allow the existence of fantasy elements, all bets are off. If you have FTL drive, then you've violated the known laws of physics; any such violation is fantasy and is equivalent to a magic wand. Constraining the violation in any way would be completely arbitrary and depends on the whims of the author. I've zero idea what "late 21st Century" technology is supposed to be. The most obvious, and most low-tech approach is orbital bombardment. Or using a couple of hundred thousand 100 megaton H-bombs. Or causing a superflare on their sun. Or forcing their sun to go supernova. Or pointing a pulsar at them. Assuming you wanted the effects to be local only, then a superflare, disruption of the magnetic field, break-up of the crust, or most easily, orbital bombardment with "rocks" (or comets) would be the way to go. Why not both a superflare followed by a century or two of massive asteroid strikes if you want a light show? 

Not an expert, but I believe you can get a simple form of black powder from just charcoal and saltpeter. You need just the right type of charcoal, so that might take some experimentation to get right, but it's essentially burnt wood, so it should be easy to experiment with. Saltpeter can be obtained from human waste, so while distasteful, it's certainly doable. But this isn't something they could do on the fly, they would have to have been working on this for a long time already, but maybe they have just perfected their mixture and so you can still get some drama of them rushing to mix a big batch from their stockpiled saltpeter and a big effort to make the 'right' charcoal, followed by very carefully attaching a make-shift bomb and laying a trail of powder Wile-E-Coyote style so they can ignite from a distance. 

Actually, I think you might have a better shot with the opposite of famine. A post-scarcity world would have little or no incentive for war or conflict. I'm not sure this would work by 2020 if you're similar to Earth, but if you diverge enough, maybe. First step would be nearly free energy, so you're probably looking at an early acceptance of nuclear power, possibly followed by breakthrough in cold fusion (perhaps hastened by the cheap fission energy). Next, you need robotics advanced enough to replace all physical work performed by humans. So, you have a society where dirt-cheap energy is used to gather materials and mass produce every item a person might want, with no human interaction. Pretty much all wars are fought over resources, so that eliminates most war alone. Don't need to steal from a neighbor if you have all you could want. Another cause of war is ideology, which is where you get a lot of difficulty. I'm not sure it's possible to stop people from killing one another over things like religion or sports teams or whatever differences of opinion. One dominant ideology with totalitarian control might be able to do it. Or perhaps you could provide channels for conflict that don't qualify as war. Or perhaps you just lobotomize everyone, or at least indoctrinate them from an early age. 

You mention magic in your post. Sorry, magic and logic are incompatible. In a world with magic, nothing need be logical. In a logical world, nothing can be magical. Tell me, if you expected to live 900 years, would you engineer your kids to live 80 on the off chance that one of them will be a scientist? Hint: divide both numbers by 10, and ask again. I'd suggest an alternative: one theory as to why young scientists (there is an enormous difference between a scientist, a technologist, and an innovator!!) are more fruitful than older ones, is that their neural connections are being formed at a much higher rate (between 15-25). Death isn't relevant. Why not just program techno-elves to periodically gain-lose-re-form their minds/memories? 

No cool down period? Not even one nanosecond? Sounds like there's a lack of understanding of reality here. Life exists on Earth from high in the atmosphere to deep underground. What you want to do apparently (but you're not clear) is irradiate the entire planet so that there's a zero survival rate even for organisms heavily shielded and isolated. And do it with such intensity that the dose is supplied virtually instantly. We don't know how deep underground microbes exist, we've found evidence for them as deep as 12 miles. The most obvious sterilization methods I can think of which could penetrate 12-15 miles of rock would be X-rays but it would leave radioactives behind. I'm not capable of calculating the extent such energy would transmute atoms, but it's fairly trivial to calculate the intensity of a beam of x-rays (of a given frequency (distribution)) which would effectively sterilize through 15 miles of rock. The issues with waste heat might be addressed by cooling the Earth by passing an opaque (or semi-opaque) cloud between the Earth and the Sun. So, I'd say runaway greenhouse effect is a red-herring. What the surface would be like after such an attack, I've no idea. Perhaps someone else can calculate the effects of an extreme x-ray burst, if you ask that specific question. (heat and radioactivity are the most important effects, there may be secondary effects (such as loss of atmosphere))