Ok, lets address your concerns one at a time: Quickest way to lose the weight is to resume your regular activities, and start eating a healthier diet. There is no "quick fix", it's taken a few months to put on the weight, it'll take a few months to take it off as well. It's not metabolism, although that may play a part. You had an active lifestyle, and you went to a sedentary lifestyle. In addition to that, you let your diet go to hell. Weight gain was almost inevitable with those factors. You could easily return to your "normal" physique by weightlifting more, and watching your diet a little more carefully. You need to be aware of what your caloric needs actually are, and eat accordingly. Spot reduction is a myth. Fat in the body pretty much works on a Last In, First Out (LIFO) schedule. So if your thighs were the last part to get fat, then they will be the first to get lean. Realistic time frame for losing the weight is probably about the same time it took to put it on, maybe a little less or more depending on how aggressively you pursue it. Running could definitely help, as it is a full body cardio workout. I would first look at your diet, as your comment about salads and the occasional orange juice leads me to believe you really don't understand how much veggies/fruits and other nutrients provide essential vitamins/minerals and other items. Figure out your daily caloric needs, adjust your activity so that you aren't as sedentary, and definitely eat healthier than KFC, pasties (Which can be quite high in fat, even though they ARE tasty!), and chocolate bars. Oh, and when running, etc., if you are having chafing on any body parts, bodyglide or other lubricant, or wear long lycra type underwear that covers the area. 

For anyone actually wanting to do that workout None of these answers are correct when applied to the workout linked above. The bodybuilding.com email response is also wrong when applied to this workout, I assume they have given a generic answer on what 5 x 3,2,1 means but it has nothing to do with the workout linked. The workout calls for five sets of 3,2,1 reps in a rest-pause style of training. This means you use a heavy weight that you could do for about 3-4 reps max, and crank out 3 difficult reps (you can just manage to do them). Then to get your breath back you rest for just a few seconds (10 seconds or so), then force 2 more reps. Then you rest a few more seconds, and do the final rep. It's a way of pushing you to do (3+2+1=6) reps with a weight that normally you can only do 3-4 reps with. That is one set. You repeat this process 5 times to do 5 sets. Note, this isn't the usual meaning of 5 sets of 3,2,1, but this is the meaning in this context and for this workout. 

I sincerely hope no-one reading these answers in the future get's the wrong idea here. Hence I feel the need, four years after the original asker was here, to add some context. What Starting Strength does Starting Strength is designed to add maximal strength as quickly as possible whilst not specifically building hypertrophy or work capacity. It does this very well and if that's what you want do it but stick precisely to the program, it works. FYI the program lasts no longer than a month or three for most people. What Starting Strength doesn't do What it doesn't do for the average person is build a nice physique, or prepare you for the best strength progress in your future lifting career. It's very much a one-trick pony. If you want to be better, be stronger, and look better than the average person who wants a bit of strength, you would be well advised to do a lot more work. Build yourself a base of work capacity, and focus on the one aspect of your training career that anyone aiming for maximal strength or maximal muscle should be focusing on: building muscle mass. How to understand the other answers here All these answers above about how the three day setup in starting strength is somehow better or more effective are correct ONLY if your goal is as much immediate strength as possible in the next few months, and you don't care about slowing down your long term strength and physique potential by having to backtrack and work on building a base later on once those beginner gains die and you are left stalling like a grounded whale. tl, dr; if you feel you can do more and you want to actually make long term progress, then please do what your brain is telling you and do more. If anyone wants further advice, how to build more work capacity, how to set up a routine to do more work etc, feel free to ask. Edit addition: So what else can I do? What program lets me do more? $URL$ Check the link in that article to download the complete package of programs, which has a well laid out beginners program that has you training 4 days a week and doing 4 main lifts (S/B/D/OHP) in each session plus accessories. If you want to do more, here you go. And through that link you'll find a powerlifting world record holder's informed take on how to master your training career to get as strong and as big as possible. Covers beginners, intermediates and advanced. To anyone confused by my views, this should be an interesting read. Hope it's enlightening. Do you have anything else? I don't jive with that program This one here is another awesome program and just so happens to be Mon - Fri: $URL$ 

You can see these calculators in many places, and basically what they are is predictors based on actuarial tables (Such as the ones insurance companies use to set premiums), compared against average life expectancy. Basically, it should take into account all your lifestyle and risk factors, and apply those to you and the table, and produce an estimate of your "age". So, if you are 25, male and an overweight smoker, your estimated age will be more than a 25 y/o male who works out and eats well. Some of the more elaborate ones will also take into account heredity and other extrinsic factors, but they are all a guess. We've all heard about the healthy runners that drop dead at 40 (Fixx for example), and the whiskey drinking, lard eating gent that lived to 105. It is, however, a good reminder that our choices now can have a large impact in later life. To get the ages the same, it's hard to say since we have no idea what your family history is, or what other factors you put into the test. I can say that obesity, smoking, more than moderate drinking and lack of exercise are some of the bigger factors that will make your body age higher than your actual age. 

I ran ambulances for a period, and also spent 3 years working primary ambulance response in an Air Force ER. The other answers are good but kind of need to be all combined, since for first responder type of ambulance work, the correct answer is that you need an overall body weightlifting and conditioning program. During a normal year, and depending on where you live (Age of the city is one consideration, as for example many homes in Boston differ in shape/configuration than newer cities further west), you will be standing, walking, running. You will be hauling large, heavy oxygen tanks to install, portable medical units and treatment packs, stretchers, lifting patients from floors, beds, couches, cars, ponds, pools, etc. You may need to take down doors, be able to gain access to mangled car carriages, get into very tight spaces, things like this. You can run into an incredible variety of odd situations that you can't really prepare for, other than making sure you are both physically and mentally fit. The above may differ if you live in a large, urban area as often ambulance response in these areas is secondary to a local fire department being the first responder. However, as you get more outlying/rural, or if you are attached to a fire department, then you may be the first response. Since you don't have access to a gym, I would invest in a doorway pullup bar. Lots of pullups, chip ups (different hand positions), dead arm hangs, chair dips, abdominal and oblique work, lower back extensors, squats, duck/farmer walks, calf raises, lunges, and variants of all of the above. Add this to a sensible aerobic fitness regimen (If you are stuck in the field doing chest compressions, this is a very taxing exercise when properly done. You need to be able to last as long as possible, especially if you are part of a two man unit with no backup readily available). It can be a very challenging job with little thanks, but it is very rewarding work. 

Repeat. Try to get a breathing pattern down (exhale when lowering legs works well). Do these until you feel the burn, count the reps and monitor how many you do as you progress. (note, if lowering both legs is too hard you can lower one at a time, or you can bend at the knee. There are lots of ways to make it easier) 

Lie down and then raise your legs towards the ceiling. Tighten abs. Slowly lower your legs until they’re a few inches above the floor (or as low as you can go without lifting the small of your back). 

Then follow the guidelines on what you should do if long/short femured/torsoed. Again, use such recommendations as a starting point, but be sure to experiment and find out what works for you and allows you to feel strong and squat to depth. I should also mention that your "best" squat form can and often does change over time as you train. 

Your weight training should involve anything that increases your overall strength and musculature of the arms and supportive muscles used in bowling, and that can be incrementally loaded. So as an assumption, stuff that targets the back, shoulder capsule, core, posterior chain etc. I'd suggest focusing on squats, deadlifts, and overhead press all using a barbell. Aim to become decently strong on these exercises relative to your bodyweight. 

If you want to add running to spur weight loss, then ANY amount of running is going to work towards that goal. For every person, there is a "set point" of calories and activity that will maintain weight. As an example, if your basal metabolism is 1500 calories, and you have 1500 calories worth of activity in a day, then eating 3000 calories in a balanced diet will maintain your current weight. Now, keep the same numbers as above, but add in 3 runs of 20 minutes each per week. Depending on your pace, training, skill and other factors, those 3 runs will burn X amount of calories. That creates a deficit, so you will lose weight. There is no real way to predict how much weight will be lost and how fast, and it will slow down some as you adapt to the exercise and get more fit/efficient. However, you will lose weight. Studies are increasingly showing that diet makeup (such as Atkins, Paleo, South Beach, etc etc.) has less to do with weight loss than it is simply caloric deficit. Eat less or exercise more, and you will lose weight. 

I don't believe that you are going to find a better resource than you have already noted in your answer, for DC Rainmakers blog. His site is fairly comprehensive and non partisan (i.e. he doesn't make money from the manufacturers for ads or shill evaluations). If you don't find it on his site, you probably aren't going to find it. I personally am not aware of any site where you put in your "desired features" and it spits out models. What you can do, is work from the rarest feature that you want (i.e. the feature that is on the fewest activity trackers), and that gets you your narrowest list. From there, you can check the other features of the tracker, and see which one(s) come the closest. 

Let's discuss an obvious problem here that probably needs to be sorted out first before adjusting other things: Weighing yourself This is probably your biggest issue. Allow me to point out a few things: 

I wouldn't mess with it too much outside of the gym. Some light stretching just to maintain range of motion is good but be careful not to go too far! You can very easily train through DOMS, if it's just soreness then go through it but if your joints feel terrible or you feel you cannot produce force then it'll be better to rest. In general muscular DOMS is fine, but if you manage to damage your connective tissue (tendons etc) then you'll need to rest it for a while before continuing to work out a bit less intensely. Rest is the key, not trying to treat it. 

You'll need to do both to some extent, and as always it depends on context. Notes on the articles linked Firstly the Arnold article also mentions he recommends doing higher reps at a lighter weight (8-12 reps) for some exercises so the "going heavy" recommendation isn't absolute. Secondly the VERDICT in the Flex article is an example of misconstrued conclusions. The study involved doing 4 sets of 4 on the leg extension, compared to 4 sets of around 25. 4x4 on leg extensions is useless for testing the effect of heavy weights, no one does that in real life. What we can take from this article is an indicator about the effectiveness of high rep sets on isolation movements (legs particularly) for building muscle, but we probably can't take away information on the effectiveness of heavy reps. Regardless, the SENTENCING part at the end is solid and as you can see promotes a variety of rep ranges. So frankly the solution is to do a variety of rep ranges. Sarcoplasmic vs Myofibrillar hypertrophy is a fuzzy area in current literature, I wouldn't bother worrying about it. What we do reliably know is that volume (how much work you do, more sets or more reps at more weight is more volume) is the primary driver of hypertrophy. What should I do? Do the bulk of your muscle building work in the 8-12 rep range as it's been repeatedly shown to allow for the most work in an efficient time period in a safe manner. Do some of your main compound lifts lower (3-8 reps) and push for strength on them. Do some of your isolation work higher (above 12 reps to as high as you like) for the size building benefits this rep range offers too. Always bear in mind regardless of this: none of your lifting should be "easy". Whether heavy or light you are going to want to push yourself on every set to give your body a reason to grow. If you're just coasting gym workouts you won't get anywhere. You don't need to kill yourself in the gym either, but find that balance. 

As with anything that hasn't been studied, you will find mixed reviews. Many people advocate the use of a sauna after exercise, claiming that it helps flush toxins from muscles, opens up skin pores for a more refreshing cleanse afterwards, and provides cardiovascular benefits. There are some restrictions, including alcohol use and certain types of acute cardiac conditions, but overall is safe for most people including children. Now, for after exercise, there have not been a lot of studies that prove or disprove the claims. I tend to avoid them (as I do hot tubs) after exercise, as I am already heated up, with elevated heart rate and blood pressure from exercise, so I do not want to do an activity that might further elevate both. There are some claims that because of the blood pressure and heart rate changes that 30 minutes in a sauna is equivalent to running a 10k (6.2 miles), but I could not find evidence of that and I find it dubious at best on a personal level. This review cited here gives an overview of some of the information and studies available. One study as opposed to review was done to measure glycogen replenishment rates with sauna exposure, and after 4 hours, the non sauna recovery had significantly higher replenishment (Although there was no real difference noted in shorter intervals). So, in short, the science is mixed, although exposure to heat does appear to impact glycogen replenishment rates. (Note - This was written for sauna exposure before clarification to the original question, not a steam room which is at a lower temperature. However, both are higher than the temperature used in the glycogen study, so I believe that it would still impact glycogen replenishment rates.)