An opportunity to apply your current skills in a real-world scenario An opportunity to learn the use of other skills, preferably from someone more senior than you. And i don't mean only strict technical abilities - so called "soft-skills" are just as important. Many developers starting their careers dismiss the idea that communication, understanding of business requirements, negotiation, assessing time-and-money investments required and simillar are necessary for their career growth. Don't make that mistake. 

Disclaimer: this is coming from Eastern Europe culture (or at least my experience of it). You don't specify locale, so YMMV. 

I want to end with a statement that may be true only in my region (Eastern Europe): When it comes to job offer "requirements" section, you can often come across postings that seems to require you to be a combination of embedded programmer, web designer, application architect, mobile developer, database administrator and it wouldn't hurt if you would be a sysadmin also. Don't be disheartened by those offers, many times people writing them just copy-paste whatever google returned as "smart sounding programming words". If the job description sounds interesting to you, apply and assess the job-offer personally - ideally after an interview with someone "technical" 

You obviously will not give out your current company's business card in a job interview and I do not think it is worth to print a personal business card just for this purpose. If you have reached the interview site, then they have all the information to find you on linkedin/SO anyway. 

I am getting out a very similar experience. Company paid a lot for my interview, flights and hotel expenses and a high salary. But as soon as I joined, they just stopped spending on things which would help me do my job better. (Not hardware or equipment but some other things where I could not do everything I am capable of). I quit after 6 months of frustration (may be I stayed too long) and based on my experience, things will not improve. It is just poor management and shortsightedness. 

Make the gifts equal as per your original intention. You can do this by either returning one of the car or adding some additional accessories to the second car. Whether your budget allows that or not is something you need to decide but this will make it simple for everyone. 

What I think you misunderstand is working knowledge versus book knowledge. When someone says "Do you know (insert a language) well?" he doesn't mean "Have you memorized every bit of documentation, know all the overloads of every function etc.". They usually mean "Can you look at the code and easily (identify flaws/introduce changes/fix bugs/refactor/etc.)? Can you make an informed decision on what tools to use for a given scenario? Can you outline the advantages and disadvantages of proposed solutions?". Many languages are nearly identical in the general idea: syntax may be different, a few concepts done differently and some of the caveats are unique to a language, but if you know for example C# well, you would have little trouble if someone asked you to do something in Java. You need to keep your knowledge current: again, it doesn't mean that if a new framework comes out, you need to know it by heart in the next week - but the knowledge that such a framework exists, what are it's advantages over competing solutions, what scenario would that framework be used in and in what scenarios it shouldn't be used etc. That's, in my understanding, keeping your knowledge current. If on top of that you can type the code without the use of any aid such as documentation, more power to you - but do remember that it's not the main thing. Knowing a solution is ok. Knowing there are 10 possible solutions, their strengths and weaknesses, where to find their implementation - that's even better. It is possible to find a job with what you know so far - albeit it will probably will not be a job of your dreams. You should however strive to find a job that offers you: 

There is no harm in contacting the company where you declined the offer. There is nothing unacceptable about it. How they respond may depend on the availability of the position, how did they take your rejection and who are the concerned people now (Sometimes people change fast!) Send them a note and politely ask if the position is still available you would like yourself to be reconsidered and see if and how they respond. If they are still interested and get back to you, most likely you will have to explain why did you not chose them in the first place. You will have to be very careful on how to answer this. It should not sound like this company is your back-up option. You may want to do some research on the company and say why you want to join them now. Also, be prepared to accept the mistake you made previously and tell them that. In any case, be absolutely sure you want to leave A and join B before you do any of this. If you approach B second time, keep it clear that you accept it if they offer you again. If you do not, then you permanently damage your relations with B and there will not be a third chance. 

If you yawned once, covered your mouth and apologized, it's no big deal. If you do it continuously, you send a message that a) your interviewer is boring you b) you didn't think the interview was important enough to get a good night's sleep. Stretching your arms has the same connotation. As for their reply, there's pretty much no point in continuing, because it's either a genuine concern of theirs, or "random excuse #27" to not hire you. Either way, move on, try to suppress those behaviors and good luck on your job hunt. 

If he started to pick his nose, would you still mirror him? Disregard what others are doing, focus on your own professionalism. As for leaning back - at least here, leaning back in your chair (in a professional setting) communicates disregard for your conversation partner, indicating that you find what he is saying complete rubbish or that you want to show that you are better then to listen to him. In either case, yes, it's (very) rude to lean back in your chair. Two close coworkers may lean back and discuss something, never two strangers.