Here you can find a detailed article The four best third teams will play knockout against the winner of the groups A-B-C-D 

In Italy it is friendly called "around the world". Is it possible to be played by 2 or more player. I believe there are no official rules for this kind of matches/points. A Particular version if surviving around the world where many players (more than 2) starts to play in order one shot each moving to the part of the table of that shot (if there are odd numbers of player thay have to move from one side to the other, otherwise thay can hit from the same part of the table) and who fails is eliminated. The game continues until there are no two players who play a traditional point in the final 

draw for the first 3 "matches" (first round) for 4 team per match; rankings after first round (in every single mathc you can find the first but I do not know if is it posssible to determine a second/third/fourth classified); second round determined by rankings (1vs2vs3vs4, 5vs6vs7vs8, 9vs10vs11vs12) rankings after second round; third round determined by updated rankings (1vs2vs3vs4, 5vs6vs7vs8, 9vs10vs11vs12) 

This is the ski-jumping calendar for men competitions in february 2017. Is it possible to view several type of competitions: 

Thinking that the application be referred to the game eights-ball, the Regulation provides that the black ball is pocketed after you holed out his 7 balls. According with World Pool-Billiard Association after having pocketed all their balls 7 is necessary, pocket the 8 ball (hit with the cue ball) in the declared hole. There are several variants of this type of game with special rules, but the standard is what is written above 

Each starting position is identified by colour and/or number. Colours are determined by qualification ranking (time) in each heat: 

The player ask for rescission and he will take back "his property". In this case is is free to choose another team and the new team should not pay for the player (see player Iker Casillas moving to Porto from Real Madrid in summer '15) The team sacks the player and the player start to play to another team. In this case the new team has probably pay money to old team, but it depends on the courts where the teams talk about the questions) 

During Rio 2016 Olympic diving events it is easy to observe the athletes prepare with a wet small towel both before and after the dive. After the dive this towel is promptly launched into the pool. What would be the reason for this? 

4x100m relay are composed by 4 runners that run approximately 100m each. To avoid that a faster athlete run a longer section are imposed limits for the passage of the baton. In the image below you can see those takeover zones (red boxes) on a lap 

Is it possible to play a ball from a very lateral position to the near bottom corner so that the ball pass to the left to the net? Are there any differences on the fact that the ball pass at a height greater or less than that of the net? 

In downhill they test the track with time trials twice before every race (in the image you can see the FIS calendar for december 2015 where all the time training downhill are signed with blue arrows) 

In Baseball, why do the batters waiting to go and bat have some kind of cover on their bat? It's not a full cover, it just seems to be something that goes around the thick part of the bat. It looks like a knee/elbow protector that someone has slid over their bat. He wasn't even swinging at balls or anything, just swinging at air. It seemed almost like he was trying to cover up what was on the bat (like a picture or text) 

You can see the coefficient rankings here Spain and Germany are first and second, while England is third. However, Spain and Germany only have 7 places available, but England has eight. Why is this? 

For example, the current transfer window for most leagues in Europe ends tomorrow. Manchester United bought Depay from PSV this window. Could they sell him tomorrow if they wanted? Or do they need to wait until the mid-season transfer window at least? 

Anyone can become a goalkeeper, but if you are talking about going on to play professionally then just take a look at some stats. Brian Holt is currently the shortest goalkeeper in the MLS, at a height of 5'8" (172cm) The shortest goalkeepers in the English Premier League (Michael Vorn/Mike Bunn) are 6'0" (183cm) The shortest goalkeeper in the 2014 World Cup was Ivory Coast's Boubacar Barry at 5'11 (180cm) So you can see that the top leagues/competitions are dominated by taller goalkeepers, and this is simply because the taller they are, the longer reach they have and the better chance they have of keeping shots out. This also commonly applies to defenders since they have a greater chance of winning headers. A shorter player would be best suited in a winger role, like Emanuele Giaccherini (5'6", 167cm) or Aaron Lennon (5'5", 165cm). Lionel Messi and Sebastian Giovinco play as forwards and are 5'7" (170cm) 

The team who loans a player from another team doesn't own them, but they usually pay his wages. Often teams will loan out players who are too young/inexperienced to play for their main team, since they can gain experience and they don't have to pay their wages. If Team A sign a player, but he's too young/inexperienced to play for them, they will often him out to other teams on loan. So say they loan him out to Team B, this means Team A still own the rights to him, but while he's on loan, they don't have to pay the wages because Team B will pay the wages. Although, the case of Torres is a little different. Torres was on loan from Chelsea since the start of the season, however in the mid-season transfer window, Milan got Torres on a free transfer deal, so Milan are now the owners of him. As soon as the deal was completed, they loaned Torres to Atletico Madrid, in exchange for Alessio Cerci. Unusually in this situation however, instead of Milan paying the wages of Cerci, and Atletico paying the wages of Torres, as is fairly usual for a loan deal, Milan are paying the wages of Torres, and Atletico are paying the wages of Cerci. Torres gets paid £4m/year and Cerci gets paid £2.5m/year 

It was called the "70's line" because of the jersey numbers Jeff Carter is 77 Tyler Tiffoli is 73 Tanner Pearson is 70 

ATP/WTA tournaments last one week, only Grand Slam ones last two weeks. Tournaments schedule are planned to manage weather problems, sometimes it happened that a player has played two singles match the same day. In history never happened that a Grand Slam tournament was totally abandoned by weather. You can check the list of men and women winners. But it happened that ATP/WTA tournaments delay a lot and the final was played on monday (i.e Wimbledon 1919, 1922, 2001) 

The medal should support under the chest muscles, so normally the lenght should be around 60/70cm - (23/28 inches) Those elements normally are indipendent from the athlete's height because I think they are setted before knowing the order of arrival The reply was base on the following images 

Here the updated wikipedia pages with the list It is interesting to notice that for Nadal this 2017 Roland Garros represents his personal career record for percentage of game won on game losts (116 GW vs only 35 GL => 76.8%) 

This is one of the most controversial boxing matches in history. Some argue that the Alì's punch has not knocked out his opponent, but currently there are no concrete information about it. On wikipedia there is an dedicated page with many info and many hypothesis on this match (also on the possibility that was fixed). So, I think it is not possible to provide a concrete answer to these questions 

I think there is no correct reply always true for this question, but I bolted the most one according to your image. Anyway you can use this hint to understand the meaning of the points: 

The group all-around competition speciality involves the use of more than one ball (here a video of WC 2012). In individual competition each athlete use one rubber ball, while during the group there are more balls on the floor area. 

Is it possible that during the annual draft a basketball player do not accept the proposal from the team? I mean, e.g. if during draft 2017 there are more teams that would like to choose Markelle Fultz but he would like to play only for Suns is it possible that he refuse any team to be free when Suns has its choose? 

Dhanuka Pathirana scores 277 in a Lancashire's Saddleworth League. The match seems played in 2007 seems Austerlands - Droylsden (366-3) another source - another source 

Gabon national team is qualified because of nation host. The team was insert in Group I and has played friendly against other team of the same Group Wikipedia has insert Gabon in the Group A of qualified teams: The host nation team will also be drawn into a group and will play games against those in that group; however, these matches will only be considered as friendlies and not counted for the standings. 

Furthermore first ranked competitor from the qualifications can choose their lane, with the second fastest the next lane and so on 

Not the most one, but one of the most important I do not know update statistics on it but in 2010 and 2011 Australia seems one of the most born-Country for foreing NFL players, but it seems there are also many other Country that offers players to NFL. Aslo this top 10 shows: England (1) - Liberia (1) - Estonia (1) - Poland (1)- Japan (1) - Germany (2) - Ghana (1) - Tonga (1) - Canada (1) as born-Country of NFL players