I get my weather forecasts from good ol' NOAA's weather.gov site. On the detailed site weather pages, there's a map that shows the forecast area as a green square (for Boston at least, the square is about 1.5 miles on a side). You can click on nearby areas to change the presented forecast to that new location. Here's the question: why is the square shown as the forecast area not oriented north/south/east/west? For some reason, near the US East Coast it's twisted clockwise, and on the West Coast it's twisted counter-clockwise. I assume it's something about the easy representation of weather information in a GIS system, but that's only a guess. Here are some examples, from East to West. First, Boston: 

Note that, if you go even further west to Hawaii, the pattern breaks, and the square is perfectly north/south/east/west: 

Earth travels along its orbit at about 30km/s. If you plug that number into a time dilation calculator, you'll find that one second on Earth passes every 1.0000000050069 seconds in a Sun-centric reference frame. Carbon-14 dating is good only to about 40,000 years into the past; Earth's time dilation would reduce that 40,000 years by a little under two hours, or far below the precision of the technique. Edit: I'd like to address three more issues. First, the rotation of the Earth's surface only results in about 0.5km/s at the equator, and so is insignificant compared to the orbital velocity. Second, nothing has changed the Earth's orbit for many millions of years, probably for billions of years, so that would also have no effect on the dating. Third, and more important, we're all traveling along on the Earth at (approximately) the same speed. So you, I, and a group of C-14 atoms in a fossil will all experience the same time dilation. 

I usually tend to think that the shorter a definition is the more it introduces ambiguity and errors. So I would just think about your audience and choose an appropriate length (You didn't mention the level you are teaching for). Similar to the definition of life you can offer to your audience characteristics, which some rocks will conform more or less. This is just a list I thought out: 

This has always bothered me during field mapping: A boudin with two stretching directions has the form of an M&M candy (or almond shape). What do I do to measure the two stretching directions if the surrounding rocks don't show any stretching lineations. Does anybody have experience with this? 

This is probably an observational effect that is quite common in the Earth Sciences. In scientifically progressing societies there is a higher proportion of observations due to a number of effects: 

This is also why more and more meteorites are observed falling. In the middle ages you were either too busy to care, took it as a wonder, or found a meteorite, but had no ability to write it down. Similar scenario for volcanic eruptions. I could imagine that actually all those ships, airplanes, and oudoor-activities (no offense) lead to more observations of eruptions, but that people were to busy recording and writing them down. The geologists of their time were probably busy finding war-necessary resources. Sources: 

Paleogeographic reconstruction of the Pontus Ocean ca. 200 Ma. Credit: Douwe van der Meer. Source: van de Meer, D. G., Torsvik, T. H., Spakman, W., van Hinsbergen, D. J. J. and Amaru, M. L. 2012. Intra-Panthalassa Ocean subduction zones revealed by fossil arcs and mantle structure. Nature Geoscience, 5: 215-219. 

As a preamble, let me say that I don't know remotely enough on galactic dynamic to know if a supernova could have possibly been close enough during the Ordovician for Earth to be affected by a gamma ray burst, nor do I know enough about geochemistry to know if there are ways to detect such an event in the fossil record. That being said, the questions that I'll try to answer are: do we need to invoke an extraterrestrial event to explain the Late Ordovician glaciation? does the taxa selectivity of the extinction event support the GRB hypothesis? So let's look at the different hypotheses on how the glaciation occurred, the original conundrum being: how could a glaciation occur when mid-Ordovician $p_{CO_2}$ is believed to be up to 14 times Quaternary level? Brenchley et al. 1994 suggested that the Ordovician ocean circulation changed from a system having warm saline bottom waters to a system with cold bottom waters (i. e. a thermohaline instead of an haline circulation), which triggered a phytoplanktonic bloom, which then decreased atmospheric $p_{CO_2}$ and provoked an eutrophization of the ocean. Kump et al. 1999 argued in favor of a tectonically derived $p_{CO_2}$ decline: with the Appalachian and Caledonides orogenesis came an increased weathering which decreased $p_{CO_2}$. Of course the two hypotheses are not mutually exclusive since increased weathering also means increasing nutrients in seawater and therefore increasing primary productivity. Another question is which groups went extinct during the glaciation: recent studies show that acritarchs (the most diverse group of phytoplankton known for that period) did not suffer from these events (Vecoli 2008); oppositely benthic group such as crinoids or brachiopods did (see Sheehan 2001 for a review); some pelagics groups such as graptolites and nautiloids did suffer as well during the event while some other didn't (radiolarians for instance). In summary there is no clear pattern, but there is also no reason to think that there was a preferential extinction of surface organisms over deeper-living ones. So, does that answer the question: no; but it seems to me that GRB doesn't explain better the event that unfolded during the late Ordovician than other hypotheses (namely the ocean eutrophization and the continental weathering). Does it discard the hypothesis of a GRB: no; but since there is no direct evidence that it indeed happened at that time, and that we can explain the Ordovician events without, it seems, to me, more parsimonious to think that it didn't. References: Brenchley et al., 1994. Bathymetric and isotopic evidence for a short-lived Late Ordovician glaciation in a greenhouse period. Geology, 22: 292-298. Kump et al., 1999. A weathering hypothesis for glaciation at high atmospheric $p_{CO_2}$ during the Late Ordovician. Palaeogeography, Palaeoclimatology, Palaeoecology, 152: 173-187. Sheehan, 2001. The Late Ordovician Mass Extinction. Annual review of Earth and Planetary Science, 29: 331-364. Vecoli, 2008. Fossil microphytoplankton dynamics across the Ordovician–Silurian boundary. Review of Paleobotany and Palynology, 148: 91-107. 

It seems to me you should draft an analytical procedure first in which you include the compounds (or compound-groups) you want to identify (qualitative) and what detection limits you need. Then get a list of methods or instruments you have access to. Then see which methods / instruments fulfil your analytical requirements. You might need to make aliquots and use two or more methods to cover all the requirements. Complexity is usually the last thing to worry about, because you have to use what instruments you have, and often times the analytical requirements are only fulfilled by one instrument. The methods mentioned on the page you linked also guarantee that your measurements will be comparable to other peoples measurements. Look for advice in books and lecture notes about "analytical chemistry" and "instrumental analytics". Personally I think infrared spectroscopy is pretty simple, but I don't know what your detection limit requirements are ("trace level" is very vague), and depending on your samples there might be a lot of overlap from the different organics (It also depends on how well you have to distinguish them). 

A page in the book Come Rain or Shine, A Weather Miscellany states that the cones were discontinued on June 1, 1984, due to their being superseded by radio broadcasts and other methods. 

Just after sunrise or sunset, call a friend some number of time zones to the west and ask them where the sun is in their sky. Or, just before sunrise or sunset, call a friend some number of time zone to the east and ask them where the sun is in the sky. Then, think about why the sun is at different heights for you and for your friend. The more time zones this experiment crosses, the harder it will be to explain this as a feature of a flat earth. 

Googling finds a number of other sites with the same story. Some identify Dr. Evans as a "former climate modeler for the Australian Greenhouse Office", others as an electrical engineer. None seem to provide any skepticism about Dr. Evans' statements. I'm sure this is a sham, as otherwise it would be an enormously important story that would be reported everywhere. If so, I'm a little surprised that I found no "boy is this stupid" responses. Perhaps the real climate experts are tired of playing "climate conspiracy Whack-A-Mole". If a climate change denier were to use this story as proof that anthropogenic global warming is a scam to keep earth scientists employed, what would be the best way to show that he is wrong? Edit: I just found that Dr. Evans serves on the Board of Advisors of the Committee for a Constructive Tomorrow, an NGO that denies man-made global warming exists. 

From reading the literature on the subject, my impression is that we don't know that much on the subject, primarily due to a scarcity of measurements. My understanding is that the first and only year-long time-series was made at the Drake Passage in 1979 (e. g. Whitworth & Peterson, 1985) by the ISOS programme (International Southern Ocean Studies). In addition to that NOAA's WOCE (World Ocean Circulation Experiment) added yearly data from 1990 to 2002. According to Rintoul & Sokolov 2001 and Rintoul et al. 2001, most of the variability south of Tasmania is due to changes in currents north of the ACC itself. Cunningham et al. 2003 show that the moderate interannual variation in baroclinic transport they observed seem to be coeval with variations in the location of the Polar Front (it moves north or south on a 90km range). But overall the variability seems to be relatively low, and the ACC relatively steady. White & Peterson, 1996 showed an interesting phenomenon that they called the Antarctic Circumpolar Wave: it is a "wave" in the ACC circling the globe in ca. 8 yrs with a period of 4yrs at any location and it is defined by anomalies in sea-suface temperature, sea-level pressure and sea-ice extent. However no evidence for corresponding anomalies in volume transport was showed, to my knowledge. So, to summarize, as far as I can see: 

It looks man-made to me. Specifically, it looks like the outer rock was (perhaps naturally) smoothed before it was (not naturally) cut and then the inner rock added. Note the smooth outer rock. It looks water-worn, and its smoothness goes right up to that inner block (absent those cracks). But, at the same time, the inner block seems to protrude, protecting the nearby parts of the outer rock from abrasion (note the light-colored crust adjacent to the inner block). If that's true, then that part of the outer rock was smoothed before the inner block was added. I have no clue how this could have been done naturally. I also can't believe that such a small intrusion could be done naturally without splitting the original rock. That said, an oblique view of the apparent intrusion would be helpful. 

There's a story going around the low-grade news factories that one Dr. David Evans has predicted that the world will start cooling down in 2017. One source reports: 

Wind can be an incredibly localized phenomena, both in the short term and the long term. Although the broad outlines of a long-term wind forecast shouldn't be too complex or controversial, getting the details right will generally require actual on-site measurement. Google wind measurement sodar for some cool tools to do such measurement. 

What are the likely stresses that caused the uplift of the Harz mountains? Was the uplift connected to another orogeny, lithospheric-scale folding or a mantle process? 

It is still a little known fact that radiation play an important role in the Earth's mantle. Experiments show that mantle-material becomes transparent to infrared radiation at increasing pressures ($URL$ I would also say that the mantle is currently not understood in a way where estimates of heat-conduction-type versus depth can be accurately made. The heterogeneity of heat transfer (Cold detached subduction-slabs sinking to various depths and hot plumes quickly rising from the D''-layer) makes the question even more difficult. 

The liquid outer core and the magnetic field it generates are essential to life. Without the magnetic field we would have no atmosphere. The temperatures would be roughly equal to the moon (Which goes from 123 C on the hemisphere that happens to face the sun and -153 C on the shadowed hemisphere). Source for moon temperatures: $URL$ 

I have visited storage- and test facilities that are within salt and clay (Opalinuston) lithologies. What are other lithologies that are considered for the storage of nuclear waste and what are their advantages? 

Though I agree with @kaberett that there is indeed more and more evidences that the Deccan volcanism was the main trigger of the K/Pg crisis, i wanted to add that there is a more nuanced hypothesis (that I heard about last week during a talk at EGU) according to which the Chicxulub impact resulting seismic response may be the trigger of one of the main stage of the Deccan eruptions (Stage II if i remember correctly). This idea is based on the seismic modeling of meteorite impact by Meschede et al. 2011. Sources: Meschede, M. A., Myhrvold, C. L. and Tromp, J. (2011), Antipodal focusing of seismic waves due to large meteorite impacts on Earth. Geophysical Journal International, 187: 529–537. Richards, M. et al. (2014), Possible Triggering of the Largest Deccan Eruptions by the Chicxulub Impact. Geophysical Research Abstracts, 16: EGU2014-3042. 

The first thing to note here is that the zircons you mention in your question are the only thing we have dating from the Hadean: no known Hadean continental or oceanic crust have been found to date. So, all informations come from these zircons. What do they tell us? The rare earth element (REE) composition of these zircons (and in particular the zoning of said REE inside the mineral) suggests that they formed in a magma derived from the melting of a continental crust (Wilde et al. 2001). Their high $\delta^{18}\mathrm{O}$ composition also indicates that the magma was at some point in contact with liquid water (also Wilde et al. 2001): both continents and oceans were present in the Hadean. The presence of liquid water already implies cooler temperature than what was previously thought (Valley et al. 2002). With regards to climate per say, the Lithium composition (high concentration, light isotopes) of the zircons (Ushikobo et al. 2008) have been interpreted as evidence of an intense chemical continental weathering. This weathering could have several explanations but one possibility retained by Ushikobo et al. 2008 (see also Sleep 2010) is a CO2-rich atmosphere with surface temperatures above 50°C. 

Can't help with the details, but think about it like this. It is a density current (denser than air, that's why it flows downhill), but the density is less than that of water, so it will flow across it. Compare this to turbidity flows (also density currents), which are denser than water and will therefore flow downhill in the ocean. 

Starting from the bottom of your question I would not compare planets with plate tectonics with planets that don't have this process. During rifting of a tectonic plate a triple junction will be the most favourable way of faulting the crust. After that two arms of the rift are favoured and the third one becomes a failed rift (aulacogen). Because of this process linear features on a planet will be very emphasized. The current geometry of mid ocean ridges and subduction zones does fall into a strong north-south pattern (Exceptions are Antarctica and the Aleutian trench). This might also be due to the fact that the plates form a system that in all its complexity still strives for lower stress and effective heat transport. In this case a parallel system of mid-ocean-ridges and subduction zones might be more favourable than a totally random alignment of those features. The dynamics of the inner Earth are of course not independent of the plates and it is difficult to assign causality. Nonetheless you could again think of a complex system that seeks for efficiency (pragmatism if you will). With subduction plates being plate-shaped, circulation above and beneath them will probably be more stable in a cylindrical fashion. So the heat distribution on the upwelling side of the circulation should also create linear features. In any case we just happen to live in a time where the system went for a North-South oriented minimum. Continuing this thought process we can also find an explanation why features in this tectonic-north-south part of the world are oriented in this way. Many north-south striking islands have north-south striking back-arc-basins that separate them from their main land masses. And peninsulas are sometimes the arms of failed rifts or the tapering of back-arc-basins. Outside of this prevalent orientation we see features like Nowaja Semlja with very different orientations. But be cautious with this theory. Assigning each feature on Earth to a north-south and east-west orientation gives you a 50 % chance that a randomly aligned feature will confirm your theory. Even four directions still give you 25 % chance. So the more directions you consider the harder it is to prove the theory. I am not aware of anybody doing a global peninsula inventory, so it would be interesting to see this. 

Please take into consideration that I am not a specialist of plate tectonics, just a paleontologist. Although this cycle is often nicknamed the Wilson cycle (probably because of Wilson, 1966), the idea that supercontinent formed cyclically every 440Ma was advanced by Worsley et al. 1984 (see review on the subject by Nance & Murphy 2013). The mechanism they hypothesize for the breakup of the supercontinent is the mantle heat flow accumulating below the supercontinent while the formation of the supercontinents are bound by the cooling effect on the density of the oceanic lithosphere (see also Nance et al. 1988): so basically, heat accumulate below the insulating supercontinent until it causes it to break up, thus creating rifts and a new oceanic lithosphere, which, with age, cool down and thus become more dense making it more prone to be subducted by the continents (if I understood correctly). As to "why ca. 450 Ma?" this has probably to do with the cooling speed of the oceanic lithosphere, I would assume. Another important point: although there are evidences for the existence of a supercontinent breaking-up at 300 Ma (Pangaea), at 750 Ma (Rodinia), at 1.6 Ga (Nuna or Columbia), etc., there are also evidences for an absence of supercontinent at 1.2 Ga (see Pisarevsky et al. 2014), hinting that this cycle is maybe not that regular. References: Nance & Murphy, 2013. Origins of the Supercontinent Cycle. Geoscience Frontiers, 4(4): 439-448. Nance, Worsley & Moody, 1988. The Supercontinent Cycle. Scientific American, 259: 72-79. Pisarevsky, Wingate, Li, Wang, Tohver & Kirkland, 2014. Age and paleomagnetism of the 1210 Ma Gnowangerup–Fraser dyke swarm, Western Australia, and implications for late Mesoproterozoic paleogeography. Precambrian Research, 246: 1-15. Wilson, 1966. Did the Atlantic close and then re-open?. Nature, 211: 676-681. Worsley, Nance & Moody, 1984. Global Tectonics and Eustasy for the past 2 billion years. Marine Geology, 58: 373-400.