Utilitarianism as defined by John Stuart Mill - "The greatest happiness for the greatest number of people" (from Utilitarianism) and implied in that text but explicitly stated in On Liberty without actually causing harm to anyone. Utilitarianism as a synonym for consequentialism more generally -- which would get you something like "maximizing the good" (or "minimizing the bad"). 

Eighteen year olds are mature enough to drink Anyone who is mature enough to drink should be legally allowed to drink Therefore, the drinking age should be lowered to 18. 

My own research bridges somewhat on these topics, and I would suggest adding the following people to your considerations: Hegel - specifically the idea of mutual recognition. Within this, I think it's pretty obvious that Sartre is thinking of "Herrschaft und Knechtschaft" when he's writing about the look in Being and Nothingness. Specifically, the echoing of unhappy consciousness as bad faith supports the claim of symmetry. For the Other, I don't think Levinas can claim originality for this, but he is, as far as I know, the first person to write about it specifically in phenomenology. Martin Buber's I and Thou and Soren Kierkegaard's pseudonymous Sickness unto Death both have similar ideas of an other that is above me. Buber and Levinas communicated and argued in writing specifically about the relation to the other and whether its transcendent. Merold Westphal has a book Levinas and Kierkegaard in dialogue that treats on a lot of the ways their thought relates. The claim I think most accurately captures how Levinas relates is that at times he seems like a very skilled reader and at other times an unbelievably bad reader. The influence of Kierkegaard if any seems to have been indirect prior to Levinas developing the core of his idea. There's two reasons I can imagine for this behavior on Levinas's part. First, there's a soft rule in philosophy that the accuracy of a philosopher's reading of another philosopher is inversely proportional to their fame. i.e., the more famous the interpreter the less accurate to the original thinker. Second, Levinas needs to keep his position distinct in order to have any novelty that makes him worth listening to. A third and likely source of influence on Levinas is Heidegger and the notion of Being and the way in which Heidegger uses the concept of Gegenstand with reference to the beings that stand before us vs. the Being that is kind of withdrawn. Unfortunately, I haven't written much about this area in quite some time so my knowledge of the best sources is poor. 

You're reading the Knox translation. Nisbet (the more recent Cambridge translation) translates as follows 

It turns out to be a reference question. Most common version = "Out of the crooked timber of humanity, no straight thing was ever made." (see $URL$ It's from a relatively minor Kant work though I believe Allen Wood quotes it in Kant's Ethical Thought There's also some things that reflect this sentiment in Anthropology and Religion within the Bounds of mere Reason, but the exact idea as you word it is not Kantian insofar as Kant thinks every human being has what they need to be moral -- and any inadequacy is incidental rather than endemic. 

There's three things going on here: (a) "moral philosophies dominant today" (b) identity (c) the good I think it's easiest to start by thinking about the relationships between (c) and (a). (c) refers to the classical idea that there is an objective good -- perhaps even a form of the good. Thus, it is an appeal broadly to Plato and Aristotle's notion of the Good -- and especially its role in ethics. All classical ethics until about the point of the late middle ages believed that we necessarily pursue the good in our actions. (This helps to create the problem of akrasia or "weakness of the will" ). The key difference between this and modern moral theories is that many contemporary moral theories (purportedly) are concerned with according our actions to what is "right". This model seems to sit well with textbook versions of "deontology" and utilitarianism. They seem primarily concerned with viewing actions in terms of conforming to the right moral principles. In contrast, classical ethical theory saw action as oriented towards the good, and viewed this as a process of adjusting our thoughts, feelings, and actions towards the good. (N.b., that Taylor is not naive enough to think the moral theories in question are just textbook Utilitarianism and deontology. He's thoroughly aware of all the complex species running around -- but many of these are actually worse in terms of handling identity. E.g., moral and legal positivism and moral relativism both fair far worse in terms of thinking of our actions in terms of creating a moral identity). This ties into identity. Unsurprisingly, Aristotle's ethics are built around the notion of a continuous formation of character. In other words, as we change, we are forming an identity. Since Taylor is post-Hegelian in at least some respects, this includes self-identity (as in the image we have of our own selves as we form our identities). (Thus, for Taylor, the self and moral vision is an idea interlinked with the idea of identity). I don't know if that cleared anything up for you, but that's how I understand the passage if I sit down and think through it in light of Taylor's larger project. 

I think a good question here is why Hegel writes this as assertion. To decipher this, we need to look at a few things at once and consider these theories. First, as an Addition, the remarks are meant as a comment on section 106 to expand on section 106 itself, which claims "subjectivity now constitutes the determinacy of the concept and is distinct from the concept as such..." The "now" hints that this is a moment in Hegel's dialectical logic. What sort of moment? This is almost immediately after the end of the section abstract right (abstrakte Rechte). There, Hegel is looking at something roughly like our concept of rights but in abstraction from a system of law or society. Motivated by the problem Unrecht, this leads to "civil society" wherein rights are granted a social and legal existence that we will learn is incomplete. Moving more broadly within Hegel, we can note that Hegel is referencing the "concept." The concept [der Begriff] is a term for that which Geist comprehends in all of its distinctions. Thus, a big part of what is going on in here is that in Moralitaet the concept is taking on subjective form, because as Hegel has stated earlier on freedom, reason, and will are for him identical. At the point of this passage, the case is not fully distinguished, but the bald manner in which the addition asserts it makes it seem like Hegel does it take it to be quintissential to the self to have complete control over will. Further in the text, this subjectivity is joined to a more robust idea of community and freedom, but I'm not aware of anywhere in which Hegel denies the idea that human selves qua rational beings have control over their inner convictions (a position that sounds thoroughly Kantian and Cartesian to me). 

One thing to note for this type of fallacy is that it's what we often call an "informal fallacy" meaning it is not a fallacy of formal logic (meaning that someone has broken a rule in formal logic), but rather something we commonly believe is problematic. To give an example, where the shoe is on the other foot: 

On a spectrum, if we take species to be merely abstract constructs with no substantive reality behind them, then it's going to be hard to explain why any sort of action towards things based on this arbitrary distinction would matter. On the other hand, if we take them to be abstract constructs with some basis in reality, we could begin to add diversity concerns. If we take them to be real kinds (like Aristotle), we might be able to strengthen that further. At a minimum to make it matter it cannot be merely arbitrary (or rather if merely arbitrary species matter, then we're just writing pure fiction here and we could make our ethical theory center on dice and wood grain directions). Setting that aside, there are several different but related motives I can imagine using: 

What's missing is that if you merely shrink the target and gun, you've doubled the relative distance. If you shrink all three, you've fixed it, but then you've invoked physics and you've created a problem for your hittability equation, viz., you need a third premise: 

Other than this kind of basic sketch, I would need to better know what you are having trouble with to answer with relevant passages or details. (I wrote my dissertation on moral selfhood including a chapter on Levinas). 

There are significant differences betweens the epistemologies of Locke and Aristotle. For one thing, they differ as to what the objects of knowledge are. For Aristotle, what we know are essences; how we know them are that we abstract the form of a substance. For Locke, we know secondary qualities and infer primary qualities. To invoke a different vocabulary, Aristotle is thus a realist about essences and Locke is not. To summarize, they share the idea that knowledge begins in the senses. But they define knowledge very differently, because they have divergent metaphysics and different ideas of the role of perception in knowledge. I do not think Locke's empiricism is directly inspired by Aristotle though it might be mediated by Locke having learned some scholastic philosophy (though on that point I am speculating). 

and/or some good actions don't make you happy (for Kant, this is one reason why we have to be immortal and there must be a heaven and hell to even this out) and some people experience happiness at evil. Aristotle version: 

Here you're importing a pretty strong assertion in the "abstract construct" language. There's a lot of different ways of parsing what a species is. On the one hand, it's a type. Classically, it was a Form or Essence. We'll skip Plato here, but for Aristotle's idea of an essence. What happens is that we are recognizing something in giraffes when we look at them that makes the giraffes. To simplify that, it's not that we are making up "giraffe", Aristotle thinks it's an empirical observation. Not everyone agrees, but the modern biological classifications building on Linneaus took species to be real kinds out there in the world. As we've refined that, we've realized he was wrong on some. And we've gotten some blurry realities where two species can intermate or even one's where they have to. But bringing us back to ethics, I'm going to make a claim: only abstractions have rights at all, because rights are abstraction. Again, what matters is if they are mere abstractions. Abstracting is kind of what humans do and need to do in order to think. 

What implication does is test whether the implication holds. Thus, we accept that it holds (see the entire implication as true) when A is true and B is true. We also should be able to see that the implication is false when A is true but B is false. The situation is a bit more complicated and confusing when A is false (if we are thinking "if, then" rather than just accepting it as an operator). Most recently, the explanation I've been giving in my classes is as follows,