OK, after wading through some of Karen Barad's work I'll give this a shot. I'll put a disclaimer right here that this is largely educated guesswork. As the OP says, Karen's writing style is very opaque, especially when she leaves off a direct discussion of her field of expertise (quantum physics) and starts trying to apply physics to sociology. Barad proposes a theory she calls Agential Realism in which the world is made up of Phenomena which are (I think) the Entanglements you are asking about. They are the inseperability of agencies (subjects and objects) in an interaction. In Barads view, the universe can be thought of, not as a continuous flow of causality, but as an infinite series of 'snapshots' or 'slices of time' each of which is preceeded by the various factors led to that exact state of affairs and is followed by an infinity of possible universes that resolves into one determined future when a descision is made. Example: I pick up a coffee cup. Under Agential Realism Theory the moment at which I pick up the coffee cup is not just preceeded by my descision to take a drink. It is also preceeded by my descision to make coffee instead of tea, my choice of cup, the fact that I came to work this morning instead of staying in bed etc. It is proceeded by a variety of possibilities inculing my spilling the coffee on myself, taking a drink or dropping the coffee on my computer and dying in an electrical fire. In this model the entanglements are the connections between past, future and the agents involved in the interaction (in the example, me and the coffee cup). To utilise this in a programming language the entanglements would be the commands you write to the object model with the agencies involved being the Object Model and the Compiler. I would imaging that such a programming language would look somehting like the self-learning code that the google-brain and other neutral nets use to teach themselves based on external input. They aren't based on a traditional Object Model but instead rewrite their own command sets on the fly as new information is presented. 

Different representations of reality are no more or less objective for there are always invariants. In the physical sciences, we see this clearly. For example, in the Special Theory of Relativity, elapsed time and distance are relative to the observer's frame of reference. However, the proper time and proper distance are objective, they are the same for all inertial observers. The fact that the "human perspective" might be a different representation of reality from the representation of some hypothetical other rational being does not make these representations less objective. The goal of philosophy and the philosopher is (should be) to find the invariants of reality. 

This is invalid but sound. All the premises are true but the conclusion is false. Socrates could be an animal or a strangely named woman. 

This is unsound and invalid. At least one of the premises is false (P1) Socrates may be a woman (we only have Plato's word otherwise) and even if both premises were correct, there is nothing to infer that being a woman makes one mortal. This is an entire field of study in itself with a lot of bearing on Mathematics. If you are interested, check out Matt dilahunty's YouTube video Foundations 1.0 on the Logical Absolutes for a beginners guide. 

My own interpretation is that Plato actually argues that although a regime decays, the human soul is perpetually rising toward its best state. For this interpretation, I first determined that Plato thinks of the level of education in a city (or soul) as analogous to its regime. Therefore, the more education there is in a city, or the better educated a soul is, the closer that soul/city is to the top of the regimes (the aristocracy). I think this point is fairly obvious in any reading of The Republic, so I'll skip over explaining why I think education is proportional to regime for Plato (if you would like me to explain it, please leave a comment and I'll add it in). Regarding my interpretation that Plato sees the soul as in perpetual growth, the following quotation is very relevant: 

By (1), Universe contains all causes, all sources, i.e., there is no cause, no source, indeed, nothing, that stands apart from, independent of, Universe. But the proper conclusion to draw from this is not that Universe came from Nothing but rather that Universe simply is. The premise that Universe must have a "source", indeed that it is even meaningful to speak of the source of all sources, is what must be rejected. That there is something rather than nothing is self-evident, thus Universe exists, Universe is eternal. 

To infer truth from an argument it must be both valid and sound. A valid argument is one where it is impossible for the premises to be true and the conclusion to be false in the above example, this is the case so the syllogism is valid and sound. A sound argument is one where all the premises are actually true. This prevents the garbage in/garbage out effect that computer programmers will be familiar with where a valid piece of code gives an incorrect response because the variable are wrong. Here are a couple of examples: 

Your ethics is an inchoate version of Ayn Rand's normative ethics, virtuous egoism. Essentially, the good is that which promotes one's own flourishing, a concept not very different from eudaimonia. In Rand's ethical theory though, accomplishing the good is through the practice of 7 primary virtues. A great introduction can be found here. A scholarly review is here: 

At any moment, you have the freedom, the choice, to think or not. That's your fundamental choice. And, that you have this choice is evident from introspection. While you're reading this, you may choose to think about it or evade the effort, correct? 

Marxism talks of proletarian revolution arising out of the class conflicts in the society and to be led by the working class. Maoism talks of a protracted peasantry revolution by eliminating the class enemies by guerrilla warfare. Maoism believes in extreme violence as the only weapon to seize power. The key differences are in the Maoist focus on an aggraian rather than industrial society and the degree of violence to be employed in the revolution. Marx advocated strike action and other basically peaceful demonstration with escalation to more violent forms of protest if this proved uneffective. Examples of this can be seen in the labour union disputes of 1970s britain and the early days of the actual russian revolution. Maoism goes much further, advocating extreme violence and guerilla warfare of the sort the viet cong engaged in in the Vietnam war. 

Within Existence where, by Existence, I mean the totality of all that is, was, and will be. ... It is, I'm afraid, easy to ask questions that reveal a misconception of the terms used. One such question is "Where is the Universe?" Why not also ask "When is the Universe?" The point is that notions of "where" and "when" genetically depend on the concept of Universe which refers to all there is. To ask where or when is the Universe is to attempt to relieve those notions of the context on which they crucially depend. But, you can't do that. Those notions don't stand alone without any other context. 

Note that each state consists of many many points spread out across whichever (closed) system you're running the model on. will function by applying the rules of the model to each point in , taking into account every other relevant point. Essentially each point in is determined by a (presumably very complicated) series of equations operating on . Let the current state of this very universe be , and let . Suppose we look at the Andromeda galaxy in . The state of every point in the Andromeda galaxy will be determined by the aforementioned equations derived from our model. Of particular note is that, since the Andromeda galaxy ten seconds into the future is not in our (the observers') light cone, the fact that we use at can have no bearing on in Andromeda. That is, our use of is not part of the equations used to determine Andromeda in . Thus we cannot "interfere" with the deterministic model's results for Andromeda, and the equations should converge to some reasonable answer yielding Andromeda ten seconds in the future. Now, instead suppose that we want to look at the state of my computer in . Here is where we run into a problem. Take any point in my computer, and consider the equations that go into determining its . Part of these equations will be the fact that I use , since the point is in that event's light cone. However, the point is also in the light cone of my response to the result of - and there's the rub. We need to know how I will respond to in order to finish computing for any point in my light cone (beyond points that take place before I've had sufficient neurological time to respond), but we cannot know how I will respond unless we finish the computation. It's a sort of catch-22 that prevents our algorithm from working in this situation. There's nothing inherently wrong with our model; it just can't converge to a solution in certain regions of the universe because of the above problem. So in summary, your thought experiment doesn't disprove the possibility of a deterministic model per se. Rather it demonstrates (roughly) that any such deterministic model will have limitations in its range of application, though there should still be places where it functions perfectly. As a final disclaimer, note that all this is heavily related to much more concretized problems in the study of differential equations. That is the field of mathematics (and physics) which deals with precisely the question of how states evolve over time. 

Principle of Excluded Middle: "A proposition p and its negation ~p cannot be false together." Principle of Non-Contradiction: "A proposition p and its negation ~p cannot be true together. Principle of Bi-Valence: "A proposition is either true or false." PEM and PNC forbid a proposition and its negation having the same truth value. PB forbids a proposition being both true and false or neither true nor false. 

This question appears to be somewhat based on the premise that the source of morality is the whim of the majority. But, it is not the case that the source of morality is the whim of the majority. The source of morality is man's nature as a rational being. Thinking is your means of survival. Use it.