So the question is what is the consensus about this argument regarding secure knowledge? As i know all major philosophical doctrines espouse it (including idealism of all forms, materialism) and only radical skepticism and poor empiricism tries to attack it. 

A concrete universal is an object. For an example the notion of "people" is an abstract universal if one considers that people are the "summation" of individual persons, and it only exists as an abstract idea. But if one considers people is something beyond an abstract collection of several individuals and it is something on its own, something concrete and clear, that is a concrete universal. 

So this argument stresses a relation with other situations (like Galileo persecution of the Holy Inquisition and the following justification of Galileo views) to appeal to pity ("pity me my proposition is erroneously unjustified") and justify fallaciously its proposition. It is not referring to something Galileo said, it just took its name from his case. $URL$ 

In the specific context it means "actors", persons that display actions. "δρώντων καὶ οὐ δι' ἀπαγγελίας" by actions and not via reciting I translate from wiki dictionary (Greek) (modern meaning) drama < from the ancient Greek word drama < act 

Man's essence is freedom with or without a creator. Can you post the passage from Sartre's writings that you are referring to? Physical laws may limit freedom but humans through knowledge understand nature and limit the necessity it impose on us. Human's essence is freedom with a creator, because he is made in the creator's image, thus having spirit, which is a synonym with freedom. Man is free without a creator, because he is alone to choose his own actions and image, and he must do it in a good will counting on what is nature's best gift on him, his mind and his ability to guide his life without fear. So i don't think Sartre derived the quote you are referring from an existential view point, but proposed the quote so to show how existentialism follows in harmony with what is regarded as a truth about humans nature and essence. edit In the context now added by @Mathematician it is obvious that Sartre disliked the psychoanalytic analysis approach to human psyche (principle of pleasure, subconsciousness, repression etc) and Marx's limitations to the individual as a separate entity outside the community and tried to create a "no we are totally free" anecdote which in this context misses any deep philosophical ground. 

οὐ ξυνιᾶσιν ὅκως διαφερόμενον ἑωυτῷ ὁμολογέει· παλίντονος ἁρμονίη ὅκωσπερ τόξου καὶ λύρης Men do not know how what is at variance agrees with itself. It is an attunement of opposite tension, like that of the bow and the lyre. $URL$ 

Perhaps you may look to the Hegelian Lectures on Aesthetics. As Hegel's philosophy is regarded Objective Idealism his analysis of the beautiful or of art includes an objective element. 

There are many different ideological lines within Marxist thought and the analysis of the labor's movement problems is defined by these different perspectives. The question thus can be considered too broad to be answered in brief so I will focus to the issues raised in the question. In general Marxism analyzes the relations between economic classes, the peaks, the setbacks, the crisis of capitalism, of the labor movement, of the trade unions etc as a dense net of interrelationships, human history and progress of society passes through contradictions that determine the course of the subjects under examination. Capitalism is able through the use of various means to prolong and secure its existence but it can't override its inner contradictions, so the capitalistic crisis is here to stay. Some of the most obvious and commonly analyzed such means are imperialism, the destruction of productive forces, the ideological dominance of conservative forces via the control of mass culture, the division of the labor movement and the enforced confrontation of some parts of laborers towards other. Other reasons may be the ineffectiveness of forms of organization and struggle, the conservativisation of political forms of organization, the echo of the black pages of Stalinism and more. When we analyze the political movements there is a risk of oversimplification, for example it can be seen that the organization of the labor movement at the international level is in decline but one can analyze this and vice versa. In practice we have the actual advent of a real internationalism, people are seeing through the subtle differences between nations, races, sexes and the contemporary crisis of capitalism makes this transparent. On the last question it is obvious that a social system such as patriarchy which was prevalent for a wide historical period can not be reversed at a very fast pace but certainly the modern world is confronted with the traditional organization of patriarchy and women through their participation in capitalistic production, the evolution of our societies, etc are gradually equalized with men in the whole world. 

One way to interpret Nietzsche's skepticism on free will is by thinking what droves Nietzsche to such a stance. Nietzsche was a petite bourgeoisie in a historical period that it was very difficult for a petite bourgeoisie to accumulate further wealth and raise his social status. It was the rise of the industry era, the power of the accumulated wealth was already visible, and big wealth was in a position to limit the mobility and the prospects of other classes. His own life was filled with accidents and poor health, so by his perspective, the notion of free will, that naturally arises from a period of history in which the middle class was able by using hardiness, luck and belief in oneself to sustain or develop their social status, has become an empty concept. With the same method you can understand the problem of the cause and effect. Now, effects seemed uncorrelated to the causes, no reasonable selection of causes could create the necessary effects i.e. the social sustaining and growth. "Now" the traditional methods of social rise were obsolete, "a human could no longer satisfy the requirements". It would require a "super-human" for this. A mystical, immoral way of wealth accumulation and social status. This is the perspective of the petite bourgeoisie, camouflaged behind a criticism to the urban free spirit. 

In an answer to another question ($URL$ I mentioned Galileo as an example of religion contradicting science. Several comments criticised that. I posted another question elsewhere ($URL$ if Galileo's heliocentric arguments were scientifically flawed. Here I hope it can be clarified whether his trial counts as an example of the conflict between science and religion. If that sounds too vague: With conflict between science and religion I mean cases where religion claims the authority to censor and suppress science, or at least, even if it acts benevolently to science most of the time, it demands some sort of veto right and reserves the last word on the subject for itself. I hope the question is still on topic here; otherwise I'd be fine with it being moved. 

What would being a serious alternative to the scientific method imply? To be useful, it would need to make precise and observable predictions about the material world. However, if you make predictions like that, common sense implies that it CAN be observed if the predictions actually come true, and that it SHOULD be observed, at least to check whether you fooled yourself or not. But with that, you pretty much have the basic idea of the scientific method. Sure you could question if a prediction needs to be observable and precise to be useful. If I understand Cort Ammon's answer correctly, that's what he suggests about traditional Chinese medicine. He makes the valid point that predictions concerning human beings can hardly be precise, and that's certainly a huge handicap for sociology, psychology and medicine. But any form of medicine that claims to be useful implicitly makes the prediction that it is able to help the majority of patients. Is that a precise prediction? (With precise I mean that is possible to check objectively if a prediction came true.) Probably not, because it is also very hard to predict precisely how the illness would have progressed without interference. And if the patient feels somewhat better that might only be a result of the placebo effect. You might be inclined to trust in a controversial theory like acupuncture (or homeopathy), but intellectual honesty would demand that you at least consider the possibility of being wrong. Even if acupuncture were all right in principle, the therapist you choose might not know what he's doing, or even be a devious fraud. Moreover, maybe only a part of a traditional form of medicine might be "the real thing", the other part might still be the result of superstition and wishful thinking. How can you distinguish between those? If the criterium of "somehow feeling satisfied" after an intervention that promises benevolent yet inprecise consequences is not enough to evaluate a non-scientific claim, what is? I see three possible answers. (They also apply to magical rituals and similar stuff.) a) You blindly trust in tradition and authority. History of mankind tells us that might not always be a good idea - not in politics, and not in science. b) You trust what feels emotionally most appealing to you. That is not exacly a promising strategy to avoid wishful thinking. c) You apply philosophical or poetical criteria. Sadly, history has shown that this can be quite misleading. For example the ancient greek astronomers were convinced that the planets moved in circles because they considered circles to be the most perfect shapes in geometry. But modern observation has discovered that nature dared to choose a less beautiful shape: ellipses. The amazing thing about science is that it provides an objective way to check its own claims. You suspect that a scientist is a fool who is telling bullshit? You don't have to trust his authority, you can go and check for yourself if he is telling the truth. (Admittedly, you better not bother trying to repeat elaborate experiments like the LHC in your garage.) In logic and mathematics claims can be checked objectively as well. But they do not provide direct knowledge about the material world. (For example, with mathematics alone you cannot decide if Euclidian or non-Euclidian geometry is the correct description of the universe, although both are "true" in a mathematical sense, i.e. logically developed out of different sets of basic assumptions.) To conclude, I cannot see an alternative to the scientific method that has the same ability to filter out incorrect or misleading descriptions of the physical reality. 

I guess what makes a conversation interesting is similar to what makes a school lesson interesting. Either you already care about the subject, or the teacher is "entertaining". If we examine the meaning of "entertaining" closer, I'd suggest it means that the teacher manages to get our emotions involved, by being either funny or dramatic. With a teacher like that, learning becomes like a game or an adventure: We feel a challenge that we do not want to ignore, satisfying triumph if we master the challenge, and amusement (benevolent or malevolent) if others fail at challenges by overlooking something we easily spotted. If we already care about a subject, we can be gripped even a "boring" teacher, because we are already emotionally invested; we already have accepted challenges and want to prove ourselves. With conversations it's pretty much the same thing, I would say. However, as you mention, in that context another factor comes into play: The person we are talking to. As Ant already pointed out in his answer, while firting people enjoy a conversation even when it has no intellectual interest. In that case, the evaluation of the conversation is based on different emotions, i.e. the birds and the bees. ;)