I wondered the same thing a few times so I looked it up: Eeny, meeny, miny, moe I thought the original version was the one using the N word, actually the oldest known version (1815, New York) goes something like: 

So the donor country's economy benefits from these deals, and the recipient also has to pay it back eventually: "Double profit" for the donor. And if the recipient can't pay it back, well that may even be better for the donor. The recipient is now indebted towards it... Other times, aid is given as a covert way of undermining unfriendly governments: 

Case 3 The other is a statement by Dr. Fadhil Jamali, Iraqi Representative to the United Nations in 1955, who gives a second hand report of an Arab League meeting: 

It is a bit naïve to think that large powerful governments can allow themselves to be altruistic. Usually their job is to work for profit, economical or political. 

Part of the answer may rely in the fact that post-Western Roman Empire European nobles/royals were not descendants of older established noble families, but were often warlords from what Romans would have considered "barbarian" tribes. They grew up in tribal, sometimes semi-nomadic, environments where sewerage and running water were not known or considered "must-haves". They didn't have it and didn't know they wanted it. What I say would apply mostly to the beginning of the Middle Ages and they gradually adopted higher standards. 

I was once told that a full purple toga was reserved for the emperor, although I can't confirm this at the moment and Wiki says that wealthy women wore it (must depend on the period). The choice of purple for the upper-class was simply because it was the most expensive. 

There's a lot of dubious claims about this on the internet and some of the quotes attributed to Jefferson in particular are not always regarded as genuine. Do we have any conclusive proof that Jefferson and/or Washington consumed hemp for recreational and/or medicinal reasons? 

Christopher Mayhew Case - Nasser Another interesting point, in 1973 British MP Christopher Mayhew offered £5,000 to anyone who could produce evidence that Nasser had stated that he sought to “drive the Jews into the sea”. Several people claimed to have proof, including a fellow named Warren Bergson who ended up taking Mayhew to court for not paying the sum. The case went to the high court: 

When Nebuchadnezzar conquered Jerusalem he appointed Zedekiah as his puppet-king and took King Jeconiah and his sons home with him. For what reasons would the king of a large empire of antiquity, such as Nebuchadnezzar, keep the captive king and his sons alive? Was this common practice in that era? Would it not make more sense strategically to execute them to prevent any legitimate successors from claiming the throne and seeking vengeance? 

Nevertheless he is the first undisputed case of a Pope resigning. He was forced out a total of three times, but in between the second and third time he sold his papacy. Shortly after selling it, he regretted his act and retook his papacy by force. He remained Pope for another year after that. I don't know if you will consider him an absolute ruler but he did voluntarily give up a (theoretically) very powerful position for money. 

I'm assuming you're referring to the use of terror by international Islamic groups post-WWII. First I would note that terrorism is a very vague term (by my definition more or less every armed group involved in conflict has used fear for political goals). That being said the US was helping Afghan militants in the 80s. There were dozens of "Islamic" groups of varying degrees of religious observance before that. Algerians fighting their war of independence against France in the 50s-60s were labeled terrorists and small attacks were conducted in France. Several Palestinian and Lebanese militias were active after the establishment of Israel. Several high profile airline hijackings in the 60s-70s done by these groups. It should be noted though that Islamism "a la" Al-Quaida is a relatively modern concept. Most of the groups active between the 60s-80s were primarily influenced by nationalism. One of the reasons for this rise may be the end of the Cold War. A lot of anti-Western groups were sponsored and/or trained by the Soviet Union, and as such had some "communism" rubbing off on them. The PFLP was a Marxist/Communist Palestinian group that at one point was the most popular Palestinian militant group. After the end of the cold war they slowly faded and gave way to Islamic Hamas. 

I knew nothing about him before reading the Wikipedia article on him five minutes ago, so hopefully someone will come up with a more informed answer. According to Wiki: 

Lots of illegal things were done, but no one was punished. For the same reason no one is likely to get punished after the Snowden revelations (even those caught red handed lying to Congress). When the orders to do illegal things come from high up the ladder, with plausible deniability, everyone usually gets away with it. Similar example: Iran Contra. Illegally selling weapons to Iran to finance illegal funding of a group using terrorist tactics against civilians. Most of those involved were pardoned by George H.W. Bush. Digging around these scandals one can find a pattern. 

Decided to do some research to try to provide an answer to this question. I found three documented cases where an Arab leader used the term "Drive Jews into the sea" or talked about large scale massacre. I also mention a court case that seems to indicate that Nasser never used that term himself, nor did any other Arab leader make genocidal statements prior to 1976. Case 1 First, Hassan al-Banna, founder of the Muslim Brotherhood, quoted in the New York Times in 1948: 

Unless the "let him go" implicitly means "kill him" it doesn't seem to be about lynching. They were probably "innocent" verses for the people who would have sung that in those days. (Just to be sure I don't offend anyone I'm not saying they're innocent by today's expected moral standards.) 

Others South Sudan passed a similar referendum in 2008. South Sudan has a population of 8 million +, compared to Scotland's population of 5 million +. Algeria passed a similar referendum in 1962. The current population is about 38 million, I don't have the numbers for the 1962. Here is a list of independence referendums starting in 1848 with the former US colony Liberia, up to Scotland: $URL$ (use the occasion to adopt wikiwand! :) Scotland A portion of the Scottish population wanted independence (about 45%). I'm currently studying in Scotland and I would say the reasons are: 1) Nationalism / Patriotism 2) Feeling of being neglected by London The election was really split along income level lines with the "poorer" wanting independence (nothing to loose), and the "richer" fearing their economy would only get worse if cut off from London. Poverty reaches third world levels in some areas of Glasgow and Dundee (the two biggest YES cities). 

It was common for cities in that area in that time to have their own "City-God" who took care of the city. They acknowledged the other gods of other cities as legitimate gods, but they weren't "their" god and if you worshiped someone else god then you would make your god angry. Additionally the wars between the gods were a reflection of the on-going enimosity between the cities themselves. The degree to which they worshiped only the main City-God varied a lot, sometimes they also worshiped his wife, his children, his brother, a whole pantheon. 

Although Judaism may be older than the 6th century BCE, Judaism was not a strictly monotheistic faith until the return of the Israelites from the Babylonian exile, which happens to be around the 6th century, from Persia. Zoroastrianism survived as the state religion of Persia for a few centuries until Alexander the Great's arrival, after which it gradually declined. Most of the remaining Zoroastrians converted to Islam when it arrived (likely simplified by the monotheistic similarities), although there's still a lively community of Zoroastrians, many in Iran (150'000 - 2 million depending on who you ask). 

See Wikipedia for more info on this. What we know about the plans for the Jews had the Arabs won the war We don't know. There likely would have been massacres committed by low ranking soldiers, as by that time there were already dozens of documented cases of massacres, conducted both by Arabs against Jews and Jews against Arabs. However, an attempt at extermination is unlikely, and there is no evidence to support this was the intention of the Arab leaders. Forced emigration, or integration as second class citizens, are more likely scenarios in my opinion. The official policy of the Arab League seems to have been that Jews should have equal rights and freedom of religion. Of course this usually doesn't work in practice in the Arab world (with some exceptions away from the conflict zones, like Morocco, and special cases like Lebanon, although it's shaky) The Bottom Line There is not conclusive proof any relatively important Arab leader said that Jews should be literally driven into the sea or exterminated and there is no evidence to indicate this was ever a policy. It is to be noted there are political and military incentives to claim that the Arabs intended to exterminate the Jews. Also, in this region, on all sides, there are plenty unverified rumors circulating claiming all kinds of stuff. 

According to the Jewish and Israeli news website Algemeiner.com he was not referring to Israelis but to the Jews living in other Arab countries, and was apparently not advocating this as an organized policy, but implied that it would be the unorganized reaction of Muslims to the establishment of the State of Israel. Judging from the quote and the context, appears his usage of the term was rhetoric. Case 2 Thanks to @FelixGoldberg for pointing this one out, I had missed it and it seems to be the most famous one. Azzam Pasha, Secretary-General of the Arab League 1945-1952, said that if war broke out between the (future) Jewish state and the Arab world it would be: 

My knowledge of old English is non-existent and I wouldn't be able to tell you what those two versions mean. But they don't seem to be racist at first glance. There's two common verses that come after the verse with the N word, in that version: 

Zoroastrianism Although we usually recognise Judaism as the first monotheistic faith, the title may actually go to Zoroastrianism. Zoroastrianism was established around the 6th century BCE. In a nutshell, it abandoned the previous Persian pantheon and simplified it to 

And perhaps another citation that leads credibility to the fact he didn't call for extermination of the Jews: 

At some points in some areas it was common for the second son to join the Church The first would inherit the father's land, possessions, title etc. in full, to avoid the problem created by consecutive division the father's possession (especially with land). Sending the second son to the Church would give the family some standing in the Catholic Church, which could be useful to gain some political/religious advantages and facilitate the 'lobbying' of high-ranking Church members The 'rank' and speed with which he could expect to climb the ladder in the clergy could be influenced by the family's standing. Source: (Actually memories from my high-school History class but this page is all I could find in a 2sec search) Lords and Ladies - Mediaval Monestary 

It seems to me he wanted his place in History. He felt he wasn't going to live much longer and wanted to be remembered for a great accomplishment. That desire was probably stronger and more important, and the practicality or feasibility of the task was secondary. A form of gambling for immortality? (He may have failed but here we are discussing him for that, so perhaps it did work to some extent :) 

Here is a link to direct statistics on the Jewish Exodus from Arab and Muslim lands which provides a very clear and detailed answer (first result in Google if you copy-paste the title question, so this may be off topic and more for political show). About 800'000 Jews left Arab countries to settle in Israel between 1948-1973. Their departure was precipitated by a combination of rising religious tensions and incentives placed by Israel to encourage migration to the nascent state. World War II and the events in the previous decades shattered a well-established and relatively peaceful co-existence between Jews and Muslims in the Middle-East. 

Wiki here. I recommend reading the whole Wikipedia article on this one to make your opinion. This seems to be more an acknowledgment that any war between Arabs and Jews will be very bloody than a call for the extermination of the Jews. It is however often used to claim the Arabs intended a genocide. Azzam Pasha claimed that his quote is taken out of context and was manipulated for propaganda. He claims that he never called for the extermination of the Jews. He is also quoted before the war: 

Maybe not a case that you will consider but, Pope Benedict IX (Pope between October 1032 and July 1048) abdicated, although you can argue that Popes around that time didn't have absolute power: 

To add to the answer's already here: Muhammad would have probably been brought up in the pagan culture of his tribe. However, according to accounts, his job as a young man was to lead his uncle's merchant caravans. This would have meant travelling from Mecca to other big trading spots in the area, like Damascus for example. This would have exposed the young Muhammad to Abrahamic monotheism, namely Christianity and Judaism (indeed I believe the hadiths mention that Muhammad's encounter with a Christian monk had a great influence on him, don't quote me on this though). 

If some of the average prostitutes did actually wear purple it must have been the cheap knock-off. Perhaps similarly to how today some prostitutes may dress up in "cheapy" clothing that tries to imitate the expensive stuff. The vast majority were slaves though so the clothing they wore would have been a decision of the pimp. Maybe they noticed that dressing them as upper class ladies increased sales. There were also what you could perhaps call 'luxury' upper-class prostitutes in the ancient world. Although they wouldn't have considered themselves as prostitutes, the principle of exchanging services for material gain from respectable individuals was there. These women could have afforded nice purple clothes. However I couldn't find indication anywhere that it was common for prostitutes to wear purple, so the answer is likely no, but maybe in some cases. Source: Clothing in ancient Rome 

(There's a pretty complete description of the association between the red flag and revolution on Wikipedia's page on the color red) It can be associated with revolution (at least as far back as the French revolution, before that in Europe it was sometimes associated with monarchy) and communists see themselves as revolutionaries. Red is associated with courage, sacrifice, blood and war in general. In the West, a red flag in battle was used to signal the fight would be to the death and there would be no surrender (and/or no prisoners taken). Communists may have adopted it to send that message to the nobles/upper-classes. Or maybe it was just for the general association with courage/sacrifice/war. In Asia, and China in particular, red is associated with loyalty, honor, success, and happiness. As such it's a nice flag for the Communist Party to use. I don't think there's a definitive logical answer to the question. The answer is probably some combination of the above. Also communists world-wide would have copied each others color, to symbolize unity/shared ideology and the historical association with revolution.