Another example of both profit and increase in value can be seen in the New York Yankees whom have also been able to achieve record value and steady profits annually through massive television deals. But both profit and value are rare, as typically more valuable teams have far greater expenses. 

Personally, I'm curious what the mean, median, and mode average heights are in the NBA. From what I can find it looks like the mean average is about 6'7”, but I can't find any trace of median or mode averages in inches. 

as referenced here and here. The action applied to the ball in this play is clearly not a deliberate pass attempt. The action of a double dribble and its associated penalty can be referenced here as well as here. However in this play, there is in fact no double dribble at all, as after the player dribbles he takes more than two steps before he comes into contact with the ball again. 

Ergo, if the attacking player is standing in the crease while the puck is not in the crease, then the goal is void. 

Own goals do not contribute to offensive goal statistics and are simply counted as a different statistic altogether, as you said "OG". This statistic would be tracked throughout a players career however, and a full description of the exact rules regarding own goals can be found here. 

EDIT: Now, all of that is in applying the handicap in stroke play versus match play. I skimmed over calculating the handicap to apply to a course in my original answer, but that also has a bearing here. Again, looking at the title for each tee on the example scorecard, you will see two numbers separated by a slash. The first number, the decimal, is the Course Rating. This number is essentially the average expected score for a "scratch golfer" playing this course from this tee, and it can be calculated based on recent real plays of the course from that tee by scratch players, or in the absence of enough good real data, it can be estimated based on the abilities of a hypothetical "scratch golfer" playing from that tee. The second number is the course's "Slope Rating". Basically, think of it as being a measure of how much more difficult the course is for high handicappers than scratch golfers. Courses play differently for golfers of different abilities; a course with long fairways and a lot of lateral water hazards doesn't play much differently for a scratch golfer, because he'll have the long, accurate drive and fairway shots to send the ball down the middle of the fairway and get to the green "in regulation". But, it can make for a really long day for a "bogey golfer" with a short drive and a stubborn slice who keeps putting it in the water and takes more than par just to make it to the green. Conversely, a course might have nice wide fairways, but pockmarked with hazards right in range of the scratch player's average drive; so, he either has to play better than average to carry over the hazards, or lay up short of them and possibly take an extra stroke to get on the green. The bogey golfer, however, wouldn't be bothered by the hazard since he would never be able to drive far enough for it to be a problem, so the course actually affects the scratch golfer's game and score more than the bogey golfer's. To account for all these variations in course difficulty and player ability, without requiring the player to have recently played a number of rounds at the course to calculate a course-specific handicap, the USGA uses a "Handicap Index", which averages a number of normalized, adjusted "Handicap Differentials" recorded from past plays. Your Handicap Index is calculated by starting with the raw score of your most recent 20 games played by "strict rules" (or however many you have; you must have at least 5). You can make a few sanctioned adjustments to those scores to mitigate really bad out-of-character scores or to compensate for deviations from struct rules such as mulligans. This gives you the Adjusted Score. Take the lowest 10 scores (if you have 20 recent plays; if you don't, you use a reduced number that can be produced by the Excel formula where cell A1 contains the number of rounds played). For each of these, subtract the Course Rating from the score, multiply by 113 (the average slope rating of all USGA courses), divide by the Slope Rating for that round, then multiply again by .96 (an "Excellence Factor" that reduces the advantage of a high handicap, forcing high 'cappers to drop more strokes from their average game to beat a low capper, thus improving their cap) and round to the nearest tenth to produce the Handicap Differential for each of the rounds. Average these Differentials together (a spreadsheet program really helps out here), round to the nearest tenth, and you have your Handicap Index. To compute your Course Handicap, simply multiply by the Slope rating of the tee box you're about to play from, then divide by 113, and round to the nearest whole number. Why isn't Course Rating used here? Because a "scratch golfer" would expect to score the Course Rating, so it wouldn't be fair if your handicap got you to the course par which can be up to 6 strokes below the Rating of more difficult courses. So, your Course Handicap is dependent on the tee you hit from, not only in the current round but your past 20 rounds (or however many you've played). How it is applied to the play of a round, however, does not. 

Generally, it is not the motivation of a sports team owner to make a profit, but to have their franchise increase in value. That's not to say that all teams don't make money, but many do not. It does seem that profitability of sports franchises for their owners is more dependent on the change in value of the team from its purchase to when it is sold than how much money it actually makes through ticket sales and television deals. However some teams are able to both make a profit and increase in net worth. A notable example of this can be found in the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, whom have produced solid profits and steadily increasing value in past years, this is explained in part through the first source, where a user points out: 

There are similar questions that has been brought up on other sites. Ultimately though, generally speaking after all annual revenue is collected and all expenses are paid, sports franchises do not make a profit. However majority increase in value annually, hence even if a owner is not making a profit through advertising and sales, their net worth still increases. This fact can be seen in the graphic below. 

The "...Pass to no one," would not be considered a pass at all in this context, but would instead be considered a dribble. The NBA defines a pass as 

So, it's custom to play out of turn in order to "clean up" a ball laying near enough to a hole that the player can be expected to hole out. Whether lifting or playing a ball close to the hole, players have to be careful not to disturb the line of play of other golfers; a soft green will retain marks from the golfer's spikes which can interrupt a ball's path, so golfers avoid placing their feet along the probable line of putt of another player. This can lead to some funky stances for tap-ins, which are specifically allowed as exceptions to Rule 16-1 (which otherwise prohibits a player taking a stance standing astride or with either foot on their line of putt) because they are taken specifically to avoid another player's line of putt. As Duncan says, in casual play, players whose balls are within some certain distance can, on approval by another player, pick up their ball and score the hole as if they would have holed out with their next stroke. It's called a "gimme", and it speeds casual play but it's technically a disqualification from a tournament for leaving a hole without having holed out. 

I currently play with a Nike DuraFeel golf glove on my leading hand. It's practical, it works, and it fits "like a glove" (as in perfectly; not too tight but nothing to spare). Sometimes I'll glove both hands; I usually only do this at the range when I'm hitting bucket after bucket, but usually on the course I need to get in and out of my right pocket for tees, spare balls etc which is more difficult with a glove. The problem is that this glove currently lasts me maybe three to four rounds and/or range visits before the thumb develops a huge hole, and by the end of the first round played they get pretty stiff so I often relegate them to range use after just one or two rounds. That makes worn-out gloves a bigger money sink equipment-wise than lost balls; I play C-grade recycled balls so each one I lose is only about $.50, and my lost-ball count is much lower in recent times than it had been. Questions: 

Finally, the additional Olympic regulations for Beach Volleyball seem to consist of a form where athletes have to register their colors in advance. Gymnastics In section 2 §9 of the general laws, you'll just see (see COP), which turns out to be discipline-specific regulations. In Aerobic Gymnastics' COP, you can see the wording in §2.3. The details are quite technical, but notably men have to choose from five options (basically all tanktops), whereas women are more free to choose. Women are allowed to cover their entire arms up to the wrist and their legs. Men have to show at least 1/4 of their leg and most of their arms. Surprisingly, many other disciplines do not actually have a dress code in their discipline-specific rules. But fear not, there's trampoline with sub-disciplines: In basic trampoline (§6), female clothing must be skin-tight. There is no such restriction for the men. On the other hand, the men are not allowed to cover their arms, whereas the women are. In trampoline tumbling and double mini trampoline (§6 respectively), the rules are similar to basic trampoline, but in addition, men must wear gym shorts (presumably showing the knee), whereas women may wear long tights. Swimming Swimming is a rare sport where men must reveal more than women; see FINA By-Laws §8.3: 

How does "challenging" work? On close line calls, sometimes there is a graphic showing whether the shuttle was in or out, but other times players just discuss with the umpire, and the match goes on. What's happening in these cases? 

I think it depends on whether the local rules stipulate that players should play "Ready Golf". This is common at public and semi-private courses and basically states that all players through the green should split up to their lies and take their shots in their time, rather than travelling in a group from lie to lie. If a ball is thought to be lost, the player should always play a provisional ball from the previous spot. If it's the tee shot that got away, everyone else should tee off, then if Ready Golf rules are in effect, the group should split up and head to their lies; any that are close to where the player lost their ball should play their next shot and then help look. If Ready Golf is not in effect, all players should help that player look for his ball on his turn (the turn order based on distance, and thus on where the lost ball is thought to have landed). 

The disadvantage is that this formation puts most of the offense right in front of the "core" of a typical 4-3 defensive formation (4 defensive linesmen, three linebackers, two corners, two safeties). The defense can drop into "cover 6", with the outside linebackers shadowing the tight ends, zone coverage by corners and safeties, and the middle linebacker watching for the run, or they can "zone blitz" bringing all seven core defenders to stuff a run and prevent a long pass opportunity while keeping the corners and safeties in coverage. 

No, not in any of the sports I am aware of. Male swimmers, on the other hand, must have bare stomachs. 

A lot of sports require any athlete to cover their stomach. Beach Volleyball only applies these regulations to men. 

So if the racket side hit the shuttle during the rally, it's a let, i.e. you replay the rally. In all other cases, it's a fault of the side which hit the shuttle: 

Generally, men move faster on court and have a more powerful smash - this is plain visible in Mixed doubles, where the man often covers three fourth of the court, and in smash statistics, where men are up 30km/h or more. On the other hand, the defensive ability of top women is very close to that of the men. For these reasons, a high shot to the back to a man will put you into a disadvantageous situation where the opponent can play a high-speed smash that you'll struggle to defend against. This is doubly true in doubles, where the back service line is closer, and a front player will cover all short replies. On the other hand, the same high shot to a woman (in level doubles, mixed doubles, or singles) will put you into a much more neutral situation: The smash (if any) won't be as powerful, and she may not get to the back fast enough to execute one of the really threatening jump smashes. The same is true for beginners as opposed to more advanced players, by the way: Beginners will struggle to reach high shots and not be able to produce any threatening shots from the back of the court, especially in singles. At lower levels, a high serve to the back may even put you into an advantageous position. Today's top female players are getting to the point where they are able to dish out threatening shots from the back doubles service line, and therefore we're seeing fewer high serves in Womens/Mixed doubles as well. Even in singles, top players like Carolina Marin or P.V. Sindhu are able to attack high shots (serves as well as clears during the game). That's why players of their caliber often employ backhand serves (easier to play short shots, and to disguise the occasional long serve) as opposed to the forehand serves(easy to get a very high shot) which are ubiquitous at lower levels in singles. There is only some relation between the selection of serve and the receiver's height; professional players can easily produce high serves that go over the reach of any human. Because tall players have a higher center of gravity, they take longer to go the back. That's why discipline and gender of the receiver is a much more accurate predictor of the type of service. In other words, if you serve high to Hiroyuki Endo (1,72m Men's doubles expert), you can be certain that the response will be a thundering smash. 

The number one cause of slicing, irrespective of the exact aspect of the swing that is lacking, is a "grip it and rip it" mentality to your swing. This generally causes a number of timing and posture issues that open the clubface, bring the swing out of line, etc etc. So, the number one thing to do is slow it down. You can send the ball MUCH farther than you think with a very easy swing, and an extreme windup (the kind where you end up able to see the clubhead out in front of you in your peripheral vision) will cause more problems with accuracy than it solves with distance. From a technical standpoint, slices happen when the club induces a clockwise (for a rightie) sidespin on the ball. This induces a force called Magnus lift, where the leading edge of the rotation on the left side of the ball brings the turbulent air from the back of the ball around to the front along that side as part of the ball's "boundary layer", and so causes the boundary layer on that side to be thicker. That thicker, relatively higher-pressure boundary layer pushes the ball in the opposite direction (to the right). Sidespin is induced whenever the clubhead moves in a direction other than the direction the clubhead faces. The direction of the face determines the line the ball will launch along; the difference between that line and the line of movement of the clubhead determines sidespin. For a slice, the clubhead is moving to the left of the direction it faces. Most commonly, this is because the clubhead faces right of the intended line. Here's how to diagnose and fix the most common slices, for a right-hand golfer. At the driving range bay, determine the desired line of travel, and draw a line or place a club along that line. Put your toes right up to that line (a "square stance"), address the ball as you normally do, take your normal swing (ensuring you make solid contact), and find the symptom that best describes the ball's flight: Push Slice: 

Badminton rackets vary among a number of properties, none of which are a simplistic worse vs better: 

So the answer to both of your questions is: Because the FIFA laws say so. I can only speculate as to why these laws are there. Most likely, referees and spectators will prefer to have any spelling they can pronounce. For instance, I have no idea how to start pronouncing 郑智, 武磊 or 郜林. Although the spellings Zheng Zhi, Wu Lei, and Gao Lin probably don't match the correct pronunciation, they are sufficiently recognizable and allow any European to approximate the player's name. Even worse than not being able to pronounce these names, it may also be hard to distinguish them during a fast-paced match. In effect, names written in unknown character sets do not fulfill the primary function of a name; identifying a person by name would be hard. I'm not aware of any ruling that forbids writing out the full player's names in press materials such as club websites. My guess would be that it's more important for the name to be consistent than right; if every English fan mispronounces the name the same way, they can still talk about the players. Incorrect renderings may also result in a better pronunciation. Asking a German how Sigþórsson would be pronounced, the result would be likely be Siɡpʰɔʁsɔn, whereas Sigthorsson's German pronunciation of Siɡtʰɔʁsɔn is much closer to the correct one (in addition to creating an excellent pun). The players have to follow FIFA laws. Just as some players would like to play with a cool cap, or have sponsor names on their shirts, they have to bow to the laws. Also, some players may themselves prefer their names' pronunciation to be consistent but wrong - or sometimes, as in the case of Sigþórsson, rendered incorrectly but pronounced (more) correctly, because a recognizable/spellable name increases prominence, and increased prominence translates to increased income.