I have read that Apple Computer issues corporate bonds. Considering that it has $200 billion in cash, and the company complains it has been unable to spend its enormous amount of cash, why would they be issuing corporate bonds? 

I notice that US exports doubled between 2000 and 2011, imports also increasing greatly, but GDP only grew by 20%. Thus, trade in the United States seems to have grown substantially faster than production. Why is this? 

Turkey has 80 million people yet it apparently doesn't import milk powder, or very little. Likewise for Libya, which is right next to Algeria, although it has only 6 million people. Egypt has about 100 million people and is similar to Algeria in some respects, yet it imports no milk powder. 

Because they have low interest rates and growing tax revenue. As long as your income is growing faster than your debt, you can keep borrowing. 

As I understand it, some portion of the Greek sovereign debt has been converted into "Euro swaps". Can someone explain in simple terms what that means? What debt was given to whom? 

The newest trend in global finance is elite monetization, meaning monetization of all elite assets such as top corporations and municipalities. Central banks are buying the stocks and bonds of elite corporations. For example, in Japan a significant fraction of all the top companies (Sumitomo, Mitsui, Mitsubishi, Toyota, etc) is owned by the Bank of Japan. The US Fed just threatened to buy "other asset classes", presumably meaning corporate bonds. To some extent the purchases are monetized, ie bought with newly created money, and to some extent they are made by borrowing from the public at negative interest rates. In other words the Japanese people are paying the Bank of Japan for the privilege of loaning them money to buy stocks and bonds. Of course, one could argue that they are not "buying" anything since it is printed or borrowed money, so you could argue it is a seizure of equity, not a genuine purchase. The logical question is what is the end of this? Can all the governments of the world, just "buy" all the corporations of the world? What is the terminus ad infinitum? 

Back in the 1980s leveraged buyouts were a common event. Financiers like T. Boone Pickens would borrow money, buy a controlling interest in a publicly traded stock and then re-engineer the company, for example, by selling it off in pieces. This activity seems to be a thing of the past. I assume some law was passed to prevent leveraged buyouts. What was the cause of the demise of leveraged buyouts? 

In some cases I see otherwise stable stocks or commodities having wild swings in price on exchanges. Even though the underlying company or commodity is going along normally and there is no news that the item is anything but stable, traders might be wildly buying or selling causing the market price to fluctuate. This seems to happen more often when an item or stock is the subject of public interest, so there might be an element of "mob psychology" involved. Are there any standardized models that have attempted to capture the psychological elements of trading? 

There seems to exist a rarely-stated assumption that somehow corporations are an essential element of a free-market economy, and that they benefit a nation's economy. However, I wonder if this is really true. Here, I am speaking of the US form of a corporation which allows a small number of people to control capital contributed by a large number and also allows those same people to disavow responsibility for the debts and liabilities of the corporation. In the Wealth of Nations, Adam Smith deprecated any kind of joint stock companies, writing that a man would be much more careless with other people's money than his own. By this logic one might see corporate law as a way for elites to exploit society parasitically and corporate law as a damage to the economy instead of a benefit. Is there any theoretical validity to this kind of view? 

I would like to explore models of consumer or household behaviour in which utility in a period is maximised subject to both income and time constraints. From a Google search, two important (but rather old) papers on this topic appear to be: 

In a detailed review of Clark's book, concluding that its "central theses ... are contradicted by well-known evidence" (p 969), Robert Allen addresses the claim about 1800 and 100,000 BC in a section headed "Malthus in the Very Long Run" (pp 951-5). His criticisms of Clark include: 

Measure of Economic Welfare (Nordhaus & Tobin 1972) “True NNP inclusive of natural resource stock diminution” (Hartwick 1990) Gross Sustainable Development Product (GSDP) (Global Community Assessment Centre) Genuine Progress Indicator (GPI) (eg Anielski 2001) Green GDP (a term whose precise content appears to be disputed (see eg Boyd 2006)) 

What is missing in your reasoning is the effect of devaluation on the seller's profit. To keep things simple, assume that the inputs needed to produce the widgets are all bought domestically. Then costs will not change following devaluation. But prices in terms of domestic currency can increase, without as you say increasing the cost to foreign buyers in terms of their currency. So profits per widget - selling price less costs per widget, both in terms of domestic currency - can increase. There is another possibility. A seller might take advantage of devaluation to try to increase total profits by increasing the volume of exports. If so, they could increase the price in terms of domestic currency by less than 10%, or perhaps not at all, with the effect of reducing the price to foreign buyers. Unless demand is perfectly inelastic, this will increase the volume of export sales and, if domestic sales are unchanged, the total volume of sales. An increased production volume may in the long run permit economies of scale, reducing costs per widget. Either of these strategies could yield an increase in total profits. Which yields the larger increase will depend on both the elasticity of foreign demand and the scope for economies of scale. Through the profit motive, therefore, devaluation can certainly encourage firms to increase the value and/or volume of their exports. 

Regarding the nature of the pins, the fact that one step is "to whiten" may suggest that they were indeed pins and not nails. It's hard to see what purpose would be served by whitening nails for use in carpentry etc. However, an entry on "pin" in The British Encyclopeadia, or Dictionary of Arts and Sciences published in 1809 (some 30 years after Smith's Wealth of Nations) refers to the use of tin to whiten pins "used chiefly by women in adjusting their dress". 

You don't give the source of the quote, but presumably what is meant is this. Whether X's production or consumption of a good affects Y (in a physical way such as smoke from X's factory or noise from X's playing loud music, not merely through the workings of the price system) is a matter of fact. On the other hand, whether X is required (assuming a negative effect) to bear the costs of the harm to Y, is a matter of law. The implication seems to be that an externality is present only if the law does not so require. However, some writers would exclude the legal aspect from the definition of an externality. Baumol & Oates, for example, state (quote found here, top of page 5): 

The answer by @krock addresses 2. I would just add that whether a tax cut (for corporations or labour) will have a Keynesian type stimulative effect on an economy depends on conditions. It will not have such an effect if the economy is already at full capacity, or if a restrictive monetary policy offsets the effect of the fiscal stimulus. Focusing now on 1, an increase in the post-tax return to capital is likely, ceteris paribus, to result over time in an increase in the quantity of capital. This is partly because it will encourage savers, seeking the best return subject to prudent diversification, to invest more in productive capital rather than other assets such as housing or government securities. To the extent that financial capital is internationally mobile, it will also encourage more of the investment in productive capital to be in domestic rather than foreign capital. The effect of increasing the quantity of productive capital in the economy, assuming a constant labour supply and assuming a Cobb-Douglas or similar production function, will be to raise the marginal product of labour and therefore (to the extent that the marginal productivity theory of distribution is valid) to raise wages (which could loosely be described as “trickle down”). A mathematical treatment of this process is in Greg Mankiw’s blog (October 18th 2017). The effect of an increase in the post-tax return to labour, on the other hand, is hard to predict. It raises the opportunity cost of leisure time, which could lead some (if they have a choice) to work more hours. If, in aggregate, hours worked were to increase, then (adapting the above reasoning) the marginal product of capital and therefore the return on capital would increase (which could loosely be described as “trickle up”). However, an increase in the post-tax return to labour would also mean that a desired level of income can be achieved from fewer working hours, which could lead some to reduce their hours. Whether the income effect or the substitution effect will dominate in aggregate will depend on circumstances. For a fuller explanation of these two effects see Rittenberg & Tregarthen. Thus there is a key difference between the responses of capital and labour to an increase in post-tax return. There is no equivalent, for capital, of the fact that a worker only has 24 hours in a day and derives utility from the non-working part of the day. Because of this, the response of capital to a tax cut is more predictable than that of labour and (loosely again) “trickle down” may be less dependent on circumstances than “trickle up”.