If it was a direct free kick (near the goal), the referee may lock the ball. He should ask the attacking team, if they want to take it quick or slow. If they want it slow and ask the referee for the correct distance between wall and ball, the ball is available with a whistle again. Though, the ball is usually only locked if the attacking team asks for the right distance between ball and wall. See this link. This is why most defending teams set a player direct in front of the ball, so the attacking team has to ask the referee for the distance. So, if an opponent blocks a ball from a locked free kick on purpose and is closer than 9.15m to the ball, the opponent should get a yellow card and the kick is repeated. Unfortunately, the communication between players and referees, in amateur leagues, often is very poor and the referee does not manage to show/say the players what he has decided and planed to do next. You might find this interesting: referee signals about FIFA Law 13: free kicks See here: "If a player decides to take a free kick quickly and an opponent who is less than 9.15 m (10 yds) from the ball intercepts it, the referee must allow play to continue. If a player decides to take a free kick quickly and an opponent who is near the ball deliberately prevents him taking the kick, the referee must caution the player for delaying the restart of play. If, when a free kick is taken by the defending team from inside its own penalty area, one or more opponents remain inside the penalty area because the defender decides to take the kick quickly and the opponents did not have time to leave the penalty area, the referee must allow play to continue." 

In a perfect header, the ball is played to the forhead. As far as I know, there is no player with an afro on his forhead (or hair at least). Most players, with long hair, use auxiliaries, such as hair bands, so that the vision is not impaired by the face falling hair. 

No, there's no FIFA rule that caps the transfer sum. ... and I'll guess we'll see more insane transfers the next years with the Premier League having this absolute ludicrous TV contract. 

The depends on the host club! The host club will decide as owners, whether fans are allowed to take the balls. At most clubs, the balls are thrown back to the security guards by the fans automatically. If one is not returned voluntarily, the guards get him. It is uncommon in football to take balls home with you. Finally they cost about 100 euros. Source 

I came across many articles with summaries of studies that indicate that referee bias does in fact exist across many sports. In "Basketball: Bias Refs (full article)," the blurb states: 

Per this BBC article, the athletes will receive medals that were stripped from the banned competitors: 

Yes, tanking has happened in the NBA. In fact, a notorious tanking example was one of the causes of the draft lottery being instituted in the first place. This ESPN article notes: 

In a 4-3 defense, there are two defensive tackles (DT) in the interior of the line, while in a 3-4 defense, there is only one tackle - the nose tackle. Usually, the primary task of the nose tackle is to occupy more than one blocker in the interior of the line to allow linebackers to make plays. In contrast, the role of 4-3 tackles depends heavily on the design of the defense - some 4-3 DT's are pass rushers (example: Warren Sapp) while others also occupy blockers in more of a run-defense role. Vincent Wilfork is listed as an example of a 3-4 Nose Tackles in this Pat Kirwan article on nfl.com. In the same article, Pat Williams is listed as an example of a 4-3 nose tackle. The article describes the roles of these two types of nose tackles: 

In one youth baseball hitting drill, the instructors used broomsticks and dried beans instead of bats and baseballs: 

According to this training article, bricks are commonly bike/run combos, but there there are also training scenarios for swim/bike combos. 

According to this cbafaq.com page, NBA payroll rules can vary by the player's contract, within limits stipulated by the CBA: 

In practice, if multiple quarterbacks go down, the teams will still need to field eleven players on offense. The replacement quarterbacks can be existing quarterbacks on the roster (either scholarship or walk-on players) or other position players. 

The advantage of having these helmets is that the defensive coordinator can make changes to defensive calls, based on what the defensive staff sees from the offensive. This change provided defenses a counter to the quarterbacks' communications advantage. From the offense's perspective, knowing which player is making defensive audibles is probably of limited value, since the radio turns off with 15 seconds left on the play clock. The defensive player with the radio would be quite obvious - the two designated players are chosen before the game, and the active one would be wearing a helmet with the green dot and would be passing along updated defensive plays. However, there is another possibility, as Peter King notes in a recent Sports Illustrated column. He relates an Eli Manning anecdote describing the importance of knowing who is "the mike": 

In short: Kipchoge's remarkable clocking definitely redefined what's known to be possible. But aside from covering the same distance, it didn't have a lot in common with what we consider to be a "marathon", and some of those factors made it impossible to certify the performance as a record. 

A lot of what you're seeing in the news these days is driven by two problems which aren't solved by comprehensive in-competition testing. One is accessibility of athletes for out-of-competition testing, which is an issue in e.g. East Africa, where many elite distance runners train. Maintaining the infrastructure needed to get samples and test them in an unpredictable way is expensive, and despite some significant investment (e.g. by the World Marathon Majors) there still needs to be more funding to do this properly. Much of the negative news about Kenya from WADA has to do with the lack of testing infrastructure. The other problem - and this is what we're seeing from Russia - is the presence (or rumored presence) of state-sponsored structures which facilitate doping on a national level. If anti-doping "agents" (for lack of a better word) are simply testing individual athletes, that's one thing; if they're contending with an entire system which is coordinating evasion of out-of-competition testing, that's entirely another. And the stories coming out of Russia about evasion of testing are real James Bond stuff: local police detaining testers in order to give athletes time to get away, or to invalidate the samples either environmentally (keeping them from being refrigerated) or by breaking the chain of custody, athletes giving their whereabouts as in closed "military cities" to prevent surprise visits from testers, etc. When the full apparatus of the state is employed in protecting dopers, the "arms race" between cheaters and anti-doping officials becomes very expensive, underlining Canadian Coders' point about finances. So, the short answer to your question: in-competition testing happens and is pretty comprehensive, but it's not enough and the implications of closing the gaps are all expensive. 

The first difference is generally considered to be an advantage to the runner on the inside, i.e. lane 1 has the most advantage and lane 8 the least. This is generally why people consider Van Niekerk's lane draw remarkable. The second difference, on the other hand, is mixed. The inner-most lanes (1, 2, and sometimes 3) are considered technically more difficult than the outer lanes, which have gentler turns; the wider sweep of the outer lanes means an athlete can put more energy into moving forward instead of turning their momentum. Individual runners' physiology and form can mitigate this problem; for example, Usain Bolt's long stride would theoretically be hampered by the inside lanes, but Bolt has also compensated for this by apparently developing very good form for the curve. So in theory the inside lane is disadvantaged and the outside advantaged by this, but in practice it varies. (This is why tracks with a full 9 lanes will run sprint races in 2-9 rather than 1-8.) (This, incidentally, is also why 4x100m relay teams sometimes put their fastest runners on the 1st or 3rd legs rather than the last, "anchor" leg - because starting from the blocks and running the bends are very specialized skills, and teams can pick up some advantage by putting runners who excel at those skills on those legs rather than on the anchor.) So with Van Niekerk as one "exceptional" lane 8 runner, it's worth also remembering two similarly exceptional lane 1 runners: both Angelo Taylor and John Akii-Bua won gold medals in the 400m hurdles from lane 1, with Akii-Bua, like Van Niekerk, setting a world record. Regardless of lane, however, it's clear that Van Niekerk is an extraordinary talent with excellent coaching and support to enable such a run. If the 2016 gold-medal run is not the peak of his career, I can't imagine what he will do to top it. 

From that description, it appears that children that are at least eight years old can start training. Of course, parents know their children best and may be able to start them off at a younger age. 

Since Manning has more than four years of experience and therefore vested, the waiver rules don't apply to him. His release is considered "official" once the associated paperwork clears the process mentioned in Marcus Swope's post. 

I recall that Don Mattingly was forced to remove his pitcher due to two mound meetings in an inning. I've read articles that indicate that a limit was placed on manager-led mound meetings to speed up the game. The MLB rule reference (8.06): 

In high school, virtually all of the distance runners that I've observed used regular running shoes. However, elite level distance runners all seem to use track spikes. Have there been any studies that have quantified the benefits of using track spikes versus regular running shoes in longer distance track and field events (I'm thinking 1500+ meter/1+ mile)? 

Since 1 July 1986 the rules of table tennis state that one side of the racket shall be bright red and the other side black. This rule was introduced because of the increased use of "combination" rackets in the late 70s and early 80s. Players were using the same colour rubber on each side of their racket - but each side was a different type of rubber - and this made it very difficult for the opponent to know what type of spin was being imparted onto the ball. So if you're planning on taking part in authorised table tennis events, make sure that you buy the correct colours. 

So in summary, it appears that referees across all sports do show some subconscious favoritism towards the home team, even while striving to remain impartial. EDIT: Added some excerpts mentioned in one of my comments below. 

Finally, there is a paid goalie bundle from an online bookstore, focusing on goalie drills. I've never used it, but it may provide the drills that you're looking for (see the first topic). The online blurb notes that the bundle covers these topics: 

The safety is usually the last line of defense, and like the middle linebacker, must be versatile. He will have coverage responsibilities, yet must also be prepared to provide run support if a running back or quarterback has gotten past the linebackers. However, the middle linebacker, being close to the line, will often set defensive formations and call audibles to counter tendencies that he's spotted. The safety also perform that function for the defensive secondary, but might be too far away to make adjustments to the seven players in the defensive front.