The closest to a general consensus is the criterion of mutual intelligibility: if speakers of the lects can understand each other, they are dialects, otherwise they are languages. This immediately runs into the problem that Norwegian and Swedish seem to be mutually intelligible (although I suspect that is based on "standard" forms of the languages), but they are called separate languages. On the other side of the coin, people often speak of Mandarin and Cantonese as being dialects of Chinese, though they are not mutually intelligible. The general tendency in the profession is to take former dialects and call them languages, i.e. separate, rather than merge former "separate languages" into a single language with dialects (a tendency, not an absolute rule). Additionally, "dialect" used to be almost exclusively a geographical division, but contemporarily, numerous social facts can go into characterizing a dialect, thus young people now speak a different dialect from old people, whereas 50 years people would hardly talk of age-based dialects. Since there is no independent way to determine that two speech forms are "separate languages" vs. "dialects", there isn't a degree-of-intelligibility test that can be applied, though one could stipulate that 80% comprehension is the cutoff, if one wanted (why not 75%? or 85%?). 

In the realm of natural language, the "ideas a language can be used to express" are basically "any": all languages are capable of expressing any idea, so there's only one category of expressive type. Languages do differ in the way that they express a given idea. Assume a language Gwambomambo which lacks the word "recursion". That very word could be introduced into the language, just as "ballet" or "ghee" was introduced into English; or, a word might be invented using traditional roots of the language (e.g. "thing sits on itself"). Some languages have specific tenses for negative propositions and some use words like "not" to convey the idea; some languages have different forms of words to indicate that there is just one, or many, or maybe even just two, of the thing in question – other languages don't do this but do allow you to say "1 child", "many children", "more than 1 child" etc. The greatest disparity between languages is lexical differences, that is the fact that we need a long expression to convey the notion "2 year old male reindeer", whereas languages spoken by reindeer-herding cultures usually have a single word for this. 

Languages don't actually have ages, and they aren't discrete things like people are. So we'll have to first interpret what you mean by "older language" versus "younger language". It's even harder to understand what the difference would be between X being an ancestor of Y versus X being an older variety of Y. Let's take "American English as currently spoken in the Pacific Northwest" ("Y") to be the younger language, and "English spoken in the British Isles in 1600" ("X") to be the older language. It would be reasonable to say that X is an ancestor of Y, in the same way that one can say that Knudt Knudtsen is an ancestor of me. We would not say that I am a newer variety of Knudt Knudtsen, because Knudt Knudtsen is a discrete entity who clearly died. X is not a discrete entity which clearly died at some point in the past. What an academic linguist would conclude is that there isn't a difference between the possibilities that you describe -- they refer to the same fact. The same problem afflicts appeal to linguistic "sibling", which would probably be taken to be "a closely related language descended from a single earlier language". Well, it turns out that "American English as currently spoken in the Pacific Northwest" ("Y") isn't entirely uniform – there are documented dialect differences (east of Cascades / west of Cascades being prominent; there is an Enumclaw dialect). No two people speak the exact same language (i.e. have the exact same grammar and lexicon, even setting aside cases where one person knows a word that the other person doesn't know). The significance of that is that there is no clearly-defined boundary between language and dialect. There seems to be a feeling that Scots is not a dialect of English, and certainly I can't understand it at least the bit of it that I've heard. So by the mutual intelligibility test, most people would say that Scots is a distinct language from English. I don't think there is much support for thinking that [Geordie][1] is held to be a separate language, but it is completely unintelligible to me. Indeed, a number UK dialects are unintelligible to me, and some US dialects are too. A problem with using popular opinion as the adjudicator of the dialect / language distinction is that people mostly don't have opinions except about their own language, and then their opinions are shaped by completely unscientific and non-linguistic criteria. Whether or not the various Kurdish languages and Saami languages are considered to be separate languages or dialects depends on non-linguistic ideology and political matters. (My grasp of the situation is that Kurds downplay dialect differences in favor of a single Kurdish ethnicity, because there is an ongoing struggle for independence that relies on the unity of the Kurds as a nation; whereas the Saami enjoy basic rights and a fair degree of political autonomy so recognition of linguistic differences is not a threat to their future. More could be said, but won't be). [Edit] I don't think using "referred to as X by its speakers and outsiders" will get anywhere, since people's name for their own language is frequently different from what outsiders call them (the general scheme is that the language-internal name translates as something like "language of the people" and the outsider name translates as something like "language of the barbarians"). Eskimo, Sioux, Berber, Hottentot and Lappish are all etymologically insulting exonyms, likewise the Russian word for "German". If you discard outsider names and stick with self-names like Suomi (Finnish), Deutsch (German), ελληνικά (Greek), or Italian(o), then there might be a legitimate question of cultural identity. Perhaps we could say that "English" first existed when those Germanic tribes called themselves "English" rather than "Saxon" or "Jute" (or historical equivalents -- "English" is a modern word). Note that Irish (Gaeilge) and Scots Gaelic (Gàidhlig) are different languages, but the names of the languages reflect a continuous use of the indigenous name for the language. A historical change in the name of a language probably reflects a major cultural change more than anything else, although actual change in language can be a part of cultural change. Anyhow, the way "ancestor" language is used in linguistics, it refers to what preceded historically, without care for the language / dialect division, though we tend to reserve the word for predecessors that are at least some number of hundreds of years old. 

The surplus of sounds of Arabic, relative to English, means that either some distinctions must be lost, or the standard supply of letters must be augmented. The standard (Arabist professional) conventions are that ع = [ʕ] is written as `, glottal stop (ء) is ´, ذ is dh, and so on. This article gives a convenient list. There is no conventional way to write the emphatics or long vowels without some supplementing of the alphabet, and pressing under-dot (emphatic or ħ) and macron (long vowel) into service has been deemed to be the appropriate augment. The digraph solution to the problem of ش غ ذ خ ث potentially has the problem of not distinguishing a two-consonant sequence with h as the second member (leaving out gh which is unambiguous), and one does find ش rendered as š. These conventions have existed for over a hundred years, and they won't just change to avoid a diacritic. Theoretically you have some options for rendering these sounds, methods that I've seen exploited: emphatics are with capital letters, long vowels are doubled. There are aesthetic problems with that result, and social ones (nobody does that). 

Imbabura Quechua is an example, where the case affix is only NP-final (on the head noun). Apparently, there is no NP-internal case agreement in Hungarian, though there is supperficial "agreement" in appositional constructions. Spencer argues that the Hungarian markers should be considered "fused postpositions", and the same could be said about I. Quechua. 

Galilean Aramaic is a Western Aramaic language. The only surviving Western Aramaic language is Western Neo-Aramaic, spoken in the villages of Ma'loula, Jubb'adin and Bakh'a n Syria. 

You would first have to decide what it is that you want to do, and what costs you are going to be concerned with. For example, you can express numerals in many different ways, for example "twelve", "12", "1100" (binary), "c" (hex), "14" (octal). Binary uses fewer things; hex is shorter; decimal is easier to understand and work with (e.g. adding a column of numbers). If you want to exactly represent a specific pronunciation of a word, a recording is the most efficient (indeed, the only possible way to represent the specific pronunciation exactly). A narrow transcription can get you in the ballpark for pronunciation, and spelling comes in last place. You can get different result if the goal is to identify a specific word. A recording or transcription of [sajt] will still leave you in the dark as to the choice of sight, site or cite. There are some cases where spelling is not distinct and pronunciation is ("lead" -- verb or metal). However, I think that spelling is a better predictor of intended word, especially in context (where the verb vs. noun usage of "house" can be inferred). Some people do not know the pronunciation of English words, and some do not know the spelling of English words. All you need, to know a word, is some representation that you can tie to the concept in question. You could make words shorter, but that doesn't increase efficiency, since processing time would go up. A way to do this is replace each spelled word with its rank in an authoritative frequency list. So "the" becomes "1", "be" becomes "2", "because" becomes "94". If you code this in base 36, the numbers could be really short. The only problem is that it would take forever to encode and decode messages, but if processing time is not a concern, you could really save a lot of space this way. 

There is no dichotomy between tone languages and intonation languages. The available evidence indicates that all languages have intonational systems. Some languages have lexical stress, some have lexical tone, and some appear to have no form of word "prominence" (Ethiopic Semitic, for example). Pitch-accent is a dubious category, which has largely been replaced with the concept of restricted-tone language (where only one syllable per word has a distinctive mark). You do find "gradual tone changes" at the sentence level in tone languages. The impression that you're getting probably arises from the practice of taking Mandarin Chinese to be typical of tone languages. Most of the time, the expression "tone languages, like ___" is usually completed with "Chinese" and not "Luganda". The most relevant properties that realize systems of intonation and tone are F0, duration, amplitude, phonation, and formant values (listed in order from most-robust and common to least so). Formant values are generally not direct manifestations of a category contrast, but rather result from duration differences (target-undershoot in shorter vowels). The bottom-line form of formant differences is vowel change depending on the tone or stress property of a syllable, such as reduction of some unstressed vowels of English to schwa, or the vowel quality changes in the Min Chinese tone system. Phonatory differences usually are parasitic off of F0 differences, with higher F0 correlating with creaky voice and lower F0 correlating with breathy voice, and these are usually garden-variety allophonic concomitants of stress (H tone) vs. unstressed (L tone). However, they can be phonologized and made independent, and especially in Southeast Asian languages tone like Vietnamese, they become part of the defining essence of a particular tone. Amplitude is not an independently controllable property at the segment / syllable level, but differences can be observed which correlate with duration and F0. Amplitude is potentially exploitable as an aspect of intonation, where you can "breathe harder" thus talk louder when exclaming "I told you to bring the metallurgical kit", though there will be F0 differences as well. The F0 / amplitude correlation exists in tone and non-tone languages alike. These three properties are not particularly robust as correlates of lexical stress versus tone across languages. One gains more traction with duration and F0. F0 differences are probably the most common specific correlate of the stressed / unstressed difference and of course are the quintessence of tonal contrast, and duration differences also often are associated with the stressed / unstressed contrast – but not generally with tone. Looking at phonological processes, this is common-enough that we have names for it: the Weight-to-Stress principle where stress is assigned to heavy syllables, and the Stress-to-Weight principle, where stressed syllables get lengthened. There is a weak tonal correlate of the former, where tone is sometimes attracted to heavy syllables, there does not seem to be an active Tone-to-Weight principle where syllables bearing a H tone, for example, get lengthened. (Confusion often arises over the fact that tone languages often impose a phonological limit on the number of tones allowed on short syllables, so that contours are only possible on bimoraic syllables, but that is a separate phenomenon). From the phonological POV, it is interesting that stress can induce lengthening, but tone apparently cannot. It is pretty much impossible to identify a language as tonal versus non-tonal just based on acoustic properties. Theoretically, you might be able to identify outliers based on a large-corpus acoustic study of certain languages. The variability of F0 over time in Cantonese is rather high, and you could use that to determine that Cantonese is probably a tone language, whereas the F0 variability of Tigre is low and you could thus suspect that it is not a tone language. The search for the Holy Grail of finding necessary or sufficient acoustic diagnostics of tone vs. stress has been called off.