Books of magic are magical, if not appropriately separated the spells have a tendency to interact in an uncontrolled manner. The more powerful the spell the worse it gets. While it's relatively safe to keep household spells all in one book, cooking, fire lighting and cleaning spells aren't particularly dangerous, maybe your broom will leave trails of sparks round the house or your dinner might be really clean, but if you start putting major summoning spells into one tome you never know what you're going to get. Enchanted leather bindings are critical for isolation, sometimes with metal plates inserted for the more lively spells. Scrolls are acceptable but must be vellum, not papyrus. Card or paper bindings are frankly dangerous. 

To point out an obvious evolutionary problem. The creature in question would have had to evolve to be able fly while weighing up to 150kg more than it usually does. Hence why we only ride dragons, because that 150kg is a negligible proportion of their weight. Pegasus* and Gryphons just can't get off the ground carrying that much extra weight. *Pegai perhaps, but that'd be Latin and he's Greek, so maybe Pegasodes. Pegasus was his name though, not his species. Thanks to AlexP: 

Helicopters are difficult to fly, expensive, complicated and require constant maintenance. Ducted fans have efficiency problems outside ground effect. Tilt rotors have stability issues. Vector thrust turbo fans are inefficient in hover mode. Balloons are slow and don't like wind. However These guys seem to have a solution (pdf). The annular ducted fan. 

Access to the Baltic is immensely valuable. Peter the Great of Russia went to war to get access to the Baltic. Having taken the land from Sweden, he proceeded to build St Petersburg and made it his new capital. By removing the Baltic you massively change the trade routes out of Eastern Europe. Apart from removing Russia's access to the western seas you've just landlocked all of: Finland Estonia Latvia Lithuania Poland and possibly even Sweden along with a few of the Germanic states. This is going to make trade much harder across Europe and bias the wealth and empires even more towards the western nations (Netherlands, England, France, Spain, and Portugal). A few of your smaller newly landlocked powers are going to vanish into empires never to be seen again. Norway would probably remain a Swedish Imperial territory rather than the prize to be traded every time they lost/won a war with Denmark as the ports would be too valuable. Onto the new wars This section requires a list of East European Empires that are now landlocked, which I don't have right now. Though I know there was a Polish-Lithuanian Empire, there will be more. These empires are going to want access to open waters and will push westwards to get it. In short, you're looking at a massive redrawing of the borders of Europe. Different countries surviving, different powers in Northern Europe, possibly Sweden remaining one of the greater and geographically much larger powers. Smaller countries being eliminated and even more wars and empires. 

While it ostensibly has 4 legs, the way is uses them is unlike any other animal. First of all, it uses its tail as a 5th leg. When moving slowly it uses front legs and tail on the ground to swing the back legs together, then back legs on the ground to move front and tail or to graze. It'll also balance on tail alone while fighting. Then there's the bounce Highly efficient because of the elastic tendons in the back legs, a large portion of the energy from each bounce is recycled into the next, allowing that sustained high speed. Obstacles are much less of a problem than for a runner in contact with the ground with more legs more frequently. Hedges, fences, small rivers are passed in a single bound. Unlike the much lighter weight cheetah, it also has the ability to kick your stomach out through your spine. 

As Andrei says, go Dutch. Your existing buildings cannot be cost effectively retrofitted to survive the forces involved. You can build wave breaks around the town to remove the hydrodynamic forces, but the hydrostatic forces are still higher than anything the town is built for. Either you build a dyke around the town or you effectively build a dyke around the bottom few floors of every building in the town. A solid concrete barrier a few feet thick, probably dug down at least one story and up as far as you expect the water to rise. You now raise the entrance to each building up to either the second or third floor. This is of course higher than some buildings, but that's what you've signed up for. You should build elevated walkways at this level. If you want to build elevated roads/mass transit as well that's up to you but anything at ground level is effectively lost. Sections of metro system that were built below the water table may survive if well enough pumped as the tunnel linings could possibly be good enough. That's a lot of possibly, maybe and perhaps for one sentence, but the Victorians tended to build well above required specs. You will of course need to spend a fortune on raising every entrance tunnel and building to the new walkway level. New buildings can either be built to the new waterproof specs or built to float. Floating buildings will offset any future water level rises if given enough flex on services. In terms of cost for new buildings, most companies will probably opt to build somewhere else. Your city will probably die. Venice effectively consists only of tourists and tourist attractions now, almost nobody lives there any more. Or you could build a dyke. I'd recommend a dyke. 

By the standards of a century ago, that's the world we're living in. By the standards of a century from now? Who can say. Imagine a world where a horse is the ultimate source of power, let's call that one horsepower (1 HP, 745.7 Watts). A horse can do a lot of work but not fast. Now take a person who knows only horses and put him in front of the engine in a cargo ship (81 MW, 108623 HP Emma Mærsk) and tell him we're not living in an era of cheap almost unlimited energy. 

The ships were never designed with a self-destruct system, why would anyone do that? But after the first attack the recovery teams looking for survivors found *censored for the wellbeing of readers*, there were no survivors. It was obvious that a quick death was a far better option than being captured. The self destruct simply removes the safety controls from the drive and dumps fuel in, the countdown a matter of how long it would take to blow. 

Machiavelli has the answer to this one You appoint a prefect to conquer, terrorise and repress the population. When the population are appropriately scared to breathe in public, in rolls the new emperor. He makes a few grand gestures to show how nice he is, then leaves bits of the prefect all over town to show how upset he was about the way the prefect behaved. Even though the prefect was acting under the emperor's orders the town now loves the emperor for saving them from the oppressive prefect. This is why grand viziers are always evil while the king/sultan/emperor is always kind and graceful. Always do your evil through a proxy so you can remain loved. If your emperor has been more hands on with his tyranny then he's got a fair bit of work to do to recover the population. The best way would be to start by distancing himself from the routine of daily administration, and allow a prefect to repress the population for him. 

Thick socks over your boots like every boy's own adventure story. Terrain is important here, but the biggest thing is going to be keeping your regular paths clear. The classic giveaway is stepping on a stick, make sure there aren't any sticks, glass bottles to kick etc on routes you have to use regularly. Silent clothes are next, no zippers, metal buckles etc. Nothing that's going to jingle as you move. No exposed metal that might just happen to tap against another piece of exposed metal. Nothing baggy or loose that's going to flap in a wind. The same is true of all equipment. Hand signals work both in noisy environments and places where you need to keep silent so there are standard ones you can learn. Use natural background noise to cover your movements. You specifically mention a river, but a noisy river is going to be your best friend for moving around near these zombies. 

Practicalities of restarting a global economy Assuming someone actually has the specs on paper and can start some sort of manufacturing process. Computer chips don't have a high calorie content, nor do promissory notes. Your former staff are going to be more interested in how to feed their families for the next 24 hours than in coming to work. Full blown government intervention will be required to maintain a food supply. Oppressive regimes will probably do better at this than the western democracies as it's going to require hundreds of people used to desk jobs to be sent to the fields for hard manual labour that used to be automated. I'm not even close to being qualified to plan from there, but someone has to deal with planes potentially falling out of the sky, ships lost at sea, panicking city residents, total collapse of infrastructure and communications. 

Use separate contracts for the different parts of the encounter. A marriage contract has certain terms, including duration, break clauses and notice to terminate requirements. Most importantly it covers children and childcare and how to deal with assets held in common. Anne Mccaffrey had some good ideas with this on some of her worlds where people would contract for a body heir. It was primarily a reproductive and financial contract between two independently wealthy people with the single intent of producing an heir for one of them. In short, one person contracts with another to sire/bear a child to be an heir to their fortune and social position. Any lingering details of love and recreation are entirely separate to the contract. 

Now you're really hunting like a crocodile, lying in ambush in the river waiting for the migratory herds. You may be considering the speed of a pronghorn at this point, but they're too small, the reason you want a deer species is the ability to pronk, this will save you from needing to hunt a big cat for its leap. You might as well go for bison for brute strength (try not to get caught under a stampeding herd) and a horse for speed (possibly before the bison so you can run away in time). You now need the stealth of the cats, you get to take your pick here but they're all dangerous. The first thing to do is make sure you're hunting him, not the other way round. Cougar and jaguar are both quite big enough to get their full abilities, they're also quite big enough to eat you as a snack. Given you have the abilities of the crocodilians, you're primary prey for a jaguar whose way of saying hi is a crushing bite to the back of the skull. You have the strength to take them on head on, the speed to outrun them, the reflexes to evade if you spot them, the sense of smell and hearing from a lot of prey animals, but they're ambush hunters. The best way to deal with the cats will be out in the open, the endurance hunt. Listen for the alarm calls of the prey around and start your hunt. It doesn't matter which of the cats you go for this way but you have to keep your target running, preferably out into the open. Once you have your big cat, you're all set.