I see suslik answered about the Bose QC-15 headphones, and I would like to improve on that answer a bit. I actually am using the QC-15 at work every day. And they are simply amazing. It is true that while turned on, without any music, they do not cancel out conversations going on right next to you. But they do lower the volume of those quite a bit. And by playing music in the earphones, even at a very low volume, you will hear nothing of the conversations going on right next to you, at all. I very easily get distracted by conversations among my peers, even if I am not addressed. And some tasks I cannot perform well with music, I really need silence. But I found that the solution with very low music and noise-cancelling earphones works really well for me. 

I will not answer the question directly, but give you an alternative option instead. I have been in your shoes. My direct report (I was a consultant though worked much like an employee) was never being mean, he had priorities that he needed to meet that were seemingly never ending. A larger requirement for leave was difficult to satisfy for anyone in such a fast-paced environment. It was a fun and very rewarding place to work and so most all of us preferred to be at work than at home, if you can believe it! You have to decide if you want the time off in one lump sum, smaller chunks, or if one day at a time would be okay. In my case, I wanted to take time off to get at-home priorities taken care of such as replacing a hot water heater, up-grading my at-home network, of just goofing off. I realized that multiple days off are valuable, however, adding a day here or there to a weekend was just as valuable to me. Fortunately, Fridays or Mondays could be slower sometimes and knowing in advance was easy to determine from a schedule short of an emergency. I discussed with my direct report taking either Fridays or Mondays off for a period and gave him the option of deciding in advance which one and which weeks. I also gave him the option of changing his mind in the case of an emergency either switching days or optioning for another week. We discussed why I wanted time off and that the particular day did not matter unless I had to schedule an appointment. This worked a treat! In fact, for years while I was with the company, this is the way it worked for all leave since it suited us both very well. I was more pleased with this arrangement than had I taken a week at a time. As well, sometimes half days on Fridays felt like a welcomed release especially on warm sunny days. I would go home and cook a big dinner! Often in the smoker. This may not fit your requirements, however, for some, it can be a viable alternative. I Hope it helps. 

With an open mind. Most internships don't start off hot at the gate. It takes time for companies to judge your skill level and give you tasks. You need to pace your expectations and realize the position you're in at the company. As a first year intern they don't expect much. You have to ask for new tasks when you can. Prove yourself by exceeding their expectations. Be thankful. I was lucky to have relevant job internships. Many of my friends weren't. Manual labour is the typical flavour of summer work. So take all opportunities as a golden ticket. Your data entry might seem menial, but it gives you an appreciation for what you're automating. Talk to the people you're writing scripts for: it's good experience with getting requirements from customers (blood from a stone). And lastly, if you truly can't find work, take some courses online. Take the spare time to increase your coding skills and build something you want to. Practice is the only wait to get better. 

I am retired now, however, I have been a technology consultant for 30 years and boot-strapped quite a few start-ups that have pioneered technology we would all easily recognize today. I have done this for myself and others. That being said, I have always recruited people I know and trust. You cannot trust people you do not know. For some of the start-ups, I recruited co-workers to work in the evening and weekends. This is surprisingly easy since people are always interested in technology and money. The point is, I never poached employees. However, if the start-up succeeded, then I was happy if they joined the company full time during the day. When projects were small and just starting out, each start-up would be given shares just like a corporation that allowed me to take a critical few programmers and offer them some ownership. This does two things. It gives them a stake in the success of the company. It also gives them an incentive to take a chance even for less money. However, to do this, you must be a good salesman, choose the very best of the best technologists you have access to, be able to consistently motivate and keep peoples interest, deliver a product in a timely manner, and finally, be truthful and trusted. These are good leadership skills you will need anyway so going through this process is extremely good exercise for the future. It is also not as easy as people think. Otherwise, the normal hiring process is fraught with risk. Hiring people you know and trust is far easier. However, sometimes people will disappoint you. So make sure you have an out. Put it all in writing. Make it official. Here is an example. I had an idea for a new point of sale (POS) that exists today. Pioneering a comprehensive POS that manages the entire business chain did not exist at the time. I began working on the core of the product. After 6 months, I hired a friend and gave him %50 of the product due to the level of participation he was engaged in. I needed the 6 months to create a proof of concept that people can see. It was a working product, even if it was not complete. When we needed expertise and help, we would peel off a small percentage of ownership for key programmers that filed in the gaps. This was from 1% to 5% max. We kept the personnel head count very lean. In the end, the intent was to sell the product to someone already in the business which we did. Each earned a significant income within a year. My primary partner and I earned our yearly income in just one year of part-time programming rather easily. We were highly paid at the time so it was a real boost! 

At the end of a contract is the best time to renegotiate a salary. As no formal agreement has yet been agreed to in terms of pay now is the best time to open a dialogue about salary. You may also want to consider talking about benefits and vacation time. A new contract is like turning over a new leaf in your job. 

That is up for debate. The best way to avoid ambiguity like this is to include as many relevant details on your CV as possible. Perhaps mentioning in the work experience details that the work was contracted through Company C for Company A. 

You are correct with your points. It creates an echo chamber where everyone is a YES-man, doing things without considering the problems associated with the task. These cultures do exist, and they aren't great places to work. Stay away if possible. 

If you cannot trust your boss, then same speech can be given to HR or security. By couching it in the way you have, people will understand the problem and hopefully protect you as a genuinely concerned member of a corporate team. You may want to ask to remain anonymous as not to embarrass anyone. To add some humor to this answer, the company that was located in several buildings up and down the street bought a huge building, refit it, and during the process, in the IT areas, the instruction was to place magnetic badge readers about butt level. This was questioned by our contractor as a mistake. It was no mistake. Why? If you place the badge in your other pocket, opposite from your wallet, then all you have to is wag your butt near the reader and forgetting your badge far less likely. It was a perfect solution for the IT team (at least)! 

Generally these reactions have been positive, and been from small teams of <10 people. Are there any rules of thumb that should be followed in these circumstances? 

Often when I'm coding and I crush a bug that I've been battling for a few hours I like to throw my hands in the air and sigh a small YES. Are these small celebrations seen by people as unprofessional? I am a younger worker and in the different places I've worked/interned doing this has received different reactions: 

If you're worried about the appearance of those items on your resumé you can just add that they were contracts. For example: 

He is being unprofessional and impacting your productivity. He is doing something wrong and if he can't understand that he needs to be dealt with by management. Unprofessional behaviour is unacceptable. 

Internships vary widely from company to company. You can be involved doing menial tasks like grabbing the team coffee, all the way to working/being taught by the lead developer. 

I would ask you one thing. How is the company seen by others within the industry? I used to hire people all the time within the Washington D.C.Metropolitan Area for some of the most demanding sites in terms of skills and professionalism. It was well known that some companies do not produce good employees regardless of the character of the individual. Sorry. But it is true. The reputation of some of the local companies for structure and environment was poor due to the people that have been hired from those companies. We are talking about consistency and not just a few. It does not take too long for a poor reputation to get around this way. It has nothing to do with the individual. It has to do with the individuals exposure to a professional work environment and their ability to come into a structured and professional environment and succeed. People with skills and experience would not work for these companies, and those who made the mistake in taking a job, left quickly and was able to save their career. It was not uncommon to hear people remark how they could not get another job and had to stay with the bad company. Keep in mind that these primarily were government contracting companies that did not pay well at all and preferred headcount over skills for billing. Hell. It was not uncommon if you could BS your way through the interview, that was enough. You can figure it out once you get there. The company did not care about the customer or you. If you succeeded or failed did not matter. One I knew well was quickly promoted through the ranks because of his skill in BSing skills and once that no longer served him, he was made the scapegoat. Also keep in mind that it is not always government contracting or larger companies. Some small break-out companies have a bad reputation for the business they conduct and the employee can wear that tarnish too. I did hire one person from one of these bad companies who succeeded extremely well. I hired him because he decided to look for another job when he was sent to their management training program and then quickly understood why his manager was so poor. Other than this one individual, all others ever hired from the company failed fairly quickly. Staying too long may hurt you depending upon how other companies see your company. In fact, you may never get a chance to prove them wrong. It was not uncommon that people with XYZ anywhere on their resume to be screened out immediately. Why? Because the story was always the same. Sad. While you can pick up skills in a smaller environment, you can also do this in a larger environment. One global company I consulted to routinely encouraged people to pick up skills and take on challenges out of their scope. Along the way, experts and mentors were within reach and ensuring that the employee succeeded. The company was so successful, one rather poor desktop support employee was challenged to take on networking and seek Cisco certifications. Within a year, he had become the best network engineer the company had. No kidding. It sparked something within he employee who took the challenge extremely seriously and strove to be the best he could be. We had company wide weekly meetings specifically looking for skills missing in projects and employees on other projects looking to take on the challenge and learn something new. Others volunteered to help walk the employee through to success. In the end, all of the company employees were exposed to many things and were far more valuable as a result and could jump in on a project quickly where necessary. The concept worked! I know the problem of appearing to have too many skills. I am retired now, however, I was a systems internals engineer with coding experience at all levels, hardware design experience, along with expertise in products and platforms that made my sills list extremely long. While some doubted this was possible, others got it and I was hired for scenarios of extreme responsibility and was able to prove my expertise. It is a double-edged sword. It will keep you out of jobs in environments that are limiting, and open doors in environments that are expansive. I was able to consult in the highest of places and do the seemingly impossible in very short order including pioneering new uses for technology with Bell Labs, DEC Labs, BT Labs, and so on. Not bragging. I am just telling you that there is an advantage to having solid skills on the resume as long as you really can do the things you have listed. In the end, skills beget skills and you will be in demand more. 

You have stated multiple time that this behaviour is no longer tolerable by you. I would tell them one final time that if it does not stop that a complaint will be made to HR. 

I've been fortunate to receive many awards as a student doing post-secondary education. They have ranged in amount from $1000 to $17500+. Should I put the dollar amount I receive from an award on my CV? Would this differ on a professional resume? This document would be used to find work as a engineering professional in Canadian industry. I have found these answers: 

I work in a smaller company with few technical staff. I am a newer part of the technical team, I do mainly operational stuff; the other team members are engineers/architects. They often have many impromptu meetings with the CTO to discuss projects and new issues. I am rarely invited to these meetings, even when I know the content is relevant to my job. I don't want to waste anyone's time by joining these meetings, but I feel isolated and don't like wasting time asking something that was resolved during the meeting. My question is if I should bother asking to join these meetings & if it's my place to ask.