In 1965 Arthur Waskow "asked [Paul Booth] whether anyone had ever considered the possibility that the New Left was inventing a 'new literary form.'" (Smoking Typewriters 21, McMillian 2011; referencing SDS Records, Reel 5, Series 2A, No. 42, August 2, 1965) In McMillian's context, Waskow was probably referring to the radical approach toward letter-sharing as a form of "dialogue and cross-fertilization" which characterized the Students for a Democratic Society. It could, however, be speaking to the style of underground press which rose out of that correspondence. Are the SDS's epistles, or the underground press movement associated with the New Left, considered unique forms of literature? 

Doyle published The Lost World well after both killing off and reviving Sherlock Holmes. He wrote about Professor Challenger and Holmes concurrently for about fourteen years, and continued to write Professor Challenger stories for a few years after the last Holmes story. Doyle always had a kind of CSI-esque "five seconds in the future" attitude toward science in the Holmes stories, and toward the end of that series more speculative elements were included. These remind me of the center-stage speculative elements of the Professor Challenger stories (though not as spiritualist), which leads me to wonder: Do the original Doylian texts give any indication that Sherlock Holmes and Professor Challenger occupy the same fictional world? 

In his 1980 introduction to Battlefield Earth, L. Ron Hubbard claims that the novel is a work of "pure science fiction" and then sets out to define that term. However... Hubbard spends more time defining fantasy than he does science fiction, as if somehow the shade cast by the one will illuminate the other. And each time he starts to postulate a quality of science fiction, he then says it's insufficient and embarks on another reminisce. Once he gets into the concept of purity of genre by way of a roundabout rant on mistaking fantasy for sci-fi but never gets down to cases. After nine rambling pages of name-dropping and shade-throwing I'm left without any clear sense of what he thinks "pure science fiction" is, aside from Battlefield Earth. What, in concise terms, is Hubbard's conception of "pure science fiction"? 

Digable Planets' Rebirth of Slick (Cool Like That) ("Reachin' (A New Refutation of Time and Space)," 1993, track 06, released as a single in 1992) (genius.com link) quotes the "blink blink" passages from On the Subway ("The Last Poets," 1970, track 02) (genius.com link), but in a radically different context. What do the "blink blink/think think" lines in Rebirth of Slick signify independent of their reference to On the Subway, when taken solely as lines in Digable Planets' own work? How does Rebirth of Slick's quotation of On the Subway transform the meaning of the quoted text? Are Digable Planets calling attention to some relationship between themselves (or their work) and The Last Poets (or their work)? 

Since Hall regularly gives subtle nods to her inspirations and leaves coy inferences for alert readers, I assume such a great honking list of references is offering some specific commentary--but I'm not familiar enough with the works, especially the magazines, to hazard a guess as to precisely what's being said. What reference or commentary is made by the list of Draco's reading material? 

Sound is a major defining component of The Woman in Black: many of the imaginary and semi-present elements of the performance get explicit sound cues. They're a diegetic conceit of the framing device, and serve to make the pantomime more understandable. So why is the dog Spider, who is entirely invisible and only given presence through the actors' pantomimed interactions, not given any sound effect cues at all? Even when the dialog narrates cues like "she is yelping loudly," the sound direction never backs it up. 

It's straightforward to assume that Lobel's famous same-sex friends Frog and Toad drew, in a very general sense, from his experiences with emotional intimacy between men. But Adrianne Lobel and The New Yorker are happy to go much further and imply that Frog and Toad are gay-coded characters, even identifying the early stories as the beginning of her father's coming out. Is there a strong case to be made for or against the claim that the famous amphibious friends are gay coded? 

It's pretty clear that Storium's pre-made settings are firmly rooted in specific popular works: "The Mysterious Island" is "Lost;" "Steampunk" is heavily inspired by the Dinotopia franchise; "Medical Drama" looks a heckuvalot like "House MD" to me. But I'm not familiar enough with post-colonial fantasy to recognise the origins of "The Elephant King." It's a post-colonial fantasy Africa where the colonisers have rescinded control of the land and the locals face the task of rebuilding and reclaiming their own nation: 

I've been trying to read House of Leaves for a couple years now, but don't have the opportunity to sit down with a big physical book for long stretches of time. I do, however, have much more time available to read ebooks. Does the experience of House of Leaves change or diminish as an ebook? I ask particularly because the ergodic artifact quality of House interests me as a graphic designer with a specialty in print media. How effectively does House's ergodicity translate into the digital text? (Is there a particular ebook version which is notably more or less successful in this translation?) 

The Elephant King setting has shamans, honourable thieves (one in particular named "Shadowcat"), wizards, and a history of dragons (but none anymore). Knights are called "Sair" instead of "Sir," though I have no idea if that's a Storium-specific conceit. Does this seem similar enough to any existing works that a case for inspiration could be made? 

Stella Gibbons invented the sukebind for Cold Comfort Farm, and she wields it with metaphorical deftness as if it had its own long floriographic history to draw on. I'd assumed that the sukebind and its blooming were indicative of animal urges, especially un-premeditated sex. But then it's also associated with Ada Doom, as a wreath of sukebind buds on Fig Starkadder's portrait is an explicit herald of her impending emergence--and of all the Starkadders I'd say Aunt Doom is the least in touch with their earthy sense of "what comes naturally." There are also references to harvesting sukebind which I can't decipher thematically at all. What theme might the sukebind invoke which would explain its disparate representations throughout the text? 

In chapter 2 of Lust Over Pendle, we see a pile of books and magazines that Draco's been using to study for pretending to be a Muggle: 

What is the secret John Lefcadio was reminding Belle of, and which of the novel's troubles did it cause or represent? 

Pratchett's "Nation" was recommended to me because it depicts an alternate reality version of Pasifika cultures, faiths, and traditions. A quick glance at Wikipedia tells me it's got cannibals and reveals that a Pasifika culture is the forgotten remnant of a culture which was once successful by Western standards of science and technology. My Googles, however, have not turned up much information on what kind of reception this book got from Pasifika people. How is Nation received by Pasifika audiences? What's the general popular and critical response to it by Pasifika voices? 

In her forward to Cold Comfort Farm (which takes the form of a letter to Anthony Pookworthy, and is fully in the character of her assumed alter ego) Stella Gibbons exclaims, 

Academics have known for a very long time that Richard didn't have any pronounced deformity, but he's stuck with the hump in pop culture. In particular, removing the deformity from performances of Shakespeare's Richard III robs the character of his primary motive--so it's not done very often. 

The Inheritance Trilogy, like many works set in fantasy worlds, has a lot of apparently made-up names. However, I think I see glimmers of real-world languages shining through in many of them, like Dekarta and Enefa; other names, like T'vril, seem to be referencing naming conventions in cornerstones of the fantasy genre. Am I seeing patterns where there are none, or is Jemisin drawing on real-world sources for the names in The Inheritance Trilogy? 

I figured Anthony Pookworthy, Esq., ABS., LLR., was an able seaman, but his last qualification remained a mystery to me. So I went looking, and during my research I learnt that Sutherland's How to Be Well Read claims Pookworthy's instead an "absolute liar." Now, I wouldn't trust Sutherland as far as I can throw his book, but I suspect he's right that "Pookworthy" is a backwards mondegreen for "puke-worthy" so I can't disregard him entirely. Further investigation revealed somebody on the Internet who says Pookworthy is an Associated Back Scratcher and Licensed Log Roller. My conclusion is that there's no clear consensus on this, and I turn to you, dear Stack: What do Pookworthy's ABS., LLR., credentials mean? 

L. Ron Hubbard says that to be "pure," "credible," and "have a point," (all things he clearly values highly) science fiction must be plausible; limited in its possibilities; have to do with material-based sciences; be focused on people over machines; and not incorporate spiritualism, the supernatural, mythology, or similar non-materialistic phenomena or notions. Does Battlefield Earth meet Hubbard's own criteria for science fiction which is not just "pure," but credible and pointed? The story seemed neither plausible nor limited to me, but it's been a very long time since I read the novel and I'm willing to be convinced otherwise by people more familiar with it than I. 

I didn't know of any existing list, so I made my own. (?) means it's my best read but I think I'm probably wrong. 

The SEA is Ours features a combination of widely established authors, experienced authors who are not yet widely known outside a particular niche audience, and authors who are just beginning to be published. This is unsurprising; it's typical of anthology collections to use Big Name contributors to boost awareness of unrecognized talent. 

The final pages of Death of a Ghost describe Mrs. Lefcadio looking at a self-portrait of her husband, and much is made of how different it is from the famous Sargent portrait of the man. And then she turns it over: 

According to an interview (link) with surviving band member Joe Fletcher, "Mabel Grey" is in reference to a real ship of the same name, but was written by the late David Lamb and details about the inspiring shipwreck are unknown by anyone except possibly Lamb's wife. 

"A Bibliography of the Works of Willy Ley" (PDF link) was compiled by Jean M. Perreault for the Special Collections of the M. Louis Salmon Library at the University of Alabama in Huntsville after they acquired Ley's collection of books and journals upon his death in 1969 (link). It lists the illustrator of Exotic Zoology (1959, 1st printing) as Olga Ley. I think this is as definitive as it's reasonable to get without an edition to hand that makes the attribution itself (which is an answer I'd love to see, especially if it can say which edition!); while the claims made by Wikipedia and Goodreads concur that Olga Ley is the illustrator, they don't offer any support or citation for their claims. The UAH Library's commissioned bibliography of their own collection, on the other hand, can be considered the next best thing to an original source. 

Kevin Spacey's Richard III has a hump because Shakespeare wrote the character that way. His physical deformities (which include but aren't limited to a hunched back) are a defining part of his personality and motivation, and inform how people interact with him. As for why Shakespeare wrote him that way... Richard III had scoliosis. It wasn't pronounced enough to give him a hunch, but for a lot of political reasons it was expedient for Richard's posthumous biographers to demonize the king. A twisted body is convenient rhetorical shorthand for a twisted mind, and his scoliosis was a useful thing to exaggerate for effect. Shakespeare doubled down on this, describing Richard III as "rudely stamp'd", and "deformed, unfinish'd," with a hunched back, a limp, and a withered arm. In fact, Shakespeare makes Richard's fictional deformity the direct cause of his (equally fictional) villainy, thus tying propaganda neatly together with story and creating an extremely memorable villain we love to hate. It made for good theater, and he was writing in a country ruled by the royal line that overthrew Richard, so it was good for business all around. This has been the common impression of Richard III ever since: 

Since Fletcher says the shipwreck was well-documented, I'd guess it's the 1904 California wreck you link in your question. There's also speculation (link) that the song references a real woman, Diana of the Dunes (link) AKA Alice Mabel Grey, but that looks like somebody just Googled the name and made assumptions; I can't find any connection to Alice Mabel Grey in the text of the song--the closest is folklore that Diana of the Dunes appears to sailors before a storm (link). 

It's called "quotation dashes," or "theater style," or "the continental manner." The latter term is because it's used (among several other styles, like < > ) by many languages common in continental Europe, but it's common enough in English that you'll find it in the writings of authors as diverse as William Faulkner, Philip K. Dick, and Cormac McCarthy. I can't find any specific claim by Joyce himself about the choice to use quotation dashes. It may have been to evoke a continental style, or to give a theatrical sense to the text (quotation dashes are similar to common dialogue punctuation conventions used by English playwrights), or to give his publishers are hard time; his works often had their punctuation standardised on the way to printing. Or maybe he just liked it better than all those inverted commas floating around. Personally I don't think he needed a reason to use quotation dashes any more than I'd need a reason to use single quotes instead of double ones or put double spaces after my sentences. 

Obscurity and a small publishing portfolio don't equate to inexperience; many excellent and prolific authors never break out of their local region, and often an author's first work is a highly polished gem representing time and energy they'll never have the opportunity to again devote to a single work once they're immersed in the publishing grind.