Animals Slaughter Will Remain Legal for a Very Long (100+ Years) Time People would talk about eating only synth-meat, primarily vegan/vegitarian groups, but at the end of the day it seems very unlikely. I have laid out what I believe to be the top real reasons for this. The Labor Crisis Any government that simply bans the old-fashioned production of meat would suddenly discover that everyone in the agriculture industry (and the farmers would stick by the ranchers on this one) is voting against them in the next election. Or, in non-democratic countries, demonstrating/revolting against them. You also can't simply make the argument that the ranchers could go work in artificial meat plants; laboratory/highly sterile work is not in the training set of most, nor would they be inclined. Raising livestock (on a farm, at least) is a way of life, not a job. There is no path that allows politicians to ban farm-raised meat, at least in the next 100 years. The Price At the end of the day, the primary concern for most consumers is cost. If the taste is the same, the cleanliness is superior, and the cost is lower then consumers will go for synth-meat. The person doing the shopping/cooking doesn't even have to tell the rest of their family that it is synth-meat; they won't know the difference anyway. That makes it very easy to substitute in as a way to save a few dollars towards something else. However, at this point we have a LOT of cattle in the world... a STINK LOT OF CATTLE. If synth-meat were to ever start becoming price-competitive, the cattle industry could (and would) start a price-war and bankrupt the large synth-meat producers. They might not be able to keep it up everywhere, but in many parts of the world synth-meat would not be viable until it had already taken over somewhere else and was produced at such a large and cheap scale that it could overtake meat. Realistically, this is at least a 50-year path on this vector alone. And I think 50 years is being very aggressive, and that's really just seeking parity. Marketing OK, even if synth-meat costs the same as normal meat or a few cents less per pound, marketing departments are going to ramp into overdrive on both sides. The synth-meat side would be running constant advertisements showing young animals with big eyes all day long. And that would probably work very well on the upper and upper-middle classes. On the other side though, I think farmers would sweep the middle and lower classes, which comprise the majority of people. Some marketing advantages that farmers have include: 

This idea is an application of Compress Air Energy Storage. CAES provides a reasonable method to store energy, but the idea of using buildings to provide the weight has associated challenges which would be less than ideal. Insufficient Pressure In short, a house weighs too little. Solutions involving mines will typically store air at up to 1100PSI. By comparison, the ground that a house lays on typically has a maximum bearing pressure of 43.51PSI (300kN/m^2). That represents a huge discrepancy is capacity and efficiency. Building on bedrock would increase capability, but the logistics of building a compressible air chamber on top of bedrock AND constructing a large building on top of it would be extreme. It Would Destroy the Building In this situation the building is effectively sitting on a large, inflatable balloon. Since the balloon must be collapsable, it means that load shifting within the building would impact which side of the building pushes further into the balloon. At worst (which is very realistic) this could lead to a catastrophic failure, with the building tipping over. At best the building will experience constant re-settling, which would destroy the foundation and all stiff components of the building. Other Problems There would be other logistic issues with such a building, like plumbing, electrical wiring, transpiration of goods and people, etc. I think that those challenges could be overcome with some careful thought, but the cost of installing the highly specialized solutions would vastly outstrip any potential cost savings associated with energy storage. 

No, Pegasuses are Not Possible Ah, the Anatomically Correct series - where we all learn that just because you can draw something doesn’t mean it would work. The Primary Issue: Wingspan First let's start with the size of horses. Per Wikipedia, "Light riding horses usually range in height from 14 to 16 hands (56 to 64 inches, 142 to 163 cm) and can weigh from 380 to 550 kilograms (840 to 1,210 lb)". So let's say our horse is on the lighter side, at 380kg/840lbs. Next let's consider the necessary wing size. As outlined in this academic paper on the topic of wing size to speed physics, let's use the equation: W/S = 0.38v^2 Where; W = Weight (Newtons) per Wing S = Surface Area of the Wing (square meters) V = Velocity (Meters per Second) Note: This equation assumes air density at sea level. So how fast should this horse fly? Traditionally a Pegasus has demonstrated a speed faster than a running human, so let's go with that. The fastest human speed is 12.4m/s, so we'll go with 12.5m/s just to edge it out. Result: The resulting surface area of the wings must be at least 23.84 square meters per wing. Compared to the human in a hang glider above, which has a surface area less than 11.9 square meters... for both "wings" put together! This probably puts wing length in the area of 10 meters (33 feet) to a side. Now imagine a horse dragging a 10 meter (33 foot) wing on each side while it tries to gallop! NOTE: The wingspan would actually have to be larger, to additionally account for the weight of the wings themselves! 

Yes. Note: Your Challenges will Include Transportation and Assembly. The only limits to what we have built and plan today are delivery logistics. ICBM's can only handle so much weight, and even large transport planes have limits. However, if you were able to build and detonate a nuclear weapon in the same place transportation becomes a nonissue. The specifics of nuclear bomb construction are not in the public domain so it is hard to comment on more specifically, but I would strongly expect to run into a construction issue. At a point you need to put a LOT of uranium in a limited area, which is going to probably make robot workers a requirement. That seems within the realm of current technology though, so it probably could be overcome if we really wanted to. Here's an interesting statement on the topic... 

You're Looking for a Shield-Sized Trauma Plate When considering the basic requirement - being bullet proof - I think the best thing we can do is find a good Trauma Plate and scale its size up. Ceramic trauma plates are very good, but are not normally re-used because they tend to crack or develop micro-fissures that could lead towards catastrophic failure after another impact. When re-use is a consideration, Steel or Titanium are the most used metals. Regarding Weight This is where I think titanium is going to really run away. This link gives the volume of the shield of between 0.00227 – 0.00454 m3. We also know the density of steel (~8,050 kg/m3) and titanium (~4500 kg/m3). That would mean a steel shield would weigh between 18.27 and 36.547kg (40.2 - 80.4lbs). A titanium shield would weigh between 10.215 and 20.43kg (22.5 - 40.9lbs). NOTE however that the shield weight is calculated based on Captain America's shield. It's likely that many types of gunfire could rip through the shield at that thickness using real materials. So let's assume that we are stopping only small munitions fire. Otherwise you need to start multiplying the weight considerably, and even a 2x factor is enough to make the entire endeavor utterly impractical. Throw Distance Looking at throwing distance, let's consider the closest analogue we have for throwing really weighty things... the "weight throw" event of track and field. Women use a 20lb ball , which is analogous to the lowest end of the titanium weight scale. The record in that category is 24 meters (around 79 feet). Men use a 35lb ball - lighter than the steel shield but within bounds for titanium - and the world record is 25.8m (~78 feet). Mind you, in "weight toss" you get a run up and a more ergonomic handle to launch with than you would find in a shield. My estimate is you could probably halve those numbers at best for heavy shield tossing. Magnetism (as requested) Steel can be magnetic or not, depending on how it was produced. Titanium is generally nonmagnetic, to the point that a patient with titanium implants can be scanned by an MRI safely. 

No, Not Remotely Possible Let's consider a few things... 1. You Need to Buy the Boat You can't build such a boat in a week, it's simply not possible. The Amish can build a barn in about a day, but that's a community full of Amish building a simple structure that doesn't need to be seaworthy and which can hold many fewer than two of every type of animal. And they're experts. Allowing 6 more days does not solve the significant logistic issues you would have. 2. You Can't Buy the Boat in a Week You need a gigantic boat. Without even getting into research I'm sure you're looking for something along the size of the largest floating things we make, which would be something like an oil tanker, large cargo boat, or large aircraft carrier. Let's cross the aircraft carrier off the list because those just aren't for sale to private parties. The oil tanker and cargo boats both have the same issue - they're booked... for years. Those things cost a lot of money to build - not just 1 or 2 million - and what they are going to do is planned out well in advance. But you have money, so plans can change. Unfortunately for you, the average dock-hand can't simply sell you the ship - you'll need to go in front of a board of directors for the owning company to make your pitch. Getting that appointment may take you months, and the board will likely take a week or more to decide. Once you have agreement that you can purchase your large boat though, there are those pesky regulations. Countries and port authorities need to know about the change and will ask why you need the boat. You will also need to register a place to park it. 3. Where Do You Get Your Animals in a Week? Most people can maybe - just maybe - find a place to board their cat and dog in a few days... but you're going to amass 3,000 exotic animals in a week? Let's say that each exotic animal requires a vet check or some paperwork at least... that's 3,000 pieces of paperwork you need to go through. Over 7 days that's 428 individual pieces of paperwork you need to negotiate/sign per day. I'm not sure where you find the time! For that matter, where did you find the animals? Per day, you need to track down 428 individual animals and verify their sex (2 males or 2 females won't do you much). Assuming you don't need sleep, you're processing 1 animal every 3.36 minute! 4. People Will See You Loading Your Animals Your boat is big. You need a place that can accommodate a large boat and the infrastructure needed to bring animals to it. That's a job for a commercial dock; there's no other choice. Commercial docks though are busy places full of people. They are also often controlled by a body which coordinates shipments into and out of the area, to ensure the roads and water lanes remain open. You'll be filing your plans with that group or you won't be going forward with them! 5. Food Not all animals eat the same thing, and many eat each other! Do you think you could figure out the nutritional requirements for 1,500 species of animals in a year - let alone a week? 6. Ehhh... nuts to this The smallest amount of consideration of this problem has shown it's not possible. There are plenty of other reasons, but it is pretty trivial to demonstrate. I'm ending here. 

You'll Have to Pick Your Flavor of Christianity Christianity is a broad term defining many specific codes and dogmas tied together only by a belief in Jesus Christ being the son of God. Many Chrsitian groups do not even have the concept of an Archbishop for this question to apply to them. Sadly for you, I believe that Catholics - the largest group - are out. In addition to the basic issue where robots could not partake in communion (a daily requirement), the Church still does not allow women to be priests (let alone Bisops/Archbishops) so it seems exceedingly unlikely that they would allow robots. I'd probably rule out the Anglicans as well. Other groups however may be a bit more open to the idea... the trick is going to be in finding a VERY liberal group that also has Archbishops. Not a full answer, but hopefully I've helped narrow things down a bit for you. 

Doomsday Cults There are any number of Doomsday Cults now that would want to trigger the gate just for the sake of triggering the gate or to destroy/"save" all non-believers. Modern/Near-Current examples that one can reasonably assume would trigger such a device intentionally include: 

(OK - not the best depiction really, but who doesn't love the Legend of Zelda?) It is still point, but not ridiculously long. It is light. It has a cutting edge. And it can still be rather pretty, and even paired with another weapon if desired. 

You Only Need Two Things... In real human history a number of regional invasions and such were actually avoided by individual or team competition, to save the wasted lives and valuables on both sides. The reasons involved do not often scale reliably, but it is worth reviewing them briefly before going on to a more stable solution. Some classical reasons an skirmish may have been avoided: 

Clarifying a distinction between this post and the previous answer, I will point out that the definition for a desert is NOT that "trees do not grow", it is that the area receives very little precipitation. That is a significant difference. Note that a desert can also be hot (like the sahara) OR cold (like antarctica), and the temperature (hot, cold, or in the middle) should be specified. I'm going to give you control of the prevailing winds and general climate of your world, which means you can definitely make Thaliak a desert if you wish. Now let's answer your questions... Is it possible given the actual conditions I've just given to you? Yes, conditionally. You state that you want forests to the west of your mountains. You can have a desert in a forest, but not with just any kind of trees. Trees suited for anything other than an arid climate would not do well, and near the mountain it's still likely to be mostly scrag and brush as there would be rocky soil and very little precipitation. As for the types of trees you can have, I'll let you research that further. Cactus comes to mind, and perhaps an elephant tree... but again, I'm letting you research that. The key to remember is that if you have a water source and a hot day there will be evaporation. If you want that evaporated water away from your desert, you need a wind current to carry it away before the vapor condenses. Hot deserts can be particularly tricky that way because wind-blown dust provides that vapor something to condense around, so you can't just carry it away an unlimited distance. Would it be possible for the desert to have one or two large rivers? Under the right conditions. The first and easiest statement is that the rivers would be easiest to place on the extreme edges of the desert; prevailing winds could then blow atmospheric humidity north or south. The next way to do it would be to have underground rivers, which perhaps become exposed in a few places if you need that for your story. Significant amounts of water on the surface in the middle of a desert though would beg the question "why doesn't any evaporated water rain back down?". One answer is to perhaps mirror Egypt - green(er) along the Nile, desert elsewhere. Where can I find large amounts of trees on a desert like this? Anywhere you want to plant them, with restrictions on the types of trees. Again, you can research the types of trees themselves, but anything that stores water for a long time or can draw from a particularly deep underground water source is fair game. Note however that if you have a dense forest of any kind of scrub you are going to increase the chance for rain. Even with a waxy coating those plants will give up some water to the atmosphere, and with a sufficient number and density you will get some occasional rain. Where may I find large mines? Wherever you want to find them. Mines are built according to where minerals are found, and you get to place your minerals. For convenience I might place them in the mountains, but this is your world.