This book, the Assayer, was finally published in October 1623 and "is generally considered to be one of the pioneering works of the scientific method" 

One should also include the tunica interior as an undergarment as this was often worn under the stola (tunica exterior) by married women. The tunica interior 

"Panel showing Prince Siddharta parting from Kaṇṭhaka his horse and Chandaka his groom." Attrib: © Marie-Lan Nguyen / Wikimedia Commons As to Kanthaka's death, 

My highlighting, but the punctuation is the author's Unfortunately, no information is given on why some physicians thought this. 

(source: Dexter Hoyos, ‘The Carthaginians’) That said, if Carthaginian senators were from privileged backgrounds (which seems likely based on the available evidence), it would not be unreasonable to state that lifetime membership was more likely than not. The Oxford Dictionary of the Classical World goes so far as to state 

Phalia had a population of 115,618 in 2011. For Peritas and Alexandria Bucephalous we have little idea of their size: in fact, their locations can only be guessed at. There is also Chetak Park, named after Rana Pratap's horse Chetak. The park is described as 'sprawling' but I'm not sure how big it is (quite possibly not as big as a city). The American racehorse Man o' War has a golf course named after it which is "built around 80-acre lake", and there is also the 17-mile Man o' War Boulevard in Lexington, Kentucky. 

As a part of the Treaty of Versailles, and following the results of the two Schleswig plebiscites held in 1920, the northern part of Schleswig (Zone 1) was returned to Denmark while the central part (Zone 2) remained a part of Germany. The map below shows the percentage of people who voted either way (blue shaded areas for Denmark, pink one for Germany). 

As your answer references the UKs portable antiquities scheme, my answer assumes that, geographically, you are not referring to areas outside western Europe. A comprehensive list of historical periods for different regions of the world can be found here. 

Why did Temujin seek out Ong Khan? Weatherford explains steppe culture further and one reason why Temujin sought out Toghril / Ong Khan 

Other sources: International Trade in British West Africa During the Colonial Era: Sierra Leone, the Gold Coast and the Gambia, by Rebecca Susan Taylor (PhD thesis) West African Agent, by T. R. Young (Heath Cranton, 1942) 

SHORT ANSWER General Gursel wrote in a letter that democracy could not be built on an exceution. Also, he knew the execution would not go down well on the international stage. Further, as a conciliatory figure, he was eager to bring his country together; executing Menderes would undermine national unity. LONG ANSWER The 1960 coup was primarily the work of younger, middle-ranking officers who were pressured into chosing General Gursel to head the National Unity Committe (NUC). Gursel, who at the time was retired but still popular both within and outside the military, was a democrat and, as head of state, immediately set about forming a new, more liberal constitution and a return to democracy. 

Jones also refers to Domitian’s alleged plots against Titus but, nonetheless, he stops short of concluding that Domitian killed Titus, instead noting that 

SHORT ANSWER In general, people in Palmyra dressed either in the Parthian style or the Greco-Roman style; sometimes these styles were mixed. DETAILED ANSWER An important trading centre which derived much of its wealth from the Silk Road, Palmyra was a multi-cultural city, influenced by both east (especially Iran) and west (Greece and Rome). This is reflected in the clothing they wore, but there was also a distinctly local style; in short, it’s a complex picture and generalizing is difficult. As Marybeth Osowski, in Fashioning Identity: Clothing and the Image of the Syrian in the Roman Empire, states: 

Lastly, Veyne, the article The ancient people of Palmyra, and Osowski note the preponderance of jewelry depicted in monuments, and the latter also says that this display of wealth increased noticeably during the 3rd century. 

Source: Sylvester Thus generalizing about why they did or didn't run away is impossible, and there is also the character of the individual to consider - ancient sources refer to some slaves being meek while others were difficult to manage. It is also impossible to say what percentage of slaves ran away, but we do know that some did. 

The main problem in determining whether or not Carthaginian senators served for life lies in the ancient sources. The qualifications of senators and the precise functions of the senate are also far from clear, and even defining the senate itself is difficult as, in the Punic language, 

Source: Steven Gregory, Black Corona: Race and the Politics of Place in an Urban Community Concerning the preferred site for the Langston Hughes Library and Cultural Center, when the owner of a suitable building refused to lease the building, daily pickets were organized 

Source: Robert Dallek, An Unfinished Life: John F. Kennedy, 1917 - 1963 Schlesinger was, according to Robert Kennedy, 

Further west, the ability of Muslims, Christians and Jews to live together in peace up to the 10th century is well-illustrated by Spain: 

Finally, there was an attempt by Caracalla's aunt Julia Maesa to proclaim one of her grandchildren emperor by claiming the boy was the son of Caracalla. Pat Southern, in 'The Roman Empire from Severus to Constantine' relates the story thus: 

Concerning the weight of the shield, we can't be sure exactly and shield designs changed over time. I've seen estimates ranging from 13.5 lbs / 6.12 kgs to 30 lbs / 13.61 kgs, but Hansen (in Hoplites) cites the work of several experts, none of whom estimate the weight of the hoplon at more than 18 lbs / 8.16 kgs, and Sekunda (in The Spartan Army) is also within this range. Estimates for the total weight of shield, body armour and weapons are in the area of 70 lbs / 31.75 kgs so the hoplite had much more than just the weight of his shield to bear. Also, these shields were used primarily to form a protective wall in formation; they were not designed to be swung around (as you often see in the movies), something which would have quickly tired even the strongest Spartan soldier. Other sources: Paul Cartledge, Sparta and Lakonia N. Sekunda & R. Hook, The Spartan Army Victor Davis Hanson (ed), Hoplites R. A. Tomlinson, Argos and the Argolid 

There followed numerous delays as regimes changed and architects died or were removed. At what stage the panorama shows the Arc is impossible to determine - it was completed in 1836 but the main structure was probably in place sometime before then so the panorama could easily be from before then. To summarize, the earliest possible date is 1810 (the replica), while the latest date is hard to determine. THIRD PANORAMA According to the text at the bottom of the Third Panorama, the Hotel des relations extérieures was under construction at the time this image was made. This gives a date of between 1844 and 1856. However, the building may have been misidentified and / or the writing en construction (under construction) may be a mistake (quite possible if it was added more than 50 years after the image was made, as suggested by the First Panorama, assuming the images are from approximately the same date). Evidence for an earliest date comes from the Palais de la Légion d'Honneur, built between 1782 and 1787 but not called the Palais de la Légion d'Honneur until 1804 when it was nationalized by the revolutionary government. A little further along is the Chambre des députés, the name of which was changed to the Corps législatif in 1852 so, unless the text writer was unaware of this change, the date can be no later than 1852. On the far right, is the Pont Louis XVI, now known as the Pont de la Concorde, completed in 1791. The name Pont Loius XVI was used during the Bourbon Restoration (1814 to 1831) but, as it is not uncommon for renamed roads, bridges e.t.c. to be referred to by their previous names for quite some time after an official renaming, one cannot assume that the image dates from no later than 1831. In addition, there is the potential aforementioned problem that the text was added much later. 

Musical instruments were common in Roman armies but were not always used for marching, or even to make music. As this article on Roman Military Brass Instruments notes, musical instruments were regularly used for communication (as was also the case in other armies at other times): 

Another Muslim historian who wrote about the plague was Ahmad Ibn 'Ali al-Maqrizi. His account, in A History of the Ayyubids and Mamluks, was written 60 or 70 years after the event but he knew Ibn Khaldun and likely had access to sources since lost. This is worth quoting at some length as it leaves the reader in no doubt as to the devastation wrought by the plague 1349. The source of this translation is John Aberth, The Black Death: The Great Mortality of 1348-1350 - A Brief History with Documents On the immediate impact of deaths: 

In 1166, Eleanor of Aquitaine, wife of Henry II of England, gave birth to the future King John when she was at least 42 years old (it is more likely she was 43 or 44). Eleanor of Castile, wife of Edward I of England, also gave birth to a future king, Edward II, when she was either 41 or 42. Medical technology means it is now not uncommon for women in their fifties to give birth, but there is also a documented case of a woman of 58 or 59 giving birth to twins in 1818. The case of Julienne Despeigne in 1757 (age 52) seems to be disputed, though. While it is not difficult to find information on the youngest women to give birth in medieval times, there doesn’t seem to be much on the oldest women. The Wikipedia page Pregnancy over age 50 does not list any medieval women, so who comes closest to 50 that we know of? She does not have to be a royal or a noble (though they are more likely to be documented) and the child can be either male or female, but the birth must have been a live one with the child not dying within a few days of birth. Note: This requires that the the mother’s age can be proven to be not later than a certain date and the child’s birth date can be proven to be not earlier than a certain date. In the case of Eleanor of Aquitaine, we know that she was at least 42 as we know that (1) she was not born later than 1124 and (2) John was definitely born in 1166. 

I have found references to a white cross on various backgrounds (red, sky blue, sage green) but nothing (other than Reinel's map and the apparently mistaken reference to Scottish soldiers above) relating to a red cross on a white background. I'm wondering if this red on white representation is based on any evidence of actual use in Scotland, or if it is an error made by Pedro Reinel. Did he perhaps get it mixed up with the flag of St. George? 

The Romans both faced and used dogs in battle. According to Wikipedia, ‘The Roman attack dogs were given metal armour covered in razor-sharp spikes, designed to force the enemy out of formation.’ Another source states that ‘...the Roman Army would routinely deploy its own War Dogs, with whole companies composed entirely of dogs’. For the Middle Ages in Europe, there is much less information. Leaving aside the use of dogs by the conquistatores as it is the Early Modern period and outside Europe, the only citations I've found are in Jared Eglan's Beasts of War, which says 

The best visual evidence we have of clothing in 3rd century AD Palmyra comes from funerary monuments. However, these cannot be considered entirely representative of the population as a whole but rather of the local elite and wealthier residents, most likely wearing their finest clothing. Further, we can’t be sure to what extent these may have been idealized representations of what people actually wore. Lastly, there is the issue of status, and of how people wished to be seen in different social and cultural situations. Generally speaking, there two styles of Palmyrene attire: one is termed Greek or Greco-Roman, the Parthian or sometimes Persian. For Greek or Greco-Roman, the article The ancient people of Palmyra, Syria says: 

Other Sources Pat Southern – Augustus Pat Southern – The Roman Army G.W. Bowersock - Augustus and the Greek World Suetonius - The Life of Augustus John Buchan - Augustus 

Other Source: Philip G. Altbach, Comparative Higher Education: Knowledge, the University, and Development 

Percentage of 'Yes' votes in the 1958 Referendum in French West Africa by territory. Map source: $URL$ (edited). Data source: various Wikipedia articles. Sekou Toure actually favoured a union of former French colonies but he saw French involvement in African affairs (as per the 1958 constitution) as exploitative. 

Although not the oldest named horse, Kanthaka is worth mentioning as there is some information on him (though how reliable is debatable). Kanthaka, the favourite horse of Prince Siddhartha, later and better known as Gautama Buddha. Prince Siddhartha is believed to have been born no later than 480 BC (died 400 BC), but maybe as early as 563 BC (died 483 BC). According to the article Kanthaka, Horse of Buddha, 

SHORT ANSWER There are conflicting views as to what almost led to the death of Augustus in early 23 BC. It is unlikely that we will ever know for sure, but the main suspects are liver problems, a fever or plague afflicting Rome at the time or a combination of life-long health problems and stress. FULL ANSWER 1. Liver problems. Suetonius connects Augustus’ illness to his liver: 

Another reference to water parties can be found in Sports in the Western World which mentions that members of the Cumberland Fleet (a yacht club founded in 1775 and named after George III's brother, the Duke of Cumberland) 

There are a number of sources which state quite clearly that slaves could use the public baths. First, this from a blog from the University of Kent: 

Doe's repressive regime came to an end in 1990 when he was killed (brutally - he was videoed being tortured and then decapacitated) by a breakaway faction of Charles Taylor's guerrilla army. 

Getting back to the Ottomans, Inalcik, referring to why camels were so valuable to the Ottoman army, states that: 

Among the cartoons and prints relating to the Boston Tea party is this British one Published by Sayer & Bennett (London, October 31, 1774) (Robert Sayer and John Bennett were Fleet St. publishers): 

Why did Ong Khan offer Temujin a position? Toghril’s (Ong Khan) acceptance of Temujin (Genghis Khan) as his ‘foster son’ held advantages for both men, and Toghril’s relationship or ‘ceremonial kinship’ with Temujin’s deceased father (they had been andas or blood brothers) made the ‘alliance’ all the more likely. On the latter point, Jack Weatherford, in Genghis Khan and the Making of the Modern World says: 

The assertion that an ox wasn’t much larger than a calf is unsatisfactory (perhaps even dubious): the size of a calf obviously depends on its age and some breeds (e.g. Limousin) are much larger than others (e.g. Jersey) - I grew up on a farm so I know a little about this. Wikipedia has this image of Anglo-Saxon ploughmen but I’m not sure how reliable the scale is (and the animals’ faces are a little odd!). 

ATHENS IN THE CLASSICAL PERIOD The importance of the the mines of Laurion to Athens is well stated by Robin Osborne in Classical Greece 500 - 323 BC. On the importance of this in resisting the Persian invasion: 

Other stops along the coast the way may have been at places such as Tabou, Sassandra, Grand Lahou, Abidjan, Grand Bassam (all in modern day Cote d'Ivoire, then a French colony but with several British trading posts), Half Assini, Axim, and Sekondi and/or Takoradi (all in modern day Ghana). Whether this particular troop-carrying ship would have stopped at many of these places is hard to tell - ships stopped if there was a delivery to be made, or if there was someone or something to be taken aboard. It should be noted that there are very few natural deep-water ports along the West African coast (I think only Takoradi of the aforementioned possible stopping points had one) so, using surf boats and canoes, 

Translation: It must be understood that the notion of nationality did not exist at the heart of the French Revolution. Neither the word 'nationality' nor the word 'citizenship' were used at the time. Men and women used a series of expressions such as "the right of the citizen", sometimes "the rights of French citizen", the "quality" or the "title" of French ", the "title of citizen", etc. But this word "citizen" effectively effaced the distinctions between legal affiliation to the nation, patriotic engagement and the exercise of political rights, and that, as early as 1789, even before there was a real constitution... We understand that the only constraint to this definition of political identity is a constraint of place and opinion, of adhesion, not a constraint of blood or even legal nationality, not a constraint of long acculturation either, because this membership can be immediate whatever his personal history, Although this is not conclusive, it would appear that everyone was, theoretically at least, referred to as 'citizen' (citoyen, citoyenne), regardless of nationality. How much consistency there was in this, even when referring to people who could not be considered foreign, is debatable. Jean-Paul Marat, described as "one of the most radical voices of the French Revolution" published a letter in his publication l’Ami du Peuple (10 December 1790) which uses 'monsieur'. Marat himself used 'M. Necker' (M. = monsieur - Jacques Necker was a Swiss German banker) when denouncing the deposed Louis XVI's finance minister. On the other hand, Louis XVI was referred to as 'Citoyen Louis Capet'.