The only way I can think of... A binary star But, let's assume that our Earth-like planet had an axial tilt of 90 degrees, was (probably magically) tidally locked such that one pole always faced the central star, and a second star was outside the orbit of the planet and orbited at such speed that a straight line could always be drawn through the planet between the stars... Yup, I'm stretching credulity, but bear with me... Then you have the ability for the ice belt you're looking for. You should probably expect people to suspend their disbelief with this one. But, we were happy to suspend our disbelief during Star Wars when a massive-enough-to-affect-solar-system-orbits Death Star rolled in to blow away Alderan... so you're good! 

IMHO, a story involving planet movers is handwaving. That doesn't mean it can't be enjoyable. It only means our understanding of physics today doesn't allow it at all. Frankly, this list and a fair number more relating to #7 is why megastructures liky Dyson-anythings have not, do not, and will not ever exist. The cost of performing the action far outweighs the value of doing it. 

Your average ER would freak out. I mean seriously freak out. Granted, if the shapeshifter turned into a bunny, the freaking wouldn't be so great as if it were a more aggresive creature, but there would be freaking. And I doubt it would be as cultured as Fonzie meeting Mork freaking. And when they were done freaking, there would be police... lots and lots of police. Who would then freak. At this point you have a 50/50 chance. They might tase the shapeshifter, or they might shoot it. Shooting it isn't very fun, let's tase it. Once the shapeshifter is subdued, it would be caged. Having determined the minimum bar spacing from the animal (a rabbit would need, what, 2" spacing?) an appropriate cage would be constructed. At which point the local university would be called to investigate the creature. They'd freak. But not before the yet-to-be-announced-by-Snowden big brother of Cyberhawk is used by the NSA to intercept the call, identify the phrase, "it's a freaking monster!" and react by dispatching NSA agents, who are inevitably dressed in black and drive unmarked and unlicensed SUVs. They don't freak. They very politely take posession of said shapeshifter, neuralyze everyone so they don't remember what happened, leave them with a passible subliminal message about what caused the mess (light reflecting off of venus cast a bunny-shaped shadow on the wall, causing that nurse over there to freak. Maybe she needs counselling for her leporiphobia.), and leave. After which your shapeshifter begins to freak. About two years after that Guillermo del Toro would create a movie loosely based on the incident with remarkably slender oriental women playing nurses and equally remarkably buff Australian men playing the NSA agents with a 3-tone musical score you can't keep out of your head and make bazillions of dollars — not one penny of which will go to your shapeshifting rabbit. This probably wasn't the answer you were looking for... but I couldn't help myself. 

First and foremost, this creature must avoid gravity wells or it will not survive. The moon affects the earth and vice-versa. This creature grew large enough to consume the moon. It is officially large enough to affect the orbits of planets, which means it's large enough for distant planets to affect it. Approaching a star would tear it apart. Heck, approaching planets might tear it and the planet apart. So, rule #1, it's now a deep-space-only critter. Second, you're a radiation converter In deep space you're living on cosmic radiation and dust. That's pretty thin. You could work around black holes or areas with strong gravitational shear if you had some way of converting gravitic or kinetic force into energy. Since you're big enough to disrupt orbits, if you found a star with no planets (or ate the planets) you could park in orbit around the start and convert the solar wind. Or you could park around a pulsar or quasar to the same effect. Or you could inhabit nebula and absorb the matter and energy, in which case you're a fission engine, a carbon fission engine (consider this but realise that it only works with super-massive objects.... objects that burn....) 

In other words, it would be easier to make an operating internal combustion engine with alcohol, even if it wasn't as efficient as gasoline. Conclusion I believe it is completely believable to describe (for instance) an alternate history where the internal combustion engine stole steam's thunder. Make coal a scarce commodity and steam would have been relegated to something interesting. However, when you analyze the whole effect it might have had on history — the anser is ultimately "none." Remember that technological development is a pyramid, with "today" at the top and an absolute mountain of knowledge, experience, perserverance, and luck beneath it. You're talking about plucking combustion engines from where they were in that mountain and moving them a bit further down the slope. Yes, that would have changed a few things nearby, but ultimately, the shape of the mountain would have remained the same. After all, the line between steam and internal combustion engines and modern computers is mighty thin, if it exists at all (turbines for electricity were an altogether different branch of study). So, nada, zilch. No impact on society at all, other than maybe to have the 1964 Corvette in 1954 instead. 

are you looking for names, or relationships? Volt, ampere, watt, and ohm all take their names from the people who discovered the fundamental concept and the basic realtionship between these aspects of electricity. 

You control the tunnel, they're easier to defend. You can tunnel anywhere you like. You are unaffected by weather (depending on the quality of your tunneling). 

That really only leaves two reasons. I'm Offended! Your official "I'm just out studying the pulsar" crew comes across an alien species and in a classic, "What? Open gun ports are a sign of PEACE?" moment blew away the theoretically hostile aliens, thereby starting an interstellar war. You'd think diplomats could work this out with an appropriate sacrifice of human virgins, but in the world of Sci-Fi, war is almost always the result. Hate You Chaka! My moving tribute to Deathworld II by Harry Harrison reflects one of the most primal urges of all (obviously) intelligent species... the desire to not like your neighbor. We hate the Klingons, the Klingons hate us, punt the diplomats, this is war, baby! 

Agriculture is absolutely required Photosynthesis doesn't nourish a plant. In fact, photosynthesis requires carbon dioxide, water, and sunlight to produce sugar (glucose) and oxygen. So, what changes in society? Not much. (a) The sugar industry (and along with it the confection and soft drink industries) is non-existent. (b) There's a bit less global warming. (c) Humans would be capable of somewhat larger bursts of speed/strength due to the higher availability of glucose. (d) Our buildings would be built to permit light much more than they are now. Basements would be all but nonexistent. (e) I suspect there would be much less variance in skin color. (f) Locking a child in a room would move from a class A misdemeanor to a class B felony. That's about it. As for the impetus for technological development, you seem to be forgetting the entire industrial revolution, of which the agricultural revolution was only a part. The closest comparision I can think of off hand is the development of northern snow-laden people vs. the equatorial people who live in warmer climates. The short growing season and long period to think during the winter breeds new ideas. Since photosynthesis doesn't relieve us of the need to eat, the impetus is still alive and strong. 

The most obvious solution is salting or brining the meat. This requires your adverturer haul salt around, which is a rock, so it's a bit heavy — depending on how long he needs to do this. A pound of salt will cure at least 48 pounds of meat. However, this site reports that the following herbs and berries can be used to cure meat: aronia (chokeberry), horseradish, ramson, red currant, savoury, sage, sloe and cranberry. This is actually a really cool idea for your story as few people would know this could be done. 

Michigan's future has always been tied to transport. Touching four of the great lakes (water and transport) and having a land connection with Canada (international trade) sets Michigan up to become the transport center for the entire North-Central U.S. and South-Central Canada. While not the most mineral-rich, timber-rich, or farming-rich state in the Union, it nevertheless boasts considerable access to all three. Combined with the strong building development needed to support these strengths, manufacturing is a nearly unavoidable byproduct. It's obvious in light of these strengths why automobiles landed in Michigan and not, for example, in Nevada. I suspect that if you look more broadly at Michigan, you will discover that automobiles are simply the most visible aspect of its manufacturing base. Which causes me to continue looking at transport. Non-oceanic water shipping, rail, and airplanes come to mind. Indeed, as a consideration for alternative history, let's assume the following (from the Encylopedia Britannica): 

To be fair, true self-awareness suggests the ability to perceive one's self as valuable. We fight against becoming "throw away people" because we believe ourselves to be intrinsically valuable and, therefore, deserving of something better. So, when does that line get crossed by an android? The moment the programming allows it to send in a less valuable automoton than itself because it only costs thousands compared to the android's millions. Is this true sentience? No. But it's close enough for government work. And how do you justify the risk to humanity? Convenience. They don't want to be the people in the mines. 

This question has been fundamentally answered on Physics.SE. From that site we learn that the energy needed to replace the Earth's magnetic field is: 

Yes But the one and only way you are assured to do it is to destroy everyone but the Sentinelese (See also...). The Sentinelese are believed to be the last pre-neolithic tribe in the world. They literally are stone-age people. If they were the only people to remain, the world would be pushed back to the stone age. There are (perhaps) a few other uncontacted peoples in the world who, if they survived, would become stone-age throwbacks. However, most are gone and none of those remaining are untainted. Nevertheless, any that still survive might also be the basis for a story (but only the Sentinelese could guarantee it). However, if anyone else survives, you'll get a hybrid of the 1500s and the 1900s depending on what mix of skill sets and technological resources survived. To be honest, it's realitively easy to retain basic metallurgy and manufacturing. Unless you magically killed all the adults, you'd be back to basic automobiles, functioning steam trains, and locally-generated electricity fairly quickly. 

It's hard to conceive of a believable solution involving gravitics. However, so long as you're not married to a gravitic solution: Gas The creature could have a bladder inflated with a lighter-than-air gas that allows it to float in the atmosphere. Wings would provide propulsion. Alloyed bones, enhanced muscles A creature that can already fly in the atmosphere of said planet could be modified to strengthen bones and muscles to carry loads. The Anne McCaffrey Solution Finally, how scientifically-based does this need to be? McCaffrey's Dragon Riders of Pern books have people riding dragons. You can't get much more scientifically unbelievable — but she sold a boatload of books. A giant bird with wings that naturally evolved on the planet solves your problem without the hoopla. 

If two species can see the same single frequency, a frequency that we might call "red," we could point at it and say "red" and the other species could point at it and say "Qw'mGGGrsk!" (and then we hope like crazy that what the critter said translates to "red" and not "that's really ugly" or "why did you show me this?" or "Yeah... it looks a bit like you when we step on you"). To be honest, the ability to see a wider spectrum would have nothing to do with buildings other than what colors they're painted. Building architecture has pretty much everything to do with how a creature manipulates its world. IF your intelligent shrimp can find pigments that reflect colors we can't see, they might use them in art... and we wouldn't see the colors. They might point to a canvas that looks blank to us (because we can't see the color) and, asking us what we think of their 9-year-old daughter's art, we might say something that starts an intergalactic war. Remember, in our world, we can't see reflected microwave transmissions. They might see a blaze of color as those transmissions bounce off of metal, or mountains, or whatever else microwaves bounce off of. If our broadcast amplitude is high enough, it might appear bright — like the sun. If it's low enough, they would give everything a new highlight color. The same for lower frequencies. But, in the end, we wouldn't see a thing. The world around us would look just like our world — we simply wouldn't see what they can see and so would make the same mistakes a color blind person would in our world if not accomodated. For example, color blind people need to care about which light is on at an intersection because the green and red lights look the same to them. Can you imagine what would happen if your intelligent shrimp painted the restroom signs in microwave colors? We wouldn't even see the signs. The bar keep would say, "yeah, the restrooms are over there," and we'd have a 50/50 shot of not getting the snot beaten out of us. (And the later embarrasment of explaining to our friends how we were savaged by a shrimp....)