It will never get past the mantle. The tungsten (or tungsten carbide) will chemically react with the rocks surrounding it to dissolve and form other minerals (silicates), or even worse: get diluted to trace levels in mantle minerals. Compare this with dropping some grains of salt in the ocean and asking when they will arrive to the sea floor. Your block of tungsten will probably need to be on the scale of tens of metres or more (km?) to escape that. Furthermore, the mantle is convecting so it will keep your thing from sinking directly down. Compare with leaves falling from a tree in a thunderstorm. This will encourage the chemical mixing I mentioned before. 

The iridium anomaly marks the elevated concentration of iridium in sedimentary deposits of the Cretaceous-Paleogene boundary. The iridium is said to come from the impactor, which is supposed to have much higher iridium contents than Earth's crust. What about other metals? Is there an observed increase of other elements as well? For example, osmium is another extremely rare element in the crust. Is there an osmium anomaly as well? If not, why is the anomaly restricted to iridium and not the other metals? 

Hematite is not the answer, but calcite is. The inclusions are not cubic, they are rhombohedral. This is precisely how calcite looks like. 

This can happen precisely because the magma is at such depths. Think of CO2 in soda or coke. When the drink is closed and pressurised, the CO2 is dissolved in the liquid. This means it's part of one physical phase. There is one "thing" that contains the liquid and the CO2 together: the CO2 is not a gas! Only when you open the bottle, the CO2 can escape being dissolved in the liquid, and separates from the liquid as a distinct gas phase. The same thing happens in magmas. While the magmas are pressurised at depths they have water dissolved in them. Note that this water is not separate liquid water or vapour flowing around the magma. It is inside the magma in one physical entity. Think of dissolving salt in water - you can't see salt grains but it's there. Anyway, once the magma rises it loses pressure. This causes the water to separate out from the magma into a distinct vapour phase that rises and expands rapidly, causing the explosive eruption. 

This is a terrible blurred and out of focus photograph, and yet the thing on the top looks very much like pyrite - iron sulfide, also known as "fool's gold". It can be easily confirmed if the smaller shiny bronzy thingies are cubic. 

This shouldn't be too hard to figure out. There are databases that contain this information, webmineral is one of them. Here an example mineral called lewisite where you can see: Space Group: F d3m . Unfortunately, that website does not aggregate space group data. Maybe it's possible to contact the people who run the website to see if it's possible to add this feature. 

No, they do not. Lava lakes require the lava to have low viscosity (that is, be very fluid or water like). If you look at the Wikipedia article for Lava lake, you will see that "basalt" or "phonolite" are mentioned. Those are indeed types of lavas (actually rock) that are very fluid. These are the kind of lava that end up forming lava flows. On the other hand, there are other types of lavas that do not flow, because their viscosity is too high: rhyolite is one example. Explosive volcanoes (think Mt St Helens) are explosive (mostly) because of the high viscosity of the lava. Therefore, volcanoes erupting explosively (almost) never have lava lakes, because the lava itself is not fluid enough to make a lake. 

Not accurate. Both olivine and kaolinite are stable over a very wide oxidation states. Doing the charge-balance math shows that the silica exists as Si4+ in all silicates. If anything, olivine is a reduced formed (it has Fe2+) and is not stable on the surface as it oxidises ("rusts"). 

(source) Note the red, brown and pink colors. This is however not the arc volcanism you were referring to but rather ocean floor volcanism in a spreading center setting. As for your question, why there isn't any arc volcanism in Troodos, the answer is simply that it wasn't hot enough. Let's put the question of where the water comes from aside, and concentrate on what happens when water meets an ultramafic rock, which is what mantle rocks are. 

Polymorphs. Quartz or coesite, calcite or aragonite. They will have the same composition. But ideally you have some prior information on the rock so you know what to expect. X-ray energy overlap. Some elements overlap in the energies, for example Mo, Pb and S. You will only get one peak for them, making it hard to distinguish. But, usually galena (PbS) and molybdenite (MoS2) look so different, so it shouldn't be too hard. Another example is Ti and Ba. If you analyse a feldspar and you get some Ti, it's most likely to be Ba because that's what goes into feldspar, not Ti. Light elements. It's not possible to analyse Li and Be so no spodumene or beryl. 

(source: $URL$ You can see that they are distributed all over the Earth. Some are obvious, such as the ones near New Zealand, because they occur on top of a convergent boundary (i.e. a subduction zone). Some are less obvious, for instance the ophiolites in Russia's Ural that sits in the middle of the continent. What this ophiolite represents is the past occurrence of oceanic crust between the west and east Eurasian continental plate, which amalgamated owing to the subduction of that (now long gone) oceanic lithosphere. Here's an example of how it happens: 

Looks like a cylindrical chert concretion, which was originally hosted in limestone or chalk or something like that. Here are some pictures of similar rocks. You can try dropping some vinegar on the white parts and see if it fizzes, and try scratching the brown shiny part with a knife (it will not scratch) for a confirmation. 

(source) You can see that serpentine is stable at temperatures lower than 600°C, and even lower at (the more relevant for our case) low pressures. At higher temperatures serpentine is not stable anymore and the stable mineral is olivine (a rock forming mineral in lherzolite and harzburgite). Olivine is a dry mineral, so what happens to all the water? The water acts to lower the temperature needed to melt the mantle rocks. You can see the dry versus the wet solidus (the temperature in which a rock begins to melt) in the following diagram. 

Yes, but no. It highly depends on the circumstances. As Fred said in his answer, there are several types of magma. Some might flow almost like water while others might fragment and explode. You really want to know what kind of magma is inside the magma chamber before you release it. A possible thing to do, for example in Hawaii, is to force the magma to flow to the ocean or to a place where it will not flow over things we care about (houses, roads, people, etc). This might not always be possible, based on geometrical and topographical constraints. In areas where the magma is explosive, this might actually be a bad idea. It might not even work - I asked a friend of mine who deals with this kind of stuff and he said that if the hole is not wide enough (= at least several metres) magma will just flow in, solidify and plug the hole. Drill holes are usually centimetres wide, not metres. If you want to blow it up, you need quite a lot of stuff because this stuff might be deep: digging a hole severel metres wide 10s of metres deep is not something that's easy to do. Another problem is that you don't always know what kind of magma is there. You can have a guess, you can estimate it based on geophysical techniques, but sometimes you just don't know until it erupts. Even if you do, we still don't entirely understand the physics of how and why volcanos erupt. This is an active area of research and you don't want to do something that's potentially hazardous without understanding how it works. 

I'll add a bit to Gordon's answer. Andesite usually contains several large crystals (that can be pyroxene, plagioclase, olivine, or any combination of these). Their sizes can be up to several mm. These crystals will be set in a groundmass (also called matrix) of either very fine crystals of all of the other minerals Gordon mentioned, volcanic glass, or both. When you break it mechanically, it will tend to break along mineral grains. Depending on the final size you break the grains to, you might end up with individual grains of each mineral. There is a good chance that some of the groundmass will stick to the larger grains, or that there will be inclusions of other minerals inside the larger minerals. The finer you break it down, the higher chances that each individual grain will be only one mineral (or glass). If required, there are then methods to separate the minerals to have an almost pure fractions of each mineral. For example, magnetic separation will separate oxides from silicates, and it will separate iron-bearing silicates from iron-absent silicates. This is a very time consuming process. Heavy liquids is another methods for separating the minerals. As Gordon said, the rock is around 60% SiO2, but this this is not in the form of quartz (the mineral with the formula SiO2), but rather bound in silicates, such as plagioclase (CaAl2Si2O8) or clinopyroxene (CaMgSi2O6). Separating the chemical SiO2 from these minerals to produce commercial grade SiO2 is very hard, expensive, and pointless. It is much easier to get SiO2 from sandstones, beach sand, and quartzites, most of them are almost pure SiO2 in the form of quartz. This is the case because the chemical grade SiO2 we use in our own lab has small but higher than expected amounts of ZrO2 in it. This basically means that it has a tiny bit of zircon (ZrSiO4) in it. This is a mineral that's extremely resistant to chemical attack, and it accumulates in sedimentary detrital rocks, for example sandstone. Gives you an idea on where the SiO2 used to make it came from... 

I'd like to add a few points to Gordon's answer. First of all, Masada is on the western edge of the Judea Desert, and therefore it is dry now and was extremely dry back then. The water supply to it was based on abundant water reservoirs that were built in and around Masada to trap flood water. Here is one (source): 

It's biotite. Not muscovite. That's why you have the pleochroic halos in it. I don't understand why you are saying that the interference colours are like muscovite. First of all, the lack of cleavage suggests you are looking down (or close to) the x axis, so this means the interference colours you see are going to be very low. Let's say 1st order white or brown. And then, it's going to get the anomalous brown colour of the biotite together with it, which is exactly what you see here. Also, muscovite is not brown in ppl. This one is. Therefore, it's biotite. 

The metal composition of the magma will not change drastically. By metal I mean the basic constituents of the rock: mostly silicon but also iron, calcium, aluminum, magnesium, etc. I will add that there are processes that can affect metal composition (chiefly mineral fractionation) but I think its influence is minor when you're talking the the uppermost part of the volcano where it erupts. What can and does change is the volatile composition. The magma is depleted of gases. Take for example a bottle of coke. When you open it, the CO2 bubbles out. The coke itself remains coke, but its chemistry changes a bit (and it tastes bad) because the CO2 is out. The magma may also change oxidation state. This, together with the volatile degassing may eventually affect the minerals that crystallise from the magma. 

Not really. Injecting magma into oil may cause some of it to boil or evaporate, causing expansion and possibly fracturing. But the magma is already fracturing the rock anyway. The oil itself is not going to burn or explode, because this requires oxygen that is not readily available underground. The oil can reduce the iron in the magma, thus being oxidised to CO2 (and forming metallic iron). This is probably not going to make much of a difference if the oil was decomposed to methane, which is another gas. This might ignite if carried to the surface with the magma, but I doubt that it's going to do anything more spectacular the magma itself will. 

Most minerals are rare because of two reasons: They are not rare, but they inaccessible, or they require very unusual conditions to form. There are some very common minerals in Earth or the universe that we hardly get to see. One of them is moissanite, or silicon carbide (SiC). Both silicon and carbon are very common elements in the universe and they commonly combine to form this mineral. On Earth, however, there is abundant oxygen and both silicon and carbon combine with it instead, so it's rare on Earth. The problem is that space is out there in space, so while it's common in the universe it's rare for us on the surface of our planet. Another example is ringwoodite, the high pressure analogue of olivine. Olivine is one of the most common minerals in the crust, and ringwoodite is one of the most common minerals in the mantle. However, we rarely get to see it up on the surface. As for minerals that require unusual conditions (on Earth), that would be the majority of minerals. The four most important parameters for mineral formation are temperature, pressure (equivalent to depth), chemical environment (i.e. what elements are available) and oxygen fugacity (a measure of how oxidising an environment is). Because a lot of the rocks in the crust form in just a few combinations of these four parameters, few minerals comprise most of the minerals by volume. But then, you can deviate each one of those parameters in so many different combinations, each deviation causing the formation of a different mineral that would be extremely rare. Here's an example: Tellurium is a rare element, but it forms rather common minerals together with silver and gold. Sylvanite ((Ag,Au)Te2) and petzite (Ag3AuTe2) are probably the two most common. Notice how there is no oxygen there: that's because the geological environments you find tellurium are not those you usually find (enough) oxygen. These minerals are called tellurides. But what if you do find oxygen? You end up having minerals with tellurium and oxygen, and those are names tellurates. These minerals are less common. What if we add some more elements that are even more rare? The Aga Mine in California is one such case where you have tellurium, oxygen, and the addition of the rare lead and copper. This causes for formation of lead-copper-tellurates, extremely rare minerals that occur in only that single mine. Look at the list of minerals found in that mine! Every mineral in bold and (TL) in its name is found only in that single mine. All of them are lead-copper-tellurates, with various proportions of the elements.