For road bike tyres you need a pressure gauge -- pumped up so they feel hard to the touch, the tyres could well be at their lower pressure limit. You say it's an XL frame; guessing that you're normally proportioned that could be a fair bit of weight on the back in particular (I'm at the big end for XL bikes, so I don't mean anything negative). That makes it more important to pump the tyres up properly than for a lighter rider (the ideal pressure is higher and therefore air is lost faster). It also makes it more important to look after the bike over potholes etc., by standing up on the pedals if you can't avoid the hit. That bike ships with 25mm tyres. Running just a touch bigger (28mm) can make a big difference to how long the tyres hold pressure (as can thicker tubes or butyl instead of latex). Depending on the rim width you might win in other ways on a bigger tyre too (absorbing shocks). What width tyres did your old bikes have? If not all of your punctures are pinch flats, tougher tyres would be worth it too. 

Front rims tend to stay cleaner than back rims, and dirt is abrasive so (as well as being good technique) a preference for the front brake will extend the life of your pads. On downhills it's a bit different - heat is an issue not just for pad life but for safety. Hills round here tend towards short and sharp, so I use the back brake (lightly) for not going faster and keep the front for stopping. On longer descents I rest the back brake by giving the front a turn. There are good reasons to avoid going fast-slow-fast-slow: 

You need to be moving (and pedalling) to change gears on a bike with derailleurs. So you should try to change down before stopping, to a small gear at the front and a big gear at the back. The front gear are often labelled L...H for low to high, while the back gears are 1...8 (or anywhere between 5 and 11 depending on how many cogs you have) -- again low to high. If you try to select a different gear and then backpedal before it engages the drive train can lock up; this is probably why you can't backpedal if you changed down without pedalling forwards. You can lift the back wheel and spin the pedals in the normal forward direction (by foot or hand, whatever's easier) to change gear while stationary. 

Much of the drop you see will be due to the reconnection, not the disconnection. When you disconnect the pump you have 120psi in the tyre and the hose, gauge and a little bit of pump. This immediately drops to zero (as these are all gauge pressures). Most of the hissing you hear is this air leaving the system When you reconnect the 0 psi in the hose etc. is averaged with the 120 psi in the tyre, weighted by their volumes (a slight approximation but it will do). You can test this as you have Schrader. You can get a little tyre pressure gauge from a car parts shop that has very little volume inside (do the experiment at at lower pressure if it doesn't go to 120psi). Pump up the tyre. Measure the pressure with the gauge a few times, nothing the pressure each time. Connect and disconnect the pump. Measure with the gauge again. Repeat until you're convinced. 

The Jeep is a giveaway. There really was a Raleigh Jeep. It's on page 7 of this 1971 catalogue. You're right, it was meant for girls. That massive headlight isn't original. Otherwise it's a nice looking bike that needs some work. 

Google maps probably treats roads as not having any width, and corners as point turns. Unlike bends, if you zoom in you tend to see a sharp 90 degree change in line on a curve This will cost you the length of the arc you really take. It certainly omits all the lane changes, obstacle avoidance and similar manoeuvres. However there is some variation in tyres - particularly some of the anti-puncture tyres have a bit of extra thickness; inflation vs. weight on the wheel will also have an effect. So you're better off seeing the wheel circumference based on counting the wheel revolutions over an accurately-measured straight line. 

Sheldon goes into some detail on this. Having the pedals 180° out of sync would lead to a couple of problems: 

There's an annoying/useful bit of space under each of the bottle holders on all of my bikes; I currently strap a spare tube there (which keeps the right tube on the right bike). The tube is in a bag but the bag tends to snag and rip, and dirt/grit gets in. It also doesn't look very nice. I should be able to make much better use of this space, to hold more than just a tube, and hold it better 

Which are all interlinked: a problem you can't fix can cost you a lot in getting home; using your commute and errands as training time saves petrol or public transport fares (I assume you've optimised this) So immediate purchases should be 

If it's bad luck, it's very bad luck. Some of those are issues I haven't faced in 30 000 miles (handlebars and BB shouldn't work loose). Mudguard and chain case issues could probably be fixed with self-locking nuts (they work loose, then the flexing causes breakages). The loose cranks and a few of the other issues sound like they weren't properly tightened in the first place, but I like to tighten them after a test ride and again after a few days. Muck in the gears can cause similar problems to misalignment, and it can be hard to get them clean. Brake pads wear; slightly more expensive pads can last longer. They can also help with squealing, but sometimes you can't stop that. Punctures happen but anti-puncture tyres can make them rare. With basic tools you can sort out a lot of things when you first detect a rattle or squeak,and make minor adjustments. Tyre pressures are another thing you need to check yourself. I've found that bike sold by reputable bike shops, so while it's cheap, it's not junk. It's just the sort of thing that's good for a new commuter on short routes. I wonder if your riding conditions are harder than you think. Potholes in particular can be really jarring, worse than what you'd find on a lot of dirt roads. 

I use IPbike for Android. It has strava upload in case you want it but also gives you files in sensible formats by sensible means. It's got sensor integration but I use it with only GPS. You can give it a good try before you buy. The author is no stranger to this site; despite being almost a neighbour of mine according to play store, I've no connection (except for having eventually bought the software) 

So a bike weighing 10 kg would lead to somewhere between 8.6 (steel) and 200 (aluminium, refined using coal power) kg of CO2 emitted. I couldn't quickly find reliable figures for carbon fibre or rubber, but metals are very likely to dominate based on the share of the mass in a bike, and the market share of bike frames. Compared to an efficient car with 100 g/km of CO2 emissions, you'd have to replace 860 to 2000 km of driving with cycling for the emissions of making the bike to offset the emissions of using the car. This is a small enough distance that we can neglect other consumables. While not a direct comparison it's a helpful one -- many people have a car and are being encouraged to get a bike and use it. Food makes things interesting. Strava claims I burn 26 Cal/km on a hilly ride. If I got that from eating beef alone (as a worst case), that would be something like 10 g of beef per km, or apparently 270 g CO2e per km. Of course we all know carbs are much better for powering our rides; typical sources are 10× better than beef. 

This won't help with cosmetic surface rust, but you should consider how the dirty water that gums up the mechanism gets in there. If you can lock up so that water would drain out rather than into the keyhole and latch hole, that would help. Under cover is even better but sometimes that's not an option. Riding along you have to consider water flicked up as well. In fact that's the worst sort as it's usually got tiny bits of grit in it. Many frame mounts for locks don't help in this regard as they put the lock in places that get very wet with spray. 

Example (though the question is meant to be a general one): For rides of a century (160 km) or more I attempt to do it properly rather than just scoffing a big plate of pasta the night before. For shorter (e.g. 100 km) rides I might or might not bother. A week from now I've got a 100 km ride on the Saturday afternoon followed by 200 km on the Sunday. I'm not planning to set any PRs and it's not going to be hilly but for the first and last 100 km I'll be loaded for camping, so I reckon on 5--6 hours door-to-door the first day and 11-12 the second. I have a reasonable tolerance for gels, but get on better mixing them with real food. 

The light body is about 60mm long, and the reflector is in approximately the right proportions. I mocked it up with cardboard first, before using some 1mm plate - it's tucked away under the bars, under a front bag mount and all edge and corners are nicely rounded off. The mounting underneath the handlebar is another issue -- overly reflective silver-grey brake and gear cables right in front of the light if it sat on top of the bars. It's not quite as good as it was before I tweaked the handlebar angle. On (slight) riser bars using the riser as intended I had it tipped up on the left to illuminate roadside signs (UK). I've twisted the bars so the rise points forwards at about 45° and the aim isn't quite what I'd like. I promised pictures: 

One time I find gels useful is if I'm wearing full-finger gloves -- they're easier to get into than most actual food, and easier to hold while riding (but I'm on drop bars, on road). I'm still experimenting myself with nutrition strategies, given that a long ride can burn more than twice as much energy as a person can store as glycogen. 

I came off this morning* on a road I ride every day, in all weather conditions. Last night was frosty so the road was salted/gritted, but there was no visible frost nearby, it had warmed up from the overnight minimum, and the road is quite heavily used, both warming it and grinding the salt into the surface. But the road was damp. So why would a salty, damp road be worse than the same road just damp? More info, just in case it's of interest: I was only doing about 20km/h and I've taken that bend faster in the wet before, on the same tyres when running late for my train. I was following a racing line (outside-inside-outside) so although it's a fairly tight bend my line wasn't tight. I don't believe I just hit an oily patch. It felt slippery underfoot (walkable SPDs) when I picked myself up having slid a little way. Also I take pretty much the same line every day. It was about 8.9 km into this ride. 

For most parts of the body a second layer of moderately wind-blocking fabric makes a massive difference -- so another pair of unpadded cycling shorts would go a long way. The rain is likely to have been part of the issue though -- windchill on wet skin (or wet porous fabric) is a big deal. Waterproof overtrousers would deal with that but tend to get very sweaty. I've failed to find waterproof shorts in the past, but have ridden in waterproof trousers rolled up inside to act as shorts (still too warm for me, but might work for you) 

You might want to give us an idea of the distance but my wife has recently bought a freego hawk for a commute of 11km each way (about 2/3 your distance and flatter). The specs and list price are not disimilar. She's a little taller but this is a fairly forgiving frame layout. She gets 2 days round trips with the battery still showing 1/4 to 1/2 full, pedalling all the way, and it's knocked about 1/6 off her commute compared to a mountain bike with city tyres after doing that for some time, and is still less tired. Note that in the UK the motor must by law cut out if you go >15mph. This extends the range at the expense of speed, as does the lower wattage motor generally used here. If your girlfriend could ride it on a normal bike (MTB/city bike) in the same sort of time google says without practicing (~1.5hours), she might get under an hour on an e-bike assuming traffic lights etc don't take up too much of the time. If she'll be stuck behind other bikes or in traffic then it won't be much quicker than riding normally. Some questions for you to consider: 

When towing a trailer of no more than 40% of the weight of me+bike up a gravel road I've encountered one issue that's probably quite common. This is wheelspin. The back wheel needs enough grip to propel the bike and trailer with all the weight that involves up the hill against the rolling resistance of 4 wheels, two of them small and with bearings that aren't as good as bike wheels. When one of the 3 non-drive wheels hits resistance - even just a larger than normal stone, the back wheel can lose grip. The trailer should have a little nose weight but this isn't enough to make the difference. In this specific case the same slope was easy without the trailer, even deliberately hitting bumps with the front wheel. This was in a hybrid with marathon plus tyres - fairly narrow and slick. MTB tyres would be a good idea if riding with a trailer on gravel habitually, even if your normal tyres would be fine without the trailer. Incidentally a rear mounted seat adds grip by adding load to the back wheel, and doesn't add (much) rolling resistance. I've tackled much worse with the seat on the back. 

One issue is heel clearance. You can normally sort this out but not with large panniers especially with big feet. A bigger issue is fitting a rack. Your options are very limited if you have rear suspension (including low weight limits); even disc brakes are a restriction, though not as much in the last few years. Panniers also add quite a bit of width where you don't want it on narrow trails. Typical bikepacking bags are narrower and often higher. On steep uphills you don't want too much weight at the back - the front wheel will lose grip or even contact. This is worse on MTBs than even the same trails on a bike with a longer wheelbase, no suspension, and harder tyres. Steep descents are less of a problem in that you wouldn't normally do them fully loaded. I suspect that the MTB touring you've seen isn't as heavily loaded as the road/trail touring you've ridden. These factors combine to influence another: habit. People copy what they've seen, often applying this copying to milder conditions (e.g. using solutions that are necessary on a full-sus, but on a hardtail). 

They're in the highway code, but the word "must" isn't used in the online version or my paper copy from 1999, which states: 

In the end I did replace the bike, with something similar but newer (essentially a BSO clone of the previous one). It's not completely impossible that I'll use the old frame etc. and the new wheels, but I'm going to try out the new one first. This proved cheaper than any option involving new parts, and saved me a fair bit of time over getting second hand parts individually. 

I have a half-decent hybrid with the option of 28/28 from stock, and there are places where I used to use it quite a lot with no trouble. More importantly though, I'm not sure what you think is special about 1:1 gearing. The load is spread over a good (large) number of teeth front and rear. There are no sharp bends or cross-chaining effects to worry about. If you're concerned about some sort of resonance, it would be small compared to resonant effects of stomping on the pedals a couple of times a second, or riding over cobbles. Both of these are normal and handled sensibly by ordinary frames. 

If a manufacturer found they had a quality problem with a batch of products (e.g. bikes but equally cameras, phones...) the serial numbers would allow identification of the substandard units. If you've recorded the serial number of your bike and a bike thief is caught with bikes in their possession the serial number should help you get it back. This has happened a few times recently around here. 

You will lose muscle mass (apart from cycling muscles) if this commute replaces going to the gym. That's pretty much inevitable unless you can find the time and energy for weights sessions. When I did a little less than that commute my shower was at a gym and I did a mini session (upper/core) most days. You may or may not have that option. If you don't, consider whether with a small investment of money you could get some suitable weights at home. Time-wise the key is to get your weights in while you're sweaty and warmed up anyway. I chose to have protein bars as recovery snacks after my morning ride /gym session. That might help, but most people don't need extra protein. With that amount of exercise, you can pretty much eat what you like in terms of calories; your dentist (for example) may have other things to say. If you started fit but not muscly you'll build your legs and the rest won't suffer. What you'll lose is fat.