Let the group know that, in terms of training benefit, climbing hills is a quality workout: this is where you build strength, and where obvious progressive gains can me made. Basically, make the group believe that it really does get easier: that what are mountains today will be molehills tomorrow. Inspect everyone's equipment to make sure it is set up properly for their size for good pedal power from a seated position. Maybe some dislike climbing more than they should, because their bike is not set up for it, causing them to exert more total effort than necessary in order to conquer a given hill. Likewise, have everyone check their tire pressure. Riders with low tire pressure and poor configuration of seat height are effectively climbing a taller hill than their companions with harder tires and more optimal configuration of bike. Encourage the group to use a higher gear than what is comfortable, at least for a portion of the climb, as a form of resistance training. Encourage the group to gain more power from standing up, and to develop the endurance in the supporting muscles to maintain the standing position over longer climbs. Support those who want to take one or more rests along the incline: this is interval training in disguise. If there is a steeper and less steep path to reach a point, divide the group into two: those who want to challenge the incline, and those who want a more gradual incline. If the steepsters reach the join point first, wait for the graduals before continuing. 

This is not strictly a bicycling issue. Do-gooders who ignore the rules and want to give the right of way all the time are also irritating to other drivers. They are not necessarily safer drivers, because "scared" is not exactly the same thing as "safe". There isn't anything you can do; just take cautious advantage of the right of way and keep going. The most aggravating of the lot are those who act as enablers aggressive drivers, like those who cut in to get ahead of dozens of cars in a traffic jam. It's not really appropriate to enter into anecdotes, but I'm compelled to give one anyway. Once (while driving, not cycling), I stopped at a stop sign in the middle of a residential neighborhood (properly, I might add; a full stop behind the painted line). Another driver was going cross-wise, not herself facing any stop sign and thus having the right of way. This driver stopped, motioning me to proceed. I shook my head and pointed at the stop sign to indicate that I'm simply following the rules and expect everyone to do the same. She simply refused to budge, so I turned off my engine and engaged the parking brake. I cannot remember who first yielded (or should we say, "unyielded", if you will), but I do remember that minutes passed. I remained calm and maintained an amused smile while she appeared to become angry. Some of these do-gooders are, evidently, quite vehement about pushing their viewpoint that the rules of the road are not entirely satisfactory and should entirely be ignored in their entirety (and perhaps not even known at all) in favor of some inefficient ad-hoc social protocol. In my experience as a driver with several hundred thousand km under my belt, you better just do what they want you to do, otherwise minutes will be wasted like in the above social experiment that I don't care to repeat. However, make eye contact with a driver before jumping in front of their car, and do not waffle; if you're given the right away, take it swiftly. 

1 Here is an excellent technical reason not to: maybe you simply can't put the 11-* cassette onto your hub. For instance, if we consider Shimano HyperGlide: the Shimano cassettes which have 11 cogs require the HyperGlide-C (compact) style hub, whose splines do not extend all the way to the edge. The 11 cog does not actually go onto the splines like the other cogs. It sits on the end of the hub, and partially goes onto the shortened splines. It requires a special variant of the lock-ring, which comes with the cassette. On the other hand, 12-* cassettes fit these compact hubs. For example, I'm using a 12-23 range CS-HG50-8 on a HyperGlide compact hub that previously had a 11. The shortened splines of the compact hub still adequately grab the 12 cog, so it doesn't rotate freely around the hub. (By the way, there you go: I'm a a live example of someone opting for 12, after using 11! I still just rarely use the 12). 2 Related to point 1, the fact that a special hub is required tells you something: the 11 cog is technically inferior. It is on the specification fringes of what will possibly fit onto the hub, which is a bad place to be. It has to be constructed with partial splines, because if it had full splines to go onto a regular hub then the cog's hub would be too thin and weak. The splines not going all the way through the cog's inner hub allows there to be more steel to hold the entire part together. There is another way in which the 11 is inferior: you will commonly find, on even a lightly worn cassette, evidence that the chain plates are making contact with the 11T cog's hub! In other words, chains do not sit very well on the teeth of the 11; they ride the inner ring. If not when the cassette is new, then eventually. The 11 will likely be the first gear to start skipping when the chain and cassette wear. Since for many riders that's a big clue to throw out the entire cassette and chain, it may lead to unnecessarily frequent replacements. 3 A cyclist that rarely uses a 12 will use an 11 even more rarely; perhaps never. Any gears you don't use effectively reduce the number of gears in your cassette. If you have a 9 speed cassette but only use 2-8, then you really have a 7 speed cassette, with spacing and padding cogs that make it compatible with your 9 speed shifter. 4 Higher gear does not translate to faster. Your maximum speed over a short distance might not be achievable in the highest gear, in fact. One use for the highest gear is in fact to go slower, with a relaxed, slow cadence. A car analogy can be made here: it's like an over-drive gear that lets you work with lower RPM on the freeway, saving gas. (Car analogies are good, but they break down in one important way: car engines do not get tired, and do not have to pace themselves with regard to expected distance.) Just like a car, we can downshift on a bicycle to get more power. Yesterday, to catch a green light, I downshifted from 5 to 4 on my 12-23/8 cassette, accelerated, and outpaced the cars. Also, these downshifts have to be subtle: it helps to have the close gear ratios. To have close gear ratios, don't get a cassette which includes gears that you won't use! I was already pedaling at a decent cadence in 5; too much of an increase in cadence in the downshift would have been counterproductive: I would end up whipping my legs around, going nowhere. 5 The 11 tooth cogs have a purpose: they go with compact drive systems which have a smaller ring in the front, like 48 teeth (or even less), common on mountain bikes. They are also useful for bikes with smaller diameter wheels. The 11 cog against a 48 ring gives you almost the same gear ratio as 12 against 52. The 11 cog is thus a useful accessory for converting a mountain bike for commuting use in an inexpensive way (avoiding replacing the front ring). Throw out the 13-34 cassette and put in an 11-25, slap on "road slicks" tires, and maybe some fenders and possibly a rack, and you're good to go. If this is what you're doing, the 11 may be for you. If you have a road bike with a 52 or 53 front ring, with 700c wheels and average sized pedal cranks, the 11 is probably a bad idea that you will regret, unless perhaps you're an elite cyclist with a "power plant" that works well with higher gearing. 6