Note that he clearly states that "we must determine it" according to "our best judgment," not that it was a matter of previously determined or settled law. Furthermore, when we examine the dissents in the 5-3 ruling, they actually cite another case where John Marshall speaks directly to the definition of a state. Justice Grier writes: 

The Constitution contains a set of enumerated powers for the federal government. Originally, Congress had no power to pass laws that could not derive directly from one of these powers; any other government powers were granted to the states (as reinforced by the Tenth Amendment). However, the exact limitations on these powers were disputed almost immediately as new legal situations arose. The 19th century saw a number of these enumerated powers become slightly expanded or curtailed in various Supreme Court cases. Nevertheless, the presumption in the early 20th century was that Congress could not create laws which went beyond those original enumerated powers. The Supreme Court frequently struck down federal laws that could not be related back to the Constitution (perhaps most famously in the string of court decisions that repeatedly invalidated much of Franklin Roosevelt's "New Deal" in the early to mid 1930s on the grounds that the federal government did not have those powers). While the Supreme Court jurisprudence of this era tended to focus on economic freedom issues (the so-called Lochner era), any legislation that took power away from states or individuals could be suspect if it was not in the enumerated powers. The regulation of "interstate commerce" is contained in the enumerated powers, but it was still largely interpreted as an interstate issue, i.e., the federal government could legally become involved mostly when merchandise or businesses went across state lines. Thus, early attempts at drug restriction by the federal government tended to focus on taxes for items going across state lines, rather than outright bans or detailed regulation. An interesting case study here is the Harrison Narcotics Tax Act, which was passed in 1914 to regulate opiates and cocaine. The act did not make such drugs illegal, but merely required special registrations and taxes on those who manufactured or distributed them. The tax on physicians and medical use was low, but for non-medical use, the tax was so exorbitant as to effectively prohibit distribution or sale of the drugs. This second tax was challenged in court, where it was claimed that the act was not a tax -- which would be a Constitutionally enumerated power -- but rather a federal infringement of the police power of the states, which of course was its intent if not its literal mechanism. Nevertheless the Supreme Court upheld the act in United States v. Doremus (1919) while reaffirming that the federal government could not usurp the police power of the states. But the Supreme Court did later object to use of the act to arrest doctors who chose to prescribe these drugs without sufficient medical justification, e.g., just to drug addicts. As Justice McReynolds wrote in Linder v. United States (1925), "Obviously direct control of medical practice in the states is beyond the power of the federal government." This shows the kind of complex debates about precisely how far federal power could go, which a Constitutional amendment would avoid at this time. Another option was for the federal government to pass uniform acts, such as the Uniform State Narcotic Drug Act of 1934. A "uniform act" is a collaborative measure intended to be adopted by individual states to ensure a uniform process governing a particular issue. However, states cannot be forced to adopt such regulations; initially only 9 states adopted this early narcotics act, and a public relations campaign was launched by FDR and others to convince the public of "reefer madness" and thus adopt narcotics legislation. Since alcohol regulation is not specified in the Constitution, Congress had no explicit power to regulate it. And, as affirmed for example by the Supreme Court in the Matter of Heff (1905): 

Consider the value that Allied strategists placed on the insurgent movements in Europe. While Germany occupied territories like France the Allies saw great value in providing the people with even rudimentary firearms like the FP-45. Once the position is reversed and now the Allies are acting as occupiers on foreign soil the logic would be obvious. Particularly obvious to the Americans, whose founding doctrine saw "the right to keep and bear arms" as a core element of preserving an equality between ruled and ruler. Next consider that these "antique" weapons had seen instances of effective use in WW1 and weren't far from what some of the Russian defense forces had used on the Eastern Front to stop the German invaders. Finally... I know that this parallel has a very limited application, but I find it interesting that arms left over from the Franco-Prussian war would have been 70 years old at that time, and we're approximately 70 years past WW2. It seems a vast strategic mistake for a modern occupying power to say "let them keep their old tech weapons, what good are AK-47s in this day and age?" 

A factor to consider in this aspect is how widespread the Victorian Spiritualism fad was, and just how long it lasted. The time I associate specifically with the phrase "Fairy Craze" I immediately associated it with the early 1900's when several infamous hoaxes and scams were still able to take advantage of the strong spiritualism interests. Modern technology assisted the ease that these could spread, taking the "traveling show" on the rails to massive audiences, and providing new forms of fake evidence. (Based on your account picture you'll probably find this interesting: $URL$ Poor old chap...) Now let's consider the "modern" UFO craze, let's arbitrarily say that the early signs of it are Jules Verne's works, and that it's fully in place by the time H. G. Wells writes War of the Worlds. This marks the UFO craze as alive and well in the 1890's. So yes, the crazes overlap (in very public ways) by quite a chunk of time. Spiritualism may have taken a backseat in the more cynical world following WW2, but we could look at current cultural trends and find evidence that they still are overlapping. Starting in the 70's there has been a steady business to be done by fuzing the crazes and reinterpreting ancient myth and mystery as alien interactions. 

From a practicality perspective; Gold shared the same an early advantages that Copper did for developing societies. It can be worked by being beaten and by being cast, so the technology requirements to begin working with gold is lower than even bronze. In it's natural state gold is malleable and shiny, making it an obvious candidate for cultures and artists that are in early stages of developing trade-able goods. Even crude experiments in metallurgy would reveal gold's resistance to tarnish and the ease with which it can be reworked. It wouldn't have been until smelting and mining developed that gold would have been known to be scarce. (At one time gold would have been FAR more available than Iron). So scarcity is a secondary characteristic in terms of ancient value. In terms of extended value throughout history we can argue that the Cultural and Industrial values are extensions that emerge naturally from it's workability and the ease of reaching high degrees of purity. 

Obviously some of this is likely rhetorical exaggeration, given that the abolitionist cause was not yet as strong as implied here, but these are the actual words of justification given by the first state to secede. 

I think Adams perhaps goes a little far here, but he makes an important distinction. The "second wave" of secessions were made by states which had preferred to stay within the federal government and to continue dialogue on the issue, but in 1861 there still was a view of "patriotism" toward individual states. (Adams goes on to discuss how Lee's patriotism was clearly forced into a dilemma between his state and his country.) When Lincoln proposed to invade, he was threatening the rights of those states, and thus Virginia and several other states voted to leave the Union. (Virginia does not mention slavery at all in its declaration of secession other than noting the the Federal government had "perverted" its powers "to the oppression of the Southern slave-holding states"; Arkansas explicitly mentioned Lincoln's marshalling of troops to wage war against the seceded states as a cause.) I don't want to give the wrong impression: slavery was still the overarching reason why this whole situation happened, and the whole reason Virginia was even debating secession was slavery. But the immediate actions that pushed the border states into secession were arguably over concern for states' rights under the threat of war and specifically federal invasion. 

Grier goes on to apply Justice Marshall's definition of "state" to the situation in Texas. From this, he concludes that Texas is not (and was not, during the Civil War) a "state," according to laws in force by Congress. He concludes: 

To summarize, the Northern states had already been disregarding explicit Constitutional obligations and federal laws, justifying their nullification of federal law by saying that -- as states -- they could refuse to enforce immoral laws. Although such "states' rights" actions on behalf of Northern states were repeatedly overturned by federal laws and court cases (perhaps most recently in Ableman v. Booth (1859)), the Northern states kept ignoring the Constitution in this case, which the Southern states then used as justification for secession. The failure of enforcement for the Fugitive Slave Clause is mentioned repeatedly in many secession documents among the Southern states. This directly answers the part of the question about why some states felt the Fugitive Slave Acts weren't enough, since often they were explicitly disregarded despite the instructions of the federal government. In effect, South Carolina (and other states) actually cite the failure of the federal government to deny states' rights in this case as proof that all states were no longer adhering to the Constitution, thereby justifying a choice to secede. 

Adams goes on to describe the very day the news from Virginia's first vote was announced (February 4th), and when they voted to stay: 

However, I'd also like to address the issue of "states' rights" brought up in another answer. I actually agree that this issue played a strong role in secession, though not in the manner that many Southern apologists claim. It wasn't just that the Southern states decided to assert their individual rights of self-determination. They also justified this on the basis of previous actions by Northern states, specifically regarding the Fugitive Slave Clause of the Constitution, and the failure of the Northern states to adhere to it and its enacting laws from 1793 and 1850. Again, from the South Carolina declaration: 

This page on the University of Chicago's website goes into some detail and is well sourced. It appears that there is no definite answer as to which way the thumb points or even the gesture in general. Also a more technical article from the same collection. According to that article; mercy was granted by waving handkerchiefs. 

A number of Roman and Byzantine Emperors did this over the course of a thousand years. The Palaiologos Dynasty comes to mind. 

Aramaic was the language of the Assyrian Elite, around 700 BC they invaded Judea and displaced Hebrew as the language of the everyday people. Further damage was done by the Babylonian invasions. This topic is thoroughly discussed in Empires of the Word by Nicholas Ostler. 

That would the Battle of Navarino fought during the Greek War for Independence in 1827. It was the last battle feature entirely sail fleets. Navarino is known as Pylos now. Sailing ships have come back into vogue recently so who knows how long they will be around and what was they might be involved in. The last active sailing warship appears to have been the Valmy. Modern Pirates are known to sometimes use sailing vessels. 

They would have started the decade with Lee-Metford bolt-action 8-10 shot rifles and ended the decade with Lee-Enfield bolt-action 10 shot clip rifles. There were probably still some Martini-Henry level-action single shot rifles as well as their updated version being used at the time but the 1890s seems to be when the single shot rifle was phased out in favor of those with magazines. 

Aboutcivil.org estimates the value at 50 million rupees based on the price of gold to rupees at the time. The site estimates the value at $500 million in 2005. At 1.4 rupees per gram of gold, that's around 35,700 kilograms of gold. Today that's worth around $1.5 billion. Certainly enough to put a dent in almost any treasury. 

On Wikipedia, I ran into an article talking about World War I to World War II and some of the adjacent wars before WWI as being a "European Civil War" or a "Second Thirty Years War". What is the scholarly basis of this? I saw a few names but it wasn't expecially concrete. There are listed citations from various authors but how rigorous is historicity of such a claim? 

Lars Brownworth discusses the survival of the Eastern Empire and by tangent the fall of the West in "Twelve Byzantine Rulers" in Episode 5: Zeno. His book by the same name presumably discusses the same. The podcast discusses the general situation at the time of the various emperors essentially being puppets of barbarian generals and the like. The fall of the West wasn't some immediate thing. The last emperor was deposed but it wasn't until later when no new Emperor was crowned that the empire "fell". It was more that was the end of direct Roman control over the remains of the Western Empire. The Eastern Empire avoided this fate by the work of Zeno who managed to throw off the barbarian yoke in the east and forged a solid state that proved durable enough to survive as a united thing. Odoacer and later Theodoric both payed homage to the Emperors in the east but after Theodoric died, the later kings and chiefs in Italy didn't mint imperial coins or do otherwise to show any kind of fealty to Constantinople. This eventually prompted Justinian to invade Italy.