This is maybe the most important question on this site! (For runners, volleyball players, basketball players, jumpers etc. etc.) Thank you for this. I was fighting with my Jumper's knee for 2 years. Why I experienced this? 5 volleyball amateur trainings per week (too young and too eager!) + no special supplementation + no coach + no compensation exercise. I was even thinking about giving up this beautiful sport. What's now? I'm jumping without any support and playing again at full blast! How to get rid of it in initial phase or prevent it? The key is your quadriceps femoris muscle. You need to exercise and strengthen it EVERY SINGLE DAY! See this video from 1:45 the first exercise -- slightly rotated leg lifting. $URL$ You can do it while waiting on the bus stop (while standing), you can do it in your work while sitting, you can do it whenever and anywhere you want to and anyone don't tell me that you can't! Only this one worked for me. I wish you good luck. I hope you will catch it in the initial phase and cure it totally. 

For me it looks quite simple: All calisthenics (= exercise using only one's body weight for resistance) will lead to toning your body as opposed to for example bench press with heavy weights which should result in the distinctly bigger chest muscles. Keep going with your push ups, no worries. 

Question is quite simple. I'm looking for gym-specific bunch of exercises which can help me to build up swimming performance/endurance/speed. So, when I'm not in the water I can still be continuously improving my swimming. Of course I know that I need to go into water because of technique training, feel of water etc. Edit: focused on crawl performance. Not interested in strength improvement in other styles at this moment. 

I've met physical education teacher in the swimming pool and he told me that swimming will NOT have significant effect for developing my vertical jump. If we omit weight loss caused by swimming and better core muscles stability, can swimming help in developing leg (vertical jump) specific muscle groups? Or swimming (crawl) is focused on developing exactly contra non-water-sports muscle groups? 

I've been swimming for 1,5 year and 4 times per week in average. I had a period of 6-7 trainings during a week and with spring coming I switched 2-3 trainings to running finally because this is simply more fun and unfortunately I've found myself to be sick of swimming at the end of winter. I'm amateur not professional swimmer. That's why my goal is to be fit and have fun. But I want to improve my performance too, of course. I was asked to participate in 500 m free style amateur swimming race. The problem is that I'm sprinter. I really VERY enjoy fast speed and my favourite distance is 50 and 100 m. And I would say this is the reason why I like swimming. Experience that beautiful feeling of literally cutting water in a high speed. I use short fins or/and swimming paddles very often during my workout. I simply internally LOVE 50-100 m of burst then some time of rest and doing these intervals again and again. I know what to do, I know how to train. My question is more likely psychological. How to force my mind not sprinting the first 100 m of 500 m race and not totally exhaust myself so I'm not able to finish a race in a good time? Of course I'm able to swim 500 m but I find it very boring, very slow and I can't enjoy it now with current mind set. How you are dealing with is? Is it possible to switch my mind and body set from sprinter to long race swimmer? 

Hitting the wall means that your liver is running out of glycogen. This doesn't mean that you are completely out of energy, because your body can still burn fat. But burning fat is a harder way to get energy. In order to improve your body's ability to deal with hitting the wall, you should go on some longer rides 1-2 times per week and cycle until you hit the wall. Over time your muscles will learn to store more glycogen, and your body will also get more efficient at burning fat. By the way, here is an excellent Wikipedia Article which discusses hitting the wall and ways to avoid it. Other than training as mentioned above, you can try carbohydrate loading, taking in some supplements while cycling, and lowering your pace to burn more fat instead of glycogen. 

As for avoiding broken capillaries, you could avoid exercising, but this would probably not be satisfactory for you. Instead, try to see if your bruise areas are the result of any contact during exercise. If so, can you eliminate that contact? Are you changing temperatures suddenly (e.g. going from air conditioning to hot and humid outdoor conditions)? The article I gave is a good starting point to get you thinking. 

Smoking can definitely be the cause of your erectile dysfunction problems. Nicotine, which is found in cigarettes, is a vasoconstrictor, which is a type of drug that causes your blood vessels to shrink. When a male erection is forming, the blood vessels inside the penis need to widen so they can become gorged with blood. Smoking too many cigarettes could potentially interfere with this. If cigarettes are the cause of your problem, you could try quitting. You could also try taking a drug like Viagra of Cialis. 

I am a long time distance runner turned amateur triathlete who has had a long time achilles tendon problem in both legs. I first injured my achilles in college about 15 years ago, and since that time the injury has flared up on and off. In recent years I switched to triathlon training because it allowed for hard training every day while laying off the achilles completely (while swimming), or partially (while cycling). To get to my question, I was wondering if anyone knows of a strength training program which can build up the calves in such a way that running won't aggevate the achilles, or at least will aggrevate it less? Currently the only thing I do is standing one-legged calf raises, once per week, with a little added weight. But I am open to doing much more work if it could help my problem. FYI the reason I want to do this is because I only run at most every other day now due to the achilles problem. But I have my eye on maybe doing a standard traithlon or a half marathon at some point, both of which would require much more running mileage than I am currently doing. 

When I cough, I feel a mild pain in my lower back and hip area. (behind my belly button and in my glute) I went to the doctor and he told me I have inflammation in a part of my spinal cord. It is reacting to pressure. Sudden expansion and contraction (like when coughing) will pressure the spinal cord and this will press against the swollen nerves and I will feel pain. The pain is not sharp, it feels more like muscle pain after exertion than being poked by a needle. The doctor gave me some anti-inflammatory pills and he sent me away. I did get better, but it keeps coming back. I found out that certain activities will encourage my back pain to develop. Once developed, it will take many nights worth of high quality sleep to recover. Here are the things that seem to cause back pain, or worsen it: 

I weight 105kg and I am 6'2 (189cm), I drank around 5 litres of water in a 7 to 9 hours day-hike. I had some biscuits and 3 bananas, and 1.2 out of the 5 litres of fluid I had was sports drink. However by the end of the hike I was feeling a slight headache. Was it because I was drinking too much water? I want to find out what the body looses with excessive sweating, and what are the ways to eat/drink accordingly to replenish the lost substances. 

Drinking less water is not an option because of the intense sweating when hiking for 9 hours or so under the hot sun. An obvious choice was to replace water with sports drink like Gatorade. Firstly, I don't like sports drink. Secondly, I want to know what is the exact thing my body lost with excessive sweating and needed to be put back into my body. I am not a chemist/biologist, but from what I read, the term electrolyte is loosely used to refer to a group of minerals. Sodium, potassium, calcium and more. 

When I have this weird back pain, it is like a fatigue muscle is in need of some deep relaxation. There is something I can do to relief this pain, most of them requires me to sit down, however if it is severe my back will feel very very stiff, I will only be able to sit at a very up-right position. There are a few things that I can do to relief my back: