Ok, this is a ridiculously long post, and it only skims a lot of complicated subjects. I hope some of it was interesting for you - feel free to ask more questions or narrow this one down if this wasn't what you wanted to see. 

Using my elite Amazon search skills, I discovered Tibet: A History by Sam van Schaik, which looks like what you want. Personally, I'm a fan of reading literature and/or biographies, as I find concrete stories give me a better handle on the more abstract cultural or political issues covered in a regular history. Sardathrion's books look interesting, as does Tibetan Diary by Geoff Childs. 

I have a feeling you're not going to find any studies of this nature. Before synthetics, wood was just the only material with the properties needed to make a bow. If you lived somewhere without trees and you wanted bows, you'd buy wood from somewhere else. The amount of wood needed to supply a tribe with bows would not be particularly expensive or difficult to transport. On the other hand, imagine a tribe that lives so deep in the desert that not only do they have no trees, they never have contact with people who have trees - how would this tribe come to invent bows on their own? They're not hunting large game, and they don't have the population density to get a war on. That's my take, anyway. 

My main question is, what's the opening in the wall between the hallway and the main room? It looks like it ought to be a door, but it's shown using a window symbol. Why? (Edit: I didn't emphasize enough - that opening really, really ought to be a door. If it's not, then I want to know why an apartment would be designed with the front door opening into the bedroom.) (This is shown as an exhibit in a murder case, and they spend a fair amount of time discussing how long it would take a man to get from the bed in the upper right to the front door in the lower left. They all assume that he uses the bedroom door in the lower right and runs all the way down the hall. Going through the living room would involve more doors but be a straighter line, but no one mentions the possibility. Normally I'd attribute that to lazy writing, but with the way it's drawn it made me wonder.) I'm also curious about two other things: 1) The double wall between the bedroom and the living room. I guess the space in between is used as closets, but they would be very oddly shaped; about 5' deep and 3' wide. That would be very difficult to use - a normal closet is about 2' deep, while a walk-in closet needs to be at least 4.5' wide. A more normal design, today at least, would be to make the closets open into the bedroom. 2) Why the hallway extends all the way to the right. It's not providing access to anything but the man's bedroom (ie there aren't any other apartments), so why wouldn't the bedroom go down all the way to the bottom wall? It'd be four feet wider that way, and could still open into the hallway. The answers to those two questions could be structural. You can see I've already done a fair amount of speculating here - I'm hoping someone who knows something about midcentury architecture can give me a more definitive answer, especially about the mystery opening in the living room. (Edit: So, one of two questions has to be answered: 

This one could be interpreted a number of ways, and most of the interpretations could be answered with a book. I'm going to take a shot at it anyway. In Marxism, the bourgeoisie is the class that owns the means of production. This can be direct ownership of, say, a factory or train; or it can be a nice stock portfolio. The key point is that you are deriving most of your income, not from your own labour, but from charging others for the use of your property. The proletariat is the class of people who earn their money by working. 'Middle class', on the other hand, could be taken to refer to white collar workers - people who do mental as opposed to physical (blue collar) work. There is a parallel with the bourgeoisie, which I don't think Marx foresaw (I'm not all that familiar with his work though) - white collar work tends to require a certain amount of education, which can be viewed as a one time investment which the 'worker' then uses to generate income for the rest of his life. I think those are reasonable definitions for this question, because the decades around 1900 did see a pretty big shift in power away from the large scale factory owners, and a simultaneous growth in the number and importance of white collar workers. Actually, wikipedia says that the term 'white collar' was coined in 1911, so there you go. Again, this is a huge issue, but to touch on a few interesting points: 

Broad answer for a broad question: the introduction of tanks shifted the advantage back in favour of the attacker. During WWI, the machine gun made it very easy to defend a chunk of ground. You dug some trenches to protect against shells, set up this heavy weapon, and mowed down anyone who came too close. That's why they had such huge casualties for very small shifts in the battle lines. Tanks were a way to get around that; the internal combustion engine let you move machine guns and cannons - and their crew, and armour for the crew - to where the enemy was. The full implications of that increased mobility were worked out in the interwar period, and led to the much faster and more far-ranging style of fighting in WWII. 

I would guess that Mantineia's reputation comes from this story in Herodotus: "Their late calamities now induced the Cyrenaeans to send to Delphi and inquire of the god what form of government they had best set up to secure themselves prosperity. The Pythoness answered by recommending them to fetch an arbitrator from Mantinea in Arcadia. "Accordingly they sent; and the Mantineans gave them a man named Demonax, a person of high repute among the citizens; who, on his arrival at Cyrene, having first made himself acquainted with all the circumstances, proceeded to enrol the people in three tribes. One he made to consist of the Theraeans and their vassals; another of the Peloponnesians and Cretans; and a third of the various islanders. "Besides this, he deprived the king Battus of his former privileges, only reserving for him certain sacred lands and offices; while, with respect to the powers which had hitherto been exercised by the king, he gave them all into the hands of the people. " Later references to Mantineia, for example during the Peloponessian War, don't seem to say anything in particular about its government; but the Oracle's recommendation of Mantineia as the place to go for political wisdom could have boosted their reputation for quite a while. The suggested reforms also would have been an early step towards democracy. I seem to recall seeing references to Demonax giving them a constitution at the same time; but I'm not sure if that is based on another source or just someone's interpretation of this one. Anyway, this story is from Book IV of Herodotus' Histories, which is available here (it's got the whole thing on one very long page, and this passage is about three quarters of the way down - you'll want to search for Demonax. Anyone who knows of a better organized online source, feel free to replace the link). 

I'm not trying to knock the effectiveness of spreading diseases, just to point out that it wasn't a magic bullet. 

Can't help much with the Massachusetts area, but if you're interested in pre-European America in general, I definitely recommend the book 1491 by Charles Mann. As Michael points out, a lot of what we know is based on European accounts. And those authors had their own axes to grind, consciously or not - a man trying to turn the local hunting ground into a farm is going to see (and say) different things about the locals than a priest who hopes to convert them. Even today, with less material interest in the issue, people often tend to either demonize or romanticize foreign cultures. 1491 tries to avoid this bias by using archaeology and related disciplines to study precontact American culture on its own merits. I wouldn't say Mann has no bias - he's out to show that there was a higher level of civilization than people generally assume, in both North and South America. But he is pretty good about separating evidence from speculation, and he brings together a lot of very interesting research that I hadn't really seen anywhere else. 

Not to quibble, but this isn't really an 'or' question. Yes, we'll keep discovering things we haven't found, and yes, there are many things that have been permanently lost. Keep in mind that before the printing press you didn't go to the bookstore - you found a guy who had the book you wanted, and asked if you could crash at his house for a couple of weeks while you copied it out by hand. A book has to be pretty good for people to do that for a thousand years. Many potentially interesting historical records, like letters and personal diaries, would never have been copied at all, and were lost when the original was burnt, left out in the rain, or whatever. Factor in deliberate destruction, and it's really kind of amazing that we have as much as we do.