The Moon moves round the ecliptic. At full Moon it is opposite the Sun. Hence when the Sun is furthest South (in the Northern Winter), that full Moon is that which will be furthest North in that year and so on. But plainly, the Moon moves round the ecliptic every 28 days, so every 28 days or so it is furthest North etc. In other words there is no answer based on phase or time of year alone. 

There are a number of ways of answering this question. Here are a few. Firstly we can simply state that, by definition, the universe is everything and therefore there is simply nothing beyond it. Not nothing as in empty space, but nothing at all, not even space (or it could be that the universe is infinite.) Secondly, we could look at what we mean when we say that the universe is expanding. What this really means is that the space-time metric is growing. It does not mean that the universe is expanding into some void, but that distances inside the universe are increasing with time. My favourite parallel is with an balloon being blown up. Points on the surface get further away without the addition of any more material to the balloon. (It is, of course, an imperfect parallel as the balloon is expanding in a medium). Thirdly, and now we are touching on metaphysics (in the sense that it may be impossible to test some or any of these theories), we can say that "our" universe is one of many and that, actually it may well have an edge which even now is crashing into some other universe, or perhaps we are inside a black hole inside another universe. These multiverse theories are ten-a-penny but they are not without scientific merit, possibly. 

Small and effective refractors are easier to make than small and effective reflectors, but reflectors are cheaper in general. Unless you have some special reason to want to avoid a larger aperture (eg because you are engaged in solar observation) or a special reason why you want the optical qualities of a refractor, you almost certainly want a bigger aperture and so for a fixed price you are likely to be better off with the reflector. Not having a EQ mount may be a bit of an issue though. 

As has been noted, the camera, if truly fixed, will point at spot with fixed declination. The RA it points to will be a simple function (namely so many hours and minutes ahead/behind) of the local sidereal time. Either your camera is not truly fixed (a bit of shake) or (possibly more likely), you have not correctly determined the local sidereal time. 

For some very large (and hence relatively cool) red giants you might be able to ascertain something from their spectra, as emission lines are sometimes seen - these are typically brighter central patches seen the middle of the more typical absorption (dark) spectral lines - caused by the large size of (realtively!) hot gas clouds that surround the giants. But that would not be a reliable method of red giant detection. 

There should be nothing special about crossing the "event horizon" - the line beyond which light cannot escape and so, in theory at least, one might "travel into a black hole" and not be aware of any physical changes at all. However, I suspect what you mean is what would happen if one travelled to the centre of a black hole. Here we may speculate but our current theories of physics breakdown at this "singularity" and so we cannot know - nor is it easy to think of how we might design an experiment, given our currently available technologies, to test any theory we have. 

One of us has misread the paper because I think he says he plans to use "Benanaim" which seems to be an alternative name for Alkaid, $\eta$ Ursae Majoris and very much "ultima cauda ursae majoris" and which would, indeed, transit the meridian at around 9pm on that date. 

The strength of the Earth's gravitational field compared to the Moon and the Sun is not enough to capture and hold satellites - there are too many disruptive forces that would rip them away over time. However there are some objects at the Lagrangian points - the points where the gravitational fields of the Earth and other objects are equal and so it is possible to have a (likely-meta) stable orbit. This gives some details about what might be found at the various Lagrangian points: $URL$ 

As has been pointed out the expansion of the galaxies is seen in all directions. But there is other evidence to support theory of cosmic expansion - such as the red shift in the cosmic microwave background (CMB). The CMB is the radiation left over from a specific event - the moment when the primeval fireball's temperature dropped sufficiently to allow the stable recombination of electrons and protons into hydrogen atoms. That happened when the universe's temperature (and remember this was a relatively smooth plasma so this happened more or less everywhere at the same time) fell to about 4000K But the CMB we see today has been so redshifted that the CMB looks like the signature of an event that took place at a temperature of about 3K - the reason is that the universe has expanded by so much (in all directions) that the radiation from the CMB has been "stretched" into these much longer wavelengths on its journey to us. 

I think your question is a reframing of what is known as "Obler's paradox" - namely if the universe is infinite why is the night sky not white, as sooner or later our line of sight hits a star, and even if very far away there would be infinite stars out there. The answer to this is either (a) the Universe is not infinite or (b) the Universe has not been here for ever, so even if it is infinite, light from very far away is yet to reach us. Case (b) is generally accepted - ie the Universe began a finite time ago in the "big bang" - though (a) is disputed - ie it may be that the universe is not infinite in any case. 

There are some parts of the universe we can never observe because they are receding away from us at a superluminary speed. 

On p.33 of the "Cambridge Concise History of Astronomy" it states that Hellenistic astronomers interpreted the variation in the brightness of the planets as a sign that they were closer or further away at various points of time. Unfortunately it doesn't have a deeper discussion here. But on p.45 it discusses Ptolemy's thinking - he thought Mercury was, at its closest point, as close as the Moon and that the fixed stars were at the same distance as Saturn at its furthest point - the latter point suggesting that while the planets were seen as different, they might not have been thought of as being that different beyond the way they wandered. To back that up further there is, for instance, a copy of an image from the Nuremberg Chronicle of 1493 on p.77 - here the planets are merely shown as wandering stars. 

There is no evidence to support the idea that some part of the universe (at a cosmological scale) is contracting. Obviously one could construct such a theory but there is currently no observational data to support it. Until relatively recently there were three broad ideas about the Universe's expansion - that gravitational pull would slow the expansion but by never enough to halt it, that (a boundary case) there was exactly enough matter in the universe for expansion to halt at an infinite point in the future, or that eventually gravitational attraction would first slow and then reverse the expansion, leading to a big crunch. In fact, though, the observational evidence suggests that the expansion of the Universe is accelerating - that there is some "dark energy" that is speeding up the expansion. This is now the generally accepted view, though arguments continue as to what this "dark energy" is. 

There are infinite number of points between 0cm and 1cm on your ruler, there are also an infinite number of points between 0cm and 2cm but it is plain that the 2cm gap is twice as big. This is not an exact parallel (or even a very good inexact one) but is offered to show you that infinity may mean quite a lot of things: for instance what if space were infinite before the big bang but what happened then was that "things" (ie the spacetime metric) became ever further distant from one another - if space was already infinite then this expanded space could not reach a limit. 

If we make the assumption that the Universe is infinite, and has an infinite number of hydrogen atoms, then why is it not of infinite density - because, under Schrodinger's wave equation the probability of an electron being at any given point is non-zero and any non-zero number multiplied by infinity is itself infinity? Is the answer (a) I have made some basic error in physics, (b) the Universe is provably not infinite because of this - effectively a version of Obler's Paradox or (c) the Pauli exclusion principle means that electrons just cannot be anywhere? 

Relativity (special and general) is founded on the theory - which has been well tested - that there is no fundamental reference frame in space and hence there can be no "completely stationary" observers at all. All we can say is that observers move relative to one another. The time dilation effect of the Earth's motion at 67,000 mph relative to another observer is actually very small, being inversely proportional to the square root of 1 minus the relative velocity squared divided by the speed of light squared - essentially this is a ratio of about 1.000000005 - a second in every seven years or so. 

If the universe is infinite and infinitely old then the answer to your question is, axiomatically, yes - as such a universe must contain all possible objects, including mirrors. However we suspect that the universe may be infinite (at least that is my current understanding of cosmological thought) but certainly not infinitely old. As we cannot see any large (cosmological-scale) mirrors then the cosmological principle suggests none exist (yet). 

Dark matter was originally hypothesised because there is a greater degree of rotational energy in galaxies than visible matter would allow for - crudely they rotate so fast that they ought to spin apart and therefore it was hypothesised that there is an additional source of gravitational force in some form of invisible matter. This is not as a result of a discrepancy in Einstein's General Relativity. Newtonian gravitation is a very good approximation of Einstein's GR at most ordinary scales and energies and this is true in this case also. I am not sure, exactly, what your "what about dark energy" question means, but assuming you mean, does this imply an incompleteness in GR, then again the answer is no, or at least not necessarily, but it's a more subtle point. Dark energy is the hypothesised source of the energy that causes the universe to expand at an accelerating rate. It can be inserted as a term into the field equations of GR (other explanations of DE exist though) - but that is just a mathematical term, rather than an explanation of the physicality of it. Einstein originally inserted such a term into his solutions - to predict an essentially static universe. When it was shown that the universe was expanding he described this as his "greatest mistake". The evidence for the accelerating rate of expansion is relatively recent and came long after Einstein's death so he never lived to see the essential idea - of a "cosmological constant" in his equations - revived. This explains more - $URL$ 

There is a fundamental (but disputed) idea in Cosmology called "the Cosmological Principle" (see $URL$ which states, at a sufficiently large scale, the universe looks the same everywhere at the same epoch. And there is a lot of evidence to suggest that it does. However the inflation theory states that very small, quantum level, variations in the universe a very small time after the Big Bang should be reflected in observations of the universe at a large scale today because inflation means that these parts of the universe never had time to exchange information (or photons) to equalise their energy in the very earliest moments. As an analogy (perhaps a bit strained) - if you had a room in which there was a radiator giving out heat and then the radiator was switched off, after a few hours you would expect the temperature in the room to be the same everywhere, because the warm air would mix with the colder air and the temperature would equalise. But imagine if there was some sort of barrier of distance between the warm parts and the cold parts - then the cold parts would stay cold and the warm parts would stay warm for much longer. The task cosmologists have set themselves is to find the imprint of these patterns in the density of the observed universe (as energy and mass are equivalent the hotter/more energetic parts of the early universe should have a bit more mass in them today). 

Yes, it can. For instance the Andromeda Galaxy is moving towards us, due to local gravitational attraction but that does not affect the validity of the theory of the expansion of spacetime because one result based on local factors is perfectly compatible with a cosmological theory which, by definition, includes every galaxy. 

The declination of the point overhead (zenith) is the same as the observer's latitude. The RA of the point transiting zenith at any given time is the equivalent of the local sidereal time. (Alternatively, the local sidereal time is RA of the observer's meridian.) 

The Moon is in orbit about the Sun, much as the Earth is. Although this is not the usual perspective from the Earth, a plot of the Moon's trajectory shows the Moon in an elliptic orbit about the Sun. Essentially the Earth, Moon, Sun system is (meta) stable, like that of other planets orbiting the Sun. 

You were correct, you teacher was incorrect. It is the space that expands - much as a surface of a balloon does. An explosion is a poor analogy in contrast because - as you suggest - it implies something to expand into. For another way, not as accurate as the balloon analogy but maybe helpful - imagine being trapped inside an expanding loaf of bread in an oven. You have no knowledge of the world outside the loaf - and you may assume the loaf is infinite in extent. But as the dough rises the gaps inside the loaf get larger without the mass of the loaf itself increasing. You could compare our position in the universe to being inside such an infinite loaf. 

As I understand it, one theory of the multiverse is that there are an infinite number of universes separated by small distances in other (than our observable 3/4) dimensions and that gravity is weak because it permeates these other dimensions. But if there are an infinite number of these universes then surely the gravitational force we would feel would be infinite? 

There was once a very active argument over vulcanism on the Moon - with the distinguished amateur astronomers Patrick Moore and V. A. Firsoff the two leading advocates of vulcanism as having had a decisive impact on the Moon. The Apollo programme essentially settled this argument as far as craters were concerned - no serious figure seems to doubt these are the result of impacts (though Moore was still forcefully arguing, if knowingly from a losing position, for vulcanism long after the end of Apollo). For the lunar mare it is not quite so clear cut - it is not disputed that these are flood basalt plains and so are the result of some form of vulcanism. However, they also appear to lie inside impact craters and so there is a suggestion of a connection, at least, with impact. There are no volcanoes on the Moon today, though there are some signs that there may be very limited vulcanism or similar activity - see $URL$