Thus, when these monks read words such as "birth", "death", "kaya" ("body"), "heaven", "hell", etc, in the suttas, they interpret them materialistically or physically rather than mentally. For example, about "hell" that is directly knowable, the suttas say: 

For the Buddha, the term paticcasamuppada is only used for the causality (iddapaccayata) that leads to the origination of suffering. The causality of material things, for example, is called iddapaccayata rather than paticcasamuppada. All iddapaccayata (causality) is not paticcasamuppada. However, paticcasamuppada is a subset of iddapaccayata. The Buddha was primarily concerned with how suffering arises & ends so the Buddha was primarily concerned with paticcasamuppada. Paticcasamuppada is about how ignorance of the impermanence & selflessness of phenomena results in the mind craving for & clinging to impermanent phenomena as "self" & "belonging to self". When impermanence occurs to those objects of clinging, "aging-&-death" occurs, resulting in suffering. In short, paticcasamuppada simply explains how, due to ignorance & craving, the mind suffers over change & loss. The Nakulapita Sutta provides an easy to understand example of how the last four conditions of paticcasamuppada result in suffering (sorrow). 

I speculate Buddhism only historically grew as a cultural religion due to a change of emphasis towards 'rebirth-reincarnation' (which was also the primary reason why Buddhism became extinct in India due to it becoming undifferentiatable from Hinduism). Therefore, it is inevitable cultural Buddhism declines for the same reason that it grew; in that it was never ever True Buddhism. In conclusion, (in ordinary circumstances) the True Dhamma will not decline since those that comprehend Ultimate Knowable Truth do not change their convictions. 

I have attempted to examine the Pali in this verse. The key word appears to be 'ñattaṃ', which is said to mean 'intellectual faculty' rather than good knowledge (Ñāṇa). 

When possible, the Pali suttas teach to control thoughts & to judge & replace any unbeneficial discursive thoughts with beneficial thoughts, as taught in MN 19 & MN 20. 

'Craving' or 'compulsion' (namely the 'lust', 'resistance' & 'ignorance' quoted below) is shown by a lack of self-control, enslavement ('fettered') & the final result of suffering when not getting or losing the object of compulsion. 

This is wrong. 'Mindfulness' means 'to remember'; 'to keep in mind', 'to not be forgetful or negligent'. Mindfulness is a factor or prerequisite of concentration. The goal of Buddhist meditation is to achieve total concentration on an appropriate object. Therefore, when there is total concentration on an object, there is also total mindfulness because the meditator does not forget their task, which is to concentrate on/be attentive of the object. 

When rapture & happiness cease, the mind-heart (citta) itself becomes the object of meditation. Here, the mind has concentration. The mind is not thinking. However, there will be some residual defilements in the mind such as greed, anger & confusion that subtly arose in response to the rapture. For example, sometimes the mind does not like rapture because the rapture disturbed the mind when it was peacefully watching breathing. At stage 9, any residual defilements (kilesa) of the mind are observed & calmed. 

From the viewpoint of Dependent Origination, 'delusion' would be a type of craving (8th condition) leading to attachment (9th condition) that propels wrong action; for example: 

It is not necessary to leave your family permanently but if you want to practise very deeply you might have to leave them for many months and give up sex for a time. 

In summary, the word 'human' ('manussa') in Pali literally means to be 'high minded'. Therefore, it does not refer to 'people' ('puggalo') but to a state of mind. When the scripture states: "there is this world & the other worlds", the term "this world" refers to the high virtuous human state of mind when having an audience with a Buddha or noble being. (It does not refer to the planet Earth). MN 12 distinguishes between types of physical birth & forms of spontaneous mental birth: 

The mark of a Noble One is sunatta (emptiness; voidness), as the Lord Buddha explained about the perfectly virtuous Sariputta in MN 151. 

Anatta (not-self) is the recognition that conditioned things (such as the five aggregates) do not belong to you (i.e., are not "mine") and cannot be an intrinsic permanent "you" (i.e., are not "me") due to their impermanent (anicca) nature. 

Importantly, this topic paragraph from SN 22.82 refers to the mere five aggregates rather than the five aggregates subject to clinging. This is the same causality as SN 22.56, although SN 22.56 is about aggregates subject to clinging, which states: 

Meditation is not for puthujjana, i.e., not for those unwilling & unable to abandon craving. This is why meditation is not mentioned in the sutta. This sutta is unrelated to the core essence (heartwood) of Buddhism but is a peripheral subject. This sutta is similar to Islam, where a man doing good receives a reward of 72 virgins in heaven. 

'Mindfulness' ('sati') is not 'observing' ('anupassi'). This common idea is a misunderstanding. 'Mindfulness' ('sati') is 'remembering' or 'keeping in mind'. For example, in formal meditation/concentration development, at the most crude level of practise, 'mindfulness' does not mean 'observation' but 'remembering' to be observant (rather than being distracted). At a more profound level, 'mindfulness' in meditation means to 'keep the mind' in a state of 'not-attachment' (the 'observing' happens automatically because the mind is automatically conscious). Therefore, in your daily life, you practise Buddhist mindfulness by remembering to practise Right View, Right Thought, Right Speech, Right Action & Right Livelihood. 

The four noble truths & dependent origination simply explain how suffering comes to be & how this suffering can be ended. As a layperson, it is inevitable you suffer (for example, when your motor car is damaged in car accident). Therefore, you can use these teachings to understand & overcome your suffering. For example, your motor car is damaged in an accident. You reflect: 

Generally, a Buddhist centre will be very relaxed, easy going & accepting. Buddhists generally do not interrogate newcomers as Christians might, apart from asking "are you new; have you studied before?". If it is otherwise, that is, "fundamentalist", this should be of concern. While many Buddhist centres may sound like they give dogmatic teachings, generally the social atmosphere is very easy going, as I explained. You should be at ease when visiting the centre but you will learn that when you visit. Also, as advised above, dress in a relaxed (loose clothing) but modest manner, ensuring legs & shoulders are well covered. As for addressing any monks, this depends on the centre. "Bhante" is only for Theravada centres and particularly for Sri Lankan centres. For example, Thai people rarely use the word "Bhante". I personally generally address a monk or teacher by their name (eg. Lama X; Ajahn Y) unless I notice the regulars at the centre using another title (such as Geshe-La, Bhante, Tan Ajahn or Loong Po, which are Asian titles). Some centres, particularly Tibetan, may charge a fee for attending teachings. Apart from that, giving a donation is generally your choice. All the best. All will be fine. Enjoy yourself. 

Nibbana (the only true reliable perfect happiness) does not come with a price. It is 100% free. Therefore, the difference between the two forms of happiness is: (i) Nibbana is completely free; (ii) where as the worldly pleasure of sensuality, materiality & status is extremely financially expensive. If there is the wrong view (miccha ditthi) that sensual & worldly pleasures are being 'sacrified' at a 'price', the hindrance of lust will be difficult to overcome. 

The impression here is of reading too many books & imagining too many things. If the mind really had samadhi for 3 days, the mind would be calm. Did you take drugs? 

The skinned cow refers to all sense contact, including the sense contact of arahants, which still experience pleasant & unpleasant vedana (feeling). Therefore, the noble disciple comprehends sense contact affected by feeling (vedana) will always occur like the skinned cow & thus stops/eradicts craving & attachment towards the 'creatures' ('vedana') nibbling at sense contact. The two strong mean are good & bad intentions, which both can lead to trouble & suffering, thus the English saying: "The road to hell is paved with good intentions". Therefore, the noble disciple acts with wise intention rather than good or bad intention. The 'thief' or 'criminal' is attachment (upadana), which takes possession of ('appropriates') sense objects of sense consciousness as "I", "me" & "mine". The Buddha taught that the sense spheres of consciousness are "not-yours". Therefore, the noble disciple does not, like a thief, take possession of sense objects that do not belong to them (otherwise, they will be punished by dukkha each time they take possession of a sense object). 

'Equanimity' is the last of the four brahmavihara (metta, karuna, mudita & upekkha) & is practised together with the other brahmavihara. For example, if there is good-will (metta) & the wish to help (karuna) but no possibility to help then equanimity (upekkha) is practised. Therefore, in Buddhism, there is no such thing as practising equanimity as an alternative to performing a beneficial act. Equanimity is only practised when a beneficial action cannot be performed due to another person not capable or not willing to change or benefit. For example, AN 4.100 says speaking praise &/or blame in the right situation is more advanced & exalted than equanimity. However, as said, the situation must be the right appropriate situation. For example, preaching & proselytizing dhamma when not asked & to people who don't want to listen is not a "right situation" to perform unwanted "beneficial acts". AN 9.5 says Dhamma, as a gift of benevolence, is only taught to those who wish for it and who listen attentively. 

No. An "evil" person cannot even see the 3 characteristics because the mind of an evil person has too many hindrances. 

The results of kamma is are known in the heart. If the terrorists are real terrorists then those who act to protect innocent people from terrorists are not really performing bad karma. While a cleanser of terrorists may feel stress & trauma, they can always reassure themselves they did a deed to protect people. For example, in many civil wars, such as in Sri Lanka, it is difficult to judge if one-side is righteous. But in pure terrorism, it is without dispute that terrorism is evil. In other words, any person killing unarmed civilians is a terrorist. The Dhammapada states: 

Buddhism explains the dependent origination of suffering, which is the 'wrong path' (SN 12.3). Conversely, 'dependent cessation' is called the 'right path' (SN 12.3). Dependent origination is often pictorially depicted as spinning clockwise, as follows: 

I am very sorry to hear this. I do not wish to ignore your personal pain & sorrow however I wish to say such pregnancy problems are common due to the fragile nature of the physical body. In the ancient Buddhist scriptures, we can read how many women & children perished during child birth. Fortunately, having children today is infinitely safer than in ancient times however loss of child still occurs today due to the nature of the physical body, which is fragile & can be abnormal. 

I assume (speculate) the four great elements was an understanding before the Buddha found in many cultures (see Wikipedia: classical elements). In ancient times, different cultures or philosophies would add onto the four great elements other elements they regarded to be important. 

While I have not studied these matters greatly, the Jataka appear of a similar genre to the belated Buddhāpadāna & Apadānas, each found in the Kuddaka Nikaya. Based in those suttas where the Buddha is shown to be extremely strict about the purity & accuracy of his teachings (eg, MN 22, MN 38, MN 62, etc), it seems probable after the Buddha passed away, the Brahmanistic elements were entered into Buddhism (such as depicting jhanas as Brahma gods and the gods of the 33) for the primary purpose of spreading the religion, particularly under the zealousness of King Ashoka. I think it is important to keep in mind Buddhism became extinct in India due to the Hinduisation of the doctrine; that these ideas about past lives ultimately destroyed Buddhism in the land of its birth. SN 22.79 is the only sutta that explains precisely & clearly what is meant by the term 'recollecting pubbe nivasa', which is erroneously translated as 'past lives'. SN 22.79 unambiguously states recollecting 'past abodes' means recollecting when in the past the mind mistakenly & ignorantly regarded one or more of the five aggregates to be 'self'. This is perfectly consistent with the essential Buddhist doctrine of 'anatta' ('not-self'). Given the Jataka are totally contrary to the instruction taught in SN 22.79 & SN 22.59 and given the Jataka were so destructive to Buddhism, it would appear probable they have no relationship to anything taught by the Lord Buddha. 

The body does not arise & cease in some dualistic sequence. A body is born from two cells (sperm & ovum) grows over 20 years & then slowing declines in its health but not form until it ends. 

It is not correct to have a superficial dichotomy of 'layperson' versus 'monk'. A 'monk' or 'layperson' is a state of mind. For example, some monks spend their life engaged in 'worldly' pursuits; while some laypeople live a personal life of meditative solitude. Therefore, it all depends on your personal goals & intentions in relation to your interest in Buddhism. If you have suffering you wish to end, you learn the higher ('lokuttara') teachings, like a monk. If you are a 'householder' (with family, children, etc), you particularly learn the ('lokiya') teachings for 'householders' (as well as the higher teachings about suffering, if you are inclined. Otherwise, you believe in 'rebirth'). 

Right view is the leader ('forerunner') of the path. When you realize idle chatter leads to more dukkha, this is right view leading your speech. When the mind maintains right speech in communication, this is right mindfulness. In actually practising the path, right view & right mindfulness work together, as described below: 

In sleep, the mental defilements of an non-fully-enlightened mind remain dormant as "underlying tendencies". Therefore, sleep cannot be Nibbana. However, the teacher Bhikkhu Buddhadasa make some comments about how the 'Nibbana element' operates in everyday life, here: Nibbana for Everyone. which includes 'sleep'. 

If the monks is practising Buddhism (rather than Hinduism), eating meat should not affect their practise since the practise of Buddhism is non-attachment, including towards food. In summary, eating meat is not a sin that needs to be reconciled. Instead, any idea of 'reconciliation' is a personal delusion. Attachment to vegetarianism is a grave & fatal fetter because it most likely prohibits reaching non-returner & arahantship. 

Buddhism explains six realms of existence: (i) human; (ii) benevolent godly (deva); (iii) violent godly (asura); (iv) animal; (v) ghost; & (vi) hell. Most politicians & rulers throughout history have been violent gods (asuras), which is why they resort to military violence to achieve their ends. In other words, in my opinion, they are not regular human beings like you and me. Their disposition is inherently evil, psychopathic & animalistic. The Buddha described this non-human animalistic behaviour as follows: 

The word 'birth' has a psychological meaning (rather than a physical meaning), as Jesus explained to Nicodemus in John 3 and the Buddha explained in SN 12.2; SN 23.2 & SN 5.10. Therefore, 're-birth' happens when living rather than at the termination of life. MN 86 states: 

Birth, the production of the idea or convention of "beings" ("satta") from the beguiling appearance ('manifestation') of the aggregates, such as the ideas of "myself", "my mother", "my father", "my friend", "my enemy", etc; refer to SN 23.2 and SN 5.10. Aging & death of "beings", such aging & death of "myself", "my mother", "my father", "my wife", "my husband", "my child", "my favourite pop-star" (refer to SN 15.3). Sorrow, lamentation, pain, grief despair & the whole mass of suffering because of the aging & death of imaginary "beings" superstitiously created from ignorance, craving & attachment (refer to MN 87). For example, when people or aggregates who are strangers die, there is no suffering because no self-related-identities have been created by the ignorant mind. 

The Satipatthana Sutta is a collection of different practises compiled together (rather than a direct teaching of the Buddha). The Satipatthana Sutta is useful for beginners to familiarise themselves with different aspects of meditation & mental experience. The Satipatthana Sutta is also useful for lay people who practise meditation one or two to three hours per day in everyday life. Therefore, if you follow the Satipatthana Sutta, you can choose to practise any of the different practises contained within at any time of the day. 

The Bhūmija Sutta in the Nidanasamyutta of the Samyutta Nikaya appears to be a very important sutta for the Sri Lankan Mahavihara & Buddhaghoṣa school that came to dominate south east Asian Buddhism. For example, it appears that from the Bhūmija Sutta comes the rationale for the translation of the Dependent Origination terms 'kāyasaṅkhāraṃ, vacīsaṅkhāraṃ & cittasaṅkhāraṃ' as 'volitional or kamma formations' despite these terms being explicitly defined in a different manner in MN 44. (Of note, monks such as Buddhadasa, Nanavira, Nanananda & even a certain work by Thanissaro have used the MN 44 definitions in their explanations of Dependent Origination). The Bhūmija Sutta appears to begin by stating the Buddha does not teach as the "proponents of kamma" do, namely, maintaining that happiness and suffering are done by oneself or by another. Yet the common translations then appear to later show the Buddha explaining that: