It's difficult to answer your question about postmodernism, for a couple of reasons. First, the term "postmodernism" is used extremely equivocally: sometimes it refers strictly to a movement of late twentieth-century French philosophers (Derrida, Deleuze, Lyotard, Irigaray); sometimes it also includes Heidegger, Nietzsche, Freud, certain readings of Marx and Hegel, or any feminist philosopher. So it's not clear whose views of science you're asking about. Second, even the strict-sense postmodernists had very different views on science. Deleuze saw himself as providing a new metaphysics for science, following Bergson; when Lyotard rejects "metanarratives" in The Postmodern Condition, he's primarily targeting science. If I recall correctly, Gary Gutting's French Philosophy in the Twentieth Century discusses both of their views (and has a great chapter on prewar French philosophy of science). The view that the value of science comes from the way it lets us do things is historically associated with Francis Bacon. If anything Bacon was just barely pre-modern! In the nineteenth and twentieth century, it's associated with logical empiricism — especially Otto Neurath — and American pragmatism — especially John Dewey. For a discussion of the relationship between logical empiricism and pragmatism, check out George Reisch's How the Cold War Transformed Philosophy of Science. For work by contemporary philosophers of science, I recommend Nancy Cartwright's "Well-Ordered Science: Evidence for Use" and Matt Brown's book-in-progress. 

We sometimes say instead something like 'There is a murderer in this room', but without meaning to definitely assert that there is exactly one such person. Again, if we suppose that there are only finitely many people in the room ("Colonel Mustard", "Mrs. Peacock", "Professor Plum", ...) then this statement is equivalent to 

from which we infer that is true, although could still be either true or false. Edited to add — in reference to your question, "is it just that we assume some values which we can use to prove the argument to be valid or invalid?" It isn't enough to assume some values to prove the argument valid — what we are doing here is showing that all possible values of and which satisfy the two imposed constraints ( and ) which are used as hypotheses, validates the inference of . By the same token, because we see that there are two different values of are compatible with the imposed constraints, and so no valid inference can be made about in either direction. 

By request of , here are my comments unified as an answer — It seems likely to me that such a logic might not exist, or might be too limited. A possible obstacle.    Consider the classic proof by contradiction of the fact that the square-root of 2 is irrational. Let 

Well technically a coin toss is not "random". Toss a coin with the same force in the same direction with the same environment and it will always fall the same way. The point is that the force with which you spin, the direction and a thousand of little things are "random", and they will randomly interact with the coin. Now, "random" is the eyes of the beholder at this level; I claim that the force I apply to the coin is more or less random because I don't have perfect control on my muscles. You could say that technically someone could train himself to always use the same amount of force (down to, say, the 20th decimal digit) so that the coin toss is not random anymore, but actually deterministic. But reality is, at some fundamental level, random; quantum mechanics is needed to even begin to understand this statement(and I'm not claiming I do) but certainly there is some some fundamental randomness in the universe. To recap: wether something is random really depends on who's judging. With more control and accuracy you can decrease randomness but only up to a certain point, because the universe is at its core random. 

— which might be true for someone severely allergic to apples, but is also true for absolutely anyone who is mortal. (Though I'm not personally allergic to apples, I do expect that I will die some day. So it is true that I will die whether or not I eat any more apples; so if I eat an apple, I will die.) You might complain that the condition P — if I eat an apple — has little to do with the conclusion Q — I will die. This doesn't seem to get much better if we present it as a constraint of the form "P only if Q" (I will only eat an apple if I will die) — again, what does dying have to do with whether I could eat an apple? What makes the proposition hold is the formulation "either I won't eat an apple, or I will die" is true. Indeed, in the chain of reasoning I applied to myself, I asserted the proposition Q — I will die — and then reasoned that the logical status of P (my eating an apple) had no bearing on that truth. My arriving at the conclusion "if I eat an apple, then I will die" is in this sense true, but somewhat perverse; it omits the fact that if I don't eat an apple, I will also die then. We can make similar comments for vacuously true statements, such as 

well the first line of thinking says "Event A is very unlikely. But if we suppose that there exists an entity Z whose purpose is to make event A happen, then the likelihood of event A happening is higher" Which is true, given that entity Z actually has the possibility to influence the happening of A or not. Note that this is nothing more than a truism. "How does it make sense to infer the existence of a group from a sequence of events?" Well now the question becomes "Suppose we have a series of events A,B,C,D. All of them unlikely. They all happen though; this is very weird. It can be explained by assuming that there exists and entity Z that is increasing the probability of A,B,C,D of happening" Now this is one line of thinking. But this "probabilistic approach" fails for several reasons: First, nobody assures you that the entity Z is "likely" to exists. I mean if for explaining an event that only happens one time in a thousand you claim that there exists and organization whose "probability to exists" is one in a billion, you didn't gain much, did you? Second, who decides what events needs explaining and what not? This is a delicate point and actually makes most of this kind of arguments fail. Go to your favourite cinema, and look at plaque of a car; let's say it's AB292ZXZ. Amazing isn't it? From all the billions of combinations possible, that is the one that appears right in front of you! Surely can't be just chance, can it? There must exist an entity to explain this very unlikely event! The point of the last example is that the last event is unlikely if you say "Today I'll go at a random cinema and I'll see the plaque number AB292ZXZ". It's not unlikely if you just look at a random plaque at the cinema and wonder how incredible it is that you observed that one. There is a big difference between a priori prediction and a posteriori explanation. The conspiracy theories usually try to explain the world a posteriori; they select some events in a purely arbitrary manner and make up imaginative explanations that "connect all the dots" and explain everything. Well this amounts to nothing, as the plaque example shows; you have to make some accurate predictions. At this they usually fail. To sum up, you could try to explain events by making up secretive organizations that influence our world, but as long as you can't make meaningful predictions about the future it all amounts to nothing. 

This tends to be so useful a way of describing things that we define a notation for it, perhaps along the following lines: 

is: what do you mean by "the mathematical world"? If you wish to interpret mathematics not just platonically in a colloquial sense — i.e. that there exists an absolute mathematical truth because of [insert reasons] — but take an actually Platonic position that there exists an actual world of forms, which you might call the mathematical world or of which the mathematical world is a subset (together with chairs and horses) of which our world is but a poor shadow, then it cannot be limited by our world unless you make various assumptions. If you will forgive my injecting some mathematical terminology, you might suppose that the projection from the Platonic realm to ours is a total function: that is, for all objects in the Platonic realm, there exists an object in ours which is its shadow. This would mean that the only things which exist in the Platonic realm are those which can be identified as an abstraction of our own world. (If you take this position, you should wonder how seriously you should take the idea that the Platonic realm isn't just an invention of your imagination to categorize the structures that you already see around you.) This assumption would then allow you to try and discern some limitations of the Platonic realm imposed by representation in the domain of our experiences. But then you are stuck with problems such as: when can you identify what Platonic object is being represented by a real object? Does it matter how crude a representation the real object is, of a Platonic object? If not, then does even assumption even impose any restriction on what sorts of objects might exist in the Platonic realm? I find that your questions 2–4 are really different phrasings of the same question, and amount to commenting on the Unreasonable Effectiveness of Mathematics in the Natural Sciences. The short answer is that there's no real way to tell, except perhaps the reasons touched on by Bruce's earlier answer: that there exists some structure in the world, certainly enough to allow self-replicating agents to arise and to form complicated social animals; that mathematics is nothing more or less than the collection of formal tools which contain — as a subset — those patterns which we see arising around us. Basically, the question amounts to what it is that you think mathematics consists of, and where you think it came from. Not where mathematical structures in reality came from, but mathematics itself. If you think that it sort of appeared mysteriously in human culture for no reason, like some sort of divine revelation, it is not really surprising that the relationship of mathematics to the real world would be mysterious. But if mathematics — and generalizing to all subject matter of the Platonic realm, all language and logic — arose as tools made by humans to try to encapsulate not only the patterns they see in the world, but all patterns that they could imagine, then perhaps the apparent presence of mathematical structure in the world is not mysterious; it's because mathematics consists of variations on some basic themes, which we once deliberately abstracted from the physical world. What we observe is that the physical world is not only structured, but that the complication of that structure does not vary too wildly with scale — at least, not until we consider speeds close to that of light, masses greater than that of the Earth, or spatial scales close to those of atoms. Then we find that the structure of the world is still describable by math, but — quite significantly — that it seems badly counterintuitive; and in the case both of general relativity and quantum mechanics, unweildly and difficult to compute. Is mathematics truly effective there, if we can describe the apparent pattern of things but are unable to very efficiently verify that these patterns hold true by computing their predictions? Does this represent a qualitatively robust understanding, which is different in character than an understanding of Jupiter's cloud layers by a thorough examination of the colours of its atmospheric bands from beyond its orbit? Mathematics is useful, and is perhaps one of the crowning achievements of humanity, but it is important to keep things in perspective. Developing a psychological theory of mathematics, as with language, is important to be able to arrive at an accurate assessment of why it is as it is, why it is useful, and importantly to be reminded of its limitations, which (in some subcultures of modern society) we are often keen to forget. 

(This answer elaborates a bit on R. Barzell's answer.) Charles Mills takes up this question in his book The Racial Contract. The title of Mills' book refers to a kind of inversion of classical social contract theory. Classical social contract theory uses a hypothetical, general social contract (involving "everyone," in some sense) to characterize a just society. Mills' inversion emphasizes actual agreements among small groups of people (namely, powerful white men in Europe and, later, the US) to treat certain other groups of people (namely, indigenous peoples and African or African-American slaves) as inferiors. For example, at the infamous Berlin Conference in 1884-5, a group of European diplomats gathered together and established the "rules" for the colonization of Africa. Mills emphasizes that the idea of a biological hierarchy of races developed at the same time as Enlightenment and nineteenth-century ideas of democracy and equality. Indeed, white/European supremacy was often defended by the same individuals who argued for democracy and equality. For one example, Immanuel Kant — one of the most important and influential Enlightenment philosophers — was also one of the first people to articulate biologically-based racism. For another, early in On Liberty, John Stuart Mill writes that 

Whether or not the coin has been tossed, the probability is just a model of how you expect events to turn out, or to have turned out, based on the information you have. Without having information about the result of the coin, it does not matter whether or not it has been flipped yet. The probabilistic model which assigns probabilities based on different amounts of information remains the same, and so is agnostic of time, in the same way that Newton's equations predict the same behaviour for an apple that is dropped from a height of 1m in similar conditions both for yesterday and tomorrow. Probabilities are best assigned relative to one's experience of the world. In the Sleeping Beauty problem, the princess' experience of the world is biased by the sleeping drug. Although an undrugged observer may experience the coin as being fair, Sleeping Beauty's experience of the frequencies of the coin are different. At issue is the fact that Sleeping Beauty experiences the events of and with different frequencies relative to a control observer. Without additional information, Sleeping Beauty could rationally assign different probabilities to the outcomes of the coin, because we are deliberately skewing her experiences. Furthermore, while Sleeping Beauty knows we are skewing her experiences, this does not affect the experiences she will have as a result of the skewing. She could rationally infer that we perceive the coin to be fair, and also that she would perceive the coin to be unfair. Thus, even before engaging in the experiment she could assign a prior probability of 1/3 to , at least for her own purposes. Sleeping Beauty simply experiences a different probabilistic ensemble to ourselves, and so obtains a different frequency, in a manner not totally different to how different observers moving at different speeds will perceive sounds to be at different pitches due to the Doppler Effect. And similarly to shifting pitches of sounds, we can obtain a unifying probabilistic model, which does not assign a definite probability to the event , but which describes what probability each agent could rationally ascribe to the event depending on what ensemble their conscious experiences will be subject to. 

Starting from the assumption that there is no absolute morality and that good and bad are stories we tell ourselves, how can I logically convince a racist person that he's wrong? There is no right or wrong to begin with! Trying to appeal to "general principles" like "everyone should be equal " and such is of no great help, because a) those principles are arbitrary anyway, 2) it is often quite tricky to conclude anything definitive from them. This is something I've been struggling with; I try to be as logical as possible with my arguments, but I always know in the back of my mind that I'm being dishonest: that what I say cannot be completely logical because there is nothing to start with. How are my arguments different than a screaming contest then? Of course the racist thing is just an example, in general this occurs every time we come close to morality and ethics; this includes murder, theft, and so on. Given that realizing that good and bad exists only in the human mind does not seem to me as a particularly bold position to take, I guess someone already wrote about this? About how to resolve this situation? Maybe you could provide some references? I admit that my question sounds like "Assume that there are no moral truths. How can we discern right from wrong?" but in my mind someone has surely realized the fact that there are no truths before me; how did they justify their moral positions then? (Without taking crazy unjustified assumptions like many philosophers do)