The main reason why electric bikes aren't mainstream is the fact that human legs and electric motors want to produce power at much different RPMs. Casual cyclists pedal at around 60 RPM. Experienced cyclist can pedal at higher RPMs, 90 RPM. Both of these are nothing when compared to optimal electric motors that want to rotate at 10 000 RPM, if optimized to produce the largest possible power with lowest possible cost and lowest possible weight. At 25 km/h, a wheel with 2m circumference rotates at 208 RPM. So, pedals rotate more slowly than wheels (about 3x difference), whereas optimal electric motors want to rotate at about 50x faster than bicycle wheels. Engineering has allowed us to create a motor producing 250 watts of power within the hub of a wheel. This is bit over what casual cyclist can produce continuously. However, even causal cyclists can climb up short hills at over 500 watts, more than what these hub motors produce. These hub motors also are heavier than necessary due to being restricted to about 200 RPM, and also more expensive than necessary. If you want to create a cheap lightweight electric transportation vehicle, you need to have the gearing to increase RPMs at the electric motor. This means a drivetrain that increases RPMs at the power source, rather than decreasing them. Thus, you need to get rid of the pedals because there is no way to have both the existing drivetrain for pedals and the new drivetrain for the electric motor. It won't be an electric bicycle anymore. Such a vehicle needs to be insured. On some countries, vehicles that: 

No, on any reasonable frame cracks cannot be welded unless they were at a location that was designed to be welded. A reasonable frame means lightweight here, meaning that material thickness and thus strength at all locations is optimized to be just barely enough. Welding seams have lower strength than the original material, and therefore, any welding at that location will eventually fail. You wondered how a crack can form at that location. The reason is simple: the material thickness/strength is optimized so that every location of the frame has just the bare minimum amount. Thus, there are many potential crank locations, including the head tube. 

I would highly recommend NOT doing something like using a threaded pad in a threadless setup. The threadless setups are commonly called "Cantilever-Style" because cantilever systems are almost ALWAYS going to use the threadless type of pads, except those that specifically say "Cantilever V-Style." If you look on eBay, you'll find this is true if you search 'Cantilever Pads' versus 'V-Brake Pads'. Where you said you had trouble stopping because it took "quite a while to stop," I'd say you either have a bad set of calipers, bad brake levers, damaged cable housings or bad housing stops, as there should be as close to zero flexibility in the brake system. The pads should be 1-2mm away from the rim before you touch the brake lever if they're well set up on a decent set of trued wheels. Then, pull the lever until the pads lightly touch the rim. Then, watch the caliper arms and pull the lever as hard as you can. If you are able to see flex that allows the brake to touch the handlebars, buy a new set of brake calipers or a new bike, because too much flex is ridiculously dangerous. By the way, I HIGHLY recommend changing to V-Brake style systems, as I personally find them far easier to work on. Those pads, the Clarks Elite Tri-Compound, are literally the same ones I use. Be wary that you'll find an increase in the frequency for replacing them, as they're made of a softer material, but note that the power and the reliability that I've had from these pads are well worth that trade-off. Good luck with either you choose, but please do not try to bodge the two worlds of V-Brake style and Cantilever style pads into one. 

Nope, and riding with it locked is quite beneficial in certain factors of riding, and if you have a locking suspension, you are very lucky compared to me, who has a bike without it. The bike will not break from simply having your suspension locked; It still absorbs impact, just in extremely minute amounts. Seeing as many web sites have covered this, I'd thought I may as well throw some info out there. Imagine the fact that I have 22mm tyres on my road bike; you should have about an inch and a half. Not much of a difference? In terms of absorption, I can swap my tyres for 25mm and feel a huge difference in comfort and less shock through the frame. If you have an inch and a half or even just an inch, you should be more than perfectly fine, no matter what terrain. I mean, come on, I ride a road bike off-road on bumpy-ass terrain. 

Yes, more detail about your riding scenario will help. Are you trying to ride it alone at times? Tandem wheelbase length could be an issue if you are going solo. Also, if you and the other rider are not leaning into turns correctly with each other, then this can be causing skid/balance issues. One last thing - the heavier rider may need to be in front. The front wheel is all your stopping power and so their weight will stablize the front end. If there is a great deal of weight difference in the riders, then you will have to experiment which position allows most comfort and handling. 

First thing, if you have sore or rawness from your commute - try this - $URL$ - best stuff I've ever used to help relieve pain and heal! Second, padded cycling shorts are a must. I am a very large man, so for me this is the only place I can find gear in my size - $URL$ Also, DON'T wear underwear with bike shorts. They will bind up and hinder moisture removal. Bike shorts will keep you dryer and more comfortable. 

Well, since the most valuable thing about you is your brain... take that in to consideration. Also, on a side note -once you've crashed and made impact on the helmet - you should discard and buy a new one. Personally, I would not be scared to buy a cheap one on clearance - there are many riders who will wait til they wear out, damage, or just get tired of their current helmet before buying a new one. But I won't say this is the best decision. One BIG thing I would make sure of is that using the old helmet doesn't effect your insurance coverage. For example, in America, military personnel must wear proper safety gear or they may lose long-term benefits. That's why you can always spot a military person on a motorcycle or bicycle. They have helmets, gloves, reflective vests, etc. I know my insurance long-term benefits has language in coverage (or lack of) about "dangerous" activities and not taking proper precautions. 

I've been wondering is there a marketplace to buy/sell/get original parts for bikes no longer made? I have a Bridgestone X0-1 Hybrid (the weird looking one with mustache handlebars) and I want to either restore it to original like new condition (or might just sell it) but I haven't really found a good place to research this. Any ideas? I've tried ebay, but either its a whole bike (I don't need that) or never the parts I need! Thanks, Mike 

Not sure I'd call that a clutch.... ;) More a freewheel. I have done jobs like this in the past, and I found using a Lithium Grease (very thin, textured a bit like facial cream) works great, so long as you only line it on the teeth. 

Best bet with quick releases when they are hard to remove because of the frame in the way is to get a rag, place it against the frame and then use a long-handled screwdriver to pry it up. That works all the time in the bike-shop I work at. Good luck! EDIT I should actually say, if you have carbon fiber release levers, be VERY careful not to crack/crush it, otherwise that's gonna have to meet the wheelie bin. 

Anyone who can help, or anyone with one of these with these tyres, please, please, please help! Thankyou all in advance. 

All of these areas are VERY sensitive to high pressure/stress. If you point the pressure washer jet of water perpendicular to these areas, very close and hold it there for a substantial amount of time without moving it constantly, you could potentially do some damage. The best bet is to entirely avoid these areas. Hubs, headsets and bottom brackets contain grease, which the water will blast out of these areas and sit next to the bearings, causing them to rust. Springs inside derailleurs (mostly rear) and on your shifters are usually quite fragile with high pressure water, and these are also commonly covered in a grease. Any soft materials like seats, rubber/plastic bushings for suspension parts and rubber seals can be cut with a water jet, depending on pressure, proximity to these parts and how long they're held in front of the pressure for. My pressure washer, when I was testing it on an old scrap bike, can cut through the fabric and sponge on my old seat. Having gone horizontal, I could have cut a sheet of seat off my bike if I wanted to. If you have an old, cracked leather seat on your bike, the pressure will destroy it in no time. Anything that needs to move smoothly and freely, like cabling, will not appreciate the water either. If the water sits on any gear/brake cables for a prolonged period, the water will promote rust in these areas, causing the cables to first become hard to move, stretch and then seize entirely. If you have hydraulic brakes, you need to take even more care; Normal water in a hydraulic braking system is a big, big no-no. Seals on both the caliper and lever end can get severely damaged, causing fluid to leak or water to get in. Not only will it make the braking spongy if it damages it, it 'could' start failing altogether after heavy braking, heating up the caliper. If you keep the water jet away from the parts mentioned above and try not to focus in one place, you should be okay. As a rule of thumb, keep the jet one to two feet away from the bike, aim at about a 45 degree angle and keep the jet constantly moving. Also, if it's an adjustable jet, set the jet to the fan setting, rather than the pencil-jet setting. Remember to lubricate the chain after, as well as drying the bike down by hand using an old but clean and dry towel that's absorbent. Don't use your best bath towel, use one that you're about to throw out.