If you happen to live somewhere near "Indian Country" (as I do), it is not entirely uncommon to see men of native extraction with very long braids today. 

Religious sects (heresies) tend to be very heavily correlated to societies and their desires for who they want to associate with, and distance themselves from. For instance, German tribes in the late Roman period tended to take up Arianism, which quite conveniently provided them independence from Roman popes and a common sect amongst themselves. A similar phenomenon happened with Shi'ism vs. the Sunni amongst the Indo-European Iranians. John Calvin was a Frenchman, and thus Calvinism was essentially France's home-grown protestant theology. This was a time where France had a century prior been the most powerful state in Europe. However, Spain's newfound wealth and power had recently reduced France to an arguable #2. This contributed to France having recently lost control of the Papacy. So in a way you could view the whole episode as a proxy war over whether France should continue to try influence the papacy, or go its own way. Joining a reform movement that they weren't the senior member of would not have furthered the latter goal, and they couldn't guarantee political control of an externally-based sect. Thus Calvinism was really the only other feasible religious option. 

Not everybody living in Israel at that time was Jewish. The country had been mostly ruled by Greeks since 333 BC, and then by Romans since the mid first century BC. As this was quite recent, this resulted in a real polyglot mix of people, with Greeks performing much of the upper-class administration duties, while the soldiers were Roman. It is generally argued today that a carpenter of the time, such as Jesus' father is said to have been, would likely have found most of his work from richer folk in the nearby Greek settlements, rather than in a backwater Jewsh town like Nazareth. Greeks and Romans did not share the Jew's taboos about pork, and in fact found it quite tasty. Workers like swineherds (and carpenters) would obviously need to be employed nearby to keep them supplied. 

Hieroglyphic writing systems generally were all initially used to record the accomplishments of kings in a very simple way. The problem they have is that true literature requires using a lot of the language, and logographic systems are really only extensible by adding a new symbols, or tacking other types of systems onto them. To tell an actual story with any kind of evocative language requires development of thousands of unique glyphs, or something more akin to an alphabet. Egypt followed this pattern. Slowly their writing system started to adopt more advanced concepts (such as phonograms and determinatives), but that didn't happen until around the time of the writing of the Epic of Gilgamesh, so they can't really be said to predate it. For example, what is considered the oldest known sentence in Egyptian is just the 5 symbols for "unite", "upper and lower Egypt", "son", "king of upper and lower Egypt", and a particular king's symbol, along with a few assorted determinatives written on them. That translates out to roughly "He united upper and lower Egypt for his son, King of Upper and Lower Egypt Perisben". This was probably about 500 years before the Epic of Gilgamesh, depending on how you mesh the two chronologies. By the time of Middle Egyptian they had expanded the system to include about 900 different hieroglyphs, at which point they could begin to tell proper stories. However, this (barely) post-dates tEoG. Most of the more famous examples of Hieroglyphs on monuments are from this period. There was also a related written form (initially called Hieratic) which slowly over the centuries evolved into a proper alphabet*. Coptic is a living descendent of this system. * - Abjad technically, since Semitic languages like Egyptian had no real need for vowel glyphs. 

A large part of the New Deal was makework programs to give some of the nearly 13 million unemployed (over 20% of the labor force) something somewhat productive to do. The WPA, the CCC, and the NYA were all programs of that ilk. With the war on, that problem essentially went away. Pretty much every able-bodied male was expected to either join the military, or be helping with the new war production needs. In fact, they got so hard up for labor that a lot of women entered the work force who wouldn't have otherwise been there. So the problems that those programs were invented to solve went away, and thus there was no need for the programs anymore. Here's the issue in visual terms. Note that the war itself started in 1939. The USA joined right at the end of 1941, but was producing arms for the Allied side much earlier. 

I found a paper(.doc) from the University of Liepzig that studied colonial revenues in the British Empire in some detail. Looking over their data, it seems that nearly all parts of the empire were experiencing increasing revenues clear to the end (well..at least until WWII). However, what you do see at the end is that the revenue per capita actually started to decline. For example, here are their overall gross revenue numbers (in millions of pounds) and per capita (in pounds): 

The bombings saved somewhere in the neighborhood of 250 - 500 thousand US lives, and Japanese lives in the millions. The bombings saved US lives numbered only in the thousands, and actually cost the Japanese up to a quarter of a million lives. 

It looks like some important early churches in the founding of the movement were the Christian Catholic Apostolic Church and the Christian and Missionary Alliance churches. However, neither themselves became Pentecostal. 

Looking this over, its pretty easy to spot the big drivers. All of them are sudden spikes coincident with either wars or big money-supply-induced recessions, with two exceptions: the Reagan Era, and the presidency of George W. Bush. In every case (with those two exceptions) the debt percentage dropped slowly towards 0 until the next spike hit. Jackson in particular happened to be voted into office right near the 0 point. You could give him credit for not using the occasion to go on a Regan/Bush style spending spree*, but that's probably all the credit he really deserves. * - I distinctly remember the talk during the early Bush (II) administration that we were on a trajectory to effectively pay off the debt for the first time since WWII. Rather than let that happen, a very large tax cut was passed, as well as a pretty big Medicare drug expansion. Then the Great Recession came along and blew everything out of the water... 

Well, these days I'd say Spanish certainly counts. It is spoken as a first language in just about every country in the Americas south of the Rio Grande (Brazil being the most prominent exception). North of there, English has roughly the same status. Historically, the best analog I know of is Mongol, which at one point was spoken across Asia from Russia to Manchuria (China too, but only by the rulers). I don't have numbers on 13th century Asian literacy, sad to say. I'd guess that few Mongols were literate. Their alphabet was brand new at the time of their empire, and being pastoralists by culture most of them would have had little use for it. Then again, your typical Chinese or European peasant didn't have much use for literacy in the 13th century either. (I should note here that these days Mongolia's literacy rate is a respectable 97.5%, which is quite a bit better than neighboring China, and puts them slightly more literate than Greece) 

Tons. The most obvious example is the Korean War, which is technically still in effect, although there's been a cease-fire for the last 60 years. Another rather famous example is the Arab-Israeli wars. Egypt signed a formal peace with Israel in the late 1970's. Jordan didn't officially bow out until 1994 - 20 years later. Most of the rest of the Arab states still refuse to, in part on the grounds that doing so would necessitate admitting that Israel exists as a state. 

The flippant answer is, "History is stuff that happened before I was born. " The implications of this are: 

Thracian citizens left over from the time that area was under the control of the Byzantine empire. The Bulgars, a semi-nomadic Turkish people who started to move into the area in the mid-7th century. Early Slavs, who moved into the cultivatable land that the nomadic Turks depopulated in the Balkans around this time. 

The Spanish-American war was almost certainly started by an accident. The Casus Belli was an explosion that sank the USS Maine in Havana Harbor. There's a good chance it wasn't even an external source that caused the explosion. Even if it was a mine, it is highly unlikely the mine was placed where it was in hopes of sinking a US ship. Even one of the newspaper magnates who was hyping it up in his papers publicly admitted this at the time. However, US public opinion was strongly in favor of Cuban independence (from Europe, that is), and it didn't take much to get it thinking this was a stellar pretense to use war to force the issue. So was the start of the war itself an accident? Not really. But it was almost certainly started by one. 

It turns out there was an unofficial award for doing this particular trip the quickest in a passenger liner, so we have pretty good records. Of course a typical passage would be a bit slower than one where a captain was pushing to win the record, but the times can be seen as a close lower bound to how long it would take for a typical trip. In the 1890's the Blue Riband was held by double-screw steamships. A four-time holder was the SS Majestic, which made her maiden voyage in 1890 from Liverpool to New York in a bit less than six and a half days. That wasn't quite good enough for the record. At the time the City of Paris held the record on a run the same direction between those two cities at a bit under 6 days. (The prize was for average speed in knots, so it doesn't translate perfectly to clock time, but there is a relationship). Now of course if you weren't paying top dollar on a state-of-the-art cruise liner it would probably be considerably slower, but this should give you a ballpark figure and a good idea of the lower bound for a crossing. 

That seems highly unlikely. The invention of agriculture in the Fertile Crescent was roughly 10,000 years ago, principally in the Tigris-Euphrates river valley system. The people living there when the historical record opened spoke a language unrelated to any modern language. Kurdish is an Indo-European language, of the Western Iranian branch. About 5,500 years ago all of these languages would have been a single language spoken by a single ancestral people (who we call Proto-Indo-Europeans, or PIE). Our best guess is that they were living north of the Black and Caspian seas, on the Steppe. It is quite likely these are the people that domesticated the Horse. The Iranian branch split off when a group of PIEs moved into Persia, likely from west of the Caspian. This happened about 4000 years ago. 

From a technical taxonomical point of view, it is impossible to have domestic dogs depicted in a Paleolithic cave painting, simply because domestication of plants and animals is one of the features of the Neolithic. So by definition, any art that depicts a canid is either Neolithic, or it is showing a wild relative such as a wolf. Now this is a bit overly pedantic, as domestication of dogs appears to have begun in the northern parts of Asia well before the dates we associate with the full-blown Neolithic. However, the dates are close enough that it can still be a useful rule-of-thumb (considering the Paleolithic lasted upwards of 2.6 million years, and we are quibbling here over the last 5-20 thousand years of it) 

I so far haven't been able to dig up anything about the Valcarra either. However, the description of the rest sounds a lot like a Chinese Queue. There may have been some Chinese immigration to that area in that exact period, or it could have been influenced by similar Native American hairstyles. According to the wiki, this same hairstyle was also being used in the British Navy in the early 1800's. 

If you just mean wars, according to this graph from a University of Warwick study (by way of History Today), there was in fact a brief time in 1890 when there was only one war going on. 

At Agincourt (1415) the English reportedly had 1,500 men-at-arms (aka: Knights) and 7,000 longbowmen. That would be a ratio of nearly 5 longbowmen per knight. The French side has a lot of conflicting estimates of size, but by all accounts was very heavily weighted toward men-at-arms. Estimates generally run north of 10,000, with only about 5,000 archers and crossbow. That would give us a ratio of somewhere between 1 or 2 knights per archer/bowman. (At least one other source numbers the total French army at 50,000 with the rearguard added in, but said that they wouldn't let the archers participate, for fear of friendly fire). Of course this battle is rather famous as an example of how immense numbers of knights could be slaughtered by longbowmen if conditions are right. The French of this period were rather enamored of impulsive ill-advised mounted charges (see also Crecy, Poitiers, Nicopolis), while English knew how to use that against them, often chosing a very good defensive position with large numbers of men-at-arms fighting unmounted.