There can be a fine weave mesh in the invisibility cloak that lets sufficient light through to the inside for its wearer to see what is in the surroundings. It can be that simple. Unless there's a "magic" mechanism that creates a total immersion virtual reality for the wearer of the invisibility cloak that they can what is around them. 

While this can be proposed as a philosophical question, if synthetic creatures with human bodies and containing machine intelligences existed in the real world this would be a question of law. This then becomes a matter for legislators and the general public to decide how they will be treated at law. The first problem will be that the creatures will be made by most likely a corporation. Certainly only large, well-resourced organizations or institutions would be capable of doing so. This makes them property. Particularly so, if a commercial entity is responsible for producing them. Then they are private property. This will raise the spectre of slavery. This, in turn, may lead to a campaign to grant them the same rights as ordinary humans. Once the general public has become familiar with them. There may be an initial period where they are regarded as monsters, but if they look and act like normal humans this should pass. If they're only as intelligent as an average human, then they won't be too different from the general population. Interestingly, if the institution that builds them, is government. For example, Army or Air Force they will be public property. This has a different dynamic and logic. It also may depend on the purpose for their creation and production. If they were intended as military personnel, then they may only have the same rights and as any other military personnel. It's easy to see there would be many who will be happy that soldiery is filled with androids instead of real, natural human beings. Others doubtless will see this as military enslavement from birth. Whatever the outcome is about conferring human rights on creatures that are synthetic humans with machine intelligence brains, this will be decided through the normal processes of politics and law-making. In some circumstances, this may happen almost immediately and in others it may take longer. These creatures seem to be sufficiently human, or capable of readily passing for human, that the most probable outcome will be to grant them their own rights equivalent to normal human rights. 

The force-field will need to be both a thermal superconductor and energy-absorbing field. This is apart from its usual properties of acting as an impenetrable barrier. This will rapidly draw heat out of the lava causing it to solidify. Considering the force-field will allow visual information to pass through it, it can be concluded that this force-field will permit a window to allow only sufficient light through to see through it but radiant heat that exceeds safe levels of thermal radiation will be absorbed. In this case, when the force-field is turned off the solidified lava will remain in place. Of course, this will depend on the mechanical properties of solidified lava itself. In summary, thermal superconductive and energy-absorbing force-fields will solidify lava in reasonable timescales 

Since the core question is actually how to strip the rings of the planet Saturn this answer will ignore a runaway planet Uranus because this has too many problems and may not do the job anyway. Simply throw a great big dirty snowball at the rings of Saturn and have it moving in the opposite direction of the rotation of Saturn's rings. Big dirty snowballs are better known as comets. This works best if the comet is travelling sufficiently slowly that it falls into orbit around Saturn. It will keep moving in the debris field of the rings. Each successive impact, it send fragments of the rings either spirally down into a lower orbit where there will be further collisions. Outgassing from the comet will throw up a braking cloud and decelerate ring fragments. Eventually the rings will descend low enough that the outer edges of the atmosphere will further decelerate the rings for their final plunge as meteorites. Obviously the comet necessary to create this planetary ring clearing Kessler Effect will need to be large and fairly gassy. The cascade will need to be excessive compared to mere space travel blocking Kessler syndrome. 

Source: Alexander Graham bell's Photophone With hindsight we can see the Bell photophone required technological unavailable in the nineteenth century had it been successful its major limitation was line of sight communication. The telephone used wires that can be laid without any consideration of geographical positions of communicating parties. It wasn't limited to line of sight communication. Paradoxically Bell's photophone was over taken by his telephone. However, if we assume the Bell photophone had been a more effective communications system than proved the case historically, the world that might have resulted would have been one with a more mixed variety of communications systems; telephones, photophones and wireless radio. Depending on economies of scale and ease of operations, these competing technologies would have risen and fallen in their dominance of communications media. One possible result could have been a faster adoption of fibre optics technology. One caveat with this is what were the developments necessary for its development in terms of glass technology and materials science. Had the Bell photophone been successful, the history of communications technologies could have been more complicated and diverse. 

A brief answer to your tangential question: Can we still call it terraforming if an alien species makes changes to a planet to make it unlike Earth? The problem with xenoforming as a word is that it literally means 'forming something that is strange'. Joe Haldeman called terrforming "geomorphy" (used, possibly, in Mindbridge [1976]). The 'geo' doesn't need to be specific to 'earth' it could be applied generically to planets of any type. Of course, if you wanted to relate it to sapient beings modifying planets to be more like their home planet, then calling it home building does sound a trifle banal. The 'eco' in 'economics' and 'ecology' comes from 'oikos' the ancient Greek word for 'home'. This suggests the appropriate name for terraforming to be like their alien home planet could be either 'ecomorphy' (home-shaping) or ecotropy (home-directing). 'Ecoforming' is possible, but the word looks odd on the page and may not sound well too. 'Echo-forming' sounds like echo-making. And ecoforming could be pronounced ek-cough-or-ming. Not so good. This leaves ecomorphy or ecotropy, but most people can understand terraforming even if the transformation doesn't result in an earthlike planet. I suspect people will prefer terraforming. My personal favourite replacement word for terraforming can be found in Harry Harrison's The Stainless Steel Rat (1961). He called it 'terrafying'.