"Put a powerful subroutine (essentially an AI) in charge of reinforcing the shackles restraining the Actor AI." The idea behind this type of testing is that you are simulating an environment through simulated input/output. You have to allow outputs to modify the simulated environment so that later the inputs reflect this change. There are no shackles. In fact, you wouldn't want to "restrain the Actor AI" at all, otherwise you'd be unable to observe undesired behavior that it would perform later unshackled. Why would you try to restrain its behavior? This is like tieing up a murderer, and observing whether he murders someone, then concluding he is no longer a murderer because he didn't kill anyone while restrained. "No human-designed cage could hold a superhuman mind with access to the real world. It might well be that it takes an AI to cage an AI." You need to define what you are calling a shackle/cage. From a technical perspective this makes no sense. If you build a server with no outside connections to simulate the environment, and place the AI on it, then it has no capability to influence the real world or escape. If you put another AI in charge of evaluating the design of your server to determine that there are no outside connections, that is a relatively trivial task! 

The "Anti-Utopia" Proof I will tell you one thing that I do know though: if a utopia is perfection, all it takes is one person who believes that they are worse off to, by definition, make a situation non-utopian; so if you applied StackExchange's principles to my country's governing structure, I can tell you right now that there is near-zero possibility that any utopia could result since I would be miserable every time some group of 5 (or make it 500) "trusted" individuals voted to suppress what I was doing that day. You are going to get a lot of super-pissed-off people. Right now I live in a constitutional-republic with a semi-democratic election process (the U.S.), and it is already bad enough that my neighbors have so much control over my life - I would not want to give them even more control. 

A lot of answers here seem to be answering the related but un-asked question of "How does the lucky person get away with it or maximize winnings?" The answer to the actual question is rather simple and short... How can the casino prove I'm cheating? If you are not cheating, they cannot prove that you are. How would they? The casino cannot prove something when there is no proof. The casino could try to plant fake evidence. This is unlikely to happen unless you are breaking the bank for any given, specific casino. Some people do walk away with millions, and the casinos don't plant evidence against them all, so why would you be different? If you are raking in Billions from 1 single casino, then maybe they would try something. At that point, though, what they are doing is illegal, so just use your imagination. Maybe they rig their own roulette game in a fashion that you could for cheating and they say you did it, maybe get false witnesses. There are 1000 things they could do here. Speaking of illegal activity, casinos are highly regulated in a lot of ways. It is illegal even for the casino to tamper with their own devices to cheat in the casino's favor, just like it is illegal for you to tamper with them to cheat. That said, they will definitely suspect you of cheating. There have been times when people have cheated, the casinos have looked into them and proven they did cheat, and those people have gone to jail. What Can (or Will) the Casino do? Even though the casino cannot prove you are cheating, that doesn't matter. They don't need to prove it. They can and will simply kick you out. It is that simple. If you keep winning too much money in a way that does no good for the casino (provides no positive publicity for casino, causes nobody around you to bet more, etc.), eventually someone will come over and just force you to leave. What Else is the Casino Likely to do? Planting evidence is unlikely, as mentioned above, since that could get the casino in big trouble. However, that does not mean the casino will just roll over. I will also go into the situation where you try to get one last big win so the casino has little time to react, but I will cover it from the casino's point of view, per your question. I have heard of people being denied their winnings before. Even if this is illegal (some have suggested it is, and I would agree), that does not bother the casino if they do not lose out. This, then, becomes just another bet, another game of chances. Odds are that people who are not given all the chips they deserve are not going to take legal action against the casino, and even if some do then the casino just pays you what you were owed in the first place. That is: there is no negative for the casino since they lose (approximately) the same amount whether they pay you now or pay you when your lawyers threaten them and so there is little incentive to bully you into leaving without all earnings, but there is much positive for the casino if you don't send lawyers. So it's a "win/not-lose" situation for the casino to bully you into not taking that last big winning when they are kicking you out. Further, if you have no witnesses or evidence, it may be hard to prove that you were denied what was rightfully yours. If you leave without all your winnings when the casino bullies you, what proof do you have that you actually were denied what was yours? If you were keeping a low profile, you likely left few or no witnesses. This makes it even easier for the casino to withhold what is yours. Summary The casino can't prove anything but doesn't need to. The casino can and will kick you out. It is possible they might try to bully you into leaving without all your money. 

The task of building a cage that prevents the tested AI from "escaping" its simulated environment is trivial. For a sufficiently complex system, it might be fairly complex. However for this scenario, it is feasible to physically isolate the server simulating the environment. This makes the task of verifying its security much easier. Given this, speaking in terms of the warden AI and the tested AI being in competition doesn't make sense. The tested AI could be capable of self teaching/modifying, gaining new knowledge, etc. However, the warden AI doesn't have to compete in any way with this AI. The warden AI has a fairly limited task of evaluating the security of the design, before the tested AI ever comes into picture. You could furthermore build a robot with an AI that comes around and evaluates the actual deployment of the server to determine if it was deployed as designed. The idea that if the AI is sufficiently "powerful" then it can overcome its cage, is leaning on the trope "with enough intelligence the protagonist can get him/herself out of anything". What really is the hinging factor, and what many well written scenarios of this sort lean on, is that a mistake was made in building the cage. This has nothing to do with relative power of the warden vs the tested AI. The warden AI has a pretty simple task, given that the scenario involves a physically isolated server, so for it to perform its job perfectly, it doesn't need to be too complex. The tested AI could be orders of magnitude more intelligent, but could be perfectly contained by the isolated server. Talking about one AI being more powerful than another AI, as if they are wrestlers in a wrestling match, sounds nonsensical in this context. The warden AI doesn't have to outsmart the tested AI, it just has to ensure the server is perfectly isolated. I would focus less on caging/shackling, and more on the pitfalls of trying to trick an AI into thinking the nth box is reality. This IMO has a more firm grounding. Building the cage is trivial. Building a simulation that tricks an AI of undefined intelligence into thinking it is in real life is the challenge. 

Strictly speaking, the answer is "Yes, that can happen." However, there are so many ways that it could happen that the full scope of "how" would be too broad. Since you don't need the full scope, but rather need only a few good ideas, I will offer some. 

Image public domain courtesy Wikipedia at same link as above There are other cool images we could dig up that do similar things. I wanted to include some of x-ray visuals, microwave/radio-wave visuals, and the like because there are cool instances of those, but those are technically EM radiation, just not the wavelengths our eyes detect, so I'll forego that here. You can use Google images to turn up plenty of them, especially for astronomy. Now here's how they do it Now let's bring this all back around to our dolphins of Dearth example case. Information Distribution As you pointed out, the printing press may have developed differently. Yes, that is likely. As you suggest, something more like braille is likely. For creatures primarily dependent on audio, audio recordings would also be likely. A phonograph cylinder is a device which can be used to record and playback audio, and it does not require any electrical components; it can also be made using very basic mechanical components. There are simple designs which are easy to create; here is a link to one you can buy which records to and plays from a wax candle. I once saw a TV show where a small team (3-5 people, if I recall) was left on an island with limited resources and were given objectives they needed to accomplish, including documenting wildlife; one of the guys used wood and wax to create a recording cylinder - they recorded bird songs with it. It was dumb simple. Your creatures can do similar, and you can use a playback to record another cylinder, though the quality will degrade quickly. Every time you want to re-boost your quality, you would need to recite the recording again, preferably in the presence of a room full of recorders, then distribute those to remote re-recording centers. Also note that sound travels much easier through water, so in my specific example of dolphins sound will travel easily and far. Phonographs are their printing presses; slightly less efficient but they will get the job done. Electricity After discovering electricity (Doesn't require light or modern technologies), they realize that something keeps interfering with it. While experimenting with their electronics, they discover that electric signals in some conductors produces interference with other conductors. This can take many forms but they all amount to the same thing; we get this phenomenon in devices as simple as a wire carrying the signal from a microphone to a speaker (our dolphins likely figured out microphones and speakers much sooner than we did; it's their primary sense after all), and in that case you will literally hear the interference. A bit more on electricity further below. And this interference leads to... And finally, EM detection (aka "seeing light") Some bright dolphin comes along and decides to deliberately cause an electrical "interference" to be detected remotely for the express purpose of wireless transmission, and thus the blind dolphins' radio technology is born. They do not even understand light yet, nor do they have any idea why this works since they do not understand EM. They will, however, continue to experiment and progress until they have figured it out, much the same way we have for energies and forces that we can only measure with devices. As soon as the blind, intelligent dolphins realize they can use their radios as radar, they build the biggest ones they can and point them where they cannot go: up. They find an empty expanse in the sky. Disappointing. "What if we keep building bigger?" some ask, "We might find something way far out, like millions of miles out!" "That's absurd," some will say, but eventually it will be done and other planets will be detected. So begins radio astronomy for our blind, intelligent dolphins, and they are surveying space. Obviously the general populace wants in on this action, so their scientists invent helmets which fit them and include a surround-sound echolocation system to transform the EM data into audio data so that they can all see it in their natural sensory format. There is another point you may have thought by now: What about detecting the energy put out by the other planets, and stars etc. for that matter? They will undoubtedly, and soon, realize that they can "see" even without the radar using passive radio detection, which might come before the radar detection of other planets mentioned above, or it might come after, depending on the frequencies they are using. Either way, they will soon see everything. We have come full circle and seen the steps they would go through. Disclaimer (Handwavium and more on electricity) The only hand-waving I did was "and they discover electricity," but that's not even a stretch since humans started using electricity thousands of years ago for electroplating; maybe some people understood what was going on, maybe not, but we know early humans stumbled into electricity at the very least and knew how to make a battery and use it. I don't know how they discovered it either; I just know they did, so this might not actually be hand-waving after all. As pointed out in the comment by @Mormacil, dolphins are likely to have a better up-close-and-personal demonstration of electricity than other creatures because there are marine creatures capable of generating and using electricity such as electric eels. Perhaps these dolphins even farm electric eels to use as their generators. Computers! As you said yourself, computers as we know them are reliant on sight. The original computers and their output did not utilize monitors as we know them. Their input was not with keyboards, and their output was not by light. So this issue kind of resolves itself. I imagine early vacuum tube computers could have been attached to the audio recording devices mentioned above to provide output even easier than the paper printing that some of our early computers used, so the output device is already covered and likely invented before computers and can interface easily with our original human computers. Input might be more of a concern; my example of dolphins for example, hopefully they have better graspers, or maybe they can use audio for input as well (that could indeed be translated the other way from mechanical audio playback into the mechanical early computers). Also note that there were technically ancient computers too, even more advanced than the abacus, and some early computers even controlled devices such as this computer-controlled artificial lion from the 1400s and there were humanoid robots too. Computer technology, even computer science theory, is actually older than the electronic computer as we know it. Now DASA (Dolphin Aeronautic and Space Administration) uses the telescopes from above, possibly in conjunction with computers (whether electronic or mechanical), and have made a major discovery; DASA has released a publication about the third planet from Sol possibly having large oceans of water. These dolphins are looking at Sol wondering if there really could be intelligent life there, or anywhere else in the universe for that matter, and we have come to the point at which our young dolphin of planet Dearth asks their worldbuilding.stackexchange.dearthnet question that I led with at the beginning.