I am speaking from experience, as someone who tried out for their college team, and who knows many college players from multiple universities. The one thing that will separate this tryout from anything you have done before is the volume of running. The tryout will have running to start, running in the middle, and running to finish. Not jogging; running and sprinting. Someone who can juggle hundreds of times probably has plenty of touch, but do you have the fitness to retain that touch at the end of the day? So, work on your fitness. Do shuttle runs; 40 yard sprints with the ball. Then do them again. And again. And again. Then go play in a scrimage, and finish that off with more running. Also, be prepared for multiple mile distances. Run mostly in you cleats on the grass. Make sure your shoes are broken in. I think more people dropped out of my tryout because of blisters than anything else. BTW, I didn't make my team, even though I am convinced that I had the skill for it. But by the end of a week of 2 a days, I was crushed by the running load. Learn from my mistake, good luck, and let us know how you do. 

The purpose of deadlifting is to get stronger at lifting things off of the ground. Since objects may be at different distances from the ground, you benefit from lifting from different heights. Competitive deadlifters might focus on the height of the bar with olympic weights, but that distance is arbitrary otherwise. Lowering height develops the back muscles and flexibility more. You have less leverage in this position, so you may need to lower the weight. Raising height allows you to develop more strength where you have more leverage because you can use a higher weight that you usually could not lift from a lower position. A final change to consider if you ever get bumper plates: Lowering the bar works the muscles in an eccentric fashion (lengthening them while contracting). This builds strength, but can also increase soreness. So, many people drop the weight from the top when doing their heavier reps. 400 lbs is a legit deadlift for anyone. You must be doing something right. 

All of the exercises you listed can be performed with dumbbells instead of a barbell. Although the weight might be different, there will be less stability with the dumbbells, which will help work your stabilization muscles. Instead of low-weight deadlift, you could do good mornings. 

Forefoot striking (running on toes) is the way we evolved to run. In areas where people do not wear shoes, this is how everyone runs, as heel striking without padding is painful. There is some evidence that forefoot striking reduces injuries Harvard research site. Top running coaches often integrate barefoot running into training to encourage runners to regain some of this natural movement. Since most people have worn shoes for their entire lives, they have learned to heel strike, and the muscles needed for a more natural stride are weak. So, if you start running this way, you need to work up to it slowly by running very short distances, and you can expect soreness in your calves and achilles tendon. In my opinion, the work and pain to change form is worthwhile. I run much more easily since I switched about 2 years ago. A minimalist shoe will help you with the transition. 

This isn't and exact match for your question about protein, but post-workout protein appears to reduce muscle soreness: Postexercise protein supplementation improves health and muscle soreness during basic military training in marine recruits It may follow that a general reduction in protein could be the cause of your symptoms. It would be easier to test than moving to a warmer climate. 

I am a former gymnast and a current crossfitter. I think of the kip a little bit differently than your other sources: 

If I were a coach (I'm not), I would teach the kipping pull up with no swing. I would raise your legs and tell you to rotate around your hips so you could get the feel and timing right. I think the focus on the swing and explosiveness is misplaced. 

As a former gymnast, I recommend that you try a gymnastics gym. This is really the only place you will find true experts on the rings. Although you may worry that the focus of gymnasts might extend beyond just strength, it takes uncommon strength to do even the simplest movements. For example, the ring muscle up is one of most advanced body weight movements in a sport like crossfit, but in gymnastics, it is considered so easy that it doesn't even get scored. Gymnastics coaches will know the correct progressions, and have the correct equipment, to get you to the really difficult movements like the iron cross and beyond. If you are concerned that a gymnastics gym won't be interested in helping you develop strength without acrobatics, don't be. It is their job to help you meet your goals. You are the boss. Not everyone has the goal of competing, and they know that. 

I find that intensity helps me focus. If you are struggling a little bit because of muscle fatigue or endurance, it is hard to be distracted by other things. One way to achieve that intensity is to try to do your sets quickly. Instead of just doing 5 sets of 5, you could try to do 5 sets of as many reps as you can in 10 seconds, with 10 seconds rest between. This also lets you have a number to beat next time you workout, by doing more reps in the same amount of time, or the same number with higher weight. 

Going from 8:30 miles to 6:00 miles is a significant jump, but it is doable. Since you are doing around 10k distances, I disagree with John, this is not elite level speed. It's very fast, but it is an accessible speed for many people who are patient and can put in the work. 

Putting a dryer sheet in each glove will help them dry faster and stink less. I use them in my vibrams too. 

Mike has clearly laid out great reasons why an external solution is probably not a good idea unless you are rich. I would add that there has never been clinical proof that following any diet will result in long-term weight loss, so anything you do will likely be a waste of money. However, it makes sense, and I have seen anecdotally, that sustained weight loss is possible with permanent lifestyle change. The great difficulty, is that permanent change. I don't know what your exact circumstances are, but most people are too busy to make the kind of changes that are necessary. Sleep, exercise, and cooking take a great deal of time. Exercising for one hour often involves travel time + a shower + rest. (I give 2.5 hours to my 1 hour crossfit work out). Cooking healthy food that you enjoy involves going to the store, planning, and cooking (I have cooked professionally, and still spend at least 1 hour a day cooking 3 fast meals. If I want something interesting, that easily goes up to 2 hours). Now you throw in caring for a sick family member, and finding time to do the things you need to do starts to look out of reach. Going to bootcamp, or even taking some time off of work does not solve this problem. I believe you have to set up your entire life to make that time available. This may mean moving closer to work, changing to a job that does not require as much time, and giving up hobbies and other responsibilities. If you are rushed during a usual day, you do not have a sustainable lifestyle, and you will eventually start to trade simplicity (boxed meals or fast food) for health. Creating a life where you have time to take care of yourself is, in my opinion, the first step in the situation where a lifestyle change is required. 

Recent research has moved away from total cholesterol counts to pay attention to good HDL, neutral LDL, bad LDL and triglycerides. It has been found that some foods with high cholesterol raise the total cholesterol number, but they do it in ways that are not bad (raising large LDL and HDL). Other foods with low or no cholesterol (sugars), raise the bad LDL cholesterol and suppress HDL. But, your question centers on eggs, so here is an abstract from 2006: Dietary cholesterol provided by eggs and plasma lipoproteins in healthy populations Fernandez, Maria Luz The lack of connection between heart disease and egg intake could partially be explained by the fact that dietary cholesterol increases the concentrations of both circulating LDL and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol in those individuals who experience an increase in plasma cholesterol following egg consumption (hyperresponders). It is also important to note that 70% of the population experiences a mild increase or no alterations in plasma cholesterol concentrations when challenged with high amounts of dietary cholesterol (hyporesponders). Egg intake has been shown to promote the formation of large LDL, in addition to shifting individuals from the LDL pattern B to pattern A, which is less atherogenic.