Yes, this was perfectly common. It was seen as a privilege to be buried inside the church (the closer to the altar, the better). These are not cenotaphs, these are actual tombs, with people slowly decomposing under them. Churches must have stunk horribly (possibly why a common theme in legends of saints were that their bodies did not decompose and smelled like perfume). Source Anything that deals with Medieval burial customs should do. I've used Dick Harrison, Jarlens sekel (in Swedish). 

Others have covered the Hamsun angle fairly well, I'll expand on the starvation: Norway was an exporter of fish before and during the war. Before the war, it went both to Germany an Great Britain, but Britain was able to negotiate a number of deals which curtailed and finally ended Norwegain exports to Germany (not only of fish, but also of other things, like metals; see The neutral ally on Wikipedia). However, food in general (e.g. grains) was in no great supply and got more and more expensive, as the Germans sunk Norwegian trade ships. People did not starve to death, but securing the food supply was a priority, and it was not unreasonable to be upset about this. For someone with a strong pro-german bias like Hamsun, it was probably easy to blame this not one the war, but rather on Great Britain. 

The results are, basically, a prediction of the future, based on which mankind could perform corrective actions. 

I think this is not specific to the U.S. at all. (Although I freely admit that, from what I know American education, it would certainly benefit from being less concerned with only the U.S., and a bit more with the rest of the world.) Politics had always been a game of power, and, historically, the only, or at least the most successful, way to gain power was war. So nations have been obsessed with either their victories over what they considered barbarians or mean adversaries, or with their oppression by those who thought thus about them. As a result, what got written down on stones, scrolls, books, and on Wikipedia is lots of victories and defeats in wars. (The rest are mostly enumerations of economics (tributes and trades) and religious texts.) Plus, history was mostly written down on behalf of those in power — which usually were the rulers of the victorious parties. This made sure written history was to a large extend iterations of successful military operations. Nowadays we know that there is more to history than wars (what with ecological developments, economics and politics correlating with natural disasters and other aspects), but, of course, history is an inherently conservative subject, and it takes lots of time to change the curriculum to encompass these more modern aspects. 

I'm going to base the following of an essay by Frans G Bengtsson, "Marskalkarna av Frankrike", found in Sällskap för en eremit. The essay in turn was written after he had read Gabriel d'Orgeval's Le Maréchalat de France and, particularly the part I will take my material from, G.A. Macdonell's Napoleon and his Marshals. I'll be using the word "hate" a lot as a catch-all since it is hard to tell from a short account exactly how strong the dislike actually was. I'll also cover dislikes between all the Marshal's, for the benefit of anyone finding this question in the future. Onward to the actual answer: The Marshals seems to have rather disliked each other as a general rule: 

Medieval Scholars were much more sophisticated than they are usually given credit for. Knowledge of the shape of the Earth were never really "lost". Apart from their own observations, there were also classical works that supported this view. During late antiquity, Boethius had access to Ptolemy, even if it later was forgotten and had to be reintroduced to Western Europe. Two other works, however, Pliny's Natural history and Platon's Timaeus were available throughout the period. There are a few examples of scholars that suggested other shapes, but they were exceptions, not the rule. Some examples Adam of Bremen (second half of eleventh century) is known as a historian, and an important source of Nordic history, but in his Gesta Hammaburgensis Ecclesiae Pontificum he also wrote on the midnight sun: 

According to Wikipedia, this might be based on the romance novel Las sergas de Esplandián by Garci Rodríguez de Montalvo, which contains the first written mentioning of the Island of California. 

I think the Wikipedia article about Africa's history might be a good an entry point for your research as any other. It's mainly an overview which just shortly mentions the most important kingdoms and civilizations, but it has lots of links presumably (I didn't check them) leading to more detailed articles. 

The first thing that came to my mind reading your question certainly is data storage and retrieval. History often is a lot of documents. Databases can be immensely helpful for storing, accessing, and cross-referencing large piles of (historical) data, and complex algorithms can be used to analyze such data. Computer analysis can also be very helpful in decoding forgotten writing systems and languages. Another common application is algorithms helping archaeologists to do their work. For example, algorithms are used to analyze satellite images to identify likely spots to find artifacts (the remainings of old settlements are often small hills), or create 3D models of settlements, palaces, and temples. (Contrary to popular believe, archeology doesn't only deal with prehistory, but is also concerned with finding proof of what can be found in old texts.) Quite a daring application is the extrapolation of the future from the history. Meadows/Meadows/Randers/Behrens did that in the Club of Rome's The Limits to Growth study in the early 70s (and in the 90s with the sequel Beyond the Limits):