As you point out, a single event is unlikely to get everyone. However, a combination of events can be much worse without becoming too implausible. To get rid of all humans, you need to do two things: 

I'm not sure you can have cold poles while not having winter and being close enough to the sun to produce the extremely hot equator you are looking for, but isolated habitable regions is certainly possible. Life would probably not have evolved completely independently in the two zones. Seeds and small insects can quite easily be picked up by a storm and blown great distances before landing. Birds might be able to spread this way too, but anything larger will have had to develop independently. If the habitable zones have similar ecological niches available, you can reasonably expect something to evolve to fill them in each location, a more extreme version of what happens with remote islands on Earth. Humans are more problematic. Intelligent life may evolve in both places, but it is very unlikely to happen at the same time, especially if you are including civilization. That requires ending up within a few thousand years on a scale of billions - a one in a million chance. To run into intelligent animals which could be taught civilization, the target widens to a million years or so but its still a thousand to one. 

Tag a bunch of them with very small radio transmitters that include an on board clock. It's the same approach that has been used for a long time to study populations of larger creatures, and with current or near future technology it should be possible to build a suitable device small enough to stick to a large insect. With that technology readily available, it would be quite reasonable to travel into the Amazon to study how long various insects live and how far they travel. Depending on how the time travel works, you will soon notice the same tag showing up in two places at once, reporting the wrong time, or simply a much higher failure rate than for any of the other bugs in the study. 

Rather than a bird, start with a crab - Hard shells don't grow or heal too well, so when they need to grow, they climb out of their shell, leaving behind what appears to be a complete dead crab. Some reptiles also shed complete skins - usually a much thinner layer, but enough that it isn't completely implausible to ramp up and apply to a bird. Instead of discarding an old shell immediately, it may make sense to keep it around as a disposable shield. If the phoenix lives in an environment with frequent forest fires, burning the shell could absorb enough energy to allow survival. Ash is a good insulator, so the best shell is one which produces a large amount of ash - enough to make it look like the entire creature has been consumed. As well as being able to survive natural disasters, the phoenix may seek out fire when it is ready to shed. The fire resistance might require a thicker shell which can only be escaped by burning, or it could simply be that feasting on the charred corpses of the competition is a good way to get the energy for renewal. Spontaneous combustion is unlikely to evolve, but starting a fire with flint is not all that different from the sort of tool use observed in real life birds. 

Some sort of climate change is probably the best way to make the surface uninhabitable. Overheating would be harder to deal with than an ice age - lots of people live in cold places, but there's not much you can do if it starts to look like the surface of Venus. You can make this happen suddenly if you want - an asteroid impact or super volcano could plausibly affect the atmosphere enough to seriously unbalance the climate. That will wipe out almost all life, but humans have the technology to survive in space - we don't generally build completely isolated habitats on Earth, but that would change as soon as we saw the asteroid coming. It could even be done to a lesser extent if there was no warning. Most places would survive the initial impact - the real problem is that crops will stop growing for longer than the stores food will last, which happens slowly enough to be potentially solvable. To prevent this happening you need a different kind of disaster - a nuclear war or pandemic fits well here, since even though it would miss isolated areas, it would take out all the places capable of adequately preparing for the upcoming disaster. 

Something sound based might work. Not sure if you could make it energetic enough for instant lethality, but the wall is most likely less sensitive to the vibrations than a human head - you can keep the energy levels low enough to avoid serious collateral damage. High energy radiation can also potentially make it through a wall, but is probably too dangerous to use - anything capable of instantly killing is also capable of setting the wall on fire if it happens to hit the wrong material inside the wall. 

The creatures would grow larger, because that makes it easier to walk long distances between food sources, or to fight off any competition once you get there. This isn't necessarily a peaceful planet - nothing worth eating is quite different from nothing worth killing. Intelligence With larger creatures it is possible to have a large brain without using too high a percentage of the available energy. Evolving intelligence would be a definite advantage. Recognizing the geology that is likely to mean a fresh energy source nearby. Tool use to dig through the dust and uncover deeper deposits without waiting for them to be exposed naturally. Civilization Mining takes the place of agriculture on Earth, allowing the people to settle in one place and develop a civilization. Depending on the chemical reaction used as the original energy source, it may be reversible once the civilization can use fire or another external energy source, which would make it even easier to grow a city. Removing heterotrophs Avoiding the development of predators (or even mushrooms) is harder. Life has a way of filling every niche there is. I don't think toxicity will work. For just about any toxic substance you can name, there is something out there that will happily eat it. Energy density is better, but not perfect. The initial bacteria can be efficient enough that almost all of the material they take in is converted into an unusable low energy form that isn't worth eating, but once the original food supply is exhausted, being able to feed on what's left would be a huge advantage. Limiting heterotrophs It might be possible to limit heterotrophs to lower life forms if there is generally not enough extractable energy in animal cells - fungi growing on a carcass is unavoidable, but chasing down prey to eat is never worthwhile. The concept of heterotrophy would be familiar, but a civilization of humanoid mushrooms would seem very alien. Earth type life evolving independently is also a possibility. You could slow that down with active geology that is helpful to the chemotrophs until they start trying to build cities and a shortage of liquid water. Stable civilization requires the planet to quieten down a bit, so life as we know it will still evolve, but the chemotrophs have a billion year head start - They are building a civilization while everything else is still limited to single celled organisms. 

A traditional empire would have trouble staying together long term. Distant planets have to be at least somewhat independent, and any rebellion would have a huge advantage - decades for Earth to even hear about it, twice that for any response, and potentially centuries if they have the option of burying the stargate. The conventional solution to local rebels is to station lots of troops from another part of the empire, but sooner or later someone is going to decide he would rather be king than governor. That said, it would be possible to keep control if your ethics are sufficiently flexible. First, some basic evil scheming: 

Complexity. A typical elevator contains what would have been considered a high end computer only twenty years ago. All it really needs is a switch to make it go up/down, but general purpose computers are cheap and easy to use, so that is what we use. The scientists have no way to tell the difference between a hyperdrive technical manual and an elevator button. Progress will be slow unless they get really, really lucky. With a bit less luck, you get death traps without any special design effort - that airlock you thought was the front door is actually part of the garbage disposal system, and the circuit you just hacked into is not the one that opens the inner hatch... 

Dedicated transport aircraft won't be practical until Mars has a population of millions and the industrial base to build them - you can't simply reuse an Earth design, and developing a new aircraft type is very expensive. Instead, you use what you have - a reusable lander that can reach orbit also has sufficient range to reach any point on the planet. The only infrastructure you need to enable frequent travel is fuel production. Since moving small payloads fast is easily covered by the landers, the first dedicated craft will be for moving large payloads slowly - for example transporting resources that cannot be mined close to the base. Airships are a definite possibility for that, though surface transport may be more practical depending on the terrain involved. 

The other option that can work is an empire in name only. The emperor gives orders which the local governors follow if they feel like it, which works out just fine because the emperor knows not to give orders that won't be followed. 

There are some good answers here, but there is a much simpler one - in the real world, humans developed the ability to travel to other planets a good thirty years before social media took off. With 1970s technology, you can leave Earth, stay in space for a few months then land back on Earth. That's not good enough to colonize Mars due to all the tech you need once you get there, but it is enough if the other planet is habitable. Having somewhere worthwhile to go to would quite quickly lead to mass produced spaceships, especially if the other planet turned out to be more habitable than the homeworld. 

When your enemy can deliver a nuke or a special forces team to any point on the planet within 24 hours, you can't get out of attack range. In fact, going somewhere remote makes it worse because they can attack without worrying about the effects on anything nearby. Instead, you need to set things up so they won't be willing to launch an attack at all. I see a couple of ways you could go with this: North Korea. Make a deal with the local dictator, and any military attack risks starting a nuclear war. Manhattan. Park your fortress directly above a major city. A nuke would kill millions, and if they try anything less extreme, you can simply land the fortress where it is, crushing the city. For extra evil points, blow up a few roads so evacuating the city isn't an option. 

Human technology is based on individual effort. A single smart individual comes up with a good idea, does some math to be sure it will work, then builds one prototype. The Chirr don't bother with all that complicated math - they simply build a million bad ideas every day for a few centuries. Eventually something works, and the solved problem is easily shared with the rest of the hive. Fortunately they had already spread into space when some hives started using that approach to develop nuclear weapons. The fact that they don't understand how any of their own technology works would be very easy to miss when nobody expects to be able to discuss advanced math with a Chirr anyway. 

Potentially unlimited lifespan wouldn't change much. Nobody joins the military planning to die for their country - you merely accept a certain level of risk in exchange for either the direct benefits of service or to try and make a better world to live in once the war is over. Apart from the fact that eighteen year olds are not exactly known for risk aversion, the risk isn't really that great. You aren't using WWI tactics, so most soldiers survive, and it is quite possible to lose more soldiers to training accidents than to enemy action. There are also situations where war is actually the less risky choice - think sitting safely at home until the invading space-nazis show up to execute you. 

Yes, and it doesn't even take that much of a disaster. Take the best case scenario - a computer virus wipes out all preexisting records, but technology otherwise continues to work. Everybody immediately writes down what they can remember. The colony has been established for a while, so none of the colonists are former starship crew. Nobody knows how a warp drive works beyond crude analogies like "a chariot pulled across the sky by a captive star". Nobody needs to know the precise location of Earth. Ordinary people might point out a particular star to their kids, but that doesn't happen if it is only visible from the other side of the planet. None of the colonists have any personal experience of earth, just the very brief overview they got in school, which doesn't go into any depth and probably misrepresents the facts anyway. Maybe Earth was a dystopian hellhole that the colonists were escaping, maybe it was a paradise with a duty to colonize the galaxy. Hardly any of them bothered to look up actual facts. There's probably also a conspiracy theorist or two who believe that Earth never existed despite all evidence to the contrary. But that evidence is gone, and all these people have equal power to record their version of history. Then a few hundred years down the line someone connects a description of Earth as paradise with a guy in the same set of records talking about the afterlife as paradise, and you have solid evidence that the whole lot is just a religious myth.