Possibly Marxism as presented by Marx has to be diffentiated from Marxism as a political ideology, which as most political ideologies represents a coalition of interests centred on Marx & others such as Rosa Luxembourg, Lenin and so on; one might also want to reach for Simone Weil who recognised that force as a deciding factor in politics in an essay on the Illiad. I find it a little suprising that something so human as politics can be decided by formal logic; classically politics is distinguished by Rhetoric as persuasive speech as taught by the Sophists, and violence - or its negation - as in the non-violent ahimsa of Gandhi. Proof isn't the measure of an ideology but how persuasive it is; a skillful orator intertwines appeals to emotions through symbols and reason through argument. 

The notions I don't think are mutually exclusive; scientists when acting in their professional role as scientists, ought to aim at an ideal of disinterestedness - ie objectivity; in this sense they are acting as judges; and this because they need to appraise evidence and argument. I suppose it this what Merton is examining; rather than the anthropological or sociological attitude of how these two worlds comment on each other - the world of science for itself (objective), and the world of a human being who happens to be a scientist (subjective); and the bridging (objecto-subjective). So although Merton is talking about scientists, he's actually talking about the Scientific Method; and you're right about character and society. 

You have Godels completeness theorem in first order classical logic which isn't available in higher order logics. This theorem establishes an equivalence between syntactic or formal truth with semantic truth. Formal truth is what can be proved by your logic by manipulating logical sentences according to your deductive system, semantic truth is established in a model of your logic, in fact one says a sentence is semantically true if its true in every model of your logic. Lindstroms theorem shows that first order logic is characterised amongst logics as the strongest one satisfying certain natural (at least in mathematical logic) properties. Moving out of classical logic, topos theory establishes a link between abstract set theory, higher-order intuitionistic logic & geometry. It's currently an area of intensive investigation. One can move on - there is also higher order topos theory where the logic becomes homotopy type theory, this models dependent types specifically the intensional flavour developed by Martin-Lof. This is already being used in computer science as the basis for theorem-provers, such as Coq. Here types are not modelled by interpreting them as sets but as homotopy types of topological spaces. On a related point, although the synthesis of logic, set theory & geometry appears exciting and wholly novel, philosophically speaking it's already apparent in high school mathematics: propositional logic, set theory, and venn-diagrams. Its simply the sophistication is several magnitudes higher and much more tightly woven, but from an objective point of view, that is outside of mathematics proper, this additional sophistication isn't relevant. Edit: Each topos has an associated internal language, this is intuitionistic rather than classical (so the law of the excluded middle doesn't hold), and higher-order. This holds because each topos is a heyting category, which means that its poset of subobjects for any object is a heyting algebra. (Note while classical propositional logic is modelled algebraically as a boolean algebra, intuitionistic propositional logic is modelled by a Heyting algebra). Its higher order because each topos has exponentiation, and this translates via its internal language that predicates of predicates (and so on) are available. 

Putting aside the fact that Popper immediately contradicts himself (he says that Anaximander uses no observational analogies and then says Anaximanders drum is such an analogy), what can we make of a Poppers assertion that the idea of the "earth free suspension space" has "no analogy whatever in the whole field of observable facts". Actually Rovelli makes the same assertion in his book on Anaximander. Yet it seems to me that there is an obvious observation that is missing from both accounts that helps justify the theory, and that is both the moon and the sun appear to hang in space supported by nothing. Of course one can say this is not supported by anything written by Anaximander himself, yet this did not stop Rovelli speculating how Anaximander came by such a theory. So is Popper correct to say that Anaximanders theory is "counter-observational" and additionally (I have my own ideas on this), what does he mean by that the theory is highly intuitive? 

Synthetic means the truth of proposition lies outside the subject or the grammar of the proposition, whilst a priori suggests the reverse since it is before all possible experience, and so relies on pure cognition; hence asking for such a proposition is almost if one is looking for a kind of dialethic truth, since the two terms are opposites. He goes on to say that: 

Lets take the counter-proposal - the world does not act in accordance with any laws. What does this mean? It would mean that there are no observable regularities ever. Then the sun may or may not rise tommorow; today you might speak English at 3 O'Clock and at 5 O'Clock you are are a Donald duck; this spoon I am holding might fall uptowards the sky and that tree is actually a pyramid; when I add 2 to 2, I get 7; when you do it, you get 12; There can be no meaning attached to a world without laws. You could conceivably take that a world without law, has a law: the law of no laws. But one doesn't have to go so far - that is to attend to such reflexive paradoxes. Metaphysically the world must act in accordance to some law - it may not be easy to discern fully - and historically it hasn't been; its been a long haul over two and a half millenia to get as far as we have now. The question is how that law comes about; Hume applying the strict logic that you are suggesting, showed that causality & induction are problematic; and suggested that human psychology was in part to inform regularities; this was affirmed by Kant who placed the mechanism deeper than psychology; it is in the very fabric of the mind - he called it the intuition; for the mind to experience the world it must already have a notion of space, time & causality; these are what he called the conditions for experience. 

The symmetry principle seems a means rather than a principle; and a means by which the sociological or anthropological imagination can work with the scientific community as an object of study. That is not to judge its truth-claims or accord them special prestige; but to note that they make truth-claims and that they do have prestige as a community. 

Chrysippus, an influential stoic philosopher wrote 21 books (chapters) in 12 works on the Liars Paradox. This implies that this paradox was of some importance to their epistomology and logic. Why? 

What is missing in Physics is exactly Ontology. Physics in the modern form is about establishing a mathematical formalism about the natural material world that predicts and explains phenomena through determining quantitive relationships between things. But what these things are always eludes its grasp. Feynman, makes this point in his popular book Character of Physical Law. What is Being becomes a burden for philosophy. 

Aristotles Physics conceptualised space, time, causality, force, change and motion in great generality. Newtons great contribution was to reconcieve it in such a way that physics became a science, ie systematic progress could be made. It might be useful to illustrate this by one simple example: force. For Aristotle this was that which has the capacity to cause change and actually causes change, in contact with that which has the capacity to be changed and actually changes. This is said in such great generality that no specific relationship can be said; we can say one thing however straight-away, when a force is not in contact with some object or it is in contact but for some unspecified reason it's capacity to cause change is stopped from actually causing change then that object undergoes no change - that is it is at rest. This is almost Newton's first law of motion, but not quite. Newton specified the cause of not actualising the capacity - an opposing force; and modified this by saying the object is at rest or in uniform motion. It's only after Einstein, that it was understood that uniform motion and rest is the same concept - which goes back to Aristotles definition. To make conceptual progress with gravity, Newton allowed a force to act without contact; compare with Lockes: 

I tend to associate this with continental thinking, though this might be just a habit of thought - is it in fact also a position thats discussed in Analytical Philosophy? To elaborate a little further, AC Grayling in this review takes him to task for emptying the word religion of meaning as he appears to apply it gratuitously to any ideology. 

Suppose one took our universe and divided everything in half; mass, space, time and so on - would we notice? And if we don't doesn't this mean that there is no intrinsic notion of length - despite appearances? Or should I say absolute? 

Science offers explanatory power; this isn't at all the same as experience; not is everything that offers explanatory power a science. One can legitimately after all ask how does TS Eliot's The Wasteland attained the significance it has in English literature; and answering this question doesn't involve science. A Popperian definition of science through the verification principle I find is impoverished; because it describes what it is not; this is rather like trying to prove a negative; one requires a positive description of its aims and methodology; and this to an extent can be described objectively; but this in a sense also falsifies because it doesn't describe the experience itself. One might describe science in a positive direction; when one describes it at bottom that which we can agree on ie this is a stone, this falls; ie the empirical tradition; but this quickly becomes difficult. In the Islamic tradition, God is said to be closer than ones jugular vein; but he is hidden behind a veil; In Suhrawardis philosophy/ontology of light, like Ibn Arabi there is an order of revelation; and (I'm speculating here) that understanding and inspiration is part of that order, as Socrates explained or suggested in Ion. Science as it's now constituted, ie with a Epicurean or positivist philosophy has nothing to do with any kind of divine order; though a hint of an older tradition is sometimes gestured at ie Hawkings 'Mind of God', or Higgs 'God particle'. Humans work with numbers all the time as a reality; though of course they are not found in nature, as such; in general these are universals; and one might even say universally experienced. Going with Kant, we synthesise reality; so that reality is a palimpsest of realities. Badiou, posits four truth procedures - science being one them (the others being art, love and politics); he has a theory of an event; events for him are singular, and unproveable (you know them by their fruits). I'd suggest that revelation; a revealing is considered as an event, singular by its definition; unrepeatable. 

Sure; one could object and say standards would change, but this means simply the right standards hadn't been applied in the first place; one could further object that it would be unstable and some people would become bad, one counters this by saying that those weren't really good. One could finally object by saying that this is an unrealistic vision; and this is true - I'm answering this question on what might be called through the metaphysics of virtue or of the Good. 

Innes comment on this is that running ahead to death primarily secures the integrity and the self-constancy of the individual and not to questions of Being; or rather indirectly so; for those in which it is a duty ('thinkers of the other beginning') Being reveals itself - but it is unclear to Innes how this is so or happens; it is only clear that detachment from 'everydayness' (an aspect of Authenticity) is a necessity. This counts almost everybody out. Authenticity is more about the meaning of life and not death; in living as though it was your first day and not your last. Innocence and its fullness when one is alone and not alone in the world as in Shelleys Spirit of Solitude; the 'green world' of Shakantula. In the everyday trite phrase self-fulfilment or in the Greek eudaimonia. Or is it is more of a +ve reflection on the authentic person's character, that they encounter their own death and not flee from that anxiety? In part yes, in part no. Innes says: 

Coming back to the ultimate, he does concede that the epistemic excavation of science is far from everything: 

I'm not sure really if I understand your question, so you should see the following as a comment on it. Ruskin, an English artist wrote Unto this Last (which had a strong influence in Gandhi) in 1860; it's a work on political economy and claims that an ethical dimension cannot be excluded from economic argument; his central premise is this: 

The remark attributed to Carnap/Jeffrey seems to suggest and perhaps corroborate that the difference between 'weak' & 'strong' inference is more than a matter of degree; the articles touched on are mentioned in the bibliography and may be useful to look at. 

This is somewhat confused; there are two basic positions on reality - realism or idealism. Realism, takes the world to be an objective fact and has nothing to do with the mind; this does not mean that there are no minds; but that they have nothing to do with the construction of reality, or in understanding it: positions that go along with this view are various forms of materialism - one flavour being Physicalism. Idealism, takes that the mind is in some indispensable way involved in how reality is to be understood; for example Kantian Transcendental Idealism; or the 'brains-in-vats' scenario, philosophically has nothing to do with science-fiction, but with the position all there is are minds, and minds not in the singular but in the plural; and solipsism, which takes the opposite view, that there is only a mind in the singular; but more, not just any mind but specifically my* mind. Thus your statement should read: in solipsism, reality is constructed by your mind. It's worth noting that when reality is taken to be illusionary, this is because it's suggested that there is a deeper structure or unity to reality that is being missed; for example compare the veil of Maya in (Vedantic) Indian philosophy. 

This is a fairly common trope, however when we look at the history of physics we see that physics was first theorised without mathematics, ie Aristotles Physics. So it's quite possible to do physics without mathematics, but perhaps not now given how much of physics is written in mathematics, but one should not then make the mistake that physics is somehow reducible to mathematics. In the modern era, mathematics was introduced into physics by Galileo, so perhaps it's not so strange that Galileo would make such a remark. As to whether mathematics is a language, well it should be obvious it is not, despite the fact that there such notions as a language in mathematics as well as syntax and semantics; they've borrowed these notions from linguistics, and in the act of borrowing transformed them, they have only a tangential relationship with the original idea, enough so that can see why the borrowing was made, and why it is useful; but not enough so that the original meaning can be retained. So, No. Mathematics is not a language.