I'll start by saying that finding solid data on wheel aerodynamics is tricky at best. Some of the better sources are worth taking the time to read in full, and provide much more information than I can provide here. For example, see the article from Tour Magazine [1] that covered the Mavic Cosmic Carbone SLR (similar, but not the same as what you asked about). Also see the testing done by Roues Artisanales [2] where he reviews many wheels including some older Mavic Ksyrium models. Of course, tests such as these are expensive and time consuming, so we typically can't find wide ranging, scientific test data across all of the current model wheels. Having said this, there is also a lot of rider data that can guide you as to the ride-ability of these wheels. For example, on the weight weenie forums [3] SpinnerTim said that the Mavic CCs "have strictly traditional deep-rim stability issues in cross winds. These ride the way deep rims like mid-decade 404s or Lightweight Standards rode when V-sections were the rule...". In short, the CC SLE will provide some aero benefits from the front, but isn't the best in cross winds. The Ksyrium is kind of the opposite. It isn't a particularly aero wheel, but will also have pretty normal / average performance with cross winds because there isn't much there to catch the wind anyway. For improved aerodynamics at various wind angles, I would encourage you to look at some of the more modern wheel shapes. Things like the Smart ENVE System or the Zipp Firecrest. Even the Mavic CC 40C is likely to provide better cross wind handling than the SLE [4,5]. [1] $URL$ [2] $URL$ [3] $URL$ [4] $URL$ [5] $URL$ 

The chain line expected by a double front derailleur is basically what comes with the largest two chain rings on a triple. Since you are using the smallest two chain rings, the double front derailleur will not shift optimally. Instead, I'd suggest keeping the triple front derailleur in place. Using the limit screw -- as you already have -- is the best option. Given that you are unable to use the trim shift, at the moment, I believe that you may want to back off the limit screw just a bit. In doing so, you'll allow the front derailleur to move outward a little more, which should allow the trim to work properly. 

I've driven up to the visitor station but not up to the summit - what are the road conditions like beyond the visitor station, where can you refill water, and should I prepare for anything beyond a leg crushing day? I'll be starting on Kona (west) side, in September, and am expecting about 6-7 hours of straight climbing. Here's about all I know so far; 

I'm considering getting a trailer bike for my 3 year old (image below) but want to know if it will help or hurt progression toward him riding independently. He's amazingly fast on his Strider no-pedal balance bike but hasn't shown much interest in riding his 12" "real" bike with training wheels. I'm hoping a trailer bike might help him bridge the gap but in the interest of getting him to ride his real bike independently, would the trailer bike help or hurt the cause? Thanks 

I have the bench mount PCS-12 but am looking to convert it to a floor mount. I haven't been able to find the base for the PCS-10, only the entire unit. Any suggestions? thanks 

I'm familiar with Jonathan O'Keeffe's Strava Multiple Ride Mapper (tied to the Strava API) but I'm interested in mapping all activities in a certain geopgraphy, not just those I've done. My goal is to find new trails that I haven't explored so I'm interested in seeing all activities in a region from all users. (Bonus points if it can then remove the roads/trails that I've logged activities on.) ref: $URL$ 

Most of the road shoes I've found only seem to be rated to around 25° or so. Living in New England I'd like something colder. Does anyone know of road shoes rated for colder temps? (They'll be used for commuting and weekend road rides) Update: I have new Neoprene booties (Pearl Izumi Elite Barrier Shoe Cover) but find that they're only comfortable down to about 25°F or so. 

Any frame can support a range of rider sizes by adjusting (among other things) the seat post and stem. However, as you might suspect, there are compromises to be made. And, there are limits to how big of a rider can fit on a given frame. I'll explain a bit more below to illustrate these points. You can adjust the seat post by making it higher (may require a longer seat post than you currently have). Also, some seat posts are straight, whereas others have a setback. The later will move the seat slightly further back on the bicycle. Setback is usually used to ensure that the rider is properly aligned over the pedals. Whereas height is used to ensure that the ride achieves a proper leg extension. Next you will want to consider the distance from the saddle to the handlebars. The horizontal distance can be adjusted by getting a longer stem. And the vertical distance can be adjusted by getting a stem with a different rise (the angle of the stem relative to the front head tube). Therefore, you can achieve a wide range of positions. However, thus far, we have basically ensured that the rider's legs are extending far enough and that his/her reach is correct. If that were the end of the story, then you'd be able to have a single size frame fit everyone by using a very wide range of stems and seat post sizes. Yet, if you shop the market, you'll find that each of these items tend some have a somewhat limited range of sizes available. The reason for this is that once you go beyond these limits, you start running into other issues. The rider's position begins to shift such that the center of gravity is too far in one direction. The steering becomes harder to manage. Or the drop (the vertical distance between the saddle and the handle bars) becomes too great making the bike uncomfortable to ride. Tldr; For the best comfort and handling, stem and seat posts should be use to fine tune a bike's fit, rather than correcting for an otherwise improperly sized frame. 

Yeah, I know it's a mess; that's why I'm trying to disassemble and clean everything and replace the GXP bottom bracket. That grease isn't grease anymore, it's more like metallic paste. Yuck. I've already tried some light tap-work to try to get it off; it didn't budge, but I didn't go hard because I don't know if I'll damage it. Also, interestingly, it spins very freely in place. In summary: 

If I don't need it, I plan on trying to tap it off with screwdriver and a hammer; if that doesn't work, then cut it in half and split it open. 

The bearings didn't fall apart with this removed because it's just there to push on the GXP middle plastic sleeve: 

You can see the same collet on the new bearing, though it's much thicker, and appears to be more integrated into the bearing; I'd bet the bearing would fall apart if the new bearing had this piece removed: 

I'm trying to disassemble the crankset on my 2006 Trek Pilot 2.1; the bike has all OEM parts. The crank is a Bontrager race crankset, which I'm to understand is a a rebranded Truvativ crank. For a bottom bracket, it uses an SRAM Giga X Pipe (GXP). The crank is a two-piece press-fit: it's a hollow tube press fit into the drive side, with ISIS splines on the non-drive side. I'm trying to disassemble the crank and bottom bracket, so that I can clean the crank and crank spindle, and replace the bottom bracket. I've unscrewed the GXP bearing cups and removed the crank from the frame, but there's this one last little component on the crank spindle that's keeping me from removing the rest of the GXP bottom bracket. I want to know how I should remove it so that I don't damage the spindle. I'm not sure what the part is, or if I'll need it for installing the new GXP bottom bracket. Here's a shot showing the crank, spindle, and GXP bottom bracket as it is right now: