Syria is contiguous with Mesopotamia. The area to the south of Syria but east of Palestina and the five kingdoms (Israel, Judah, Ammon, Moab, Edom) is Arabia. In ancient times the eastern desert was sometimes generally called Ammon. 

As a by-the-by I will point out that the false history on the event is a good illustration of how people will believe things and not analyze them. The idea that a random mob of Americans could just storm a British ship and loot it in 1773 would only be believed by someone with no knowledge of the way things were in those times. Just like now, docks are guarded facilities. The wharf involved was literally in the shadow of Boston castle, loaded with soldiers and cannons. Random people were not allowed onto the docks. During the dumping the Americans had to watch passively from the public street, and you can be assured that all the people on the ships were authorized to be there. 

I have read a lot of anecdotal accounts claiming that Marco Polo was "impressed" with fireworks he saw in Cathay, and other stories that he "brought back fire crackers" or "introduced gunpowder" to Europe. For example, on the page History of Fireworks, it says "Marco Polo is credited with bringing gunpowder to Europe in the 13th century." (without any reference). Yet, when I have read the Travels of Marco Polo (in English translation), I did not see any mentions of fireworks. At one point he says farmers heaped up bamboo stalks and set them on fire to frighten animals, but this seems to refer just to the normal crackling and popping noises bamboo makes when it is set afire in large quantities, not to actual fireworks (bamboo makes a very loud cracking sound when it is set on fire, check out this video: bamboo on fire or this one (at 5:55) bamboo popping in a fire pit). So, did Marco Polo write about or bring back fireworks from his travels, or is that just a myth? 

The passage is in Book 7, p. 264, of the 1733 edition of Buchanan. It was actually Duncan who arranged for the poisoning of the Danes. Macbeth and Banquo were his generals. An extract is as follows: 

They did attempt to do this in Operation Wilfred which attempted to neutralize the port of Narvik. The invasion of Norway by the Germans prevented this operation from being effective. Even if the mining could have been accomplished, ore could have been diverted through Lulea. Other mines in Sweden were in places which could ship to Germany through German-controlled waters. 

In cases of someone without papers, they would try to figure out who you were, and generally would imprison you until they knew who you were. In cases of foreigners, like Russians, they would rely on the locals to tell them who was Jewish or who was not. Also, in Russia, the Jews tended to exist in specific communities, so the Germans would assume you were Jewish if you lived in such a community and would assume you were Christian otherwise. In the case of a foreigner captured abroad, like on a road without papers, if it was a male they would see if the person was circumcised and that would be the deciding factor. If it was a female, alone and with no males (a highly unusual case), it would be at the discretion of the arresting officer to decide where to send her, but in most cases the Germans did not bother arresting random refugee females without a specific reason. There is a funny story about Alekhine, the famous chess player. He tried to cross the militarized Polish-German border in 1937 without papers (!!!) When the police questioned him, he said "I am Alexander Alekhine, Chess Champion of the World. This is my cat. Her name is chess. I require no papers." Of course, they arrested him. 

If you compare the Christian presence in North Africa now to that from 100 years ago, there has been a noticeable decline. The main reason for this was anti-colonialist sentiment at the end of World War II. Of course, this was merely a continuation of a process of exclusion and elimination that has occurred over centuries. For example, in Algeria there have been no large Christian communities since the medieval period. 

You will not find "Kafr Yasif" in Josephus because that is a modern place name. In Josephus the supposed reference to this town occurs as part of the "divine dream" paragraph in the Life (xix, 27), and is as follows: 

In the Rwandan wars equipment and ammunition was a bigger factor than population. The Hutus are the more rural and less educated populance of the country, so they were always the oppressed ones. European powers gave weapons and technology to the Tutsi. In general, it is easier to support a smaller, more sophisticated group, than a larger, dumber group. The massacres occurred in 1994 when various geopolitical factors led to supply of the Hutus. You will read stories of how the French gave weapons to the Hutus, but most of these stories are just nonsense. The real culprit was China, who supplied the Hutus with like 1 million machetes plus food and other equipment, supposedly for agricultural purposes. The Hutus found a much better use for the machetes: chopping up Tutsis. The scale of the massacre has been significantly exaggerated in the Western press (you are dealing in GLOBAL GEOPOLITICS, remember). Motives here are complex--remember you are dealing in global geopolitics, a complicated subject. But the simplistic way to look at it is that the Tutsis were the clients of rich European capitalists and the Hutus were supported by the Communist Chinese who had no love for mineral seeking Belgium mining companies. To squash the rebellion, all the Europeans had to do was send a few tonnes of automatic weapons and ammunition to the Tutsis. 50-caliber machine guns are more effective weapons than machetes. The bottom line is that the Chinese and Indians both are making a LOT more money in Rwanda now than they were in 1990. Also, a critical factor is access to the Congo. China has a lot of interests in the Congo, but to get the goods out of the Congo, it has to go through Rwanda. Once again, the issues here are really complicated. Just reading some nutty statistic like "70% of the Tutsis were killed" in Time magazine (which is just completely false), will not give you the info you need to understand what is going on there. How can I know, you might ask? Answer: start by identifying every major mine in Congo and Rwanda, and then find out where the production of those mines is going. Once you have a DETAILED itemization of those interests, you will start to not only understand WHY things happened in the past, you will be to predict whats going to happen in the future. 

The idea that reaching distant islands would be difficult or impossible for "primitive" peoples is something commonly believed by city dwellers inexperienced with ocean sailing. If you go to Bath or Newport and start hanging out with the old timers there, they can quickly disabuse you of the notion that sailing to Rapa Nui is impossible. In fact, if you watch Robert Redford's recent movie "All is Lost" you can see him sailing thousands of miles completely alone in a relatively small vessel, and then doing hundreds more in a life raft. Vikings routinely rowed and sailed thousands of miles in the treacherous North Sea, loaded down with weapons no less. After World War II, a Scandinavian adventurer named Thor Heyerdahl specifically set out to show a few men with only the most primitive of equipment could explore the breadth of the oceans. In 1947, he captured the public imagination with his Kon Tiki expedition, going from South America to the Polynesian islands in an oversized raft. He wrote a series a books on his findings. If you read these books, it should resolve any questions you may have about the abilities of ancient mariners. 

A palm is 4 fingers. A hand is 5 fingers. So, to answer your exact question: it is the index finger's first joint. You can find a discussion of this topic in "Ancient Egyptian Construction and Architecture" by Clarke and Engelbach. (Note that many reference books and sources incorrectly refer to a dactylos as being a "finger's breadth". In fact, it is absolutely clear that in both Greece and Egypt 4 fingers make one palm, and this would be impossible if a finger's breadth were meant, because a finger's breadth is less than a 1/4th of a palm. It is, in fact, the length of the first phalange of the index finger, which is exactly 1/4 of a palm.) 

There is no one original copy. After the Declaration of Independence was drafted multiple "fair copies" were made unsigned, Some of these were sent to printers to be printed throughout the colonies. Sometime later a fair copy was made and adopted by the Continental Congress, most of whose members then signed it. This copy is known as the "engrossed" copy. The Declaration was never sent by the Congress to King George of England. He found out about it when printed broadsheets containing the text arrived with the news from the colonies. These were first printed in Belfast in August of 1776 and carried from there to London immediately afterwards. (I should probably qualify the above by stating that King George found out about it "publicly" in August. Of course, the British had many spies and sympathizers in the Congress and they undoubtedly knew of the whole progress of the Declaration which began in the spring of 1776. So, secretely George would have known of the text almost as soon as it was produced plus the two weeks to carry it to England. Publicly the text first appeared in Ireland and Scotland, not England, probably because of censorship.)