This 'reading snapshot' indicates that only 64% of high school graduates read at least one book in the past year, which means 36% of high school graduates didn't read at least one book in the past year. 

Source: Judith Willis, FDA Consumer November 1982 See more: "Body Wraps Come with Strings Attached," ABC News, July 26, 2009 

Source: Worobey M, Santiago M, Keele B, Ndjango J, Joy J, Labama B, Dhed'A B, Rambaut A, Sharp P, Shaw G, Hahn B (2004). "Origin of AIDS: contaminated polio vaccine theory refuted". Nature 428 (6985): 820 Death sentence for the OPV theory (Coffin was prepared also): 

EVIDENCE 3: It seems that the funniest battle now is not Google vs. Amazon or Google vs. Microsoft, but Google vs. Sharks. Based on the comments made by Dan Belcher, a product manager on Google's cloud team, during the opening keynote of the company's Cloud Roadshow in Boston last week; Google invests heavily in protecting its trans-continental infrastructure, including wrapping cables in Kevlar to thwart attacks by hungry sharks. BONUS: A YouTube video showing a shark biting a submarine cable during a survey operation. It was spotted by a remotely operated underwater vehicle. . : UPDATE: The cause isn't clear why Sharks bite cables. 

The whole idea that prone masturbation is harmful started in 1998 when Dr. Lawrence I. Sank proposed a theory of sexual dysfunction called Traumatic Masturbatory Syndrome (TMS) (1) . In his journal article, Dr. Sank speculated that the habit of masturbating prone (while lying face down — tending to rub penis against your hand, the surface of the floor, bed, pillow, or whatever it is laying on, in order to ejaculate) was responsible for severe sexual problems, including anorgasmia (delayed orgasms) and erectile dysfunction, suffered by four men he examined. (1) According to Sank, once the four men abandoned prone masturbation and learned to masturbate in a supine position using their hands their masturbating prone habit, their anorgasmia and erectile dysfunction supposedly became a thing of the past (they were cured of their sexual dysfunction) (1) . Sank's theory isn't widely recognized in the medical community and it is not generally accepted, because: 

(The numbers differ slightly from those in Avi’s answer since I’m using the “42%” number from the question to calculate abortions but the principle doesn’t change.) 

As far as I understand this, the aim of playing classical music is not to affect the behaviour of people through subconscious tricks. It’s much more direct than that: young people in general dislike classical music and won’t be inclined to linger in public places that play classical music. As to whether this works, my guess is as good as anyone’s. 

so it’s the exact opposite. For example, in 2008 humans emitted about 36 billion metric tons of CO2. In that same year, the highest (!) estimates for all volcanoes combined (submarine volcanoes included) were just 270 million metric tons (Gerlach, 2010). 

Spontaneous Human Combustion does not exist. Mark Benecke, a forensic biologist, has researched this topic extensively. His remarks have been published in National Geographic, The Daily Telegraph and BBC, among others. He has written a lengthy, well-sourced report for the Skeptic Inquirer which seems to cover the topic conclusively. To quote the relevant bits (emphasis mine): 

Roasting meat graph $URL$ Wired Magazine offers the explanation – albeit without giving any references – that the perceived juiciness in seared meat comes from our saliva since it looks juicier to us and we salivate more in anticipation. Well … I take that with a grain of salt. And maybe some pepper. 

Y. Sun, J. Campisi & al., Treatment-induced damage to the tumor microenvironment promotes prostate cancer therapy resistance through WNT16B, Nature medicine (2012) 

The American Heart Journal has published a three-year study of the therapeutic effects of intercessory prayer of 1800 patients undergoing heart bypass surgery. The study divided subjects into three groups: those receiving no intercessory prayer, those that did, but didn’t know about it, and those that did and did know about it. Its conclusion is very clear indeed: 

While the other answers available focus on other claims, this answer morbidly focuses on the quote you mentioned. 

Moreover, a recent study published in PlusOne(2), pointed out that women’s restrooms are far more likely to have many more germs than a men’s restroom since Lactobacillaceae is clearly more abundant on certain surfaces within female restrooms than male restrooms. This is because the bacteria found in the vagina of healthy reproductive age women, and is relatively less abundant in male urine. Excerpt: 

Those claims are actually true, since there is some evidence online suggesting that bilingualism may (and not will) slow Alzheimer's Progression. There is an academic article published by NIH in 2010 which has been cited by 144 other articles: Here is the abstract: 

(1) Harvey SB, Hotopf M et al. Physical activity and common mental disorders. The British Journal of Psychiatry (2010) 197: 357-364 

And so on. The answer to your question is: Inconclusive. More research needs to be done, in order to provide a scientific answer on this website. (1) Lawrence I. Sank. "Traumatic Masturbatory Syndrome." Journal of Sex and Marital Therapy 24(1): 37-42 (1998). (2) Eva Margolies. Undressing the American Male: Men with Sexual Problems and What Women Can Do to Help Them. New York: Penguin, 1994. (3) Josie Lipsith, Damian McCann, and David Goldmeier. Male Psychogenic Sexual Dysfunction: The Role of Masturbation. Sexual and Relationship Therapy 18: 448-471 (2003). (4) Joanides, Paul (2004) Guide to Getting It On, p. 396 

One side incomplete answer; one study entitled Milk and acid-base balance: proposed hypothesis versus scientific evidence said that: 

Now, the Friendly Atheist articles are generally well researched and thus believable, but this one is less so. For one thing, most of its references are to entirely unspecific (or not accessible) “Google Books” searches that prove nothing. Furthermore, the claim that there are no legitimate records is directly contradicted by the Wikipedia article above, which cites several references by contemporaries, such as Tacitus and Tertullian. Another article claims that the persecution lasted three centuries and was witnessed by several historians. All this directly contradicts the claim that “there are zero authentic accounts … until over a century after Christianity became the official religion of the Roman Empire”, because that happened after the three centuries of persecution. It also contradicts a quote taken from The Myth of Persecution: How Early Christians Invented a Story of Martyrdom (by Candida Moss, published in 2013): 

In other words: prayer doesn’t help. And if you know that you are prayed for, you do worse. Only slightly, but statistically significantly. Scientific American has published a break-down of the study and its results. 

Yes. Under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 (RIPA), Part III, people can be forced by police to surrender keys to encrypted data. This law has been applied at least three times, twice up until 2009 according to Claire Ward, Parliamentary Under-Secretary, Ministry of Justice, and one additional time in 2010 according to The Register. 

All of which are different effects of mental illness. The list comes from the 1996 review by Kelly, I. W., James Rotton, and Roger Culver, The Moon was Full and Nothing Happened: A Review of Studies on the Moon and Human Behavior and Human Belief 

Bloomberg, BBC, news.com.au, and other news agencies got their news from a report. The report (basically you can consider evidence) can be found HERE which can be bought for 995$ (over-expensive). The report contains: 

Some phone lookup services work pretty much well. The most evident application and service is Truecaller Just like Whatsapp and Facebook, Truecaller was part of the internet revolution. Some people say it is the largest mobile phone community for mobiles. Truecaller can: 

Since all claims so far seem authoritative, here is some evidence which show that creams or ointments are not appropriate as a first aid: In a very notable study by US National Library of Medicine National Institutes of Health, it is reported in PRE-HOSPITAL CARE paragraph, THERMAL BURNS sub-paragraph, that you shall not put any types of ointments or creams, section 10: 

Nate Eldredge's answer is pretty accurate so far; here are more details. The popular email service which was target by Hormel Foods Corp (HRL.N), owner of SPAM (food) is Spam Arrest LLC. Spam Arrest LLC, which is a provider of software and services aimed at stopping email spam, said it won a five-year legal battle against Hormel Foods Corp (HRL.N) to keep its trademark; reuters reported. A three-judge panel found that Hormel's trademark: 

Not according to scientific evidence. Rob Marsh, an entrepreneur and expert with logos had an interesting opinion: 

(1) Robert Todd Carroll, The Skeptic's Dictionary: A Collection of Strange Beliefs, Amusing Deceptions, and Dangerous Delusions. pp. 200–201 (John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 2003). ISBN 0-471-27242-6 (2) Coleman, Loren (4 June 2007). "Nessie Footage Questions Focus on Filmmaker". Cryptomundo.com. Retrieved 28 April 2010. (3) Radford, Ben (5 June 2007). "New Video Likely Not Loch Ness Monster". LiveScience. Retrieved 13 July 2015. (4) "stv News North Tonight – Loch Ness Monster sighting report and interview with Gordon Holmes – tx 28 May 2007". Scotlandontv.tv. Archived from the original on 28 May 2009. Retrieved 28 May 2009. 

And quite contrary to what the newspapers write, they say that “this is a ‘good news’ story”, because it explains a known weakness of existing chemotherapy which can help develop better treatments. They also clarify that the new research “doesn’t affect current treatment”. 

No. This result is a blatant misrepresentation of what the study1 actually did, namely cataloguing changes in behaviour in the cells surrounding a tumour when exposed to anticancer treatment, and how those changes affect the resistance of the tumour to the treatment. Cancer Research UK calls the headlines “misleading” and warns not to take them seriously. They go on to say that, 

Meaning, unless you can provide sufficient evidence to the contrary – which is vague and subject to interpretation – and no evidence to the contrary exists “beyond a reasonable doubt”, you can be presumed to possess the key. Ignore condition (b) (which on the face of it helps the accused), because condition (a) also needs to fulfilled: Even if the police cannot prove “beyond a reasonable doubt” that you have a key, you still need to provide “sufficient evidence of that fact” (= “not in possession of a key”). This is a direct reversal of the burden of proof and the principle of innocent until proven guilty. It is telling that the whole paragraph is written from the default assumption of guilt. 

Several sources, among them Huffington Post and Daily Mail claim a recent study showed that chemotherapy, which is used as a cancer cure, actually makes cancer worse. 

Admittedly, this sounds sufficiently unspecific. And, not having read the meta-analysis, I cannot comment on the quality of these studies. 

4. Lawyer does not indicate a profession in the UK It seems that the word lawyer is not used to describe a profession in the United Kingdom. It is usually describes people who understand the law but not necessarily are real lawyers. According to BBC UK: 

With no doubt, more research is actually needed before it's completely understood how cognitive reserve works to delay the onset of Alzheimer's disease. So answering your question: 

When a user registers for Truecaller, names and numbers from their contact list are uploaded to the service's servers for other users to look up. If you've given your phone number to a friend of yours, who saved your phone number in their contact list, and who downloaded the application; truecaller will automatically get your number. As more users register, truecaller indexes more numbers and names in their database. As of April 2016, Truecaller's official website reports to have 2 billion numbers in its index, a screenshot from my phone: 

Morgan, W.P. and O'Connor, P. J. (1988) Exercise and mental health. In Exercise adherence: its impact on public health, ed. R.K. DISHMAN. Champaign. 

One study in Sexual Medicine, found that that porn use did not predict sexual dysfunction, but instead, predicted higher levels of sexual responsiveness. Another study analyzed European men from Croatia, to find that there was no reliable connection between porn use and sexual dysfunction. The study reports that there was no statistical relationship between men who use higher rates of pornography, and reports of sexual dysfunction. There were inconsistent but weak associations with moderate use of pornography. Matter of fact, urologists and researchers have found that pornography viewing is an effective, noninvasive and reliable test for psychogenic erectile dysfunction. Another study identified that the brain activities of men watching pornography are not significantly different in men with and without erectile dysfunction. Read more: An Erectile Dysfunction Myth - Psychology Today 

It’s commonly known that early Christians were prosecuted for centuries in the Roman empire, up to execution via damnatio ad bestias, meaning they were made to fight lions and other beasts in deadly competitions. However, there’s an article on the Friendly Atheist blog which, echoing a Cracked article, claims that 

Current research by Jeff Pettis [1] shows that the most widely used pesticide, imidacloprid, compromises bees’ immune system even when present in sub-lethal doses. Bees thus weakened are very susceptible to infection with other pathogens. 

The other answers have given a pretty exhaustive overview but let me add just some examples that can be observed in humans. Up front: what you are asking for is a so-called copy-number variation (CNV), that is, a variation in the number of copies of a DNA segment from one individual to the next. CNVs actually encompass any variation in number – this includes deletion and insertion. CNVs are heavily studied since they are the main source of genetic variation, and there are some monogenetic diseases known to be caused by a simple CNV, and there are interesting CNVs responsible for quantitative traits. I’ll give an example for each. 

The other answers contain some examples of secret research and it’s well worth keeping in mind that secret research exists – notably for military projects, but often also in privately funded research, where premature publication would harm patentability and marketing. On the other hand, you need to realise that most publicly funded research is, by its very nature, open. Public funding almost always1) entails that results be published (in peer-reviewed journals). This is one of the fundamental rules of “good scientific practice”, as universally understood [1, 2].