Therefore the question of infallibility of such dreams is more about a technical, interpretive difficulty, as they are various ways to express one statement of truth through symbolic/metaphorical expressions. Also often times it is practically impossible to even verify whether a dream or a vision has any truthful implication or is just a bunch of crazy meaningless thoughts caused by random physiological or psychological conditions. That's why there are few real dream-interpreters. 

Truth whether as in statements that employ general abstract concepts to describe reality or as a meaning itself, is not concrete even though it is abstracted from concrete reality. For if it were concrete we could not use it to describe and represent other concrete things, just as you can't use concrete water to represent concrete fire or even another concrete water because concrete stuff are all unique and don't match. This is one way abstract concepts distinguish themselves from concrete sensible things. This thesis also forms the cornerstone of Theist philosophers' argument for immateriality of human consciousness. The modern consensus though assumes that such rational metaphysics was undermined by Kant's critique of pure reason however Kantian philosophy itself is highly problematic. 

I think you've become confused with the theory. Forms are in fact universal intelligible concepts that all exist in a higher level with all the characteristics you have listed. So form of Beauty exists just as form of Existence exists. Form of Existence is not unique because of its existence (because all other Forms similarly exist) but because of its essence. Uniqueness of Forms is underpinned by the fact that Forms exist separately and each have a unique essence. So Beauty and Existence as forms are mutually exclusive both in existence (being separate) and essence (distinct/unique in nature) while they both exist. 

Your question clearly shows lack of basic knowledge on what Islam teaches. So I believe it was really unwise of you to jump into such an inflammatory conclusion without having first made a brief study on what Islam teaches. Here are a few facts about Islam that undermines your conclusion: 

This is a bit old. But not the only problematic aspect of Kant's philosophy that I encountered after reading several introductions to his philosophy (from Stephen Korner's On Kant to several Stanford Encyclopedia entries), was his distinction between analytic and synthetic judgments, as admitted by the commentators themselves. Analytic according to Kant is where the predicate "inheres" in the subject rendering the judgment true by definition. A synthetic on other hand is when the predicate doesn't inhere in the subject and therefore requires proof. But the above theory is problematic at least in two respects. First if our definitions follow the Aristotle's theory where concepts are defined by their genus and differentia, then any concept defined as such would have its genus and differentia "inhered" in it! So if you define a cat as "a carnivorous with ability for ambush or stalking and short pursuit hunting" (as per WP:Felidae) then all concepts used in the definition would "inhere" in it, and hence the judgement corresponding to it would be analytic by Kant's definition. But this does not seem to be what Kant seems to have suggested by his definition of analytic judgement since he confines all analytic judgments to a priori. However even with a priori qualification another problem rises which I call the phase problem of Kant's theory. This consists in the fact that once any empirical judgement is made, we no longer require an empirical investigation for expressing the same judgement afterwards, because then the same judgement would be ever true by definition which then leads to the first problem! So we can conclude that Kant couldn't properly frame and capture his concepts of analytic and synthetic judgments. And this I read is widely acknowledge by Kant scholars. Coming from a background of acquaintance with Muslim philosophy I've found their logical and epistemological theories far more nuanced and sophisticated than Kant. However the Modern Analytic philosophy must have introduced many improvements to Kant's tradition. 

Yes, there's a point in discussing those properties even before the very existence of God is demonstrated. Because it may be argued that those properties are essential to demonstration of the subject under examination. For example it could be argued that God has to be all-benevolent or it contradicts His existence because creation which is a necessary part of any concept of God can be understood as the utmost act of benevolence. So if we rule out benevolence as a necessary property of God, we never even get to proving His existence. As a general rule, there is nothing wrong with hypothesizing about any concept before proceeding to actual demonstration of it. 

Yes, it is. In fact that's how ethics must be formulated. Once you have purpose of human life defined according to a First Philosophy then you can formulate ethics as deeds fulfilling the life purpose. I always recommend the philosophy of Plotinus as a prime example of how statements of ethics can be coherently derived from statements of philosophy: $URL$ 

Such questions that equate human mind and brain to a machine is rooted in a common consequential failure in understanding the incorporeal substance of human consciousness and how it is related to the brain. Fist off mind doesn't equate the brain. Therefore the knowledge that we absorb during our lifetime is imprinted in our incorporeal mind that governs our body. Human mind (soul) exists independent of the brain however it uses the brain to absorb data from the natural world. The data absorbed by mind from the external phenomena is actually granted by the astral (in case of images) and the intellectual (in terms of concepts) agents in the supernatural realm while the sensory contact with the external world only provides a condition for such extra-natural illumination to take place. Therefore what constitutes human identity is not the data or information as expressed in audible or visible lingually understandable forms (that can be later coded into digital language and stored on an electronic device) but it's the very immaterial essence that governs human body and is indirectly affected by the external world. For this reason the actual cloning of a person's mind is an impossibility because what a machine can copy is only the material (visible, audible etc) expressions of the immaterial content of human mind. A database bearing such information will, as a result, never even have the unified substance of human mind. It will be essentially a composite of individual pieces of magnetic charges on different spots of a hard-drive that can never be compared to a conscious substance! 

I believe your confusion is rooted in a more profound philosophical problem, the ontology of abstraction and abstract concepts, and this is often the earliest, most fundamental problem we often find boggling our mind early in our philosophical contemplations. I advocate the holistic view, which rejects neither the physical/material basis of abstraction nor the immaterial outcome of the act; nor does it reduce one to the other. Universals such as man, plant, rock etc to higher degree aggregates such as people, society, city, etc they are all abstractions of material reality. Tracking down their exact referents in an essentially pluralistic material realm they are found to represent a set of concrete individual beings, but as signifiers themselves they are constituents of a higher level of existence, the intellectual realm if you will. Once abstracted, the abstract concepts exist independent of their referents while still representing them, an observation which in turn points to their very immaterial essence, i.e. non-concrete, general, and encompassing contrary to the concrete, singular and non-encompassing essence of their individual referents. Abstract concepts in reality make up a higher plane of existence while revealing the properties of their respective level in the existence gradient. Your double intuitive feelings underline the strong unity between different grades of existence in which material and intellectual forms are both embedded while each occupying their own level. Intellectual forms are stronger more intense beings compared to material forms, that's why you can sense them internally in a vivid intuition which doesn't need any sensual mediation. They constitute your innermost most intimate self, your soul, while for observing the physical you have to use your outermost senses, i.e. physical sensory organs. 

If we define humans by their accidents (physical features, genetics, habits etc), it is impossible to find even two equals. But in philosophy, human as a concept is abstracted from essential commonalities of human beings which include human physical organs, his natural desires, his senses and above all his faculty of reason. It is these essential commonalities that underpin the concept of equality of human beings. 

Essential to philosophy is the ability to reason. Therefore, if a being has the faculty of reasoning, it will be able to philosophize. As for noumenonological parts of being, Platonic and Neoplatonic philosophers hold that human beings are capable of noumenonological perception. Religions also claim that Divine messengers are capable of realizing all truth, noumenonal or phenomenal, visible or invisible. As for 'advanced' civilizations, we can fantasize, but humans are the most advanced organisms so far known, and according to Islamic Theist philosophy, they are organically advanced enough to even excel over the angels in their ability for transcendental realization. The underlying premise is that there is a correlation between the level of physiological evolution and mental abilities of living organisms. 

No, we are not born with any sense of critical thinking. We are born only with our material sense perceptions. However, upon recurring sensual perceptions, and as a result, subsequent conception of the first abstract thoughts in human mind, the ability to think and reason emerges. 'Unity' (or 'identity' or 'sameness') and 'difference' are the very first two abstract thoughts that the human young forms. They emerge after recognition of differences or similarities among sensory data that we absorb. Comparison between these sensory data allow us to categorize their differences under new abstract thoughts such as 'size', 'color', 'shape' from which we differentiate concepts like 'length', 'depth', 'width', 'long', 'short', 'big' ,'small', 'red', 'blue' etc. Or 'weight', 'heavy', 'light', 'soft', 'rough', 'stinky', delicious', 'sweet' etc as thoughts inferred from data absorbed by sense of touch, smell, and a subsequent recognition of their distinct qualities. It is these emergent abstract concepts that make us capable of rational thinking (e,g reasoning, analysis, negation, etc). Because all rational thinking requires these or other abstract concepts. Besides comparison, association is among the most primitive thinking process that humans develop. A new born baby soon establishes relations between the warmth of his/her mother's arms and feelings such as sense of security and hunger satisfaction. But upon negation of these perceived relations, he/she discovers new relations between phenomena such as certainty or uncertainty, hope or frustration, achievement or non-achievement etc. However these new concepts are usually permanently established after adequate recurrence of their underlying experiences. The toddler will soon have the ability to reason that "Mom's arms sometimes mean milk" therefore "Not all mom's hugs mean milk; they may sometimes mean kiss." This is how a kid gradually develops ability for logical/critical thinking. 

The problem with Anslem's argument is not existence being a true predicate for God as a concept. 'God' when conceived of as a concept exists but only in our mind. However Anslem failed to see that concept of an infinite God is not infinite itself. So from an existing concept of God it never follows that there must be an actual existing God in reality, just as it doesn't follow from mental existence of a unicorn that it exists in the external world! It is as simple as that! 

Here's an eastern perspective drawing upon the legacy of Islamic philosophy, and in particular the most distinguished school among them known as Transcendent Philosophy (or rather Theosophy) founded by the 17th century Persian theosophist, Mulla Sadra who lived through the period of the Islamic-Iranian Renaissance. So a rather extensive introduction comes first before the actual answer. 

Yes, there is an objective basis for moral values but I believe such basis is spiritual not material or this-worldly. Here's my thesis: Moral values stem from the higher domain of existence where all virtues and goodness are united in a non-composite whole. All acts or expressions of goodness and morality in the material domain emanate from their perfect form in this higher domain. However the essentially pluralistic, divisive nature of the material domain and its time-space restrictions both manifests and at the same times degrades, dissipates and obscures this transcendental perfect goodness. Mistaking this perfect transcendental goodness for its imperfect this-worldly manifestations is considered to be the cause of all moral vice/evil. Because such an illusion leads one to pursue goodness/virtue in sources other than the real transcendental source and through means other than the spiritual. To better makes sense of the above philosophy, here's a concrete example: a poor person desires wealth for s/he sees many benefits in material possessions, e.g. physical comfort, better chance of marrying a beautiful/handsome partner, public respect etc. However such identification of goodness is an illusion. The illusion is in that physical comfort is only a degraded manifestation of spiritual peace; likewise human beauty is a only descended form of angelic spiritual beauty and public respect is only a this-worldly manifestation of God's majesty; and thus all the former sets of perceived goodness are subject to the limitations I mentioned in the first paragraph of my thesis. While the pursuit of these lower this-worldly forms via this worldly means usually involve immoral sentiments (e.g. greed, selfishness and pride) – that in turn lead to such immoral practices as hoarding wealth, being stingy, stealing, fraud, demagogy, etc – leading to inflicting harm on others, pursuit of goodness by going to its real transcendental source, on the contrary, generates both personal and general good; for finding spiritual peace requires letting go off stressful preoccupation with material pursuits, attaining real original beauty (which would be similar to its transcendental source spiritual rather than material) requires establishing communion with the higher source via prayer and meditation which would on the contrary lead to humility, benevolence and charity rather than pride and selfishness etc. Thus the person not only acquires the real original goodness whose illusion the former had only tasted, but the society will also benefit from the external 'spill-over' of his/her internally realized goodness! Such is the objective root of goodness and morality! The above thesis draws upon Plato's idea of Perfect Forms, Neo-platonic theory of Goodness and Intellectual Forms, and theistic view of goodness and morality.