Regarding "hooves are inferior in every way", no they are not. Yes, claws are useful, its why Carnivores (as in members of Carnivora) have them. But if you've ever actually looked at a hoof, they are very useful weapons in there own right. Claws may slash, but hooves bludgeon, and as a result can kill much quicklier and cleanlier, especially if the hoof is uncloven. People have died from horse kicks. 

I have an idea for a world: Let's suppose that there is a tree that evolves a weird sort of flower: when the bud opens, instead of revealing the usual flowery bits, it reveals an animal-like entity that acts as it's gametophyte. This animal-like gametophyte (let's call it a faerie), after reaching maturity, leaves the parent tree and searches for a compatible mate. Once the mate is found, the two faeries sexually couple and fuse into a sporophyte sapling that eventually matures into a new "faerie tree", ready to produce new faeries. My question is: Would it be possible for faeries to develop sentience, or even humanoidism, and if so, how would it work? And if they develop human level intelligence, how would the fact that sex results in the death of the faeries involved at the expense of the tree (which is basically non-sentient) affect faerie culture? And going backwards a bit, how would animal-like gametophytes even evolve in the first place? 

Imagine the following star system: The star is very much like ours. Orbiting this star is one planet, very much like Earth. Let's call it the Orb. Orbiting the Orb are two moons: a large one, Mona, that is very much like ours and a small one, Wick, that's big enough to be round but small enough to not cause havoc on the Orb with it's rather close orbit. There is nothing else in the system, not even a mote of dust, and the system itself is in a very quiet neighborhood. An Orb day, specifically a sidereal day, is very close to twenty-four Earth hours long but unlike an Earth day is always exactly the same length, every day. An Orb year, specifically a tropical year, is exactly 364 Orb days long. An Orb month, the length of Mona's phase cycle, is exactly one-twelfth of an Orb year (i.e., there are exactly twelve months in a year.) An Orb week, the length of Wick's phase cycle, is exactly 7 Orb days long, meaning there are exactly 52 weeks in a year. Now obviously this system can't maintain this level of precision indefinitely. And in fact the system isn't natural, but was created and maintained by outside entities. For story reasons, these entities are to be permanently removed and nature is to take its course. My question is how quickly and how catastrophically would the system as described destabilize. My first guess is that Wick, in a 3:13 resonance with Mona, would start moving pretty fast, but I don't know which way or how soon. Also: Assume Wick is sturdy enough that its Roche limit is within its orbit. If this simply isn't possible, although I doubt it isn't, please say so. 

(Note: I am WELL AWARE of the fact that I am asking for an explanation of an inherently unscientific concept. But the members of this particular Stack Exchange are so wonderfully intuitive and so ingenuitive I was hoping that you could answer a question among the lines of this). Whilst many early Science Fiction franchises were more "pseudoscience" than actual "science" they DID in fact introduce a concept that I believe has been able to intrigue intuitive/scientifically analytical minds for years... Stasis Beams. According to Wikipedia, Stasis Beams are: "confined areas of space in which time has been stopped or the contents have been rendered motionless" Objects within a "Stasis Beam" are render (near) Indestructible. My question is... How could I scientifically explain Stasis Beams? (you can even take out the Indestructibility part if it conflicts with science) 

I'm currently working on a Sci-Fi story. Many of the super-materials in my story are composed of "Neo-Matter". List of Neo-Matter particles: Up-Neotron, Down-Neotron Neo Matter is essentially like regular matter except with a few unique traits 1: Neo Matter can interact with particles that cannot interact electromagnetically (ie. Neutrons, Neutrinos) 2: all Neo Matter particles have a neutral charge and are their own antiparticle 3: Neo Matter particles have the half life of a neutron. 4: Neotrons are the smallest unit of Neo-Matter and cannot be divided into anything smaller. 5: Neotrons are as big as neutrons. 6: Neotron atoms do NOT contain electrons My question being... Is it possible to scientifically explain "Neo-Matter" and if not... what can I change to make it scientifically explainable? Note: If Neo-Matter IS scientifically explainable then could you explain how Neo-Matter Molecules could form? Note: the ONLY force Neo Matter interacts with is Gravity $URL$ If you want an example of something similar here you go. 

Me and my friends were brainstorming campaign ideas earlier and we came up with a setting. Essentially it's our universe but with one BIG difference... Humans can use magic. The ability to use magic has been around since the first lifeforms formed (protozoa, bacteria, virii, etc.). The Magic System relies on (some) of that human's metabolic energy . The humans (in this world) have "nodes" scattered across their bodies. These nodes absorb ambient energy within the environment and store it within capacitor-esque cells (like fat cells that DON'T make you fat). When you cast a spell, some of your metabolic energy (and some of that "capacitor" energy) is expended (essentially Magic is like a muscle, use it and it's strength grows, don't and it atrophies). "Flashier" spells require more energy than "Simple" spells (an exmaple of a "Flashy" spell would be a Lightning bolt or a Wrecking ball-sized fireball. Whilst a simple spell would be a baseball-sized fireball or generating a lightsource). Note: Here are the Node locations: Chest, Left Hand, Right Hand, Left Foot, Right Foot, Brain (in rare cases), Blood cells (blood cells contain weak nodes that are about the size of mitochondria). Note: Nodes cannot be removed or destroyed Think of the nodes as the M-R Nodes from Aberrant: here's a link:$URL$ Note: SPELLS CANNOT ALTER REALITY So my question is... would the scientists of this universe still call "Magic" Magic? (or would they come up with a different name for it?) 

(Sorry for the broken english, it's not my first language!) Give the tree a public utility that correlates to it's size. The bigger it is, the most the people benefit, and thus there is a direct interest to make it grow. Alternatively, you can replace the Corporate thing with a religious theme for the same overall effect. I would go with money, however, as it is easier to convince the government to cooperate when there is a direct monetary benefit in game. 

William found a small flier on the table, as he took a seat to enjoy his morning coffee. The flier was made with a lot of care, with a tree-like red frame on the top and the left side holding the company logo while elaborated letters took the rest of the free space against a circuitry-themed background. 

Colonize Mars. Really! If you send that pot up to a colony on Mars, food problems on the red planet become easier to solve. People will have an endless supply of food that can be used to make the initial colonization viable. All of this Lablabi would then be converted to.. er... fertilizer, by the human body, and then it could be used to grow more stuff on Mars. It could even be used directly as a fertilizer material, once the food production chain on Mars becomes well established. You have also the plus side of introducing a small and indirect, but constant, surplus of water on Mars. Lablabi has a good water content, being a soup-like food, so it would slowly make Mars a wetter place. You could also use it as a fuel, if you are really desperate. If you really want to be creative, you can use that flow rate to propel the rocket to Mars, after the take-off! Really, you are gushing a lot of soup by the second, so it could give out a really nice thrust. 

Why you don't create a hive-like species? Individuals beings won't value possessions for themselves, nor themselves - something is only useful, only has value if it can help the colony or the "queen". If you think about it, bees, ants and termites are already pretty societies without the concept of ownership - at least inside their huge families. Heck, even their lives aren't something they own - their lives are tools for the colony. You may check out the borg from the Star Trek Universe. They are already pretty much what you want! 

You want a giant tortoise that is screwed over by the Square Cube law if I understood your question correctly? Well I have numerous propositions for your. No. 1: The turtles live in an environment with enough Oxygen to sustain gargantuan-sized life forms. The bigger an organism gets, the harder the heart needs to pump in order to get oxygen to every cell in the body (if I am not mistaken). So maybe you could increase the amount of Oxygen within the water, Or you could say that their hearts are more efficient at pumping oxygen throughout their bodies (or you can handwave and say that they don't need oxygen) No. 2: The Turtles are nanotechnologically enhanced. Okay here me out on this one. WIthin the Nanotech community there's a thing called a Respirocyte. A Respirocyte is essentially a artificial blood cell which can store up to 236 times more Oxygen than a regular blood cell can. $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ No. 3: The turtles are robots meant to confuse biologists This one is pretty much self explanatory. Anyway I hope you enjoyed my answer! 

The Year is 2019, and thanks to a series of random events the act of Insider Trading has been legalized across the globe. How is the Global Economy affected? Do small companies/nations collapse due to this? and more importantly... how does this affect the stock market? 

First of all, even if the cure IS destroyed Immunologists could still develop some sort of cure (or a vaccine for those nonimmune people that STILL haven't contracted the disease). Narcissists across the globe would mentally break down as their ONLY redeeming qualities have been "stolen" from them. The global suicide rate (if that's even a thing) would increase to heights never-before-seen (If teens are willing to commit suicide just because they're being bullied or if someone tells them that their fat then just IMAGINE what this would cause). Racism would still exist (if you were wondering) as people who were affected to a lesser degree would berate and demean those that were "hit harder" by the disease. The clothing industry would increase in profitability as people would want to cover up their "ugliness". Some people would even go as far as to wear masks in public. I hope you enjoyed my answer! 

A Xbox/Playstation Controller coupled with game-like software and Z Targeting. I mean, really, who hasn't had a blast in Zelda and made Link do all sort of things using nothing but a regular controller? If you have a good AI taking care of the hard stuff, like balance, know movements, personal space and pattern recognition, a standard controller with a smart configuration can very well provide a huge array of functionalities. Also, by making it so similar to a videogame the protagonist already knows and plays, you can make it even more believable. Of course, you wouldn't be able to provide complete control for the pilot for the more detailed stuff, but for gross combat and movement, that should be more than enough. An interesting note - today, some military vehicles are actually operated by Xbox/Playstation-like joysticks. No, I'm not making this up. 

Well... we already have some 3-hearted organisms here on the earth. Octopuses have 2 "respiratory" hearts, that they use to increase the flow of blood running through their gills, and one "main heart", which keeps the blood-flow on the body. You can do something similar for your mammalian creature, having your extra hearts do work for some specific but intensive task, keeping the main heart free to focus on the flow for the "main" parts of the body. I used a concept similar to this for the dragons of my fantasy world - they are dual-hearted, and have two completely separated circulatory systems with different functions. Each heart serves one of those systems. You creature can have two sets of lungs, each set tied to one heart and providing oxygen to a different body section. A third, segregated heart could be localized on a central part that serves as a meeting point for those two body sections, pumping blood between those halves as a bidirectional pump. 

Everybody would die really fast. Those rules will create a impossible setting for life in a modern society. As soon as those rules enter in action, most puberty-aged children will die. That will happens because people won't be able to adapt that fast to a change like this. After this happens, misery will hit every country in the world. Most moms would be devastated by this loss, as will be every father, and people will not really be able to focus on something like sex for a while. I imagine that most parents would just give up and die instead of living in a world like this one. Having your children die for some random event in the universe is pretty hardcore, and it would kill most of the hope on the future in the hearts of everyone. I know that I would be really nervous if I was forced to put my daughters to "mate" with someone because of this. I know that my wife would be really sad if I had to search for other people to avoid dying. Even if we did this, the stress would eventually kill anyone out. I don't think I would be able to ejaculate, even if my life was on the line, if my mind was stressed out about all of this going on with my family. I would be worried to no end in this scenario. I think that my family and I would keep up for a few months, but we eventually would give up. So many dreams shattered and so many pain inflicted to the world would kill all the hope in a nice future. Seeing children die if they don't make sex is not nice. Not nice at all. In the end, I think that my family would just decide to move on and give up. The world is not nice anymore.