Try and halve the problem and then see which side the symptom goes to. BTW remember to relube chain once you reassemble. 

The rest stops are marked with (R) and you're not supposed to stop anywhere else on the route. So pick one and have a breather. And good work for joining in! 

Noone's mentioned heat to enlarge the steel frame. First, check with a magnet to make sure the frame is steel. If its an aluminium frame, then stop now. Remove the bottom bracket and bearings first. And remove the seat. Also remove brake cables from the area of the seat clamp. Drill a good sized hole through the top of the seat pole, and fit a lever like a decent sized screwdriver. Try some light warmth on the frame from a brazing torch or similar while an assistant dribbles water down the seat pole, to keep the seat pole cool and not expanding. Assistant also pulls and pushes on the leverage trying to break the seatpole free. Note this is very likely to damage the paint on the frame, and if you've used penetrating oils already, they may fume or ignite. 

I'd call it a thumb shiifter. Guess its for the front derailleur, and on a bike that old its probably not indexed, which makes this easier. Firstly is the gear wire loose? Check them down on the frame and see if they're slack. If so, the wire has snapped or the end has come off inside the shifter. If you can't physically move the shifter then it could be jammed with wire or the "barrel", or just plain rusted. That plastic bit on top is a handle- its the top of the tension screw. If you undo it completely you'll be able to see into the mechanism for rust. This is also how you'd get access to the cable to replace it. Note your other-hand shifter is more likely to be indexed (ie click-stops at every gear position) so not directly comparable. If the problem is rust, tell your friend to stop storing the bike outside. If its a broken cable, that's a fairly straightforward fix, albeit dirty. 

The best spoke is one that is light enough, strong enough to carry you, stays true through whatever riding you do, and doesn't cost too much. To that end, the more butting on a spoke the thinner and lighter it is in the middle, but that adds to the expense. You also need to consider whether you want normal brass nipples or aluminium ones which are lighter and cost more. Other considerations for your wheel build might include spoke head washers, and whether the rim needs special nipples and/or washers. Costs blow out quickly - you may only be paying 2 to 3 localdollars per spoke but 32 for the wheel and three for spares gives you $70-$105 just for spokes. Nipples may or may not be included so check that. Also see if a box of 50 is cheaper than buying 35 separately. You can also make choices in colour (chrome/black/coloured+anodised/galvanised) and profile (bladed spokes for more aero) but realistically it doesn;t matter and weird/unusual choices will cost you more in the long run. Do buy a new spoke tool if your old one is a bit sloppy. The right tool helps a lot and prevents rounding off. 

Unknowns Rear parcel rack - assume its to do with being a fast-food delivery courier. Why the paint can? Looks like a home-made pannier? No its part of the plot. Why the fox tail? It is not visible enough to be like a chopper-flag.No its also part of the plot. Why the yellow tyre? Film Make her stand out from the background a bit more, help the audience identify her on screen easier. 

I don't know about your weather, but for me leaving home slightly cold works, because I warm up with the exercise. Overheating is no fun. 

Campagnolo has two cable pull numbers for 9 speed, theres 3.0 and 3.2 mm per click. Shimano 9 speed is 2.5mm of cable pull per click, so you're out of luck. 

Since you're staying at 10 speed (ie, 10 different gears on the rear cassette) then you don't need a new shifter on the handlebars. That's a wise plan. If you got an 11 speed cassette you need also a new shifter, which gets expensive. Your rear derailleur should be okay for the width, but the problems come about trying to clear that top gear. Its hard to tell if you'll get away with 36 tooth big gear, or whether your rear mech can only cope with a 34 or 32. My road bike takes nothing larger than a 28 tooth. Do you have a short/medium/long cage rear derailleur? As Batman says, you need a new 10 speed chain when you change cassettes. Worn chains slip on new cassettes and drastically increase wear. Another thought - if you're not pulling top gear a lot then you can forgo the 11 tooth little cog and have a 12 or even a 13 tooth small gear. 

I'm guessing you have the sidewall of the tyre inflating sideways, and not the tube inflating through the valve stem hole. Generally this is a failure of the tyre bead, and its no longer seating properly in the rim. Also look at the sidewall for any form of tear, a couple of millimetres is all it needs to start stretching strangely. If this is the case, you need a new tyre. 

Materials will probably be either metal or plastic. There are wooden ones, but they're not common. Metal ones can suffer from stress fractures due to vibration, so more stays work better. Plastic ones are a bit more forgiving, but they crack slightly easier than metal and can embrittle with UV/age. A final option is a home made hack. All you need to do is intersect the flying droplets. So search and you'll find fenders made from strips of plastic, old bottles, even tyres with the bead cut off. If you have a rear rack, simply line it with flat plastic and you've got protection 

To be honest unless originality is a big thing, consider moving to a dual pivot brake caliper. The old single pivot side pull caliper was always sub par. 

If it runs okay then air up the tyres and ride it. I'd suggest changing all four brake pads, and examine the tyres for deterioration. If the tyres are getting iffy, consider replacing the whole wheel with a more common 700c aluminium rim. Those 27" wheels look like chromed steel and wet weather braking is wishful thinking! Downside of this is the brake calipers may no longer reach a slightly smaller wheel and may not have as much pressure under braking. 

You can buy an "excess baggage charge" to go to 32 kilos (70 pounds) and no one dimension may be more than 1 metre. Pricing starts at $60+GST for bag1, plus $100+GST for bag2, then plus $150+GST for bag3 for national flights, or $150/$200/$300 for flights to/from the USA. These costs are "per leg" so any stopover generates a fresh charge for the second leg. Also a bike counts as a Sporting Item so 

If your grain mill is a prototype, I would make a sandwich of steel plates (ie really big washers) and clamp it all together. 

EDIT: Other points I missed * patching in the rain or dampness - water/cold stops the cement from curing as quickly, and being wet makes you hurry. Personally I'm not very good at punctures, I have a success rate of 2/3 repaired okay if I start patching a tube. In a pinch, I've successfully cut a round piece of spare innertube, buffed and glued its innerside, waited 10 minutes and slapped it on the buffed and glued inner tube. It worked perfectly and is still on the bike today. I know yours isn't a glueless patch, but for completeness: By comparison, glueless patches are really glorified stickers. They don't bond to the rubber of the tube as well as one with vulcanising fluid/cement. But they're also a lot quicker to buff, slap on and ride more. Their maximum pressure seems to be lower too, so bad for roadies on 100psi, workable for MTB on 30psi. 

Its a chain hanger. Purpose is to hold the chain when you take the wheel off. The idea is to support the chain and stop it falling through itself, making a tight loop and shortening the life of those links. They're not common on carbon bikes any more, but handy on any working bike. Don't forget to undo the chain after reinstalling the wheel and before riding away. 

You have answered your own question, correctly too. Those generic hangers are exactly what you want. The golden piece held on with the short bolt should slide up the dropout and rest against the curved end, and your wheel axle clamps down on the hanger. Then your rear derailleur will thread into the large 10mm hole in the hanger. Its not complex, but it can be fiddly with tolerances. Good work, all I can do is confirm you're on the right track. 

Depends how well the chain and chainring mesh. Assuming perfect alignment, exactly half the teeth are engaged. In the real world, the chain will be somewhat elongated. So your worst case is one single tooth is taking all the strain. At this point, wear is accelerated. You should use "27 teeth" and "1 tooth" as inputs for your needs. 

I own a cheap "metro" folder, and it is quite different riding to a normal sized bike. The steering is a lot more reactive than a bike with a larger wheel, so it wants to wander a bit more. This is due to the smaller front wheel, shorter forks and reduced trail. I can't ride this one hands-free for long, regardless of gear. Rider Position is much more upright, so you're more visible but more of a sail too to catch the wind. Overall gearing is narrower because most folders are single front chainring. This is mostly okay on the flat, but grades over 10% are no fun. You'll also spin out sooner on the downhill or with a tailwind. Cranks and seatposts tend to be short too - if you're over 6 foot a normal folder will likely be too small. Mine is. 

I have a seriously dodgy wheel where one spoke has no tension at all. It goes out of true if I so much as finger tighten that one spoke. Its perfectly ride-worthy for me, but I'd not put it on someone else's bike without fully sharing the problem. As a rim brake wheel, true is more important than spoke tension. Separately, I've wasted 4 hours trying to true up a front wheel for a give away. In the end I swapped the hub and spokes to another rim, and got the assembly and truing all done perfectly in 30 minutes.