Very careful - dangerous ground - for one of your contacts acknowledging such a goal, you need to be friends, and they need to like risks. Could be much easier to found your own company together and after a decent time change to another company, under your own responsibility. Taking over teams from other companies without their consent may not sit well with the original employer - when a single employee leaves it's very difficult to argue that he "can take away a customer with him". If a team leaves and take customer contacts, projects etc. with them, the original employer will make very sure that they do not take any IP with them developed when they were still employed. Be prepared to walk out naked - no codebase, fewer customers, and possibly an HR-related lawsuit on your back. 

Let me give some male perspective (i am male, 42y, Physics PHD, experience in subjects, broadly positioned, and within the subjects which i followed as PHD/postdoc probably within the top 5% - just to indicate that my self-confidence is ok) 

She: getting drunk, hitting you and lying about it He: Hugging a drink female colleague and hitting you and lying about it You: Making some joke instead of leaving them alone 

This certainly happens, but is more common in the training-to-job sector, where the recruiter provides training with a promise of a job at the end. Usually this is a service the applicant pays for and pays for MORE if they walk away before the "guaranteed" job is found. These companies usually benefit more financially from you giving up than 'selling' you, unfortunately... They present themselves as recruiters, but they are really not. Source: personal experience 

In our office we have a system to counter just this. We use 'talk disks', which are basically just pieces of cardboard. If they are showing red we cannot be disturbed right now, if they are showing green we can. In addition; if they are showing red we, the people trying to talk to them, can put a small yellow token with our name on them so that they will approach us next they have time. Advantage is that because everyone only has one yellow token they will only use it when they really need to - only interrupting flow when necessary but still only when the recipient can stop. Still, this is a policy rather than something someone can do individually - but it can always be a good suggestion for your own environment. 

I see this question from a different angle than most here: My optinion is: You have a culture problem, and you should accept some advice. You can have a creative sub-culture without offensive jokes and nerf-guns. In the question, and also in some answers i read that it is the right of people to behave as they want, just because they can. After some time this becomes some kind of mechanism which actually isolates the group. Even if everybody (including new members, who possibly are offended) in the group approves, how does this affect cooperation with other groups? I suggest the following approach to it: 

You could ask your boss (in general, in a "who is actually responsible if our service is used as part of something illegal" way) to put up a note that customers take responsibility against the company for making sure that they do transmit money only to legitimate recipients, and put up some examples of scam/illegal behavior. 

I would not do such a thing. I would not ask, and if i would be asked, i would not answer and potentially inform my former employer. Rationale behind:"how do we negotiate?" is actually more critical than pricing information. "How do we negotiate" involves the information whom you have to address to influence the decision. 

There is likely no technical breach of contract as the 7 day limit is defined by law, not contract. Unless said stipulation was repeated in your contract you are basically out of luck unless you are willing to start legal proceedings against your employer (which you at this point could do either under the contract act 1950 or the employment act 1955). That said, a better resource for this and similar questions is probably $URL$ as it specialises in discussing cases such as this. 

You'd be surprised how many people wear a shirt just because it looks fun, not because they have any affinity with the subject. You may well have recognised a character Jim only knows from his shirt! In other words: Don't assume an interest just because of iconography on clothing. (If you were looking at me right now, you'd think I'd graduated in a year I wasn't even born yet from a college I've never even visited) As for re-enforcing a dress code - have it match the role. I think your current reasonings for loosening the codes are fair, and should not need review based on this incident alone. 

In that sense I think it's better if all of you did not put this on the management level. However, if I did get in this situation (two people slapping me and lying about it), I would try to find (not expose) a dirt on them as a possible defense. 

The core message should be: You did not see a future there; your expectations to develop professionally where not as you wanted it; due to the company size/structure/finance situation your manager could not offer you this when discussing it. 

I also left research when i was 35, and had no big problems - but I was always more a broad type than a specialist. 

What does you boss need to know? He/She needs to know about the problem this may cause. It's not so much relevant for why there is a shortage but that there is a shortage. Briefly inform him that on that day you will need to shift some work, and (depending on the nature of the business) customers will have to wait/not be served, a project will be delivered late, deadlines will be missed etc... Be specific about it so that he can estimate the impact. It sounds like he is not only the boss but also the owner of the company, so he can make up his mind if loosing a customer or paying fees is worth it. 

You are on the right track in thinking you are not being compared to the Senior employees. You shouldn't be. Odds are, they are getting paid a fair bit more than you are and are expected to perform in tune with that. That said, if development and growth is what you want - ask your manager about that rather than asking for negative feedback specifically. Your company may have set productivity/time benchmarks you have to hit to grow, and you may be hitting them. At the same time, 'time' may be your limiting factor as a good number of companies will only offer promotions every X years. Still, don't fret too much about it. Juniors have their role to play too. And apparently you are performing it well. 

Simply put, when auditioning and consequently hiring actors theater companies do often have to distinguish by race or gender. How do they get around laws prohobiting these sorts of hiring standards? 

For the last couple of days, I have been having great trouble sleeping at 'normal' hours. I feel it is starting to affect my work, as greater headaches are starting to climb through the painkillers. That, however, is not the problem. I am sure I can get this issue under control soon enough, but what strategies can I employ to not have my current state of sleep deprivation show in the office? I work in an IT environment where I share a room with 7 others in a dual-island structure, so I cannot avoid sitting across people and needing to engage in casual development meetings. 

Situation in Germany (IANAL): There are laws in place which make a strict distinction between working as a contractor or as a leased worker. The latter implicates significantly stronger obligations and other legal limitations. The implications for a company if a court finds that a contractor works as a leased worker may be severe. Companies take great care that contractors appear very different from their internal employees, i.e. making sure that contractors do no appear to be bound in the company hierarchy. 

I only express dissatisfaction with my colleagues opinions on such matters when their opinion clearly puts them outside the constitution. If they stop being objective on a too short timescale, i rather just make a mental note to give them a task requiring balancing between interests 

I do technical interviews. I very often do not ask the people at all about the stuff they will be doing, but about loosely related stuff they have been doing. The rationale behind this is simple: 

General rationale: If a manager makes a decision, and an team member acts like that guy does, he needs to leave the team ASAP (knowledge transfer), by all means. Talk to your manager, offer him to assist (e.g. by keeping back the announcement of your promotion) until they found a replacement for the guy. Pass all information which you think is essential in evaluating the situation to you manager. Suggest to offer the contractor a 3 month contract, search for a replacement behind his back, identify people in his team who are essential to replacing him swiftly and have crossed his path in a bad way in the past, and talk to them in a tentative way like "we may need Mr. X at another position soon, which of his knowledge/skills can you replace". Make a list of names which you think are loyal to him, and look for internal replacements (so that you can swap them to other teams if there are problems). Make use of external consultants in the transition phase. 

These days in the IT Sphere it seems nearly mandatory to have some open source work in accessible GitHub account listed on your CV. As someone cursed with a laser-like focus when it comes to developing, I don't have the breadth of mind, energy or drive to code something ELSE in my spare time, away from work. What are alternatives to open source work to compensate for this modern 'gap' in my CV, and how can I present my CV in such a way the gap will be glossed over? 

Is it considered 'bad form', or presumptuous to include scheduling preferences for interviews in your initial application letter? For example "For interviews or other direct inquiries I am most easily available on Tuesdays and Fridays" If it IS considered "not done", how can you most efficiently communicate this information without a lengthy email back-and-forth? 

I think contacting your university and requesting an updated degree would not be unusual or out of place here. You mention that they were quite aware of the struggle of definition, so they will likely be willing to accomodate your request if the curriculum truly has not changed. They may charge a small fee, but no more than they would for an extract, most likely. 

Only respond to the managers: "I am sorry that I could not solve this issue before you were bothered with it - Thanks to colleague X who identified this subtle error, I expect that it is fixed within x minutes". Update the report and send it to anybody (if you like to play an especially ugly game: anybody but the colleague who pointed out the mistake). 

After thinking for some time, I probably would answer: yes, but that would only be money and not fix the long-term career prospects, for which I want to leave. 

Reasoning: The management dealt with it as it saw it fit. Trying to deal with something which is your managers business against your managers wishes is inacceptable for a senior employee. I think the manager should do the following: 

1-3 are thing which you have to address directly with HR and/or the person responsible for safety in the company. 4 you could mention to your colleague 5-6 are thing which you should discuss with your boss once. It's his task to determine the right steps. Don't make accusations or draw conclusions, just state the facts; don't suggest actions. 

Assuming you're not first in line to hand in any 'privileges' you've been given through your own manager, there is little to do on an employee-to-employee basis. What you could do, however, is suggest to your manager that he could spread his work philosophy around the upper echelons of the company a bit more. Not only may this have a positive effect on your relationship with said manager (never a bad thing) - it may actually improve the attitudes of the other managers. The best part: if you ever get accused of meddling in other departments you could re-wrap the suggestion as a mere compliment towards the managing style. 

I'd see it the opposite way. In a perfect world the first person who needs a new cartridge, gets a new cartridge. If you arrive there and it is empty, you are the one in need. 

I think most likely JUST a presentation letter and references are frowned upon. That is, do not supply these without actual certifications (referring back to the sentence before it). A simple error of leaving a single word out in a different language. 

Though consensus seems to be going in the extremes, allow me to offer a third option: Wait until the start of summer. That way, if they do let you go earlier you have a useful way to spend your time already laid out with preparing for your studies -- getting back in takes some adjustment. At the same time, you minimize your risk of being out of work too early. Start of summer is just a ballpark, basically. Start giving notice when you know you could usefully spend your time if you would not be employed, but before being employed no longer becomes an option. This maximizes benefit to both you and your employer. 

In big companies in Germany sometimes the big picture gets lost. Some of the interviewers don't show the right respect since they believe that they have more than enough applications. However, some of the things could be explained: 

The most important question is: are you in a business (e.g. food industry) where an employee not washing his hands/keeping the hygiene actually is a big problem for the certification of you plant (although i am not sure bathrooms are inspected) or the safety of the customers/consumers? 

I have only a short advice: There is one who is not showing up. Showing up at an internship for a given number of hours if probably an obligation to pass the internship. Not showing up is a reason to let him go. Trash him first. Explain to the others (in one-to-one meetings) that participation is more than being present. I have seen interns being terminated for not working the hours which where agreed upon. Nobody (including the other interns, which were hard working) complained. 

Personal/private mobile numbers which are read on the weekend or will disturb anybodies dinner or family life are only for emergencies, which require immediate attention. Using these for anything which can wait is nonprofessional. Using these for indicating how important your concern about your coworker is, is plainly inappropriate. For your own sake, seek an advisors help.