If you are correct that you can't make yourself more useful with study, that you can't do heavy server side stuff, and that the plan is phasing out your position, then there are only two options 

Many CEOs have an agent and a lawyer to help them with contract negotiations. Some other C-level executives do the same. Typically, it depends on the size of the company and the complexity of the contract and benefit package. The larger the company and benefits, the more likely it makes sense to pay others to help review the contract and offer advice. 

If I worked with you, and found out about it, it wouldn't be acceptable. In fact, if you worked for me and I determined you were intentionally withholding documentation, you would be disciplined. The acceptability might be different in your shop. Effective is something only you can determine, and only in your sitution. I suppose some folks do get away with it, but in the long run I don't think it can be very effective. Perhaps you should ask your boss her opinion on this matter. 

Assuming you haven't yet been formally dropped from consideration by the hiring manager, call or send an email. Indicate that you are excited about the possibility of working there, and that you hope you can reach a compromise on salary. Then, hope for the best. It's possible that you overplayed your hand and that your expectations have already ruled you out. But it's also possible that following up will hint that you are willing to settle for less than you first suggested. 

The content of your CV is what matters, not how you got there. If the output of your online tool is a terrific resume, you'll be in good shape, if not, you'll have problems. Terrific resumes don't look like they are built from a template, and don't have tool-name headers, watermarks, etc. Terrific resumes reflect you, and put forward your best attributes, not generic attributes. While HR doesn't care what tools you used, the name and any references to the tool should be removed. The same would be true if someone helped you create your resume - you wouldn't put your friend's name in your resume's header. I've read a lot of resumes over the years. I never cared (and usually never knew) if the resume was crafted using Notepad, Word, or Bob's Super Crafty Amazing Online Resume Wizard and List Builder. If the resume did a good job of selling the candidate, it was good enough in my eyes. 

I think the request is foolish. As a long time manager, I would never impose on anyone on my team that way. If the company was having financial difficulties, I'd just say "No" to the request to attend the conference, and not try to pass the financial decision onto someone else. And I don't think you should even consider it. If it makes your wife uncomfortable, then that settles the issue in my mind. Just tell your manager "I'm sorry, but I can't do that." No further explanation needed. 

If you are the manager, you must manage. Find a quiet time to talk with her privately, and explain the problem as you see it. Ask her if your proposed solution (upgrading the toilet facilities) might help. Then listen to see if she agrees. Then act accordingly. She may agree that the issue is the physical facilities. Or she may need other help, perhaps medical, that your company can provide. A discussion will help determine the best course of action. Managers don't get to opt out of important discussions just because they don't feel comfortable. If you don't have an HR rep (seems like a mistake) and you aren't comfortable talking to a female employee individually, then perhaps you can recruit another female at an appropriate management level to sit in on the discussion. Perhaps there are no other female employees who can help. It doesn't matter - this is still your job. Your discomfort doesn't excuse you from being required to talk with her one way or the other. 

In general, we each need to understand how to "fit in" within our company, industry, and role. That involves many normative aspects - the clothes we are expected to wear, the way we talk, the attentiveness to punctuality, how late we are expected to work, etc. - all of these have a mostly unwritten "standard" at each company. New employees must try to quickly understand and adapt to the norms. It can be a challenge, but that's part of the onboarding process. In addition, these aspects of company culture are something to keep in mind as we interview at new companies. If freely expressing your fashion sense is very important to you, you need to seek out companies that would match, or at least tolerate your sense, within the role you are filling. I work in software, but in the financial services sector. Here, the company is far more conservative than most others where I have worked. We are expected to wear "business casual". Looking around and observing others, it's not hard to see what people are expected to wear. A few years back, we hired a young intern for a few months of data entry. She didn't catch on to (or intentionally chose to ignore) the unstated "dress code". She was viewed as a "young fashionista" (not my words, but the words of a female VP), and wasn't taken very seriously. It didn't matter a lot for her temp job. But had she applied for a permanent position, I'm not sure she would have been hired. She expressed her interest in fashion, at the expense of being stereotyped. Fair or not fair - that happens. 

At your next one-on-one weekly meeting, broach the subject with your boss. Something like: "Boss, I feel that I'm doing an awful lot of work, and I'm concerned that it's starting to overwhelm me. I don't think I can continue to work at this pace for much longer. Can we talk about how to moderate the volume of tasks, so that it is a bit more manageable?" You might want to leave out the part about the social life and ulcer for now. Not that those aren't important to you, but you want to keep the focus on the great work you do, and how it could suffer if the pace isn't moderated. Make the discussion more about scheduling the work to better fit within a reasonable work week, rather than about how hard it is, the technical details you handle, or how stressed you feel. You may very well find that your boss is happy to find ways to help. 

Unfortunately, I don't have anything very positive to offer you. Each of my situations ended with me giving up on my attempts to change the larger corporate culture, and eventually leaving. I look at it this way - this is not the work environment you signed up for. You decided to join a startup because at least some significant aspects of their culture appealed to you. Now you work for a different kind of company, with a different culture. I'd bet that if you were on the market, this isn't the kind of company you'd consider interviewing with. You might decide to stick around a while to see if anything changes. One thing that happens frequently in larger companies is reorgs. Every large company I worked for had rather frequent reorgs (unfortunately, not all of them for the better). But barring that, it sounds like you should either learn to live with the big-company culture or seek out a company that more closely fits your idea of a good company culture. I always suggest waiting until you've landed your next job before quitting your current job. 

Some may indeed interpret this habit as unprofessional or possibly unclean. It would be like someone chewing on a toothpick all day. You should try to quit this habit if you can. There are plenty of self-help books on the subject, plenty of websites (search for "How to break a habit"), and you could always consult your doctor. As far as habits go, this isn't a big deal. But it still may benefit you to break it if you can. It certainly couldn't hurt to be rid of it. 

Ask before you agree to relocate. Preferably as soon as possible. That way, you'll have your answer and can plan appropriately. As @DeNaeL wisely points out, get any agreements or statement about salary changes in writing before you agree to relocation. 

Most companies keep records of applicants for a long time. Don't read too much into that - they typically keep the same records for poor candidates as for good candidates. 

If you are motivated to get a job with a particular company, you decide that it's worthwhile to extend yourself a bit when required. If it's potentially a good job, you fill in all the forms that are asked of you to the best of your abilities. That's how I manage. It isn't always easy, it isn't always fun - but a good job is worth some of my effort. If you don't feel that the time required to complete the application forms is worthwhile, that may say something about your motivation toward this particular job. 

You should find a quiet time to discuss this with your boss. Try not to be defensive; just be factual. Explain how the code base came to be. Explain how you ended up being left to maintain it. Explain how you have been doing what your boss told you to do, and how that didn't include rewriting the code to make it better. You don't need to throw anyone under the bus. You don't need to take responsibility for the quality of the code. You do need to express concern that going forward the quality of the code could indeed cause problems to occur. Then you can ask your boss what he would like you to do about it now. If the boss is so unreasonable as to threaten your salary over the lack of quality in the code base, then you should immediately start looking for a new job while you do the best you can at this one. Hopefully this was just a terribly poor way of the boss expressing frustration. Hopefully he will tell you that he understands that you aren't responsible, that he didn't mean what he said about your salary, and that he apologizes for his outburst. In general, don't apologize or be defensive about something that was not of your doing. 

Yes, it is wrong for you to suggest how your employer should be dealing with a coworker. That's not for you to decide. Just report the behavior and explain how it makes you feel. In most companies, that will set the wheels in motion for the company to deal with this individual according to whatever process they have in place. Your goal should be to have the problematic behavior stop. It's up to your employer to decide how to make that happen. They may choose to get the employee out of the restaurant. Or they may choose counselling, stern warnings, or something else. As long as the behavior changes, you will need to be satisfied. 

It makes complete sense to talk about the financial stability of the company. Most likely that is going to have a big impact on your decision to accept or decline any offer. Remember that when interviewing, not only are they trying to judge your fit within the company, but you must also be judging the company's fit in your career. You must ask about anything that is important to you - culture, expectations, management style, opportunities, etc, etc. And for most people, the company's financial viability is critical. Do some research first. Often, you can search and learn why the company declared bankruptcy, how they are getting out of it, and at least some views on what the company will look like on the other side of bankruptcy. Then you can ask more questions about that during the interview. You might even seek out and discuss the company with former employees, if you can find some. You want to learn how this past bankruptcy affects the company's prospects and future. And most important you want to learn how this might impact you. I've not interviewed at companies that had declared bankruptcy, but I have interviewed at companies who had recent layoffs. I wanted to learn exactly what I was getting into and exactly what the expectations on me would be coming into a situation that had an unfortunate past. That let me make the right decision for myself.