As expected, areas with a humid climate, such as southern Texas and nearby areas, tend to have the warmest day of the year in August. The west coast is even more extreme, with some places having the warmest day in September. Conversely, desert areas in the southwest (southern Arizona, New Mexico, western Texas) have the warmest day of the year in June. For the Big Bend area in Texas, it's even in the first half of June, which must have entirely different reasons (probably related to dynamics) because a negative seasonal lag doesn't make much sense. There is a corresponding map for coldest day of the year: 

Roughly 5.5 km, although the exact value depends on the weather. All you need to do is to solve the hydrostatic equation and find the height at which the pressure is 50% of the height at sea level (or perhaps average elevation of Earth surface instead of sea level). Any answer actually performing the calculation deserves upvotes more than I do ;-) See, for example, Thickness of Earth's Atmosphere: 

In the Scandinavian mountains, there is a strong effect of orographic precipitation. The west receives far more precipitation than the east. This difference can be a factor 5 or more in some places. But when I observe the locations of glaciers, they seem to be mostly on the eastern side. An example can be found by studying the Norwegian topographic map near Narvik. Almost all the glaciers, on Rienatčohkka, Storsteinsfjellet, Ristačohkka, and others, are on the east side of the mountains, while the west side is mostly bare. If the precipitation is orographic, shouldn't it fall on the west side? Then why is the east side more glaciated? Is this a typical effect, or is there a strange situation locally? 

(Source: Skeptical Science) In the hypothetical extreme case of blocking all incoming solar radiation, the Earth would — initially — have a net heat loss of roughly 340 $W m^{-2}$. 93% of net radiation change on Earth enters the oceans. In the past 20 years, this has led to an increase in ocean heat content (OHC) of roughly $10^{23}$ J. With a 340 W m^{-2} heat loss, undoing that would take $10^{23} J / ((340 W/m^2) * .7 * 510 * 10^6 km^2$ which is roughly 10 days. Although this is a severe oversimplification, it does give us a first order of magnitude. It might be possible to run a climate model and switch off the Sun, just for fun. You don't need a heavy climate model to do so. PlaSim is good enough to get a handle on it. My guesstimate is that it would take a couple of months before mid-latitude oceans start to freeze. 

No, this is not enough. Relative humidity is defined as the water vapour partial pressure relative relative to the saturation water vapour pressure: $$ \phi = {{e_w} \over {{e^*}_w}} $$ where ${e^*}_w$ is the equilibrium vapour pressure (which may be relative to either liquid water, or to ice), and $e_w$ is the partial pressure of water. ${e^*}_w$ can be calculated using the Clausius-Clapeyron relation, but to get $e_w$ you need some information on the water content. This information may come in many forms: 

They compensate for DST. That is, for any daily measurement, they use the same universal time every day of the year. If they take a measurement at 7:00 local time in summer, they will take the same measurement at 6:00 in winter. (So if you do see a DST effect in the data, that would be due to traffic and other local anthropogenic effects shifting by an hour relative to the time of measurement! Perhaps due to urban heat island effect, or forcing by anthropogenic aerosols from traffic or industry.) 

The Basic ENVISAT Atmospheric Toolbox (BEAT) contains a component called the Common Data Access toolbox (CODA; also available on github). BEAT and CODA are written in C and have bindings for Python (as well as Matlab, IDL, and a few other languages). Among the long list of supported products is IASI L1C. Apparently, BEAT is going to be replaced by HARP (github page), but HARP reportedly does not yet support IASI L1C. BEAT, CODA, and HARP are all available under the GPL. Although the BEAT website reports Python bindings are only available for Python 2.7, I have successfully used CODA with Python 3.5 (I did not try BEAT as I do not currently need the higher-level functionality it offers). 

As others have pointed out, you cannot really touch it as such. What you can do, potentially, is to fly through it on a sub-orbital flight. It might be beautiful; indeed, aurora is from a large volume, so you would likely see it all around you. However, you will be bombarded with charged particles, because that's what the aurora borealis is — the solar wind impinging on the upper atmosphere. So, get some good shielding. Regrettably, in that case you won't see anything. Virgin Galactic/Spaceport Sweden were planning to fly tourists through the aurora (Swedish language page) in sub-orbital spaceflights. I think they reneged on those plans after talking to local space physicsts, but I'm not sure. If you can lay down the 200,000$ for a ticket, they might take you on a sub-orbital flight anyway. 

The water close to the deep ocean floor is called bottom water. It may be located in deep valleys or trenches. I understand that water flowing to the Arctic will sink there, because it's saltier and therefore heavier than the surrounding water. But once it sinks to the bottom, for example, inside trenches, what causes it to ever leave? As far as I know, there aren't any significant sources of heat down at the ocean floor, like there are at the bottom of the atmosphere, but we still seem to have a highly dynamic system. What causes this bottom water to mix again? 

So the type of cloud is indirectly relevant: different cloud types are associated with different particle sizes, are to a larger or smaller degree the consequence of convection, and are more or less likely to contain precipitation-sized particles. 

We don't really know. Climate models agree that the feedback is profound. Significant. Unfortunately, they do not agree about the magnitude of the feedback. Nor about the sign. The problem is that there are competing feedbacks. Clouds act similar to greenhouse gases, because they absorb and re-emit terrestrial radiation. But they also reflect solar radiation. These feedbacks compete, and both have a large uncertainty. The net effect is the difference between the two, and the difference between two quantities with a large uncertainty, has a very large uncertainty. This is a major topic of research and it has been a major source of uncertainty in global climate models for... decades. A major paper on the topic, a bit old but still mostly true, is: 

For example, see ERA-40 daily fields, which both 2 metre temperature and Skin temperature, or CFS reanalysis 6-hour fields, which has Air temperature, Skin temperature, and Surface air temperature, (I think surface air temperature means 2-metre temperature, but check their full documentation to be sure). It is not accurate to take the lowest temperature level in the temperature profile for either of the two, nor to interchange skin temperature with 2-m temperature. But, in some cases, the data distribution may be such that either or both of these are actually attached to the temperature profile. For example, the CFS hourly timeseries has the question: 

At the upper end of that range, all ice on Earth would melt. That would ultimately give roughly 70 metre sea level rise from melting ice alone, but it may take thousands of years before it reaches equilibrium. Add a bit to that to account for the thermal expansion of sea water. (I will expand this answer with sources etc. when I have a bit more time.) 

Humidity strongly varies as a function of time and space, which is why standard atmospheres like CIRA may choose to omit it at all. It simply doesn't make sense to include an “average” humidity profile, because such an average is not meaningful. However, there are other sources for relative humidity profiles. You can obtain them from reanalysis data. If you want probabilities, you could calculate them from reanalysis. I have not used probabilities, but I have used profiles from Anderson et al. (1986) in the past: Anderson, G. P., S. A. Clough, F. X. Kneizys, J. H. Chetwynd, and E. P. Shettle (1986), AFGL atmospheric constituent profiles (0–120 km), AFGL, TR-86-0110. Anderson transcribes them in his paper, which is in PDF and not ideal to read. The same data are distributed along with the Atmospheric Radiative Transfer Simulator (see also Wikipedia article). This radiative transfer model comes with a set of XML files, that includes profiles from both CIRA and from Anderson et al. Those are not probabilities but “typical” H₂O profiles for five scenarios: tropical, mid-latitude summer, mid-latitude winter, sub-arctic summer, and sub-arctic winter. For example, a mid-latitude summer H₂O profile can be found at this link. The data are in XML so should be easy to read, but they also provide reading routines for Matlab and Python. The unit is volume mixing ratio, which may actually be more suitable than relative humidity if you are interested in calculating air density. 

The butterfly is a colourful illustration of Chaos Theory, and the word butterfly came from the diagram of the state space (see below). A system that is chaotic is extremely sensitive on its initial value. In principle, if you know exactly how the state of the universe is now, you could calculate how it develops (but due to other reasons, it is theoretically impossible to know the state exactly — but that's not the main point here). The issue with a chaotic system is that a very small change in the initial state can cause a completely different outcome in the system (given enough time). So, suppose that we take the entire atmosphere and calculate the weather happening for the next 20 days; suppose for the moment that we actually do know every bit. Now, we repeat the calculation, but with one tiny tiny bit that is different; such as a butterfly flapping its wings. As the nature of a chaotic system is such that a very small change in the initial value can cause a very large change in the final state, the difference between these two initial systems may be that one gets a tornado, and the other doesn't. Is this to say that the butterfly flapping its wings results in a tornado? No, not really. It's just a matter of saying, but not really accurate. Many systems are chaotic: