Assuming we already have the kind of vessels that can move that many colonists and thier supplies around Its not a stretch to begin capturing ice-water comets and placing them in orbit around the moon. You can cut them up with automated robotic landers that ferry couple hundred kilo chunks of ice from orbit to the lunar surface. You have hundreds such drones making atleast one trip per day. If each chunk of ice was 300 kilograms thats about 100 gallons of water. You could be supplying 10,000 colonists per day with 3 gallons of water each with 100 landers making one trip per day. Frankly you could use only 10 300kg ice landers and just make more trips over a long time period to build up a good stockpile prior to habitation. In addition to this you have strict water rationing and recycling procedures in place. Obviously no system is 100% efficient but once the initial stockpile of water is in place you only need to monitor your loss rates and replace them requiring fewer ice-cracking drones making fewer trips. 

Things To Consider The same tech to build a star-ship capable of reaching another star with any sort of appreciable cargo and passenger capacity means you can live pretty much any environment habitable. I'll detail a basic outline of what such a ship would be like with our current understanding of physics and what we currently know to be possible. First, any star-ship traveling to another star is going to both be massive and designed to support a population for a very, very long time basically approaching indefinitely. It is going to have a massive power source, probably a very very large fusion reactor, or possibly use antimatter somehow. Next, it will need to be able to not only fabricate anything and everything the colonists will need from raw materials, but also be capable of self repair. Space isn't empty and at percentages of light speed dust particles and even atoms will be severely ablating your ship. This means its got to be huge, its got to be armored, and it has to have some way of repairing or replacing the massive armored prow. It has to also be capable of supporting life for vast periods of time, possibly tens of thousands of years BEFORE it is required to support the founding of a colony, which is itself a massive undertaking. With this tech (fully automated manufacture, fusion energy, long term ecology and life support etc etc) you don't NEED another planet. Build the same vessel minus the giant engines and you have an arcology structure that can support life right here on the not so "unihabitable" Earth. Build a ton of them and place them in orbit even. Build em on Mars, build em on Titan, build em anywhere its convenient to build really. The Earth has such a monumentally gargantuan amount of resources that you could build thousands of kilometers long orbital platforms a year until the sun burned out and still not run out of material to build them with. That's excluding all of the resources in our own solar system. The issue Isn't how much resources we have, its a matter of possessing the energy to harvest them. The biggest limiting factor to how much we can gather is only limited by the cost and amount of available energy to do so and the manpower needed. If you have mature fusion technology and automated factories (a prerequisite to build any sizable star ship under current physics) you now have basically unlimited access to resources at very very little cost. The same tech to build a ship that can reach another star and establish a practically sized colony means that pretty much anywhere you can get hydrogen and access to raw materials is now habitable. The amount of resources locked up in just our solar system are so huge that we could literally never leave our solar system until the sun dies and STILL have never harvested or used even 1% of them. If we were to seriously begin building orbital habitats and colonizing the asteroid belt and other planets our solar system could support trillions of people more or less indefinitely. In those terms why even bother leaving home? Perhaps in the spirit of exploration or possibly even just because we could. Point being, In current level understanding of science and physics we could exist indefinitely within our own solar system for as long as there is a sun at the middle of it. That isn't to say we wouldn't try colonizing another planet (and its moons, asteroids, and the rest of it's solar system). I'm just saying that its about another 5 billion years or so until we would even need to start thinking about doing so out of actual necessity. In an odd catch-22 The tech to leave our solar system renders the necessity of having to do so an obsolete notion. If we did have to it pretty much wouldn't matter where we went, so long as its got metals and hydrogen. 

Your male character could possibly face either being publicly flogged for associating with such a woman of ill repute, or be "ran out on a rail," possibly after being tarred and feathered. Contrary to popular belief, a tarring and feathering was not comical for the person receiving it, but rather a very painful scalding from hot tar. He could expect to be in a high level of discomfort for several weeks and possibly develop infections and disfiguring scars. 

HORRIBLE SIDE EFFECTS The magic users CAN do incredible feats, but have to pay a price of some sort for anything they do. Small stuff like lighting a candle with a hand gesture or making somebody have a head ache isn't really costly. Maybe they get a migraine once or twice a month or stomach cramps. Wanna knock down a castle wall or obliterate an opponent in a blast of ravening death? You run the risk of a grand-mal seizure or a heart attack. large magical tasks (like concealing a city) require many MANY individuals all contributing a safe to use tiny amount of power. A magic user's ability isn't measured by their actual power level so much as how efficiently they manage to utilize this power (instead of incinerating a charging enemy why not simply light his hat on fire then stab him when hes freaking out. Instead of knocking down the castle wall why not identify and loosen a single key stone so that a battering ram is more effective?) Using magic effectively and safely requires years and years of study and training and you run the risk of having severe health effects the longer and more often you use it. Heavy magic practitioners often die younger and sickly from myriad cumulative physical effects. 

You wouldnt be able to see through it, if you want ominous predators to be sighted circling the blood-raft you need them to break the surface. Blood is fairly reflective until it starts coagulating. 

In a supposed report regarding how rapidly changing technology could render current methods and weaponry obsolete (supposedly) authored by NASA (More on that later) I remember reading about "Programmable area denial nanite swarms." This weapon is basically a nanite swarm that is programmed to settle over a massive area (we're talking entire regions of countryside) and be capable of recognizing any human signature not equipped with the proper IFF signature to do a number of aggressive actions against the target. Several methods were discussed, one of which involved explosive nanites that can combine and detonate upon detecting a threat scaling the blast to the size of the target. Another was that the nanites could simply be highly abrasive "smart dust" that detects an intruder and fluffs itself from the soil into a dust cloud that could dig into lung tissue and kill the intruder. The report was later found to have been authored as a hoax to support a conspiracy theorist's blog but it still has some pretty good ideas for exotic super-weapons that seem to posses the properties that might be useful to your plot setting. The whole thing is interesting, even if it is a hoax. The particular stuff you want to see starts at page 40. $URL$ 

The soviets didn't posses nuclear weapons yet while the US did. Its unlikely that in the state Russia was in immediately following the end of the 2nd world war that they would have been able to cobble one together if a serious large scale attack was pressed. The biggest weakness the allies had was a war weary public. Imagine having huge victory celebrations only to tell all those troops their conscription dates had been extended indefinitely. Imagine all their families back home who only a few days prior had jubilantly thought their sons were coming home being told they were instead being thrown into a new meat grinder. Allied Morale would be utterly devastated, their only ace in the hole would be nuclear strikes, at which point the already demoralized public would undoubtedly begin drawing similarities between their leaders and the axis war criminals. Its pretty hard to call yourself a good guy and rally your troops and people's morale when you are vaporizing cities with horrific super-weapons. WW2 was sustained on the idea that it was a righteous cause. As soon as the allies launched a surprise attack against a former ally that had been instrumental in defeating their enemies The allied leaders would have lost their peoples trust and confidence. 

The Tech Already Exists The THOR system in use by US forces is a phone signal jammer to prevent cell phone and radio initiated IED detonations. Basically what it does is detect radio signals and identify the troughs and peaks of the frequency wavelength, it then modulates its output to produce a peak where the detected frequencies trough is, and a trough where the detected signals peak is, only at a LOT higher power output. To explain it with a metaphor, if you were trying to talk to somebody and I stood behind you repeating everything you said only slightly out of sync and at a full scream then you would be unable to speak to anybody. Basically the same concept, the cellular and radio devices are not able to identify and translate the frequency into anything useful through all the noise. They are quite small, the THOR pictured here is actually the last gen system, the new MJOLNIR system is about 1/3rd the size at the same power output. They have a line of sight limitation as walls and stuff stop them from working, but with no obstructions systems like this have an effective range of several hundred meters.