Free speech does not mean there are no consequences to speaking. It means the government won't prevent you from speaking. Your employer had been embarrassed in public and possibly by a political post they would not want associated with them, but now is. Whether you identified the company in your own post is irrelevant, they have been identified publicly. And companies hate negative publicity. They have to protect their own interests not yours. That is what they are doing by asking you to stop blogging. Now there are two aspects to this, the legal and the "now where do we go from here" question. The legal question should be taken up with a lawyer. That person can tell you whether you have a legal case against the company for asking you to stop or against the person who did the tweet for ruining your career at this particular place. That is out of scope for this site. You might want to check your personnel manual and your contract to see if there is any applicable guidance even if you choose not to talk to a lawyer though. Now apart from the legalities, you need to figure out how to work from now on. It sounds as if the company is basically giving you a choice between political blogging and your job. You have been given a direct order to stop blogging. You need to decide which is more important to you as clearly having both is not currently an option. Since HR was in the meeting where they told you to desist, I would suspect that filing a complaint about it with HR would just get you marked as a troublemaker and make adverse action more, not less, likely. Certainly they will not change their position just because you don't like it. I personally would not even attempt to bring this up to HR again without legal representation. You can pursue a legal recourse, but know too, before you do, that those are risky as well. If you choose to make a big deal about this, you are in essense choosing to end your career at this workplace. (You may succeed and not get fired, but you have to accept that there is a good chance you are ruining your career at this company by pursuing this.) Now the issue may be important enough to you that this is acceptable, just know in advance what you are risking. And should you choose to pursue it legally (and I don't honestly know if you have legal leg to stand on), I would suspect that it would still be in your own best interests to refrain from political blogging until this is settled since you were directly asked to do so. It might also be in your interests to look for other job opportunities in companies that will not mind your political blogging. Is any of this fair? No it isn't. You sometimes have to choose because all actions have consequences. If you can't accept the potential consequences, then don't do the action. 

Frankly it depends on the boss, his work process and the situation. It is especially useful in a situation where the boss has direct client contact that the employee does not have. If he has all the communications, he knows what has gone on before the client contacts him or he can research a client question during a meeting and look better for having the answer quickly. My current boss wants to be cc'd on everything not because he doesn't trust us but because he is often pulled into meetings with the client (and in our clase with the clients of the client) with no time to prepare and having a copy of everything makes it easier for him to respond on the fly. This actually allows him to bother us less while he is in a meeting. My previous boss only wanted anything we thought had potential to be escalated to higher ups. When I worked for a place where we were creating COTS (commercial-Off-The-Shelf) software, I only rarely had to copy my boss in communcations to other people. I have had other bosses that didn't want to get emails at all unless something urgent is happening right that minute. In an offshore operation, the boss has client meetings onshore that you as a dev do not have generally and probably wants the emails to be prepped in case any questions come up. I kow our offshore people tend to be much more hierarchial than the US people. It would be rare for me to get an email directly from the devs without his or her manager being copied. I would suspect the reason why the contacts are through emails is to have a paper trail for resolving disputes about what happened. This is often critical when you are in business where you contract to a client as Offshore dev often does becasue disputes can carry contractural penalties. 

Let's deal with a couple of things. If you told your employer now that you were leaving in two years for some specific reason (Say your husband is graduating then and you know a location change will happen), would they hire someone in the meantime to get knowledge transfer? The answer is generally no. No one wants to pay for two people to do the same job. If there is someone junior they might want to get up to speed who already works for the company, then maybe, but still unlikely. If you bring up this information now, what could you expect from them? If I know someone is committed to a career change (as seems to be your reason) then I would not assign them the best projects or give them the highest bonuses or payraises or any promotions that come along in the meantime. Better to give the rewards to someone who is not committed to leaving at this point in time. So to tell them now, you may not get many rewards in thr near term, but the company will likely still not get around to replacing you and doing knowledge transer until you actually leave. So exactly where is the benefit in doing this? The only time I have seen this play out well was if the person was enrolled in some kind of education that would result in them moving to a totally new field and they wanted to remain employed while they go to night school but have the responsibilities scaled back (and possibly be assigned to non-travel positions) because of the added burden of studying. In that case the reward is the scaling back and the associated lower payraises and bonusues and less interesting work are the price. If you want to do this feel free, but there is generally a price. If you need the time to get that law degree though, the price is trivial compared to the time you get. If you don't have something like this in mind, then you are better off not letting them know. If you do bring it up, don't think of it as giving notice, think of it as giving information about your plans. Plans change sometimes, so try to keep it more infomral than giving notice. And technically it isn't giving notice unless you have an actual date. If you feel there is a need to help the possible transition at some later date and you feel concern for how the copmany will be able to handle it, then rather than bringing it up this early, you might be wiser to start making sure what you do is documented and that it will be organized in such a way that it will be easier for someone to take over when you leave.