This is a proverb taken from the 'proverbs of hell' section in Blakes book of poetry & prose The Marriage of Hell & Heaven, and illustrated by himself. The title is a reference to the book Heaven & Hell by the Swedish scientist & Christian mystic Swedenborg. Blake held a theory of opposites which he explains as: 

It really hangs upon what you mean by existence. In the formalist position in the philosophy of mathematics a mathematical object is granted existence when it's definition & construction is shown to be consistent. Since the axiom of infinity is consistent with the other axioms of set theory it has been adopted. This is the smallest such axiom, there are other axioms of infinity with increasing larger cardinality. Another position on existence is that an ideal object must refer. This is the correspondance theory of truth/existence. The simplest infinite set is the set of all natural numbers. The set of all atoms in the universe is roughly 10^80, so we see that the set of all numbers can't refer. There is nothing physical that measures as infinity. A similar point was made by Feynman, the American physicist when some mathematical friends of his were discussing infinity. In this context though it was infinite divisibility that was being discussed. Physicists after all aren't in mathematics for mathematics sake (though it can look like this sometimes in more advanced texts) but in order to describe physical reality so this is a very natural view to take. I can't resist also pointing out that Aristotle thought that a completed infinity can't exist. This might seem a little odd in the modern theory of sets when we seem to have a completed infinity such as the set of all natural numbers. However as already pointed out there are other larger infinities, and there appears to be no end to them. 

He refers to Wallaces 'Survival of the fittest'; and by comparing Nature to Sparta (where it was the military virtues that was honoured) one understand that the society he is critiquing is a society that deifies the mind, that is reason over the body. One should note he doesn't think of Nature 'red in tooth and claw' since he also remarks Nature shelters - "offers at every step food and shelter to every species of animals" - and guides - "Men, dispersed among them observe and imitate their industry". 

This isn't an answer, because it's a difficult question; but there is some interesting qualifications which might posited as part of a genealogical perspective - in the sense that Foucault, and earlier Nietzsche make use of it - on the question that might throw further light on it. I recall reading it was a Belgian priest Lemaitre that posited the Big Bang ie the Comic Egg in the 1920s; a notion that's also prevalent in other cosmologies; but he also called it the primeval atom - which suggestively links it up to Parmenides notion of the One; an interesting question would be what influence Hegels History of Philosophy had here - as this makes it remarkably similar. When Einstein came up with GR, the notion of an eternal universe was the prevailing opinion which is why he chose a static spacetime; it was Hubbles evidence that the universe was expanding - to be more specific every star was moving away from every other star that helped tip the balance towards the Big Bang theory. It was apparently because that this notion was so reminiscent of the creative act in Genesis 'Let there be light' that motivated Hoyle to modify the notion of the Steady State universe to take into account Hubbles evidence; but accumulating theoretical and observational evidence pushed mainstream opinion decisively towards the Big Bang. However it's also important to notice, I think, that this notion has a certain affinity with the notion of the multiverse - for example in Smolins version - in the older theory new matter is continuously created; in the newer theory, new universes are. 

To genuinely see how Kants ethics apply to the particular situation that you mention, one has to universalise the example. That is it should not be tied down to the particular identity of the person. It should apply to all. When this is done and it does not result in a logical contradiction or a negation then one can rationally and justifiably follow the maxim for this situation. So instead of just one man confronted with an axeman intent on murdering his children, one should consider all men confronted with such an axeman. If the men do not lie, all the children of men will be murdered. This is a negation as then mankind dies out. So one should not follow this maxim here. Lying in a particular situation should not be confused with lying generally. When lying generally is universalised the, same reasoning as above shows that it negates itself as no meaning can be carried by language. This is at the root of the confusion that your examples are hinting at. In his second formulation he states that such a rational action must set before it not only a principle but also an end - that is an aim. The action must have intentionality. From this Kant deduces a general maxim: A person must always be an end and never a means (otherwise this would contradict the principle above). Again, this disallows lying. To allow the axeman his intent denies the humanity of his children, he is not treating them as ends in themselves but merely as means to satisfy the axeman whimsical murderous intent. Finally, in his third formulation, Kant introduces his Kingdom of Ends in which all people should consider themselves both means and ends. 

QM is already 'undecidable'; the measurement of state collapses it into an eigenstate; this collapse is usually described as indeterministic, that is one can't determine or decide what the eigenstate will be given knowledge of the state and the measurement to be made. This is usually considered part of the Copenhagen Interpretation - the mainstream interpretation of QM - where an (macroscopic and conscious) observor observes a measurement; but also in relational QM, which democratises observers by considering all subsystems to be capable of observations aka measurements (not though, in MWI which trades this for an always endlessly multiplying uncountable number of worlds, everywhere and almost all at once). Philosophically, then it is opposed to at least to the classical notion of determinism of nature - the clockwork universe or the mechanistic philosophy of the 18th C; by making indeterminism a wholly integral part of nature. It's worth now pointing out, that given other interpretations like MWI, or Bohmian Mechanics that try to do away with indeterminism in this fashion, are forced to admit it in through situations explored in the OPs question; there, all interpretations are forced to admit indeterminism Also, too; that Aristotles later analysis of the concept of motion - provoked by Zeno - requires an ontology that is structured by potentialities and actualities. Which might beg the question, why do away with it first to return to a classical conception of physical ontology? 

There are various notions of chaos, in myth, science and philosophy: Nietzsche in the Gay Science wrote: 

The canonical formula is discussed in detail and in practise in a volume of essays of ethnography by Maranda, The Double Twist; this includes an essay by Levi-Strauss on 'Hour-glass configurations' on Melanesian cosmography (Yeats gyre comes to mind here). 

According to Plato the Greeks inherited wisdom from the Egyptians; as he was a prominent early philosopher it might be worth taking this into account. There again, perhaps as early as then, there was such a thing as Greek or Hellenic chauvinism, and perhaps he was simply his riposte to philosophy couched in chauvinistic terms and not in universal terms. 

An interesting notion of points is made in category theory, here the point is any terminal object * (all these points are isomorphic so you can take any), then given any object A, then a map * -> A gives us a point in this object. This is interesting because it leads to the notion of points of different shapes and kinds. 

Kuhns book The Structure of scientific revolution is based on Hegels philosophy of history and uses, as Hegel did, the dialectic as the motor of history. What Kuhn terms paradigm shifts, in Hegelian terms is sublation, the standard translation of aufheben. To give an an example of this method, which is one that Kuhn uses - the relationship between Newtonian Physics and that of Einsteins. In Popperian terms one says that Einsteinian physics falsifies Newtonian Physics; and this falsification is understood to be that of observable experiment; that is there is an experiment, the standard one here being the Michaelson-Morley experiment, that falsifies a prediction of the Newtonian theory. In conventional physical discourse, typically, the notion of limit or convergence is used; and this just follows by simple reflection; Newtonian physics cannot be falsified in all its aspects, it retains a region of validity, and a newer theory must find that as a limit in that region of validity. In Kuhns theory using Hegelian terms, the thesis is Newtonian physics, the anti-thesis is the constancy of light & its sublated into a synthesis that is Einsteinian Physics. One notes here that the synthesis retains concepts from both theses - for example the fundamental notions of mass and energy as well as many derived notions - moment of inertia etc but they are significantly modified by the presence of the anti-thesis. Question: Is Kuhns theory Marxist or Hegelian? To clarify, Hegels use of the dialectic operates in the realm of ideas; whereas Marx, who claimed he turned Hegel 'upside down' placed the dialectic in the realm of matter: here this would be the use of physical experiment. Certainly, in a typical theory introduction to mechanics it is the internal contradiction between two theories - Maxwells & Newtons that is resolved. But this method doesn't, I think, reflect the historical or logical reality but the theoretically efficient. 

He then quotes from this work, prefacing it with the comment he is 'speaking in intellectual tongues' 

In (biological) evolutionary theory, there are various theories about how altruism evolved via the 'selfish' behaviour of genes. There are analogical ideas on the economic & ethical spheres. Where altruism is derived as a consequence of selfish drives (Hobbes). Are there philosophers who've tried an opposite tack, where selfish behaviour has been derived from altruism? 

However including such a field in the usual idea of a field spoils other properties that are important; so it's best excluded by stipulating 1 & 0 are distinct; and this is why that stipulation is there; hence this isn't the object that one looks for when is looking for this field of a single element. So here we have an object, which is precisely named as the field of one element; and whose theory is named as absolute geometry; whose possible properties are well-defined, but no object *at first * is there...it must be found, invented, or discovered. 

It's unlikely that were we to invent an AI that it will work in the same way as our own minds do; given that we've already invented modes of locomotion ie cars, trains and planes which are better in many ways (but not all) than walking. The kind of intelligence that is aimed at in AI is to imitate the ordinary cognition of an averagely intelligent human being who is hardly aware of what he's doing is a sign of intelligence ie recognising a broken window, or a that a bird that he saw darting into his back garden is one that he saw drawn and named in an encyclopaedia he was leafed through. The practical utility of such an AI would be enormous in terms of the administration of information, in the same way - but different - that a search engine is; but would we, once we have got used to the novelty of it, call it intelligence? After all, I find google very useful - but I've never, even for a moment thought of it as intelligence - even of the most rudimentary kind; in the same way, I don't mistake a car with four wheels to be an animal with four legs. The degree of imitation that is required of an AI before we become confused as to whether it is an imitation or a genuine human intelligence is the crux of Turings imitation game. Imitation of intelligence doesn't show actual and genuine self-awareness, a degree of real inner life; on that level it straight away fails a test of sentience ie consciousness. Further, imitation without understanding, in our ordinary day to day living, is hardly ever thought of as intelligence; the same test, surely should be applied to AI - if we are to account it as actually intelligent, rather than imitatively so. But this presumably misses a large aspect of AI research; that imitating the cognitive capacities of ordinary human cognition about the world around us will prove massively useful in many different ways. 

We can say at least one is objective, and 'permanent'; the other subjective and temporary. The concept 'real' usually has the attribute or property permanent attached, which allies it with objective (call it the Parmenidian sense - changeless); but we can also attach it to the subjective (call it the Heraclitean sense - changeful). 

But abjuring such impossible & fantastic flights ego-fantasy we return to the image of the wayfarer - weary and stoic - having climbed so far - he has endured hardship, silence & solitude; and having endured becomes indifferent. He is the figure of the ascetic enduring privation, and the figure of the mystic practising austerities and able to consider a calm contemplation the gap that separates himself from the world - the sublime abyss - and yet able to imagine himself into the world, and the world inside of himself. This is the proper sense of freedom; a freedom that knows its place. Or: 

China has a long civilisation history as a regional hegemon, administered by an imperial bureaucracy; though occasionally wracked by periodic turmoil - sometimes lasting decades. Given this, one might suppose its lengthy dissolution through the 20C and it's recent reassertion is no more than one of its periodic purging of its state administrative apparatus and then it's slow reconstruction - though to outside eyes, rapid. 

In his third Critique on Judgement, Kant builds on top of this picture of how we experience; for moral and aesthetic to supervene on the qualia, or forms of our experience. So, for example the colour red is associated with passion and danger; and it's their articulate feeling and expression for these forms that artists can do what it is they do. And what goes for redness, goes also for a picture, or a film or a piece of music. In Kants theory of mind, qualia or impure concepts of the understanding exist. 

Good question, and one I wish I had the wit to ask before looking at the Groundwork. I found this collection of four essays useful in interpreting the text, locating it historically in the tradition and offering a defence; it includes a translation of the text; which does means though altogether it comes in over 200 pages. The SEP entry on the Kants Moral Theory despite the title exclusively concentrates on the Groundwork; and is very clear, particularly on the various formulations of CI, and unravelling it in terms of Perfect and Imperfect duties in a five step 'decision procedure' 

Various surveys I've looked at relevance logic mention Ackermanns admissibility of gamma rule. I've not come across the term in logic before, what is it, how is it used and is it also important outside of relvance logic? 

There are an infinite number of topologies on the real line; so if you think that the line should be considered together with its topology then one already has an infinite number of possibilities. This is a question that has been posed by Zeno, Aristotle and more lately by Weyl. A different way of looking at this question is through Category Theory; for example Synthetic Differential Geometry takes as an axiom that there is a number d such that it's square vanishes; this axiomatises a notion in the traditional calculus of Newton (his fluxions) where one merely ignores these quantities in a limiting operation (a notion understood by Aristotle by the way); it turns that this model of the real line has no points in Set; and all the functions on it is smooth. (Algebraically, they're also known as the system of dual numbers; and are actually used in physics as super-symmetry where they model bosons and fermions together, for example in the super-space formalism). 

That men are ranked or differentiated in society shouldn't be taken as something novel: Plato mentions it in the Republic, the metaphor of a city as different parts of functions of a soul; and it is in the Rig Veda. Christianity flings sinners into hell in the jaws of devils and allows saints to float to heaven on the wings of angels; and the Quran says 'souls are ranked'. Nietzsche wants a revaluation of morals - a revolution; but he's warning that he isn't calling for individualism - a kind of moral and egoistic atomism; or in the essay quoted ethical egoism. 

Another tack would be to take a fictionalised representation of what justice may or may not mean; for example William Goldings Lord of the Flies or Harper Lees To Kill a Mocking Bird and ask this question to the events described there. 

First off, I think we need to understand what is meant by a proposition, how it differs from a fact, which differs from a thing and what it means to bear truth, and what is truth. Wittgenstein in the opening section of the Tractatus says that: