Logic by creation is not something magical -- it is a cleverly made (long time ago, that is why cleverly) SCANNING tool. This mental method allows us to SCAN huge variety of rather simple everyday(everyscience) life examples and problems. Because it is a SCANNING tool it needs information which is carefully prepared for it. It can not operate on chaos, same way as you can not run browser if you did not boot up your OS. PROBLEMS start if you don't see what logic is and begin to misuse it. This what happens with your original question of interest. Prove by contradiction was designed for VERY well prepared sets of information where the total combinations can be clearly seen and exclude each other. Logic is not the method to think. It is method to analyze data. If you have no data or poor data there is nothing to use logic for. Thinking happens when you prepare your mental/emotional data. 

They are not the sheep they are somewhat high and sleeping. BUT. In this sleep they can awake you and others. What you should understand is that they are HERE for YOU! And only you. We all are here for each other. 

To be clear - real science is always obscure, what you see on the surface is popcorn. Mediocracy. Fueled by the economy's desire for innovation and human thirst for domination using technology. Real scientists nowadays are no more than in ancient times. This number is constant due to sociological/mental/spiritual reasons. 1 NO. It does not take more efforts to produce good results. Do you know how many years it took Einstein or Newton to develop their theories? Their clean brain effort time is HUGE. Today, everybody who would have awareness and concentration to do similar mental efforts will be equally rewarded. 2 Consensus is NOT obsolete and never will be. Moreover consensus happens not just in space but also across time and generations. Simply because the one's who search now respect and learn from the one's who searched before them. In mediocre bureaucratic science consensus also finds place as a common helplessness and absence of creativity. 3 Scientific knowledge is never fragmented, if you think its fragmented you don't posses it. What you call fragmented are scientific applications which were always numerous. Even in times of Newton. Scientific applications do not bear scientific knowledge. Last but not least science always dealt with huge amount of facts - that's how it was created in the first place. What "science" never dealt with is so big amount of 'scientists'. 

Don't you see that what you described in your naive and fascinated way is already answer to your question? Your mental search and failure to find Is already a manifestation of something bigger than you. That fascinating and magnificent thing/things going ON in your head while you write to us, do you see them as infinite and powerful manifestations of Gods? Your imagination. You will not call it infinite? Don't you see that finite is just another side of infinite? (think continuity) tHink more 

Creation out of nothing is possible. There is no need paradoxing about what NOTHING is. It is matter of another valid question. Creation out of nothing (in common sense) is everyday thing. Moreover creation out of nothing is much more important (transcendentally speaking) than "creation" out of "something", which is mere metamorphosis or permutation. Big bang theory is a joke, i use it as a test of iq. Very good test BTW. Laws of conservation and causality definitely do not apply to whole universe (otherwise it is just part of the real universe). Which means that there is no problem for the whole universe to be either finite or infinite, or open or closed, eternal or mortal. Which one (do) you prefer? Most important, you should present argument WHY this unknown properties of the universe are relevant? What does it change ? 

You have good question. But you are mixing up. Mind is not in the present. Present is in the mind/spirit. Mind/spirit exists always and he had chosen to experience this life like this. Surely there are other variants/possibilities. Seems this one is the easiest. For starter. 

In reality it is very hard to set up limits. In anything. It is hard to set up limits YES, but it is even harder to follow them. Usually it is good to brake limits (probably always). Because you will discover what lies beyond them and more. Now you maybe exceeded desired limit of interaction with this kind person but you got something VERY important out of it - it MADE you think. Made you reason about limits of this type of communication. Out of something possibly very mundane you arrived at very global and serious question. Generous side also did not lose anything. Perhaps the kind person lacks the ability to say - "Sorry I am busy at the moment, good luck in your findings". And this is also something very important -- active understanding when to stop and when to start. Your overwhelming queries could helped him to start thinking about his own communication/thinking habits. OR! It could pushed him to write a better notes and formulate ideas more clearly. Potentially you both benefited a lot from this situation. I think globally there is no such thing as too much help, because too much help makes receiver weaker (like lion in a zoo) and receiver himself will break helping mode. 

Absolutely one hundred percent yes. We all have innate geometry (a priori, from start). In fact, question goes even deeper... there are no other known geometries - since all of them infinitesimally similar to ours (Euclidean). Other geometries is a myth, simply a mathematical construction. They exist only inside Euclidean and thus are not NEW geometries. For example - any construction which leads to description of Non-Euclidean geometry is intrinsically euclidean and even done in Euclidean space. You are dissecting too much. Everything what we see is innate to us. There is nothing outside (at least until we are ready to face outside). There was philosopher who developed this topic well -- Jung or Hume, don't remember. If we can have reaction on something (what people call experience) it means that inside of us there is already a "detector" which knows that such a process is possible. This basically means that everything is a priori.