There are a number of studies which conclude there is a positive benefits to wearing a face mask. I would suggest from the information out there and from the above information that face masks could provide some benefit (reduced risk), however this would depend on the environment. A high amount of particles can be trapped or flow through the mask and if the wearer is in an environment where they are touching the same surfaces or breathing the same air for an extended period of time then the benefit could be negligible. 

What also worth noting and can be accessed from information in the same link; for the same period the rate of incidence (incidence per 100,000 skin cancer in CA) for men is much larger than women: 

I was actually reading about this the other day as Boing Boing provided this excellent link to Scarleteen. It is an interview with Hanne Blank the author of Virgin: The Untouched History. 

Yes, this is entirely possible. Loctite's Technical data sheet states lists the following data points: 

This morning I received a phone call from an unknown caller. I punched the number in Google to see if any hits came up. Unfortunately all I got was the long list of services that show up promising to give you more details on who owns the number if you pay for their service. For example; $URL$ If I were to pay money and sign up for this (or any other reverse phone look up service), would I actually get the name/address/details of the person who owns that number, or would it be a waste of money? If it does work, how do they get that information (e.g. how would they know my cell phone number belongs to me, if I've never publicly listed that information)? 

This paper I think goes into enough detail and looks at the possibility to train cats in groups which could be used to herd cats. 

Now how influential is the porn industry and is it big enough to have influenced the choice of VHS over BETA? Wikipedia quotes this book as saying: 

This study is quite thorough and detailed and I think the study itself and the conclusion is typical of the results you are likely to find: music means different things to different people and people relate to it in different ways - good luck in trying to put something so subjective down on paper! There is this study from 2005, which was only on approx. 50 software developers: 

Is it true if an egg is thrown at your windscreen and you use the wipers + water then you will lose enough visibility that you would need to pull off the road? 

So using grit blasted steel, they can achieve a bond strength of 1.25 - 1.75 tons per square inch of super glue. To provide confirmation from an outside source, The MythBusters have shown that just with one drop of superglue, they could lift over 600 pounds. Its unclear from the preview video how long they allowed the material to cure, but seemingly it wasn't long. It's possible the setup could have been improved to achieve even greater results, but even given the setup they had, it would take just about 8 square inches (drops?) of glue to hold 2.5 tons. 

I understand that cyanocrylates (super glues) have come a long way. I understand that they are used in cars and airplanes today and can create an incredibly strong bond. That said, I have a hard time believing that a few drops of commercial off the shelf super glue can be used to hold several TONS of weight. Loctite created this commercial advertising their superglue doing just that. Supposedly with just 8 drops of glue, they were able to hold over 2.5 tons of weight. Gorilla did a very similar advertisement. Is this really possible or is there some trick at work here? 

I've read in a few places including in comments in a recent article that Man vs. Wild is staged and he has every necessity covered. Is Man vs. Wild staged or is Bear Grylls actually in dangerous situations when we see him hanging from rocks above rapids etc.? Example comment: 

What Parkes was aiming to do (according to Rev. Nile) was to prohibit denominational teaching as being intermingled with the secular teaching and should be taught within a dedicated period of one hour per day. 

When I was in high school there was a story about a man who won millions of dollars playing keno. The amount of money and the location appear to be true based upon this wikipedia article: 

For the second option we don't have enough evidence, we only have her anecdotal story. There is no lab test that can be done to confirm Parkinson's source 1, source 2. Based on the information presented, unless the Vatican has access to technology the rest of the world doesn't, the Vatican would have to decide based on testimony of those around the Sister. So you are left with three choices: believe that she was cured based on testimony (because there is no other way of finding out post-event), assume that it was a misunderstanding or decide that it is all a lie. 

You're right to be suspicious. While there are obviously studies of "body language", it's impossible to judge accurately from one photograph, or even a short video, how someone is genuinely feeling. Especially to the degree that you describe: Is a person genuinely having a good time, or are they posing for the cameras? Even if that person wasn't having a good time, it's impossible to say why, without asking them. Think of it as someone taking a photograph of your face in mid conversation. You may look serious as you listen to what someone is saying. You may laugh if they say something funny. But could anyone really accurately state what your feelings were about the situation? In short: It's impossible to say with certainty what someone is feeling by their body language. Reference: The Truth Behind the Smile and Other Myths - When Body Language Lies, Harvard, 2002