But then again, the report also shows that these queries are only using a small percentage of the Data IO usage on the server (< 4%). I also run statistics updates (and index rebuilds) on the entire database on a weekly basis as part of its regular maintenance. Here is another report that shows MAX data IO queries for a timespan that covers several hours only during the high-resource-usage incident. 

If you care, full source for this database can be found on GitHub here. Sources from the query above: 

Looking at these long running quires seems to point to statistics updates. Not really anything running from my application. For example, query 16302 there shows: 

As we can see, query 3780 is responsible for nearly all of the CPU usage on the server. This somewhat makes sense, since query 3780 (see below) is basically the entire crux of the application and is called by users quite often. It is also a rather complex query with many joins necessary to get the proper dataset needed. The query comes from a sproc that ends up looking like this: 

Download full execution plan here: $URL$ I feel like I can get better CPU performance out of this query, but I am at a stage where I am not sure how to proceed on tuning the execution plan any further. What other optimizations could be had to decrease CPU load? What operations in the execution plan are the worst offenders of CPU usage? 

As we can see, not really any queries reporting significant data IO usage. I have also ran and on the database and do not really see anything jumping out at me (though I will admit I am not an expert with these tools). How do I figure out what is going on here? I don't think any of my application queries are to blame for this resource usage and I get the feeling that there is some internal process running in the background on the server that is killing it. 

I have an Azure SQL Database that powers a .NET Core API app. Browsing the performance overview reports in the Azure Portal suggests that the majority of the load (DTU usage) on my database server is coming from CPU, and one query specifically: 

I've spent some time on this query over the months tuning the execution plan as best I know how, ending up with it's current state. Queries with this execution plan are fast across millions of rows (< 1 sec), but as noted above, are eating up server CPU more and more as the application grows in size. I have attached the actual query plan below (not sure of any other way to share that here on stack exchange), which shows an execution of the sproc in production against a returned dataset of ~400 results. Some points I am looking for clarification on: 

Queries against the server from the application still seem to be operating quickly during this overloaded state. I can scale the server from S2 => anything (S3 for example) => S2 and it seems to clear out whatever state it is hung in. But then a few hours later it will again repeat the same overloaded state cycle. Another weird thing I've noticed is that if I run this server on an S3 plan (100 DTU) 24/7 I have not observed this behavior. It only seems to occur when I have downscaled the database to an S2 plan (50 DTU). On the S3 plan I am always sitting at 5-10% DTU usage. Obviously underutilized. I've checked into Azure SQL query reports looking for rouge queries, but I don't really see anything unusual and it shows my queries using resources as I would expect. 

I am running an Azure SQL database under the S2 edition (50 DTUs). Normal use of the server usually hangs around 10% DTU. This server gets into a state where it will send DTU usage of the database to 85-90% for hours. Then all of a sudden it goes back down to the normal 10% usage. 

I am working on a project that combine multiple MySQL ports under the same port; each port has a shared databases with names (database name and tables), so I though of the following idea. if I created user1, user2, and user3, on the new machine and separate all user databases by adding prefix () to the database name `. example: port (3306) one is located under machine 1.1.1.1, if I use the following command I will get the following result: 

I am using oracle 11g R2 on and created a lot of databases. At that time there was no problem. But currently I am seeing that in (Database Configuration Assistant) application some options are disabled as follows:- 1 Create a Database - ENABLED 2 Configure Database Options - DISABLED 3 Delete a Database - DISABLED 4 Manage Templates - ENABLED I don't understand why this happening but in starting all the options were enabled. EDIT : file content, inside ** 

using then usually will save all unsaved changes to the logs and drop old ones. there is a workaround for it: 

To solve the error message you can use one of the possible solutions: 1) Increase MaxNoOfConcurrentTransactions even more until it works (note it take more resources (RAM)) 2) Select the data from innodb into an outfile and load infile into cluster (will be faster than 2). Note: you faced this error message since there is not enough resource on Dedicated for the cluster evnironment. 

If enabled, checksums will be calculated for each data page. you can read more about check some in the following site: $URL$ or the following website also tell about checksum $URL$ Use checksums on data pages to help detect corruption by the I/O system that would otherwise be silent. Enabling checksums may incur a noticeable performance penalty. This option can only be set during initialization, and cannot be changed later. If set, checksums are calculated for all objects, in all databases. 

:This option is useful for dumping large tables. It forces to retrieve rows for a table from the server a row at a time rather than retrieving the entire row set and buffering it in memory before writing it out : This option sets the transaction isolation mode to REPEATABLE READ and sends a START TRANSACTION statement to the server before dumping data. It is useful only with transactional tables such as , because then it dumps the consistent state of the database at the time when START TRANSACTION was issued without blocking any applications. : option stops tables (if they exsit) being locked during the backup. 

if the datafile is completely empty, then you have one of the two option: 1) reboot the database ( sometime it help) 2) move all the data from one to another one, then drop the and rename the new one 

OEM is a web-based application so the language is determined by the default on web browser like Internet Explorer, make sure to change it to English (note you may see Internet Explorer menu in English but the default language (localization is not)) it can be change from internet option. give it a try 

ODBC user is the default username under windows even if you didn't create that user at setup time then it will show you this error message. 

I had this problem before, and after long investigation I found out sometimes MySQL can not resolve any issue related to by default, so I did the following: edited hosts file ( can be found under Linux , for Windows ) and added ip and for the client machine,in your example its 

Note for host if you have doming then , else it should be Now save the file and close it. After that lets move to , take a backup from it and edit it like the following: