If I were a boss/team leader and something came up out of our control that is going to negatively affect someone on my team, I'd like to know about it. Making a judgement about the claim or you isn't going to change the situation. Only an idiot pokes someone in the eye and dismisses the person's level of discomfort based on how their finger feels. So the question is, what do you want them to do about it? They can either not move or let you work someone else. Ultimately, it could mean you find another job. Length of commute is a factor for many jobs. Is there a rush hour factor where they could let you come in sooner and leave earlier or visa versa? You could say if I knew the job was this far away for me, I would have asked for more money because I could get the same job much closer. This really depends on your relationship with your boss, his management style and company policy. I've had managers where I never would mention something like this because they'd get angry and hold it against me. Others I wouldn't think twice about it. Saying you're unhappy with this situation is a start, but be prepared to offer or be open to possible solutions. 

You have to decide if the company is being disingenuous about wanting people to love the work by failing to do the things to make it easier: salary, benefits, working conditions, treat by management, allowing for creativity, giving control, allow employees to have a voice, etc. You can still love the job, but leave in order to address some higher-level needs like supporting yourself and your family along with some level of future financial security. You may also find that you love the work, but not the company. It wouldn't be wise to tell your employers that, "I want a company that loves their employees." during a salary negotiation. Let them know you love your job. Get that out of the way. Don't make it part of the negotiation. Asking for more money is not an indication you don't like the job. Have evidence that demonstrates your work brings in revenue that you deserve a share of. If the offer is still too low, you can temporarily accept it and go look for a better paying job that is hopefully as enjoyable to work at. 

I think your premise is that for each position available, there is only one recruiter trying to fill it. If they had an exclusive account, you would be correct in that their interest in the candicates is spread over several of them, so you may think they're more interested in servicing the client that is paying them. This doesn't give an accurate depiction of the process nor the industry. Often multiple recruiters are trying to fill the same position. You may not be the only recommendation a given recruiter makes, so it is in their interest that you are the candidate that is most likely to get hired. I've worked with a few and the good ones go out of their way to make sure you are prepared for the interview. If you look bad, it makes them look bad even if someone else gets hired. If I used a recruiter to help fill a position, I would be very suspect if they brought in only one acceptable candidate and the others were completely unfit. Anyone would prefer to pull from a larger set of quality candidates. 

DO NOT GET RID OF THE CODING TEST!!!! If you want to be a programmer you have to write code that does something. Answering trivia questions is not that important. Chatting about past experiences is good, but it is in no way a substitute for being able to code. Do what it takes to attract people to want to take the test and get this job. Make it shorter or pay them. Bring them in on a weekend so everyone has time to observe this person in action. This is really contingent on having people who can interpret the results of the tests/observations. You may want to hire a third party to do this screening if you don't know how to do it. Just getting the answer right, is only half the battle. Developers need Googling skills, but there is much more to it. If one programmer can do the test faster, that is a plus. Depending on your project, you may prefer fluency in a language, so the dev can start working efficiently right away. On the other hand, you could suffer in the long run when you opted for the less skilled programmer who is going to get stuck with a key feature of your app or they build such a poor structure, it's difficult to alter and maintain. You may have been better off with a good programmer who is willing to adapt and learn the language needed. There are many devs who will absolutely run away from certain stacks, frameworks, languages, tools and operating systems. Developers are critical positions that are very expensive to fill. I understand your concern over chasing too many good ones away, but you only need one. Don't skimp. 

The bad news. You're not as useful to the next company as you current company right away. You may have to be realistic about taking a pay cut. Experienced people on a specific job just know more about the way things work and they're not always the same when you go to the next company. You don't even know where the toilets are let along how to trouble-shoot existing systems of any complexity. Just make sure you show how you can get up-to-speed and be a better asset in the long-run. 

Put the amount of time you've been working for this company in the context of being a startup. All the time frames are compressed. You hoped after your trial period (whether there was a formal one or not), the company would be in a better financial position and they are not. No one expects you to go into any details about how the other company is doing or whether or not your compensation has anything to do with it. It would be no different if they were paying you a competitive salary, but went out of business next week. They're risky and you no longer want to take the risk. That's the nature of startups and I think employers look at those experiences differently. Now, if you were at Apple for a few months and wanted to leave, that would be very different. 

If I worked with a company of 10 people and 3 were unproductive, but you did nothing about it, I would have low morale and disrespect for you. The worse part is, one of them is the highest paid person. That's insulting. Although firing people can be bad for morale and cam make others fearful of losing their jobs, you can't let people think they don't have to do their job to a certain level and stay employed. Start setting standards. Get the teams involved in having some input to the creation of these standards. You may find some people would like your high standards, but it is frustrating if they think they have to pick up the slack of the unproductive people you do nothing about. Establish some type of peer-review on work, so you're not seen as the bad guy all the time. 10 people can be a lot for one person to manage, make one of them a manager. Reward people who contribute to producing the things that make money. Either you have an environment where good work is rewarded or you don't. If you don't, it is up to you to change it. Stop worrying about being liked. This doesn't mean you have to be rude either. In your case, this is part of the problem. If people don't like your corrections, ask them how they would like you to handle it, but under no circumstances with poor quality work be allowed. Maybe they want you to criticize in private? Some people may end up leaving anyway. If they're not contributing, you should fire them. Morale may not improve, but you may start getting more work done. 

If you're required to work more hours, you should ask for more money. You may find yourself out of a job if there isn't enough for you to do or they have other people who can. Can you work something out, so that there is an agreed upon limit to how long you'll need to do this. Sometimes it's easier to fight through something you don't like when you know there is an end in sight. 

Obviously, this person did not take this job to get out of the rain. Apparently he can afford to be elsewhere. You have to put consequences to this behavior. Not getting your work done and disrupting others from doing their's is grounds for dismissal. Formally document some of these problems and present it to this person. Workout some sort of acceptable goal. If he fails to meet expectations he needs to go. You may be surprised to find that this person may to what it takes to keep his job. As of now, he doesn't have to do anything. You've given him free money and should consider yourself to be the problem. There are probably others that are partially guilty of this as well (Or does he gossip to himself?). 

Assume your boss is busy and many more things that are higher in priority than your request. Just say, "I know you're busy, but I wanted to follow-up on my previous request..." You know you have to ask again, so this shouldn't be a surprise. The amount of time he indicated it would take has expired, so you're not being pushy or unreasonable in your inquiry on the status of the request. Most good bosses understand their limitations and let people know that unless they make follow-up requests, it could fall behind/get forgotten. Have a conversation with your boss and find out how he wants you to proceed. He may want you to remind him a few days before he said it would be done; otherwise, it is guaranteed to get delayed. 

Let's focus on the wanting to stay part. Why haven't you asked for a raise before looking for another job? 

I don't know why you can't give any notice. Any company that wants to hire you and expects/forces you not to give notice isn't very "heavenly" IMHO. They're encouraging you to be unprofessional. If this job is as bad as you say, I don't the boss will take any of your criticisms constructively, so there's really no reason to bother. if asked, just give some of the reasons why the other job is more preferable to you. You don't have to make it seem like this job is bad; it's just not as good as the other one. Even if it is a typical 2-weeks (USA) notice, you've only been there a few months and can't be too deep into any project. They'll be about a quarter of the year behind. If they're that concerned about this project, they should push to either find out why you want to leave and possibly try to keep you. Otherwise, it's just business. They can hire someone else. 

Not sure you have any legal grounds here nor would I be qualified to tell you either way. You could use this as an opportunity to ask to work remotely (some or full time). Even if companies don't do this normally, you could be a good test. Sometimes it is the risk of losing a current employee that makes them consider this option. I've done this several times when I relocated away from the company. If you've been there for a few years and are considered a key employee, your odds are better. Otherwise, I think you should look for another job and suck up the commute in the mean time. I don't think you should quit. 

Are you worried about the financial viability of this company? Are there things we could be doing or doing more of, to improve revenue? Do you want to do it? 

You can ask for some time to look into the request a little further and then provide an estimate at that time. It could take a few hours, days, weeks. Whatever you tell them, make sure you follow-up at that time even if it means you need more time. Otherwise, they'll just think you've dropped the ball. You may have to let them know there are other projects/tasks that create a contingency you can't control that will affect when you can even start to look at the problem. I've had car mechanics, plumbers, home builders, etc. let me know that they need to assess the situation and come up with a solution. Once you have a solution, estimating is easier. It's important to remember what an estimate is- a guess in many cases. Too often, people feel pressured and make the mistake of over-promising. Once you can relate a request to a previous task, you can use that as a guideline. 

What a great conversation piece. You're a developer at a developer position interview and you work on Google Glass. Yes, I would wear them to the interview. It could be relevant to the job. This is very important: Make sure you let the interviewer know that they are Google Glasses and that you have every intention of turning them off. Maybe put them in a pocket. Leaving them on and not informing the interviewer would be a mistake. Turn off and put away all electronic devices. 

Most professionals will make some sort of introductory contact and try to find-out when is a good time to call. If possible, they'll try to respect and comply to your wishes. You won't be the first person to not be available while at work. Hopefully, your phone came with voice mail. I don't always expect working people to answer their phones when I call and am usually surprised when they do. 

First you should ask him to stop. It is counter-productive to constantly have to include the boss every time there is a disagreement. People's time is a company resource that should not be allowed to go to waste. Your boss should have done the same thing, but maybe he's just being polite. If your boss trusts you, then this person should have come to the conclusion this is a waste of time because it doesn't change your mind nor does your boss do anything about it. You should try and hear his concerns and offer some other forum to discuss them. There isn't always time to get everyone's input on every single subject. You should give this person boundaries where his suggestions and possibly decisions are more acceptable. My guess is this person is trying to curry favor and possibly at your expense. You can always ask why he/she does it. Maybe this person just feels like that's the way to do it. We won't know until you ask. 

Stay at the sketching stage. Don't write any code or digital mock-ups until you get something settled. Start charging for these designing sessions. The client has gone beyond what you consider ample free time to discuss the project. 

Even if the odor is not coming from the bathroom, use that as an excuse and get a deodorizer. Use it as needed. Maybe the person will take the hint and get to the bathroom sooner. At some point, people have to be aware of what their bodies are doing in public places and take care of it if possible. Edit: Is there anything to be done about this? Obviously, I don't want to smell this 1-2 times a week but I also don't want to embarrass the person by bringing it up. I believe my answer meets all the criteria the OP has presented. The smell goes away and no one has to bring this up to the perpetrator. I do realize the person may conclude what is going on, but there is some insulation provided for the OP. 

If the problem were that serious or had the potential to be repeated, I would think you'd hear about it sooner rather than later. Sometimes people forget and the interview may have prompted the manager's memory. It is unprofessional and a poor use of what we know about human psychology. Delaying feedback (esp. punishment) isn't as affective. You need to consider how you want to go about working with this company. One important aspect of any job is to know how and when you'll be evaluated. Most annual review processes are an absolute waste of time (Aubrey Daniels). Let your boss know you are open to feedback, so he shouldn't hesitate to tell you when you're not doing things correctly so you can fix them. In this particular case, the manager wants to show everyone he is doing his job (Which apparently is finding fault with you.) and is trying to get some advantage should you ask for more money. How can you ask for more money if I just indicated your lack of skills?