The management at my company have been doing interviews to fill a few positions, I'm curious to know how the interviews are going, is it rude to ask one of the management about this? 

The only way I could see you negotiating for more would be after you're working in the job for several months to a year, but only if there's proper justification for it and assuming your probation period is done. Doing this during your probation period will likely just end with them showing you the door. For example, you approach your boss after 6-12 months of working at said job and make your case for a higher wage. This doesn't of course mean that you will get your higher wage, and very well could mean your boss says no. But when making your case bring up your work ethic, any special skills you have compared to other employees (additional programming languages you know that may help the company), something you've done for the company to save them money/make customers happier, etc. It also unfortunately depends on how your boss feels about you, if they disagree with your work ethic for example, and see you as a lazy employee they're less likely to give you a raise, or ask their boss(es) to give you one. If you have good rapport with your boss, it's more likely that they'll entertain the idea at the very least. Anything you can say that would reflect why you should get a 5k pay increase. TLDR; Ask boss about pay raise after having the job for 6-12 months, or more. 

You just have to spin up a bunch of nonsense that you probably don't mean. Something like, "While I am grateful for the opportunities that were presented to me during my time here - I feel that at this juncture its best for all parties if I move on" Then say something about how you will do all you can to transfer knowledge and help in the transition prior to your departure Then in your exit interview you say a bunch of nice things and leave. 

I am updating my resume, and am debating putting the fundraising run I did back in the spring on as Volunteer Experience. I had raised some money for a cause and did the run, would this be something worth adding to a resume? 

I don't know how to go about doing this. About a month and a half ago we were asked what role we wanted within the company, I'm a developer and I chose Professional Services since up to this point that's basically what I've been doing is coding custom pages for clients, custom implementations, etc. I love it, it's what I went to school for, everything about coding is great (which is basically all they do over on the Research and Dev side of the company). I was also specifically told that I would still be a developer on the PS side of the company. Over the last couple of weeks I've been getting more and more support tickets coming my way as they wean one of the R & D guys off of support, I'll be the one that has to do client upgrades etc from what I've been told as well. It seems like my role is turning more from "Programmer/Analyst" to "Tier Two Support Analyst". This isn't what I want, I feel like I was sort of mislead (albeit not intentionally) or misunderstood what exactly my role would be. I was let go from my previous job, which was entirely support, because my support there was lacking, I'm really not suited to support. I don't want support to be jeopardizing my job with this company either, I am much better suited to coding. We're currently interviewing people to fill roles on both sides of the fence (R&D and PS), is there a way I can go about asking the management about them switching me over to R&D? I feel like it would disrupt some of their interview process by doing this however, what's the right way to go about this without stepping on too many toes? So to speak. 

This isn't totally uncommon. Google for instance was known to give study guides out for a while depending on the req they were looking to fill. It was so you could be well read on the items of discussion and be well prepared. 

This smells of rack & stack to me. As was previously mentioned in a few comments, your options are a bit limited in my opinion. However, I would mention that these are the types of things you should have also raised or mentioned during your performance review (if you have one). At that time of performance review, you could have asked what you needed to improve upon to reach these goals. If you wish to stay with this company/organization it may be best to have a one-on-one with your direct manager and inquire what they expect of you from your current level in the company, what you need to do to get to the next level and what you can do to better your chances of a raise next review. 

I'll answer your actual question directly first... I would tell him that you don't want to give out that information in much the same way you've explained it here. Anything else would just be beating around the bush and isn't a surefire way to achieve your end goal of not disclosing the information. Example - "Sorry, I don't like to give out my Steam details as I like to keep my work life and outside life separate from each other" Then I'd perhaps explain that maybe you'd share your details with him once you get to know him a little better (if that's what you'd actually do). Now to avoid the situation in future If you really have no intention of giving out information to people regardless of how well you know them at work. Simply state that you don't have Steam or whatever else it might be that they're asking. If someone's asking if you have something like a social media profile then I can assure you that their next question is likely going to be a request as to where they can find your profile. An alternative to this would be to answer yes, but immediately state that you don't like to give details out to work colleagues. Regardless if you want to keep 2 separate 'lives', you're not helping your chances of making friends in the workplace which may hinder your chances of progression and unfortunately it's not what you know, rather it's who you know. 

Performance Reviews are OK and should be welcome. Now if you go through this and they have issues with your work and throw you on a period of performance or some sort of "performance plan" then you can worry. But for now - don't sweat it 

Let me warn you of the cautions of using a job offer from company B to leverage a raise out of your current company. If you do this - there could be blow back and the company could get the impression that as soon as a better offer comes or more money is thrown your way you'll bail. Is that the case? Probably not. But some people get antsy and worry. Also, even if a counter-offer is made by company A, it may not be what you were offered by company B. Furthermore when/if reviews/raises come out next cycle don't be shocked to find out that the counter-offer basically negates any raise you would have received. The short version - if the only time the company values you is when you're looking to leave, then it's probably time to leave 

As stated in the title, one of my coworkers is rarely in the office due to medical reasons. They do sometimes log on from home if they're feeling up to it, but their actual time spent in the office itself is maybe a third of the year. This coworker is also one of our support staff, and thus is somewhat important and it affects everyone else when he's absent. I can tell my manager is getting sick and tired of the situation and I know that firing this guy would be a slippery slope due to his condition. Is there potentially a reason in which this guy could be let go without it turning into a legal matter? I ask because it seems like a lot of my other coworkers are getting tired of this as well. But I realize this isn't really my business and is something my manager will have to take care of. My question is out of curiousity. 

As an employee you have no reason to provide "loyalty" to an employer as employment is at-will. They could terminate you for just about any reason at any moment, so the thought that leaving them high & dry shouldn't be your concern. Evaluate the pros & cons of leaving and go from there. Sometimes the grass is greener, sometimes it isn't. 

I think it depends on the person, management and the organization. I've seen it go both ways as I think many others have. A former developer I worked with was not performing up to task. He was given the dreaded PIP - and from there shifted over to Q&A as an attempt to find a way to use him. 

I will be applying for an open position within my company, this position is looking mostly for external candidates. Last time I applied and was interviewed for the position, the interview was understandably geared more towards external candidates. This time around I have an idea of making a Power Point presentation outlining to my boss (and possibly one of the executives if they're in the interview as well), why they should promote me into the position rather than look externally for someone. I know it's highly unorthodox to do something like that in an interview, and I feel like it would answer a lot of questions they would be asking me anyways, plus would highlight why looking externally isn't as great of an idea as they think. I also feel like it will just be geared towards external candidates again and there won't be a whole lot my boss can ask me anyways. Would a Power Point be too out there? Or should I just stick to the 'traditional' format of an interview and just answer what questions I can? 

I would put it in much the same way you've written it here. You mentioned that your job is stressful and demanding and you're not growing career wise. Make your direct report think about what's keeping you at the company and what reason you have to stay. Perhaps they think that you're comfortable with what you're doing and you don't really mind that you haven't been given anything extra, perhaps they're just thinking that you want what everyone else is getting? Below's a few talking points for you. Be extremely clear about what you want and where you want to end up. Most people don't want to stay in the same job for the rest of their lives, so let your manager know what you aspire to, what's driving you. Show that you're keen to learn. Don't forget to tie it into a benefit to the company, why should they put you through the training? How does that turn into a benefit for the business and how will they get a return on their investment? Will they end up losing the "invaluable person" they have in their current role? Talk about how you could up-skill/cross-skill someone else into your role. If you're determined to reach a goal and there's a roadblock in the way, ask "How can we overcome that?". If it's something that simply cannot be overcome, then you really don't have much option other than to look for another job that will provide what you're after. On a side note It's best not to let things slide for so long, if you're determined to get something, letting it go by for 7 years without having a path to your destination doesn't exactly scream determination. You have very little reason to show loyalty to a company that can't keep it's promises. At the end of the day you need to look out for yourself. "You're #1" as someone else here put it! 

EDIT: djohnson has already mentioned what I've said below about the away status but I'll say it anyways to re-iterate. If you don't want to set up a new account, you could set your status to being 'Away' and write "At the office" in your personal message so your friends know not to bother you during that time. Also explain to your boss that he can still message you whilst you're on Away status and you'll specifically let him know if you're going to actually be away from your messenger, in a meeting for example. Also, why do you have people on your list that you don't want to talk to anymore? You should remove these people from your list so they're not an issue for you.