Let us say we have a large, late medieval era trade city that is also a port, sited on an estuary. Due to the city's narrow, winding streets, caravans are not allowed within the walls: cargo must be portaged through the city on foot or the backs of small pack animals such as donkeys. Furthermore, not only are there roads and seagoing ships going in and out, there are tradeships that ply further upriver, carrying loads far in excess of what even a caravan can. However, the volume of road trade is overwhelming the portage system and leading to caravans camping for days, even weeks, just to get from one side of town to the other. Worse yet, there are no bridges within town, just ferryboats, as the estuary itself cannot be bridged without the invention of caissons. This near-gridlock has led city leaders to consider the seemingly unthinkable -- bridging the river upstream as part of a bypass road project, as it is much shallower and somewhat narrower there. However, there is a complication: this bridge is being built without the benefit of high banks to elevate it, yet must clear the masts of tradeships 20m high while providing at least 30m of clear channel width and preferably as much as is feasible with the materials available. How could our medieval bridgebuilders build a movable bridge that can handle this? 

While a low-frequency radio could be used in a "through-the-earth" configuration, such communications are extremely narrowband -- real systems that do this are limited to one-way text paging or perhaps an "emergency alarm button" for a return channel. (These systems are limited to sub-3kHz ELF frequencies in order to get adequate ground penetration.) More realistic communications (NBFM voice, two-way short messaging, narrowband data) require the use of "leaky feeder" or "radiating cable" technology, using higher frequencies run over a special coaxial cable that's fabricated with slots in the shield so it acts as a continuous antenna. This would require repeaters in the cable every-so-often, but depending on the frequencies at hand, this is not difficult to solve -- they can be powered by superimposing DC on the feeder cable, and operation at VHF frequencies was feasible with WWII-era vacuum tube technology (if not slightly before then, even). 

Let us assume we have our prototypical European dragon representative over here, George. He has four ground-limbs with four clawed digits including an opposable digit on the forelimbs, normally is quadrupedal when walking around, and has forelimbs somewhat longer than the hind limbs, in addition to the traditional scales and toasty-breath. The big fellow has a big brain to match, too -- easily on par with an intelligent human. However, how would he write anything down? Dragon limbs and digits are big and chunky with serious pointy ends, designed for walking, pushing off for takeoff, and assisting with feeding -- despite having grasping capabilities, they certainly are not designed for fine motor skills. You can come up with any sort of instrument you wish to assist the dragon in his goals, but modifying the dragon for improved fine motor skills is out of the question. Furthermore, what sort of script/writing system would lend itself to being used by such a large and clumsy creature? Would they be stuck with large-print on their clay tablets? Or would a different type of writing system be better for the application? 

One thing that just about all interstellar civilizations need if they want to be anything more than long-distance friends is a way to get from their starships down to the surface of planets and back up again. In other words, they need some flavor of shuttlecraft that can survive re-entry into a planetary atmosphere and then reach orbit again without the need for extensive ground support, as they may have to land on Earth today and Mars in a few days. This craft must be able to: 

Slime molds are a fairly well-known grouping of organisms, performing a valuable function as real-life detritivores and bacterivores, as well as inspiring fantasy tropes such as oozes. Many slime molds will generate fruiting bodies, as well, in order to distribute their spores (think mushroom), and in a few cases, smaller animals (such as slugs) eat them. Under what conditions on an Earth-clone could a slime mold which had some human-edible parts evolve? It doesn't have to be the entire mold as that'd be hard to gather, but am I correct that a slime mold could produce a fruiting body you or I could pick and eat? 

You don't want that The biggest threat to underground utilities isn't intentional sabotage, but excavation damage from construction workers, farmers, and whatnot who aren't aware of the buried cable or are given bad information about its location. As a result, even in sparsely populated areas, utility rights of way are marked and maintained so that people can see that "hey, there's a cable/pipe here, I shouldn't go digging willy-nilly if I don't want to knock out the lights/get blown up by a gas line/get covered in crude oil" Given your situation, then, it's better to build power plants more locally, especially if you can have a diversity of fuels for any one given city (solid fuels, fuel gasses, hydropower, solar, wind, geothermal, nuclear). Furthermore, critical systems will have backup power of their own (generators), and transportable generator infrastructure is nothing new either. Deep burial gets deep sixed by deep problems Deeply buried long-haul utilities are largely impractical for several reasons; one might envision such a thing for a singular highly critical utility where cost and engineering difficulty are no object, but geographically diverse redundancy is cheaper and better. First and foremost is the cost of installation. Trying to cut-and-cover a relatively narrow trench several tens of meters deep is not practical, so trenchless techniques are needed (either microtunneling or directional drilling, with the use of suitable bits for the ground conditions). Atop that, you wind up putting your utility well below the water table. This means that any spills from a pipeline are instant groundwater pollution problems, while electric and telephone cables need to run in an environment that isn't simply wet, it's flooded. Furthermore, this doesn't eliminate the excavation damage risk -- drilled wells (whether they produce oil, gas, or water) extend far deeper than you can ever put a utility. Oil and gas producing wells can be reasonably managed by a permit scheme, but strict water well permit schemes could be a serious problem especially in rural areas where well water is essential for survival and irrigation. Finally, maintenance access becomes a nightmare. While trenchless replacement techniques for piping are known (pipe bursting, for one), they would suffer similar cost problems as the original install. Corrosion protection is more critical, and junctions, splices, and the like would require extensive surface access support. 

Let us assume we have a Kerr metric (rotating) black hole of 10 Sol-masses, spinning at 300 revs/s (as measured by a rest frame observer). What yield strength (assume that yield strength is limiting here in order to prevent failures in compression) would be required for the structural members of: 

Let us assume we have a rocky planet by the name of Pyros orbiting a single star, the Star of Random. It has an atmosphere consisting of 77% methane, 21% oxygen, 1% water vapor, and 1% other gases (argon, CO2, NH3?), all at a surface pressure of 101kPa (one Earth atmosphere). Temperatures at the surface are sufficient for liquid water to exist despite Pyros' sun being dimmer and/or further away, as methane is an effective greenhouse gas. Furthermore, the atmosphere composition is apparently stable -- it's too rich to sustain combustion on a wide scale. What adaptations would 1) photosynthetic and 2) chemoheterotrophic life have on this planet compared to similar categories of Earth organisms? Furthermore, how far could life develop on such a planet? Assume that the nitrogen cycle is primarily subterranean, supplemented by small amounts of atmospheric NH3. 

I'm working on the layout of a fairly large crypt/small catacomb (for a RPG dungeon), and I want it to be built out of necessity (thus justifying its size, relatively frequent visitation, and egalatarian usage patterns) as opposed to the more typical case where a crypt or tomb will be built for the burial of wealthy folk (with more money yielding a bigger crypt to spend the afterlife in), while commoners simply get a coffin in the ground. So what geotechnical conditions or concerns would require the construction of an elaborate, communal burial crypt/catacomb instead of simply sticking the dead in coffins and burying them in a normal way? Furthermore, whatever these conditons are need to be able to support a forest or forest-like ecosystem around it for the living to operate in. Also, this crypt would be built primarily from stone, with rot-resistant timbering (similar to redwood or cedar) available for key tension members -- it needs to be built to last. 

Given that most dragons probably would have other problems if their blood could deliver the amount of heat jet engine bleed air does, and a mechanical system would probably be quite exhausting for a dragon that's already in heavy need of energy, I'd suggest a "weeping wing" system. In this, the dragon would have evolved glands along the wing leading edge that secrete a hydrophobic and/or freezing-depressant fluid that lowers the freezing point of the water droplets to well below the conditions where liquid water droplets can be found in flight. As a result, the water impinging on the wing stays liquid and simply blows/falls off just like any other raindrop. But, this may be moot anyway One thing about icing is it requires moisture. Guess what this moisture is in the form of? It's a cloud, of course (unless it's actually falling from the sky in the form of freezing rain). And flying into a cloud on a summer day with no icing to menace you is already a significant challenge due to the lack of a visual horizon reference. Unless your dragons have highly evolved inner ears that can provide them with reliable 3-D attitude references, they'd have to stay out of the clouds and rain, which automatically keeps them clear of ice. 

While there are very good answers so far, there's another problem that would crop up in the context of a modern society, and that's the scope of criminal law. Originally, criminal charges strictly required mens rea -- that the defendant not only committed the act, but committed it knowingly and intentionally, or more directly, "with a guilty mind". While this is still true for the traditional, common-law crimes (such as murder, larceny, and the likes) -- many of the more modern additions to the criminal law, what I'll call "technical crimes", often carry strict liability -- even if you unwittingly or unknowingly violate the law, or honestly believe that the act you are committing is legal, you're still on the hook for criminal charges. Furthermore, these "technical crimes" are not offenses that can be deduced from basic moral rights, unlike the traditional common-law crimes. This means that it is very easy for someone who isn't a specialist in the regulatory field in question to find themselves on the wrong end of the strict liability stick -- at the moment, mere prosecutorial discretion is what keeps most folks who do run afoul of criminal regulatory offenses out of court. As a result, attaching harsh sentences (especially capital ones) to strict-liability technical crimes is likely to yield a swift pushback, much along the lines of the reactions to US v Swartz. 

So, one of the races in my headcanon is a race of draconic humanoids (dragonkin/dragonborn, basically). One of their salient features is that the species develops the ability to spit a pyrophoric, oily "venom" from a young age and retains it throughout life -- this effectively is a short-range breath weapon of sorts, capable of inflicting painful if not crippling wounds or even killing its victims outright if the wounds are not promptly tended to. It evolved from the ability to spit ordinary venom as a defensive weapon against predators that kept evolving immunities to various poisons. As a result, both genders have it in equal potency, but it takes a long time for the venom glands to refill after they're emptied of their dangerous contents. Otherwise, they're fairly typical for dragonkin, bestowed with tall (1.8-2+m), heavy builds as well as scales over their leathery skin. While their scales and skin are resistant to ordinary burns, their own breath weapons still pose a serious threat despite this. Reproductive-physiology-wise, they are oviparous, internally fertilized, and operate on the one-hole plan (i.e. they have cloacas), if that matters at all. So, what differences in mating and courtship rituals would there be between my dragonkin and regular humans, considering the stronger consequences that a violent failure of courtship poses to both parties involved? (If you wish to be specific to societal time periods -- you can use a late medieval/early Renaissance era human society as a reference point.)