The problem in your reasoning is caused by the fact, that you decrease deposits every time bank makes a loan. It doesn't work like that. Deposits pile up and bank is obliged to pay them off. Your calculations suggest that when you come to a bank and ask for the money you have deposited, bank should answer "Oh, well, you know... We have lent it to some other guy, so, no, we won't pay you back anything". What you have called deposits is actually a sum of reserves and free cash. Deposits on each step of your procedure are respectively $0, 900, 900, 1700, 4000$. To put it another way, the bank has not produced any actual cash. It has produced promises to pay off the money if they will be requested. This promises are trusted only while the amount of promises (total deposits, summed properly and not as you have done) exceed the amount of what is promised to the bank (loans) plus what it actually has on it's hand (and that is what you have written as deposits, cash plus reserves). As soon, as the later is lower then the former (due to decrese in loans that are to be paid to the bank) no one will trust the bank and it's promises are worth nothing. Then everyone who had a deposit in the bank won't get his money back and all of those "money" you have referred to will disappear. That's why you have to return money to the bank. Otherwise you are robbing the depositors. 

Your observation about topology and order is somewhat inaccurate. First definition make use of partial order on $S_i$ while the second make use of topology on it, but both structures are almost always specified by the assumption, that $S_i$ is a sublattise of $R^n$ and so it is equipped with usual subspace topology and partial order. This is the first point in the definition in the material you have referred to. So this worries are misplaced. However there is some indications (see, for example, chapter 4 in Supermodularity and Complimentarity by Topkis), that the requirement of upper-semicontinuity is stronger and implies the first one. I'm not ready to provide an accurate proof, however. 

Here is how I interpret your question: "Why when modeling positive externalities do we shift the marginal benefit curve upward instead of shifting the marginal cost curve downward?" Either way of thinking about it is fine. Positive externalities can be thought of as resulting in a social marginal benefit curve that's above the private marginal benefit curve, or as resulting in a social marginal cost curve that's below the private marginal cost curve. Which side you place it on is only a matter of accounting, since Private Marginal Benefit + Externality - Private Marginal Cost = Private Marginal Benefit - (Private Marginal Cost - Externality). Your question doesn't make sense in some ways though and I think it's important you understand why. You say "Because SV benefits society, the suppliers of this SV can consider the SV supplied, as follows: Suppliers' true cost = their original costs − SV, for all quantities supplied. So the new supply curve must underlie, and be parallel to, the old supply curve." The positive externality in this case cannot shift the producer's supply curve downward, because the producer's supply curve is his private marginal cost. Importantly, externalities only affect social marginal cost. Remember: The supply curve is a function that tells you what quantity a supplier will produce at any given price, whereas the marginal cost curve is the cost per unit of producing an additional unit. These two things only happen to coincide in the absence of externalities. 

I assume what you're asking based on your comments is: "How can I visualize indifference curves for 3 goods?" I can think of three options: 1) Use a tool like Matlab, or its open-source equivalent, Octave, to plot 3 dimensional indifference curves. Here is a tutorial on how to do that. 2) Make a series of 2-dimensional indifference curves for two of the goods, and fix a different level of the third good for each one, that is, plot a series of cross-sections of the 3 dimensional box. 3) Using paper and pencil, draw a general $n$ dimensional Edgeworth box, then, set $n = 3$. 

I know this is a bit out of date, but there is a new package available on CRAN now called 'matchingR' which I believe is much faster than the package recommended above. You can install it with 

What are the causes of lower commodity prices? There is no secret: the demand is falling and the supply increase. The demand is falling mainly because of the slowing growth in China. As China imports less commodities to fuel its industry, a large chunk of the demand on these markets has disapeared, leading to lower prices. But simultaneously, the supply keeps steady or increasing on most of the commodity markets. On the oil market for example, 2015 has been a great year of surge or expected surge: OPEC countries are committed to keep flooding the market, mainly because the Gulf countries can afford lower prices thanks to low production costs, while their competitor might not sustain low prices very long. Furthermore, the ban on Iranian exports is going to be lifted, as well as the ban on US exports. The market anticipate already this formidable future new supply, which drives prices down. The US are quasi independent as far as Oil is concerned, as the Shale gas industry has been rising in this country. What are the consequences of lower commodity prices? The first consequence is not really caused by lower commodity prices, but rather by the root of this price drop: China's growth is slowing. Therefore their is more uncertainty than before about this market. As a consequence of this, exporters to China begin to worry as well as firms who have factories in China, as a slowing growth and reduced imports might be the sign of a stabilization and potential lower inner demand. China being one of the world's biggest market, and one with a still relatively low penetration for technologies, it is indeed worrying. Thus, the stock of a lot of companies have been going down all over the world because of the situation in China, reflected in Oil prices. Another very important factor comes into action: most firms in the commodity sector have huge debt. Indeed, this sector requires big investments to begin the exploitation. Among others, Glencore's $30bn debt has been discussed a lot, but it is only an example among many others. In particular, their are two areas that are under threat: shale gas and renewable. This two sectors require higher investment than others. For shale gas, because the exploitation is costly and technically complex. For the renewable, because the R&D is costly and the production as a whole is costly as it uses high technologies. Lately, the partial default of Abengoa gave us a taste of what might follow. The debt accumulated by this industry is by no mean sustainable with such low commodity prices. 

A variance is an incomplete measure of risk in a sense, that it measures uncertainty in security payoffs, rather than uncertainty in holder's welfare. In the simplest way we can demonstrate this point as follows. Suppose that agents want to marginally increase her holding of an asset by $\xi$ and a unit of asset provides a payoff of $x$, which is a random variable. Now we model agent as caring about volatility in her consumption $c$, which is more reasonable, than assumption that she cares about volatility in the payoff directly. Then $$Var(c+\xi x) = Var(c) + 2\xi\cdot cov(c,x) + \xi^2Var(x)$$ and the last term is negligible as $\xi$ is marginal change. So, as marginal changes are considered in equilibrium, it is more reasonable to take covariance between consumption and payoff as measure of riskiness of the security, rather than just variance of the payoff. In practice the aggregate consumption is often used as a proxy for individual consumption. Yet another more accurate measure of riskiness can be introduced if we were to presume not direct care for volatility in consumption, but consider an agent with a utility dependent upon his consumption stream. It is a rather lengthy technical exercise and those who are interested should look it up in an excellent textbook "Asset Pricing" by John Cochrane. I will limit myself with presenting the result for multiperiod discrete time model here. If we were to defined a random variable $m_t = \beta\frac{u'(c_{t+1})}{u'(c_t)}$ called stochastic discount factor for agent with von Neumann-Morgenstern utility and discount factor $\beta$ then by the similar argument as above we may derive that $cov(m_t,x_t)$ should be considered to be even a better measure of riskiness of the security. Obviously, any nonrandom transformation of the above may be considered to be measure of riskiness, namely, standard deviation and correlation instead of variance and covariance are quite popular. Also different nonrandom normalizations may be applied to $m_t$. For example $u'(c)$ may be used, as $\beta$ is nonrandom and $c_t$ is known at time $t$ 

I'd recommend you to work through this answer paragraph by paragraph, making sure you got each of them in turn, or you will get confused. You may even want to ignore later ones if it's not necessary for your purpose. The main idea hear is that if the point is conditionall extremum, than it is necessarily a stationary point of the Lagrangian, i.e. such point, that all partial derivatives of the Lagrangian are zero in it. To solve the problem you should identify all stationary points and than find the maximum among them. However in general this recipe is not entity reliable, as the maximum may not exist. Usually you may verify it's existence with Weierstrass theorem. It requires that fiction is continuous and the set is compact which is the case here. In general it means that you need to check any boundary points of the set in question, points $x= 0$ and points $y = 0$. In this case your equation is insufficient for solution, as the set you are considering is defined by inequalities rather than equalities. You may point out, that the function is monotonic in $x$ and $y$, so the maximum is on the upper right boundary. Also the utility is 0 if $x = 0$ or $y=0$, while there is feasible points where it is strictly positive, so the maximum can not be attained at either left or lower boundaries. Then this approach is completely justified. In future you should be aware that problem if such type should be generally solved by applying Kuhn-Tucker Theorem and I recomend you to get acquainted with it after you grasp this material. 

There are two sorts of network effects a network good might have. It might have consumption externalities (such as with traffic) or it might have positive network externalities (such as with operating systems). The latter case is the case that your link discusses. I don't see a discussion of perfect competition in your link, but if you imagine a model in which consumers choose a level of some good with a positive network externality to buy at some price, equilibrium production should be less than socially optimal for the same reason that there is underproduction in perfect competition with any positive externality -- at the margin, consumers don't take into account the value buying the network good brings to other consumers. 

I would call this a mean-variance utility function. The agent likes higher mean values, which is the first term, but trades that off against higher variance, which is the second term. If the random variable of interest is normally distributed with mean $P_{t+1} + \delta_{t+1} - (1+r^f)P_t$ and covariance matrix $\Omega$, and if the agent has constant absolute risk aversion utility, such as $u(w) = 1-e^{-\gamma w}$, then maximizing that utility is equivalent to maximizing mean-variance utility. Here are some details I found with a quick google search. 

The short answer to your question is no, stock prices have no direct effect on the total amount of money in an economy, just as the price of apples has no effect on the total amount of money in an economy. The wikipedia page on money has an explanation of the various ways you might define money, and none of them include the valuation of stocks. Here's the requested simple example: Say there are \$100 in circulation. There is one stock traded, and it is valued at \$10. Then, it is valued at \$20. But there is still \$100 in circulation. 

If I understand you correctly, all customers prefer economy class to business class (that is, they only care about the lower price). First, the way you've specified the problem, the airline will always make every seat a business class seat, because if no economy seats are available, the airline will (a) sell the same number of tickets (since customers buy business class if economy isn't available) and (b) sell all the tickets at a higher price. But maybe you meant something like, fewer people will buy business class seats because the price is higher, so the airline may wish to make some seats economy class so they fill every seat. That is, the airline may initially wish to offer tickets for business class, wait until they stop getting new orders, then lower the price to economy class in order to fill the rest of the seats. Depending on the underlying model of demand and purchasing you may get different results. I'll highlight one, the 'Coase conjecture', which argues that the sort of pricing scheme I described above will break down because customers rationally anticipate that the airline will lower prices as soon as they stop getting new orders, so they wait for the price to drop.