The problem will partially solve itself once you gather more experience handling such issues as it will take you less time to handle and you will take such issues into account when you predict the amount of time it will take you. A nice tip is to double (or even triple) the hours you initially predict as there will always be some surprises When the client approaches you with a project you should create some sort of technical specs for the project or at least a list, specifying all the elements you will handle for the client. Afterwards you should make it as detailed as possible (don't worry - it will go faster once you get the hang of it) and once each element is detailed enough it should be easier to predict the time for each element. You don't have to show the complete detailed list to the client but I find that showing at least bullet points allows the client to remember extra issues he forgot to mention, both of you will know what you've signed up to do and as a bonus you will be able to explain why it would take the time you're asking to pay for. As a simple example - if the client orders a login form then the list could be: 

If you find out about a session after the fact If you've missed out but still heard about the session I would e-mail the organizer: 

This will allow you to get some insight into areas that you may be able to tackle with the interviewer before the interview ends. Sometimes it will help to highlight when you genuinely aren't a good fit for the role and should consider other opportunities. 

Wait for more information... If you think there's any damage being done by this, its already happened. They're unlikely to not get back to you with anything and even if they can't match the offer you made then they will get back to you with something. See what they come back with, then decide how you want to move from there. Consider if you really do want less You clearly said this figure for a reason. Are you rethinking it now because you're nervous and sick of waiting to hear back from them? Make sure before taking anything less you've completely considered whether you can afford it. You don't want to accept a lower offer now just to become bitter later because of it. Ultimately if they can't meet this figure maybe the job isn't for you. 

With body odor, and other personal issues, be very careful how you approach the subject. If you can, defer to HR or at least have a mediator. If you cannot, then be sure to bring up the topic privately and with compassion. No one is able to smell their own natural odor, because everyone normalizes to themselves. It may be that the candidate does not have a strong sense of smell. It may be that the candidate does not have access to facilities such as a shower. It may even be that they use too much of a particular perfume/cologne, and just need to change brands. If you don't know the exact details of their life, give them the benefit of the doubt. 

I find that most situations can be solved by a frank discussion with the people involved seeking to find the best solution for all parties. With that said, have you informed this candidate that they have offensive body odor? If you have, and they have not changed*, then your critique need only say that the candidate does not follow instructions well. If you have not, then the issue is not with the candidate, it is with you. You have identified a problem and then failed to attempt to correct the problem. 

This also suggests to me that the terms are inflexible. You're likely to create a situation which you will have to later back away from leaving you right where you are now with the same two options. That said, is this a deal breaker for you? If this is enough that you would happily stay at your current employer over taking the position then it's worth at least making the attempt with them as you have a fallback you're happy with. If not and you're leaving anyway then I don't think this would be a great first step with the new company. 

Why do the minimum? Applying for work is a competition of skills, background and work ethic. Doing whatever you can to stand above other candidates is how you win the offer. Is they're asking for a portfolio then chances are that a great deal of people applying for these roles are doing this, if they weren't then this employer asking for it means that they likely are now. What does the recruiter expect from me? In this case the person requesting your portfolio is a recruiter so it's likely they've been asked to do so by the company in question. Since you don't know whether they're expecting a summary of projects or a code based portfolio then I would produce both as you can always re-use these in future interviews. How do you actually do this with JavaScript? I've interviewed a number of JavaScript programmers who have provided a portfolio of work. Typically they will send me a Github account to look at their work however it's also not unusual for front end designers to bring me a printed portfolio of their work to an interview. I remember this, and react to it quite positively. How to produce a printed portfolio as a backend developer? Understandably you are more of a backend than front end guy so it's difficult for you to produce a very visual portfolio for interviews. To overcome this I would write a summary of the projects that you've worked on and some of the design decisions you've made. Basically a timeline of projects that you have worked on along the general lines of: 

This is a great question, an issue I believe many freelancers come across at the beginning. I think you should split the question: A. How can I correctly predict the amount of time I will spend for the client ? B. How can I get the client to agree to pay for the time I'm gonna spend ? C. Is it fair I'm gonna spend my time on issues other the specific work for the client and possibly won't get compensated for it ? 

If you would create such list it would be much easier to predict the amount of work - you won't have to think about the whole project but of each separate element/point It would also remind you of the possible issues you could come across As a bonus the client would know exactly what he's getting and for some problematic clients the list would prevent them from demanding extra work that supposedly had to be done in the same project and if some extra issues arise, that weren't mentioned earlier then the client should be billed for them but you should always tell the client in advance that if for example you have to upload the files for the client, instead of just zipping and emailing the files to him, then he must provide the correct account credentials and if there would be a problem with the account then he will decide whether he wants to pay you for handling the issue or he wants to call his hosting company and get their support to handle it... 

It's difficult to know exactly how to present this (as I don't know the full situation) but if it is as you say it is then he's likely going to hear this from multiple sources so state your piece, and don't talk him into a corner. You want him to know that you're frustrated but then give him opportunity to do something about the situation. Keep in mind that I wouldn't expect much in this situation. The company would have considered these positions before relocating the office and a lot of these fall under your personal responsibility. 

Let them know you're unhappy This situation came from a different climate for both businesses and as time has changed, so have your expectations. You sound like you've done very well in your role(s) and you would like to grow as an employee - you should talk to them and give them a chance to make things right. Let them know you're unhappy and try to present some changes that would benefit both parties. That doesn't mean you can't leave later anyway but you should give your employer some understanding of how you are feeling about the whole situation so they will have an opportunity to make it right. In future - talk with both businesses You asked if it's legal to work for two businesses at once and unfortunately there isn't a generic answer to this one, not even by locale. Whenever you're faced with this situation you need to chat to both companies to work out how they want to structure this. Ideally, from a tax and benefits perspective you would be best suited (in most countries) by receiving your pay by one business and having one reporting line. 

and then elaborate on what sorts of behaviors would drive the characteristics you want to embody. For the "smart/fun" person, maybe you talk using slang and communicate via text while wearing shorts and sandals. For the "trustworthy/experienced" person, maybe you speak formally and follow up every phone call with an email to recap. But in the end, it depends on you. What if you pick wrong? If you don't like the choices you've made, there's a simple solution: Rebrand. Companies do it all the time. Don't be afraid to change to better serve your clients. 

If the only thing wrong with this candidate is that they smell bad, then why waste a perfectly good opportunity over something so trivially solvable? * I had mistakenly assumed that anyone reading this would understand implicitly that the odor would have to be due to something that was within the candidate's control. However the comments I've received have made it clear that I need to be more explicit on this: If changing isn't an option, or simply didn't work, then go back to my first point by having a frank discussion with the people involved seeking to find the best solution for all parties; try something new and repeat until the problem is solved. 

Prepare a list of things you're going to have to do for the client in addition to the project - i.e. if you're creating a template sometimes you have to upload it to the server and set it up for the client - it means extra work time and you should remember to bill for that. Same goes for extra consulting time over phone or email. After a year or two you will have all such issues on your mind and you will remember to bill the client for them. You can also tell the client that When you take on a project that includes some new technology/platform that you're not yet familiar with, you should take that into account - I belive that you shouldn't bill the client if you spend extra hours gaining new knowledge, even if it required for the client's project, unless the knowledge is client specific. For example if you want to take on web development projects using PHP & MySQL the client shouldn't pay for you to learn how to write a MySQL query or how to install a template in Wordpress but he should pay if he wants you to support/modify/patch his existing project written in PHP using some in-house libraries of some small software company Regarding fairness and to the point - if you spent the time for the project and handling client's technical issues then it is not zero percent progress - the progress should include the preparation steps as well. And if you spent the time resolving issues both of you had no control over then you should explain this to the client and he should understand that you've spent the time for him and you should get paid. Optimally all such issues would be in the contract and the client would be notified of the issue before you actually spend too much time working on it. If you want it to be completely fair then you can talk to the client, explain the issues and suggest to bill him by a lower rate for those specific issues, as @a_mediocre_riot suggested 

In the US it's generally appropriate to acknowledge your team and your appreciation of them with a brief email. This also serves to let everyone know that you're not going to be around anymore in case they otherwise missed the memo. As far as gifting is concerned. There's no hard-and-fast rule on it. It will depend heavily on your office culture, and how close you are with your coworkers. It's not uncommon to bring in some food to share on your last day, such as doughnuts or cupcakes (If you're of age, and your office tolerates it, it's also not uncommon to bring beer at the end of your last day). Gifting items to specific people isn't overly common and should really be reserved for anyone who you want to show appreciation to. Basically, only give someone a gift when you would have otherwise given them a gift even if you weren't leaving. With that said, it's not uncommon for interns to give out random tchotchkes or other mementos. My desk is littered with various things gifted from past interns, such as figurines, kazoos, origami, and a small flock of rubber ducks (for debugging of course). Mostly these related in one way or another to some sort of inside joke or activity. With the dozens of interns I've worked with, I've never been given a card. I feel that cards are generally reserved for more formal and personal occasions, such as birthdays, weddings, babies, and funerals (boy did that escalate quickly). It would probably be a bit weird, so I'd definitely suggest sticking with a nice email. Oh, and don't forget the doughnuts. 

Given that you're likely going to need to present your degree along with a statement of results at some point it's important to send a consistent message. Simply showing when you were awarded the degree will more than suffice for a resume and since you didn't actually receive the degree until 2015 you should state that as the year received. Further timing will come up in an interview if they're interested although I think most workplaces will be more interested in what you know, and that you have a degree behind you rather than in what timeframe you learnt it. 

Don't buy into gossip. It sounds like these are both managers equal to or above you and it's not your responsibility to take action based upon a complaint. If somebody in the business is complaining to you then you should be referring them to the appropriate manager or human resources. If you can do something to resolve the complaint you should still do so but you shouldn't be the one bearing the responsibility for their personal conflict. Likewise if you hear gossip rumors about the two then don't engage the person telling you. You don't want to get involved in gossiping about these people, especially when it sounds like in some capacity you report to both of them. 

At this point you should be saying "Well, that's not very useful. What do you really mean by 'it depends'?" With that, lets segue into talking about branding (not branding). Before you get/acquire/talk to/meet clients, think about how you want them to perceive you. How you talk, how you act, what you wear, your professional courtesy (or your lack thereof) are all part of your personal brand. It's easier to understand with some examples. Close your eyes and imagine—wait, open your eyes and finish reading this first—you're walking into a bank. Imagine you walk up to the teller. What types of clothes is the teller wearing? The janitor walks out of a back room; what types of clothes is the janitor wearing? Now imagine you walk into a different bank (not in Hawaii) and the teller is wearing a Hawaiian shirt and shorts. Would you trust this bank with your money? To further the point. Imagine you're checking out at the grocery store and the bag boy is dressed in a full suit with a top hat. Would it make you feel uncomfortable? These examples are set to illustrate the point that there are expectations for different roles and meeting or challenging these expectations can have very real consequences for business. With all that said the exact choices every company makes for these experiences is part of their brand. Grocery stores use t-shirts and jeans for staff so that they're approachable. Banks use formal attire to give a sense of security and trustworthiness. So how does this apply to behavior? Your behavior is part of your brand. At a bank you expect courteous formal behavior. At a bar you'd expect informal friendly behavior. How you behave will directly affect how you are perceived. As far as deciding how you should behave. First determine how you want to be perceived. Pick some keywords: