As long as your form is good, then you are more unlikely to injure yourself. For rows, some 'body English' is fine to help drive progressions, especially since it is not a competitive movement, so being strict with momentum isn't inherently necessary. If doing Pendlay rows (as advocated by Mehdi), you can have a bit of thoracic extension to aid with getting the bar off the ground. Controlling the eccentric portion (the decent) of the lift will help with strength gains as well. Glenn Pendlay Teaches the Pendlay Row Alan Thrall's "How To" Barbell Row For normal bent-over-rows, since you don't reset the bar between reps, there will be more emphasis on the eccentric portion of the lift and you can make use of a stretch reflex at the bottom of the eccentric which will help following reps. Scott Herman's How To: Barbell Bent-Over-Row As for presses, those are a bit more technical (more-so than a lot of beginners believe initially). Improving form on the press can usually help with progressing again, but not always. You also have to consider that the press utilizes a smaller set of muscles than the other common compound movements. It is very common to see slow progression with the press. For instance, it recently took my about a month and a half to put only 10 lbs on my press. Presses can also benefit from a variety in the rep ranges that you use to train it. One training session may involve a max effort 3x5 barbell press, and then the next session may involve a 3x8 dumbbell press for hypertrophy. It may take some time to find what works well for you. Brett Contreras: How to Military Press Don't worry about the trainers, as long as your form is correct. Proper nutrition, rest, and technique will all help you progress in the gym. Squats are literally a full body exercise; they involve a lot of muscles. It is very common for them to feel taxing, which is why eventually a lot of people transition to squatting with less frequency per week (which you don't need to worry about just yet). However, if you are finding recovery too difficulty with 5 straight sets, you can try squatting 3x5 instead (which is actually done in Starting Strength). But you need to be honest with yourself and not go that route simply because it seems easier, but because you're having issues with recovery. I'd recommend sticking with the program until you plateau 2-3 times on either your squat or deadlift and then move to a more intermediate program. It's hard to say without more information, but you may also find an increase in caloric intake to be helpful. A caloric surplus will help with building muscle, which in turn will help with your strength gains. 

Cycling is a great workout but it's necessary to add other kinds of workout to it and I see that's exactly what you want. I suggest you go cycling 3 times a week. Other 2 days do cardio workouts and the 2 other you can go to the gym and do weight training. Of course, you should make a good diet plan. If you want to exercise every day, you should eat 2000 calories a day. Eat proteins, also add veggies and fruit, as well as whole grains to your meals. I wish you best of luck. 

It mostly depends on your style of training (high volume vs intensity). Certain things might be more difficult due to already accumulated fatigue in muscle groups you've already hit. For instance, if you were to start with squats and then did an upper-body movement, followed by deadlifts, you might find that breaking the bar off the ground might be more challenging, as that's the most quad-intensive part of a deadlift. As long as the main muscle group is different, or you're using a lighter (if you already went heavy, or heavier if you previously used a variation that required a lower intensity) intensity, you should be fine. Anecdotally, I frequently start my session with cleans or snatches which then progress to front and high-bar back squats. Depending on the day, I'll follow those with deadlifts (sumo). The only time I avoid performing squats and deadlifts in the same session is when I do low-bar squats, as I can squat substantially more that way than high-bar and therefore it negatively affects my deadlifting performance. As long as you are aware of what is getting fatigued and in the manner in which it's getting fatigued, you should be able to manage it to allow multiple compound movements back-to-back. For example, if you perform military presses in the beginning of your workout, you will be able to bench press afterwards, but perhaps not at an intensity that you would have been able to use had you benched before doing military presses. When going for a higher volume approach, I find that it's often easier to string multiple movements that hit the same area, but in slightly different ways without having to have a separate exercise in between (pull ups and rows for example). In this case, rest between sets becomes more of a factor. 

There has been conflict results that have been reported before whether short term fasting has an effect on protein loss. However a number of studies now show that protein breakdown increases during short term fasting so it's very possible that as you are feeling that you actually lost some protein and not fat only. You can follow this article for more evidence. $URL$ There is also another review which has 3 other studies which also support the aspect of increased protein breakdown during short term fasting. $URL$ 

Generally, men can expect to gain up to about half a pound of muscle per week, which is about .25 kg per week. This means one can expect about 6 pounds (or just under 3 kg) of muscle gained in three months. Under optimal circumstances. Most people don't train, eat, or recover optimally, which means 6 pounds may be slightly over optimistic. This means the excess weight gained is due to water, bodily waste products, and increased fat mass. All of those can contribute to a larger looking midsection. The fact that your friend is using a mass gainer means he's consuming a large amount of carbs which also tend to cause water retention. I suspect a good portion of their 4 kg weight gain is at least water weight and increased fat with a minority of it being muscle. 

Running once a week won't help you in losing weight. If I were you, I would run 30 minutes at least 4 times a week. Make your diet plan, too. Running this way will improve your shape, but if you really want to see some changes, you should also do other kinds of workouts the rest of the week. You can do sit ups, push ups, crunches, etc. 

Although you asking about the effects of alcohol on health which has been alluded in other comments. It seems you are keen to understand the effect of alcohol on weight gain and if it's worse than carbohydrates.The estimates of energy intake you get from carbohydrates and alcohol are as follows: I gram of Carbohydrate =4 Kcal I gram of alcohol = 7Kcal In view that, even though people drink alcohol, they also consume other meals with it during the day.Therefore in addition to energy intake from food alcohol adds an extra energy intake at 7kcal per gram. Therefore alcohol might lead to weight gain and may counteract the effects of exercise on weight loss. Therefore it will be good to avoid alcohol, consume less energy dense foods and exercise for effective weight loss. 

Your best option is to start slowly and take small, sustainable steps to also small goals that you can reach relatively soon (so you don't get discouraged). Quitting drinking is a major step (and success!) towards a healthier you. It wouldn't be surprising if that causes some weight loss on its own (depending on how much / frequently you drank). When it comes to losing weight, diet is, by far, the largest factor in determining your success. You don't need to exercise to lose weight, it just helps put you into a deficit or eat more food while still losing weight. To lose weight you should calculate your TDEE (total daily energy expenditure) and aim to eat 10%-15% less than that in order to lose weight in a sustainable way that won't burn you out. Increasing protein and fiber intake are both good for increasing satiety (so that you can go longer between meals without getting as hungry). In terms of exercise, weight training (or any resistance training) can have the largest effect on your physique. I would personally recommend a beginner's strength program (StrongLifts 5x5, Starting Strength, Ice Cream Fitness, etc). In the beginning you might be able to lose fat while gaining some muscle (after a while that becomes really hard to do simultaneously). You should try to stick to a beginner's program until you stall out of it. By that time, you can continue with a more intermediate strength program, or look into a hypertrophy (muscle building) based program. In general, it's a good idea to exhaust your beginner gains on a strength program, as it will allow you to establish true one-rep maxes which will allow you to use a hypertrophy based program more effectively. If you start a beginner strength program with just the empty barbell, you shouldn't have much trouble with starting too fast. You'll progress quickly with the program, but you'll also adapt to the stress of the program quickly too. 

I'm afraid that you won't be entirely happy with the answers we give you. You will definitely have to work on your ability to eat veggies and fruit. Supplements are ok and you should take them if you really, really, really can't eat any foods like veggies or fruit. However, since you don't have time for a gym, the only possible solution would be if you just lower your daily calorie intake. Try to eat less pasta and eat more whole grains instead. 

Let's say a lifter for some reason focuses largely on their lower body when they first start lifting. Let's say that they develop their lower body to the point that they are considered an intermediate lifter in terms of those particular lifts. However, due to their unequal focus, they are still a novice / beginner lifter in terms of their upper body lifts (strict press / bench press). Despite still being considered a beginner in terms of upper body strength, is this lifter still capable of making accelerated gains in a linear fashion on their upper body lifts even if they already have relatively strong lower body lifts? 

Eating late suppers are discouraged for sleep disturbances and also for weigh gain. Digestion take about 4 hours for the food to leave the stomach. There sleeping 3-4 hours after supper enable the stomach to rest and thus ensure your good quality sleep. It has been noted that people who do not sleep well tend to gain weight ($URL$ Therefore sleeping well is pivotal for even ensuring we lose weight. Since people tend to sleep only after exercise therefore the calories consumed might lead to weight gain. In you case since your exercise late you might use up some of the calories , however depending on what you have eaten you might still not get good quality sleep due to a busy stomach. Therefore keep exercising and just sleep 3-4 hour after supper to maximise on maintaining a healthy weight.