And about the "s" sequence in Dutch,in simpler way, it's only about sequence of "sj" that makes it "ʃ" or English "Sh": 

Answer to the first question: The Dutch "s" is the same phoneme as English "s" just as Alveolar type of pronunciation and also like Spanish "s" but not that much similar in south-american-Spanish "s"; and dutch "s" is a little bit voiceless which is not tangible often. I guess the sequence and combination of 'S' with another letter makes you a little confused. Just like German, if you have "s" followed by some consonants it will change to [ʃ] phoneme. 

The point is in Turkish, often they don't create participle form from that verb which means "come to" similar to the verb which gonna create a participle as "come from", because in more common way, other verbs have the corresponding definition with "come to" such as "ulaşmak", "gitmek" to be conjugated to participle; furthermore, even if we want to use the verb "gelmek" to create participle with the meaning of "come to" it necessarily must get used with describing suffixes after the complement; So, this would help us to distinguish that which participle means "come to" and which means "come from"!: 

So it's Urdu > Persian > Arabic. And because even those similar Urdu characters often can't be understood either among Persian or Arabic people. you have to install each Unicode and language differently. I'm native Persian and speak and understand mostly Arabic and Urdu because of my studies. 

The goal of the Hepburn system is to provide a more or less regular, unified system for writing Japanese using the Roman alphabet. Though superficially similar to English, it doesn't have to follow the particular rules of a specific language. This is most visible regarding the vowel system. Japanese vowels あ, い, う, え, お are spelled a, i, u, e, o in Hepburn; long vowels are spelled aa/ā, ii, ū, ee/ē, ō; えい and おう are spelled ei and ō. In English, the closest vowels are those in the words bat, bit, put, bet, bot; bar, bee, boo, bay, go. In French, it would be a, i, ou, é, o, with the tréma used as in French. Neither English nor French spelling works for Japanese vowels. In most languages written with the Roman alphabet, they use Hepburn to spell Japanese words because they are spelling Japanese words, not loanwords of Japanese origin. There is a difference. In English, many words of Japanese origin are simple transliterations based on Hepburn (without macrons), though some have a more-or-less English-like spelling. Examples: bokeh, noh, tycoon, moxa (moxibustion), skosh, rickshaw. In Spanish, 東京 is written Tokio, and 屏風 has been loaned as biombo. Even in French there are such loanwords with French-like spelling: Aïnou, atémi, daïkon, daïmio, taïcoun. There's a choice to be made, between a standard romanization system that reflects the phonology of the source language (such as Hepburn for Japanese or Pinyin for Chinese) and a customary romanization system that adapts foreign words to the spelling system of the target language (which is what you're proposing). The latter is more prevalent between European languages (and also Arabic whose speakers are geographically and culturally close to Europe), possibly because of an earlier tradition of literary exchange that favored the development of customary systems. Those traditions didn't exist between Europe and the languages of East Asia, because geographical distance and isolation made cultural exchange difficult, so each book used ad-hoc romanization systems that didn't become widely adopted until rather recently, when global commerce created a need for standardized romanization systems. 

Besides this fact that we don't have 3 genders like in German, in dutch we only have 2 genders, and since 1940 there are no more noun cases such as "accusative", "dative", "genitive" in standard dutch practically anymore. 

About Numerals, yes! Since those numerals belongs to Persian language, they are the same and even the same with Arabic except that number 4 number in Arabic which is different. Each one of these three language are in addition to be a separate language -especially about Arabic which is completely from a different language family- In written part there are several completely different characters which don't exist in the other one. (and of course Persian is not written with Arabic script, instead, Arabic is written with Persian script, There are some documentation that illustrate why (it's another topic...) look at this examples: 

Here in Parsi.wiki website you can see transcribtion for specifically Old Persian, and for Middle Persian, just choose one of "Dekhoda=دهخدا or Moien= معین" dictionaries. 

And about difference of "s" with "z", only in Netherlands (such as the Amsterdam accent) and Frisian accent of Dutch, "z" phoneme can devoice and merge with "s" phoneme .In Frisian accents of Dutch, word-initial "z" phoneme is always realized as "s". And note that, "ʃ" is not native phoneme of Dutch and usually occur only in borrowed words, like "show" or "machine". Depending on the speaker and the position in the word, it may or may not be distinct from the assimilated realisation of the cluster "sj" . 

At each time step the learner receives one sentence from our language, and for each sentence in our language there is some finite time by which the learner will have been exposed to the sentence. Apart from this, there are no restrictions on the ordering or frequency of occurrence of the sentences (in fact, the environment might pick sentences in an adversarial order to make learning hard). There are absolutely no restrictions on the learner's learning strategy (in fact, it need not even be computable) The languages in our sets of languages are named (equivalently: numbered). A learner has successfully learned a language L if for any environment consistent with (1) there is some finite time after which the learner always guesses that the environment's language is L. A set of languages is learnable if there exists a single learner that can learn every language in the set. 

Back in the late 60s and 70s this theorem made a bit of a stir in the povery of the stimulus debate. However, the modeling is pretty simple, how has this model of language learning been refined by linguists in the years since? 

Gold's theorem on the unlearnability of certain sets of languages (among them context-free ones) made several assumptions in its modeling of learning a language: 

The typical linguistic response is that much like Chomsky's famous "Colourless green ideas sleep furiously", the liar sentence is well-formed but meaningless. If you insist on evaluating the truth value of the sentence, and posit it is not meaningless in a simple way like "The present King of France is bald" (we can't evaluate the truth-value of this sentence since we are referring to something that doesn't exist) but saying that "This sentence" is a proper self-reference (note that in formal systems, saying 'this sentence' or a similar reference is much more involved) then the alternative way out for the linguist is to say that language is simply inconsistent and the sentence is both true and false. 

This is implemented using language files. To support a new language, you won't need to update your code, just add a new language file. For example, The DHTML Calendar has a set of language files already available, published under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License. For example, Calendar._SDN has the following values: 

If you already know X-SAMPA, you could use my X-SAMPA ↔ IPA Converter. There, you can type in X-SAMPA, then convert to IPA. For example, if you type , and press , it yields . 

I found a copy of the PDF available for download by selecting the Download tab and passing the CAPTCHA. It's probably a widely pirated English lesson from koolearn, which other websites copied and pasted without taking care of the IPA symbols. The following is the full mapping. There are other symbols between brackets but they appear as is in the PDF, not mapped by the braindead font. 

Human speech is noisy, and speech recognition must be able to find patterns in the noise. Phones have a series of articulatory attributes: places and manners of articulation, tongue shape, etc.; which cause voice resonance and distortion. All of those variables are continuous, and a continuous change in one of these parameters produces a continuous change in the produced phone. There's a spectrum of sounds between [a] and [i], for example. Different languages make different distinctions between sounds, and some attributes are more important than others. For example, the distinction between voiced stops and voiced fricatives is significant in English but not in Spanish; similarly, the distinction between plain and aspirated among voiceless stops is significant in Hindi but not in English. So yes, it's a subjective distinction. Also, not every English speaker pronounces yes and no the same way. There's a general pattern that makes a yes or no word recognizable, and a system could be trained to recognize these distinctions. On its most basic form, you only need to be able to recognize "yes" and "no" from everything else, including ambient noise and other words. In fact, this might be a much easier problem to solve than a general speech recognition system, since you don't need to tell "no" from "know" (a context-dependent distinction) or lone "yes" from "YESterday". You still need to be able to recognize the "yes" and "no" said speakers other than yourself, and that will require training your system with a decent amount of speech recordings.