If you do want to give more information then add something like "I will/will not be available during this time via email/phone/carrier pidgeon." is about a far as you should go. Why? If you have an embaressing or private reason for taking leave and you have gotten in the habit of saying why you want/need leave then when you don't want to say why(surgery, job interview, whatever) then you're in the position of lying which almost never turns out well. 

Looking at your list of 'collected advice' and your thoughts on all of them something stands out. I'm going to call it a derivative of 'Fat kid in a candy shop'. There, in that list, are a series of potential action items. Any one of which, ignoring your perspective on them at the moment, would at least change your situation and most would change it for the better(I'm a firm believer that 'I don't know what to do' is a terrible reason to get a Masters). Consider a fat kid in a candy store. Sometimes what happens is they just fall over and start crying. Why? Because they want to eat all the candy but the reality is that they can only eat so much and, even that, has to come a couple pieces/handfuls at a time. They are spoilt for choice and what this often means is they don't make a choice. This is where you are. You are a fat kid in a candy store(probably not literally). When presented with options, a nearly infinite amount of options in fact, you both rationalized why none of them were worth doing AND fell over crying(metaphorically) by not doing any of them. You have a couple of problems here. First you've fallen victim to something a lot of CS students stumble over. There are a literal ton of CS students out in the world with perfect grades and heavy course loads. Taking more courses and getting the highest grades possible isn't a bad thing unless you do that in exclusion of doing any extra curricular or external projects. The reality is that there are these tons of students who did exactly what you did - they went to school, took all the CS courses, got the highest grades and..... so? What makes you stand out? How many schools offer your degree in Canada? What makes you stand out from every other student who put their head down, took some classes and got some grades? Your second problem is wanting something to be perfect. Perfect should not become the enemy of good. Your situation would be much better if you just did something. Sure writing an opensource project that sorts your personal music files isn't exciting or world changing. But it's something and right now that's more than what you have. There is no 'perfect' project or 'perfect' activity that will let you write a few lines of code and drop a cushy job in your lap. But every single thing on your list has and does work to get people's foot in the door at companies every day. Many of your assumptions('companies don't care about personal projects' in particular) are bunk. What a company wants to see when they interview you is that you are self motivated, driven, interested in solving problems and are capable and willing to write code. There is no better way to do this than to have personal projects online and/or contribute to projects. Sure maybe they don't particularly care about your app that collects, sorts and rates animated cat gifs on the internet but they care that you identified a 'problem', came up with a solution and implemented a proof of concept. Your final problem, and this might sound a bit mean, is that it doesn't really sound like you like programming all that much. I'm not necessarily saying you need to code up your own OS or something to be a programmer but the fact that you can't point to a single line of code you've done for the last few years is a bit troubling. To be completely honest you also sound a bit depressed - whether it's from the situation itself or not doesn't really matter. You should find someone to talk to and work on building some healthy habits. A lot of programmers have been there, myself included, and depression is a beast. Git it sorted. But in addition to talking to someone consider what kind of job you really want. Explore this. There's no shame in not being a coder(no matter what us nerds say) maybe you're interested in a different aspect or maybe you're interested in something else all together. Find a single person who has a job that you could see yourself in and happy - then find out what that person did to get there, what kinds of projects they worked on, what sort of jobs they looked for, what sort of certificates and programs they used. Use that to make a plan. Because that's the answer to your question: "How can I get past the 5 year gap on my resume for a technical field?" Step1 - Make a plan. Figure out exactly what kind of job you want to get, figure out what other people who have gotten that job have done. Step2 - Start networking. Join coding groups in your community. Most cities have meetups for different languages. Pick something(ANYTHING) and just start meeting people. Submitting applications is not how people get hired anymore, networking and meeting people is how you get hired. Step3 - If you want to get a job that involves programming write some code. Put it online. Doesn't matter what language, doesn't matter what program... just write some code. If you seriously haven't been writing code for the last 5 years your skills are probably incredibly out of date and rusty. Start writing code! Step3(alt) - if you don't want to be a programmer that's not a shameful thing. Figure out what does make you happy. 'A job' might be a short term answer but the reality is that this is a career you're potentially looking at for the rest of your life, take some time to make sure you end up going in a direction that will make you happy beyond 'I have a job'. Step4 - Find someone to talk to. You sound depressed and that's not a shameful thing. Lots of programmers are or have been depressed. Lots of people in general have been or are depressed. It will only get better when you do something about it. Step5 - Just do something. Not 'more applications' or more 'fat kid in a candy-store'ing. Just do something(even something small) differently. The cool thing about ruts is that although they are hard to get out of, often even small movements can make it easier.