Again, the general directly knows how generosity leads to good results and certain consequences within the present life, but needs to rely upon the Buddha in faith for knowledge of what happens after death. I think there are more reasons but this should be enough to establish that the Buddha of the suttas was talking about literal rebirth. Finally, in the Kalama Sutta, the Buddha declares that if one undertakes right actions, they will benefit in the here and now and can also be assured that (although they doubt the doctrine of reincarnation) if there is rebirth that is causally connected to one's deeds, then one will be born in a good destination. Further reading: For what I think is an interesting discussion of this and other issues of western Buddhist modernism, see B. Alan Wallace's critique of Stephen Batchelor's views on Buddhism: Distorted visions of Buddhism: Agnostic and atheist and Batchelor's reply: An open letter to B. Alan Wallace 

Forgive yourself or the other completely. Hindrances occur in the space between the awareness and the object of awareness; put lovingkindness or peace in the space between the knower and what is known. 

Thus I have heard...a monk got drunk and pointed his feet at the Buddha (a serious sign of disrespect in the Buddha's culture). At this, the Buddha banned the drinking of alcohol based on the fact that it can cause such serious lapses in mindfulness so as to lead a monk to show an extreme lack of respect. 

I am looking for a text that I recall having seen in which the Buddha says something like: There is no rest for those who are obsessed with thoughts such as 'he has wronged/harmed me' and similar. It may have been the Dhammapada...any help is appreciated. 

Although not quite nibbāna, I will contribute a drawing inspired by the experience of the base of neither perception nor non-perception by Tina Rasmussen, student of Pa Auk Sayadaw. 

As I understand it, 'vedana' is used to denote the pleasant, unpleasant, or neutral aspect of some experience. The term most closely tracks with the English terms 'valence' or 'hedonic tone', rather than normal uses of the term 'feeling.' 

I'm looking for a sutta in which the Buddha is recalling past lives, including, I believe, lives as the great Brahma, and asks himself on account of what actions he ascended to a position of such great power; he investigates and answers that it was because of three things. I remember two--abstention and giving--but can't remember the third. If anyone knows what passage I am talking about it would be much appreciated. 

Dukkha is a vast subject. After 50 years of practicing Buddhist mindfulness meditation based upon the Satipatthana Sutta as taught by the late Venerable Namgyal Rinpoche, I am able to talk about the kind of Dukkha that mindfulness meditation deals with, along with a little common-sense. For example, mindfulness helps a person stay objective. Hence, physical pain remains simply that--physical pain without an emotional response such as self-pity or anger. Yet, it remains painful to observe a loved one suffer, for that is the nature of compassion. Advanced states of mindfulness meditation have three other general benefits: (1) It allows a person to explore the siddhis (psychic powers that depend upon previous karma), such as perceiving the nature of karma and the nature of the Bodhicitta. (2) It frees the mind to function more in accord with the awareness, wisdom, and love of the Bodhicitta. (3) It brings a person to Enlightenment and helps them to understand Enlightenment, just as the Buddha promised. Beyond that, I am inclined to agree with the Tibetan Buddhists that the true purpose of Enlightenment is to help others suffer less rather than to achieve lasting true happiness. If you want more than that, then the karma-vipaka of that wish will turn around and bite you with disappointment. 

First of all, comparing oneself to others provides no insight into ones own karma. Secondly, the impulse to compare oneself to others is actually an issue related to self-esteem (valuing oneself or love for oneself), which, in turn, related to how much love one experienced during childhood. Hence, a person feels inferior to others because he feels unlovable. A person feels superior to others in order to feel more lovable than others. A person feels equal to others in order to feel at least equally lovable. Ultimately, the only way to overcome this dilemma is to become a deeply loving person and knowing the value of your love. This is how infants feel until they are put down or abused. 

The Pali term for ignorance is avijja. Avijja is sometimes equated to delusion (moha). But this is obviously a mistake because delusion involves false belief whereas ignorance is a lack of belief. There is a vast difference between false belief and the lack of belief. There is at least some hope in finding our false beliefs because they show up when we find relevant true beliefs. But lack of belief leaves us blind. Intellectually, of course, we can find new truths (such as the Dharma) that deal with intellectual ignorance. But that is not what avijja is about. Avijja is about a lack of awareness or perceptual knowledge. Without the appropriate awareness, a person remains ignorant in the sense meant by avijja. Knowing the Buddhist teachings is a good start, but only mindfulness meditation can deal with avijja. In my own practice of 50 years of mindfulness meditation, I can look back at earlier times and realize that, even though I was very familiar with Buddhadharma, my avijja was vast. And now, even though I am now aware of the foundations of the Teachings, I know that, on the level of awareness, the universe I have yet to explore is vast. Such is the nature of avijja. 

The Buddha's final days and death are described in the Maha-parinibbana Sutta I don't see anything there quite like the quote you mentioned. According to the sutta, the Buddha's final words were: 

Partial answer: I was told on a vipassana retreat in the tradition of S.N. Goenka that at first one may not be able to feel sensations in all of one's body, but being able to feel sensation in every part of one's body is a milestone that practitioners should reach as they advance in the practice. This seems to accord with my experience as well, that after prolonged practice one's sensitivity to the body increases. Also, in that tradition, one does a body sweep from the top of the head to the feet as you say you do. Hope that helps somewhat. 

I cannot think of any specific references about consecutive human births in the Pāli Canon, but one may, given the appropriate conditions, e.g., having practised generosity, achieve their desires for some kinds of birth. So, it seems that one could theoretically be reborn several times in a row as a human if they desired it and accomplished the necessary conditions. (cf. AN 8.35) 

Pa Auk Sayadaw treats this topic in Knowing and Seeing, P. 190-196. According to the Sayadaw, follow the method given for discerning the past, making appropriate changes to see the future, including future lives. He says there are multiple methods and this is one of them. 

In the Aghatavinaya Sutta, there are five antidotes given for arisen ill-will(āghāto). I am puzzled because one of these is to develop equanimity ("upekkhā tasmiṃ puggale bhāvetabbā") and another is to reflect on ownership of kamma, which is used to generate (/is the cause of) equanimity as I understand it. I don't understand what is intended by having these separate. Full text follows. 

In other words, Buddhists claim that harm in this world arises because of greed, hatred, and delusion; they seek to eliminate these sources of harm within themselves and to educate others so that they may do the same. So, on this view, Buddhists are addressing the root causes of suffering in themselves and others and helping people in this way--the most effective way. As the passage above implies, an ideal Buddhist is far from passive internally and, although she may appear to be so externally, one could argue that she is simply skillful/technical in her approach to the suffering of others. In summary, Buddhists want to use wisdom, rather than money and power, to help others. According to them, this is the most effective way to do so, and the only way to get to the cause of the problem; using power and money to alleviate worldly problems can be a temporary, palliative solution at best. The Buddha often compared himself to a doctor, treating the causes of suffering rather than exclusively treating the symptoms. 

When it comes to motivation or the lack thereof, Theravadin Buddhist psychology is based upon the concept of sankhara, which equivalent to the philosophical concept of schema. That is to say, motivation is determined by past experience in a way that makes sense. Hence the solution to a specific lack of motivation is to find a new motive that makes sense to you. 

According to the Visuddhimagga (Path of Purification), vipassana (insight meditation, mindfulness meditation, also wisdom or psychological insight) is characterized by upacara-samadhi (neighbourhood samadhi or access collectedness). Anger is one of the five nivarana (hindrances to upacara-samadhi) called uddhacca-kukkucca (restlessness and scruples, where anger is a form of restlessness). While upacara-samadhi provides access to appana-samadhi (full samadhi, jhana), it also provides access to panna (wisdom, insight, knowledge relevant to nibbana or nirvana), whereas appana-samadhi does not provide access to panna. A person does not practice vipassana merely by sitting on a meditation cushion and focusing the mind. The practice of vipassana also requires a state of upacara-samadhi. Hence, an angry person cannot practice vipassana. He must first calm his anger. After calming his anger, he may not be able to enter upacara-samadhi because of the presence of another nivarana. The term “klesa” is a Sanskrit variation of the Pali term kilesa (defilement, the Visuddhimagga lists ten defilements). Once a state of upacara-samadhi is achieved, panna may or may not arise. When panna does arise, it can take many forms, some of which are symbolic. To perceive the mind as having “two sides” was a symbolic representation of the fact that a sankhara (karma-formation, the psychological causes of an action) can be kusala (wholesome, free of defilements) or akusala (unwholesome, defiled) but not both. The mind, of course, has a vast number of sankhara(s), none of which are both wholesome and unwholesome. It would be a serious mistake to view the mind as having two sides like a coin, because (1) is a mere metaphor and (2) it is seriously ignorant of the Buddhist teachings. 

Be wary of the concept of guru and especially the person who claims to be one. Extraordinary teachers are rare and impossible to find. It is better to find a traditional and experienced teacher who makes no special claims. You may even consider a modern meditation center that offers MBSR, MBCT, and psychotherapy that has a large membership. Progress in meditation is largely psychological. 

Wisdom (pannindriya), of course, is a form of knowledge, a very important form of knowledge, but knowledge nonetheless. When wisdom is viewed as a mental factor (cetasika) of a moment of consciousness (citta), then that citta has a certain quality and not necessarily a simple quality. Indeed, I would suggest that none of the 52 cetasika are simple. All belief and knowledge are generated or caused by sankhara (schemata, in the terminology of Immanuel Kant). It does not make sense to say that knowledge or wisdom can be “united.” Nor does it make sense to say that knowledge or wisdom can be a “single entity.” A sankhara is a set of mental dispositions that makes it possible for us to make sense of experience, including meaningless experience. Only by means of sankhara do we make sense of anything. We cannot perform an action unless it makes sense to us. Wisdom does not “aggregate” and cetasika do not “collect.” Knowledge of any importance is necessarily complex.