You could actually try a mushroom bag, which is basically a cloth bag with a plastic liner that usually has a draw string to keep it tight. My mother in law has one, she uses it for shop brought mushrooms sometimes (you can also get similar potato ones) but the idea then is you can store them straight away. They tend to stop sweating and moulding of the mushrooms when you store them. You could also try a plastic container with holes in the base and loosely cover with clingfilm such as how they are stored in supermarkets. That should allow it to still breathe. Other than that John Wright always uses a wicker basket, and he is the mushroom man. Doesn't mean you have to use a traditional one, you could find a painted modern one? White painted wicker is pretty popular here for example. 

My other half used Tyvek when he was practicing Archery and one of the factors there was it had to be quiet, they used it for 4-6 hour stints to sit on. This is what he and some others in his club did: 

To quote UK Fossils, picking out a few of the many areas they suggest where Fossils are Common or Often Found in the North: North Wales: 

I recently took a short camping trip with a couple of friends when we encountered some intermittent showers. I foolishly forgot to check the forecast and forgot my waterproof jacket. I was handed an umbrella and managed to stay relatively (cheap construction didn't stand up to PNW rain) dry the rest of the trip. What should I look for in an umbrella for use in the backcountry and/or backpacking? While I do not mind a researched answer, I prefer an experience-based answer. Note: I am not dead-set on this as a replacement for rain gear. I am considering it as a supplement and possible alternative to a hooded outer shell. 

The main reason for focusing on smaller sections of the wood/log is that it helps prevent one of the biggest problems that improper batoning has: getting your wedge stuck. This is why the majority of people who baton use a knife of decent size (more blade spine to baton while processing the wood). If the wood is not split by the time your wedge has sunk fully in the wood, you're going to have to remove it (this often involves a groan, a smattering of grunts, and usually a few expletives) and try a different position. After processing a few bundles worth of wood, you'll likely get the feel for what will, and will not, nicely split. Safety concerns of baton selection: Batons should not be made of metal. I cannot stress this enough. Metal-on-metal contacts can damage your wedge and creates a safety hazard, such as flying shards. I have personally had to remove a few shards from the arm of my jacket when I was tired and absentmindedly used the back of an older camp axe as a baton. General safety: While this may seem safer, you are still swinging a solid object and working with a blade. Treat anybody who's batoning with the same considerations you would give to somebody swinging an axe. Let me know if I left anything out or need to clarify anything. 

After having a look on Google I found that yes you can use a pull buoy out in open water, and that they are often used in Triathlons to help the swimmer as they will often be very tired at this point and can allow their legs to rest between the bicycle stint and the running stint. This is as they are designed to improve your pull, leaving your legs to 'drag' through the water. There does not seem to be any specific technique to using a pull buoy in the open water either, only the recommendation to not use one too often as you can become more reliant on them as they change how you swim (you can be less horizontal in the water), and not to use one if you have current lower back pain - but this applies to both pool swimming and open water swimming. A pull buoy is also used to learn Bilateral Breathing – breathing on both sides - which is where you breathe on both sides during a freestyle / front-crawl swim. This can be done out at sea as well as in a pool. 

Fat balls or bars Black sunflower seeds Mealworms Cooked rice (when food is incredibly scarce) Any feed with large chunks of nut in, these are suitable for winter only. 

Why would this be? Is it a coincidence that the dividing line appears to be right in the middle of the bridge? Are such anomalies common? 

and doing a little more research after the same can be seen in the official map for another run that crosses the bridge available here (the elevation map in the bottom right shows the same drop between ~17.5 and 20 miles when the route is south of the bridge's half way point). 

Exactly the same occurs in reverse on the return leg of course. The two half-marathon traces I included seem to be using slightly different map data. On the trace taken from my trip the riverside is an obvious curve and the "no data" section is shorter. On the other trace the altitude data stops closer to the sides of the river so the flat parts of the trace are longer. Also it seems that instead of using the nearest point on the map for which there is data it is using the last point visited for which there is data, so the sudden change in altitude occurs when altitude data "appears" again (near the sides of the river) rather than half way between the points where there is data, so near the end of the bridge the traveller is heading towards rather than in the middle of the bridge. The trace on the full marathon PDF is a little different again because the traveller never goes further south then the bridge exit, immediately turning under the bridge to join the other carriageway to go back north. Comments? This seems to make sense in our heads at least... 

Yes, this isn't an uncommon practice for tent manufacturers nowadays. They're normally family tents, big 6-8 man, but you can get some smaller 2 mans which are inflatable. It's generally for the ease of people car camping with kids, the quicker the tent goes up the better, or car camping in general as you need a pump usually. Some are in combination with the odd pole still, but there are plenty of manufacturers who do this such as: 

Ok so this is a nice piece of information I did not know - Posties have always had a nickname of sorts, and it could be a valid reason for why they are on Christmas cards etc around that time of year, however there are other speculations too. Christianity: 

Having had horses myself, here in England, part of the reason you give way if you hear a horse coming on a Bridleway is because (and I say this having been in the situation) there is no speed limit for horses on Bridleways (some might have a trot sign but not always), if you're cantering or galloping along which you have every right to do it's harder for us to stop and wait than it is for people to step over. Horses at speed are dangerous to horse, rider and spectator. We giveway to bikers in my area for the same reason, they ring their bell, we move over. Same to joggers. My area in general seems to have an etiquette of slowest mover stops. I admit that is also incredibly rude to gallop past someone, but there is some historic value to that with UK hunts. Dog and Riders trump people and cars when any form of UK Hunt is being undergone. On roads, horses are inherently skittish, but not always. Anything from a plastic bag to a lorry's air brake may but not necessarily will set a horse off, which is why in the UK horses on the road trump cars, cars must slow down and pass slowly, emergency vehicles turn off sirens etc. I once even had armed forces slow their march for us as we rode through their land. Regardless, in the UK as well the rider must make themselves clearly known - high vis is required to walk on our roads, and in general this means you should on a bridleway as well. Part of hacking etiquette around where I am from. In some locations where walkers are common you might also need a license to hack, I've had this in public woodland. In my experience as both horse rider and hiker, it's best for the hiker to step over and wait, and for the rider, whether of horse or of bike, to slow down (if possible) and say thank you ... you will be surprised how many people don't. For the most part around Buckinghamshire, simply being a walker / biker / outdoors person will put you in a sort of polite and thankful outdoors social circle. Many walkers, and various riders, will say 'Good morning / Afternoon' or 'Hello' to you as you pass, and for the most part they remember to say 'Thank you' as well. 

I've been researching tents to replace some low-quality dome tents that each have had a partial rainfly. Every tent I've owned that has had a partial rainfly has performed horribly in the rain (I pitched them correctly and used guylines when available). I have a tent that has a full-coverage rainfly and has performed quite well. What are the pros and cons of a full-coverage rainfly? I'm mostly interested in three-season responses aimed at temperate and subalpine climates, but wouldn't mind four-season/winter responses, as well as other climates. Disclaimer: The images linked were chosen arbitrarily to illustrate my description. I have no affiliation with the tents or brands pictured. 

I normally baton with a large knife, but the principle remains the same (driving a wedge to split the wood). I taught myself how to baton in order to quickly make kindling from larger sections, often quarter-rounds, while my little cousin was around. Batoning can be performed on logs or thickers sticks, depending on your needs and the size of your wedge. I often find myself hacking up sections of fallen branches before batoning them into usable kindling. 

Select your wedge (axe), baton (a piece of wood or plastic that fits comfortably in your hand), location (harder ground or rock, but not concrete, as it can crack), and wood (firewood, branch, etc). Position your wood and wedge. Where your wedge's blade goes will depend on what you're splitting. You may be able to go straight through the center of a small-ish branch (like this). In the case of logs, I tend to remove lengthwise corner sections (like this). Once you've positioned the wood, wedge, and have your baton in hand, begin batoning. To baton, treat the action like you're hammering a nail. Swinging too lightly won't get you anywhere, while swinging too hard initially may displace your wedge from your wood. Once the wood has been split, rinse and repeat steps 1-3 to make smaller sections of wood or to process other pieces of wood. 

For someone who has never done it before, what is the best way to start learning how to forage in the UK? Do you require anything specific to start doing this? 

What is the correct way to store a bow after use? Is there any specific care that is needed pre and post storage? 

So roughly a month ago my other half and I brought ourselves each a SOT plastic kayak, we've been out on the water for maybe 2 hours total paddling time, but mine filled up with water. We found a hole, approx. 1cm by 0.4cm, in the seam of the plastic in one of the two rear drainage holes, too small to get your hand down easily. I am currently talking to the manufacturer about a replacement. However this has lead me to wonder (outside of warranty) how would I go about repairing a hole in a plastic kayak? Varied sized holes, and temporary and permanent fixes, I understand will vary. 

So this proves, for those of a keen eye, that there's inherently nothing special about the Robin Male vs Female, only the juveniles have a different colouring, no changes throughout the seasons like some mammals, nothing. They're pretty dapper in their red chests all year. SoWhyDoI 

Having talked about this to a couple of people offline who have some experience with mapping, we have a working theory (though I'll not accept my own answer unless+until others confirm these ideas). 

As mentioned in the other answers and comments the altitude is not coming from the GPS readings. Because satellites are essentially on the same plane (relative to the sideways difference in their locations) altitude calculations have such a high error range that (at least on consumer-grade phone/watch style devices) they are at best general indicators. For this reason, again also alluded to in other answers/comments, reference map data is used instead. There is effectively an altitude difference of the road either side of the river, the south side is lower at the point that the height mapping data becomes available than the north side at the point that the height mapping data becomes available. The available height data is the issue - in the sources used there is nothing (not even a reading of the riverbed height) for the bulk of the bridge. The data used only contains data for land that is at least mostly permanently above water. If you look at the trace either side (I didn't notice this before) you can see it going down as if it is following the river floor not the road height. Where this is no data the height of the closest point with data is used. The closest point with data switches about half way over which is why there is a sudden change, because as per point 2 there is is difference in altitude between those last points with altitude data.