effort to prevent unwholesome mental states. effort to abandon unwholesome mental states. effort to develop wholesome mental states effort to maintain & increase wholesome mental states 

My answer: Some Buddhist texts when discussing non-Buddhist views appear to use the term 'atta' for 'soul', reflecting the beliefs of non-Buddhists about an eternal soul or abiding essence, such as: 

The 2nd method leads to calm & (if the non-verbal emotional hindrances can be calmed) to the joy of concentration. 

Buddhism does not generally say people "shouldn't" feel bad. Instead, Buddhism generally points out the causes of feeling bad. 

All dogs are animals but all animals are not dogs. Similarly, each of the 1st three rupa jhanas has pleasure as a factor however all feelings of pleasure are not jhana. Each jhana is characteristized by ekaggatā (one-pointedness; stillness; unmovingness) rather than by feelings of pleasure. That said, jhana is not reached by 'effort'. It is reached by 'letting go', as quoted below: 

The above statement is itself 'misology' because an explanation how in the first place ignorance arose is unknowable. It is not possible to apply reason & logic to that which is unknowable. In AN 10.61, the Buddha taught the origin of ignorance cannot be known however what sustains or feeds ignorance (namely, the five hindrances) can be both known & eradicated. Therefore, although the origin of ignorance cannot be known, ignorance can be eradicated. This is similar to the origin of life. The origin of life cannot be known but life is easily eradicated, such as by starvation, disease, suffocation or weapons. 

Your friend has the non-Buddhist sectarian view described in AN 3.61. Due to this wrong view, your friend has no solution to suffering & lives unprotected, as is warned in AN 3.61. 

In respect to the four great elements, the Buddha used this in his definition of the physical body for the purposes of Dependent Origination, i.e., to show how ignorance-created-formations (sankhara) condition stress & agitation in the physical body (rupa): 

The Aggañña Sutta is superstition, not spoken by the Buddha or, otherwise, merely a parable. Since suttas such as AN 4.77 & MN 122 criticise talk about 'creation', why would the Buddha contradict these teachings and speak the Aggañña Sutta? 

PaticcaSamuppada is about how ignorance pollutes/taints the elements & senses leading to the creation of suffering rather than about how the elements & senses are physically or neurologically created, as shown in the following quote: 

Similar to a modern counselor, the Gautama Supreme Buddha was 'client centered'. Due to psychic power, the Gautama Supreme Buddha taught people what was suitable for them. However, because you don't have psychic power, a starting point is to ask (with equanimity) the other person what they think will happen at death. 

Rapture can certainly arise from suppressing hindrances but it will not be jhana (even though many practitioners mistake it to be jhana). 

In terms of the teachings, anatta & sunnata are different because anatta was taught 1st, in the 2nd sermon of the Buddha, where a gradual sermon was given that associated anatta with anicca (impermanence). Here, it was reasoned because something is impermanent & subject to disease, it cannot be a 'self' or regard as 'mine' ('belonging to self'). When the minds of the listeners penetrated this reality, the self-views in the mind dissolved, which was enlightenment. (In addition, the teaching of 'dukkha' also helped extinguished the defilements, such as craving). As for sunnata, it does not rely on impermanence because it simply, correctly & directly asserts there is no self within the five aggregates. This is easily observed in meditation. For example, observing the breathing itself or a body part or observing sense consciousness itself, in can be seen easily there is no 'self' in the breathing or in a finger or in sense consciousness; just as it can be seen easily there is no 'self' in a rock, tree or cloud. In conclusion, anatta was a gradual teaching for beginners that used impermanence (anicca) to assist in the realisation. However, when the realisation itself occurs, there is no difference from sunnata. 

In Buddhism, there are many kinds of causation. See this link about the five 'niyama' or 'laws of causation' (physical, biological, mental, moral & dhamma/spiritual). The twelve links are the conditions leading to suffering; the cessation of which leads to Nirvana. They are 'dhamma niyama' or 'spiritual causation'. The twelve links are not mental causation (citta niyama). Therefore, sense objects can be experienced without ignorance because mere sense objects (which are mental causation) are not suffering in themselves. The only absence of causation is Nirvana, when the twelve links stop creating suffering. As for the other four kinds of causation, they keep rolling on (unless human life becomes extinct, which would make extinct moral causation & leave three laws of causation). 

I recall around 20 years ago an Australian university psychology professor wrote a local newspaper article about what he regarded as superior self-esteem in Thai children. I have lived in traditional (provincial/village) Thai culture & I can attest to this. I would suggest, at least for Thailand, this is obviously a combination of cultural factors, including: (1) the loving-kindness of the Thai monks in Thailand; (2) the traditional strong maternal culture in Thailand & the amazing lovingness of Thai mothers (3) the traditional material simplicity of the culture; and (4) the general morality of the culture. For example, with the recent huge growth of commercial (Western) materialism in Thailand and cultural focus upon the accumulation of wealth, being physically beautiful, having social status, etc, I would imagine the lack of self-esteem issues would be growing. The Buddha taught self-respect (including lack of regret) comes from the practise of morality & generosity. I would suggest Western self-esteem issues arise from judgmental religious culture, patriarchal culture, unloving parenting, childhood abuse, narcissistic media/commercial/entertainment expectations &/or unskillful behavioral conduct, particularly sexual. In women this can be most prevalent, as seen in body-image issues, but also in men, particularly with expectation of sexual bravado. Traditional Thai culture, for example (contrary to the sex-tourism stereotype) has a matriarchal bent & men are raised to not be sexually aggressive & women are raised to be assertive. British culture in particular is traditionally authoritarian towards children whereas in Thailand, for example, children do not stand up for adults on a crowded bus. It is the opposite. Adults give children the seats on crowded buses. Traditionally in Balinese culture, the children were considered to be the 'gods'. This Thai video is an interesting insight because we would not expect children visiting a western religious institution to behave as free, without fear & uninhibited as shown in the video. Video: $URL$ 

Mindfulness means remembering or keeping in mind what you must remember to do. For example, if my current duty or purpose is to work (rather than post on a chatsite), I should be mindful of my work (instead of getting distracted on a chatsite). Similarly, if my duty is to focus on the body in & of itself, that is the pre-occupation of mindfulness rather than mindfulness itself. Therefore, present moment awareness can be a result, product, object or pre-occupation of mindfulness but is not mindfulness itself. For the mind to have present moment awareness, it must stop thinking. The role of mindfulness here is to remember to not think. The awareness (consciousness, observantness) arises automatically. It is not mindfulness but only a product of the mindfulness that remembers to stop thinking (about the past or future). 

The truth of the Buddha is the method to end suffering. When a person tests the method & it works, they know the truth of the method, similar to when medicine is effective in curing in a sickness. In Buddhism, there is no truth apart from personal verification, as taught: 

Buddhism is unrelated to vegetarianism, which is the fetter of sīlabbata-parāmāsa (i.e., using morality in ways that is unrelated to the goal).