Considering that I can survive with only half of my brain, and I am a mind living in a body. If we would split my brain in two and then implant one part into some other body and leave other half in my head: 

When you would read this book for the first time it would be able to predict your thoughts exactly. Then as you would go amazed with it trying to figure out where the catch is - you would do the guessing game, by thinking of the sentence in your mind then reading same exact sentence by opening the page you haven't read before... and book would not miss once.... At this point you should conclude that ether you are high on psychedelics, or suffering from acute schizophrenia.... Book cannot prove God... EDIT: The point I am trying to make is since you cannot trust your senses (Descartes) no external source (including books) will be reliable to prove/disprove God... 

This question is coming out from our conversation with @Conifold: He believes that for creation of another omnipotent being 'strong' omnipotence is required. 

Would there be two of me, or none of 'new' individuals could be considered as me? Who would have right to my belongings (job,...) and the right to be me, none or both? How things would change if we would implant both parts of brain into different bodies? 

A world without randomness presupposes many things and is impossible to assess, but assuming that the only thing that has changed is our knowledge that the world is not random we can then try to evaluate free will. So, what is free will? For the sake of argument, we can call it the ability of agents to make unimpeded choices. Obviously all choices are impeded to some extent by our experience, but we want to know whether randomness is what allows our choices. This is where the premise is obviously silly. Randomness has no logical connection to choice. Just because I make a calculated decision, one that is not random, would not inherently mean I did not make the decision. How can I make a particular choice, if my choice is random. Agency, is far more deep and controversial than a debate between randomness and determinism. For instance, what determines our actions are often well illustrated as not random, in fact in social science and psychology we often see the causation behind action, but that does not necessarily take away agency. For example, I may choose one job over another because of very concrete, non-random reasons like salary (a value shown by society), but that does not inherently mean I didn't make the choice unimpeded. If I randomly decided which job, I would not illustrate free will, all that happened was chance. Second, even if my choices are caused by non-random circumstance, that does not mean that circumstances do not create agency. Physical reactions may create a quality of agency as defined above that then follows non-random behaviors. Finally, we live in a world with more or less free will. For instance, a trafficked prostitute has more agency than a prostitute that is not trafficked (much of this is determined by the discourse of how states define women and prostitution). In the most meaningful way, one person can have less impeded choices than others, which illustrates, regardless of randomness or determinism, free will. 

Basically idea is that if you will convince yourself that you will get cancer you will get it, and if you will convince yourself that you have pockets full of cash then they will become full. EDIT: One shouldn't be able to attract something that he is not aware of in a frame that things only happen when one convinces himself of them being true. Is there possible logical explanation for person 'attracting' cancer (in 'law of attraction' frame) if he does not know what cancer is? 

I am having some doubts in understanding universalisation of maxims in Kants Categorical Imperative. 

I would argue against that fear of failure is as good of a motivator as confidence in oneself's success and domination. Let's consider following situation: Game is won by best of 5 Player1 has 2 victories. Player2 has 0 and 2 losses. Player2 is driven by fear of loss as he is only one game away from defeat. Player1 is driven by confidence as he need to fail all 3 games in a row to loose. In given scenario Player1 will benefit more from employing risky strategy because if he losses it's not tragic - he has 2 more games. Player2 on the other hand does not have this luxury and will try to play most standard game because of his fear of loss and therefore is more likely to loose to 'all in' strategy. 

Daniel Dennett has nicely provided answers to the question of determinism. He claims that determinism and inderterminism are not incompatible. Fundamentally, we cannot definitively answer the question, nor does it make a difference if things are determined or not. Either way, we are morally obligated. Nevertheless, your logic for a deterministic universe is problematic. You say that a copy has the same rules as what it is copied from, therefore because the rules do not change the universe is determined. I don't see the logic? Football has the same rules copied from one game to the next, but each game is different and prior to the end, the outcome is unknown. The same rules mean that the constraints are the same, but it doesn't delineate all the opportunities or determine how the rules are used. Is a mathematical function for social relations obtainable? The very probability that math is correct hinges on the fact that some things are impossible to prove (Gödel's incompletness theorem), thus an all knowing mathematical genius would be unable to predict the future with math. If she knew everything about math (the ability to prove it all), math would be a contradiction and not useful for prediction. If she didn't know everything in math (couldn't prove it all) she would also not be all knowing, and would again be unable to predict the future. There cannot be a being with predictive mathematical determinism. A paradox like you posed points out that such a being cannot exist (for other examples of paradoxes that illustrate that something is false see the village barber paradox).