Homeworld Zyns have evolved on ocean moon of Ctalul, the single major moon of gas giant Darstan which orbits the orange dwarf Verrstbirt. Ctalul was once an icy planet with an unstable orbit until it was captured by its parent gravity and when the gas giant has migrated in habitable zone, the world has become molten. Ctalul orbits its parent in 38.793 earth days and has a local solar day of 35h53m39s.36. Ctalulian atmosphere is thiner than earth (0.99 atm) and it composed of nitrogen, oxygen,argon and water vapours. The climate of this world is eternal spring-like and is a low gravity (0.25374 g). Being a waterworld without any solid surface, Ctalul has abundant floating vegetation which function as a food and shelter for native flying fauna. Biology Zyns are an aquatic race resembling earth cephalopods. Zyns have twelve tentacles which all can be used to manipulate objects. Zyns have the best eyesight of all sentient species, they are capable to see visible spectrum to humans and different frequencies of radio waves,infrared spectrum,ultraviolet rays and X-rays and because of this they are formidable enemies able to shoot their weapons with a very high precision. Unlike their earth counterparts, Zyns have a very centralized nervous system. Zyns are able to generate and sustain electric fields used to attack prey or to defend against predators. The electric fields can be also used to generate bioluminescence which can be used as form of long range communication. Society and government Zyn are an hive minded species, the queens aren't leaders, they are just the female reproductive system of the hive. Barons, fertile males, form the governing bodies and male reproduvtive system of Zyns. Workers are infertile females who do all manual labour,scientific research and engineering for the hive. Soldiers are infertile males which form the military of Zyns, they are strongest of all Zyns and come in two flavours, aquatic and aerial. Zyn workers have symbotic relationship with plants from Cenpolla genus. The plants offer room for metalurgy and a liquid that strenghten the electric field generated by Zyns, while the Zyns offer the plants the minerals from metalurgy waste and help them by making pollination of their flowers. Zyns curently suffer from a mysterious disease that severly reduce the number of workers born. Since Zyn robotics aren't as efficient as those of other species, the only logical solution to compesate for the small number of workers was enslavement of other sentient species. Zyns implement control chips in their slaves in order to keep them in line, these chips are known to cause severe headaches when a wearer display some rebellious feeling, the migraines can lead to mental illness and suicide. Slaves are given the right to keep their native technology. 

Time is relative. It depends where your observer is... If your astronaut travels with the speed of light (impossible btw) than it would be for him near instantly (Well except acceleration and deceleration). But we on earth would think he travelled 6 billion years into the future. (Since we would age but he wouldn't.) An observer* who is outside of earth, the exit point, and the travel path would see the astronaut going from earth to the other point in 6 billion years. But I think you asked for a scenario, where an observer* would see the astronaut on earth and the next second 6 billion light years away. In that case nobody of your audience would think he travelled through time. *Well it must be an omniscient being, since he would need to be far away and the light needs to travel far. As far as I understand time and space cannot be separated. That's why physicists talk about spacetime. Also time is relative. It is really confusing. Watch some videos about it and be confused. For example the twin paradox^^ Answer: For your question: No it isn't timetravel. At least not in any sense your audience would understand. But ask in Physics SE or phone a professor at your local university. 

Only psychological and ethical problems would be bigger. Since you should save everyone and shouldn't shoot every zombie. For the mutation, not every zombie would have it. But most, since zombies with that mutation would reproduce faster. 

In every scenario you can come up for a zombie outbreak, a cure would make it less disastrous. And if the cure wouldn't help, you can just ignore it. 

With these in mind, together with the assumption that the magnetic charge of a monopole is directly propotional to its mass, then theoretically, magnetic equivalents of nucleons and electrons (called magnuclei and magtrons respectively) can stably exist as magatoms. Magatoms, having large charges, will typically have larger masses and also greater internal attraction-repulsion forces, therefore making them extremely dense, but also extremely strong materials. A magatom may be imagined as a big north pole orbited by small south poles. 

Source Based on the image, I can deduce that strong lasers are concentrated into the target chamber, generating enough power to "rip spacetime". This results to the energy being dissipated as a stream of radiation and virtual particles transferring their momenta into the ship. That stream is magnetically directed towards the back part of the ship to create thrust. 

Apart from that, magmatter can also collapse into a blackhole if magatoms are oriented too close together, making strings, sheets, and hollow objects of magmatter the most practical structures. 

The four topics I discussed are more tightly related than I may have discussed them, but the simple premise is that language, thought, and perception will merge into a single concept. If the answer is yes and a convention for mixed sensations will indeed provide people with the privilege to broadcast the entirety of themselves, what would become of such a society? But if no, and allowing ourselves to consciously develop mixed sensations and be able to communicate them more efficiently still cannot allow us to completely and truly understand one another, then what can? 

And no you could probably get away with GPS satellites but no communication satellites not the other way around. GPS satellites don't need much data transferred. 

PS: They could find out gravity exists, but highly unlikely until they see stars and planets. Some experiments: $URL$ 

They could see the other side. Or the shadow on a moon or other stations next to them. They lived on another planet and know the flight path of projectiles should be different. That would be more of a feeling. Cause if you look at that tennis simulator you wouldn't say "Oh we are in a spinning cylinder" here. Maybe the answers from physics SE here help you. They could just walk along it until they came back to the beginning. And then measure there curvature. They find out that if you let drop something a given distance at different heights, it changes how much energy you get. You would just need clay and a heavy ball to prove that. So did we find out, that E=mgh (<-would be different for them) and E=1/2*m*v^2 (<-would be the same). They find a book about it and test/believe it. (When people today believe the earth is flat, you need for nothing proof -.- ) Maybe even only a children book that explains earth and easy experiments to prove the earth is rotating. They test it and it doesn't work. So now they wonder on what they live. The station wobbles and they get something like earthquakes. With MAGIC...Ahem, sorry, I mean SCIENCE. And you just don't explain more :-/ 

For the locomotor skills you required, I'd say the human body plan is enough, albeit with slightly longer arms and three-jointed legs for quadrupedal motion, a prehensile tail for high-speed maneuvers, an opposable toe for each foot, and a highly flexible membrane connecting the forearms, hips, and forelegs for gliding and rolling. The creature would like a cross between a monkey, a flying squirrel, and a cat. Momo from Avatar:TLA would be the closest creature, minus the oversized ears. 

What can I say, other than such a race will possess the maddest parkour skills. If such extremely developed senses are accompanied by an extremely agile musculature, micro or high g's will have little effect on their physical performance. Not only will underwater sports become popular to them, but even aerial and orbital playground will have such strong appeal to their species they'll probably be better living offworld within bizarre artificial habitats, a la parkour heavens. Aside from being space ninjas, they'll also be highly sensitive to any stimulus across the senses in their body-map. Therefore, their surgery and tracking techniques will also be as awesome. If they're not gifted with innate full-organ or full-limb regeneration, an individual can perform transplants by itself. As a species, they'll quickly advance towards transhuman-equivalents since body modifications are the next generation of self-operated transplants. One downside I can say though, is that they'll have trouble meditating, or sleeping at that matter. Since they are sensitive to the minutest enviromental changes and its effects within their bodies, they'll probably require dampener drugs or hormones that will minimize their sensitivities whenever they need to relax. They'll be ninjas or surgeons or ninja-surgeons at best. At worst, they'll be paranoid addicts or sedentary monks. 

I don't know why it is important for your story. So I also told you some stuff that I wouldn't consider a medically viable reason. But they could make the problem worse, even if you don't like them as sole reason. Radiation? If you go with radiation, because the space ships aren't shielded enough. hte egg cells in a fetus gets killed. Of course I would also expect some babies do have mutations and more people die because of cancer, if the radiation is not shielded enough. Zero Gravity? We think you could give birth in space, because humans can give birth in water. But that is only a guess at the moment. It could be, that the head of the baby doesn't align itself. Or the umbilical cord goes around the head, because somehow inertia. They could have all c-sections, but operations in space are hard, because of the fluids you would need/want a special suit or room. So no fluids can go into equipment. For the same reason you would want special rooms, or suits for the baby making. (But I think it would not stop them from the baby making.) Logistical? Just not enough food. Lets say you only have 1 ton of carbon atoms on board. You could only make so much humans out of it. (10 ton of humans, with the assumption 10% of our mass is carbon atoms.) And you would need also carbon atoms for food. Even if you recycle every carbon atom. At a point you have no carbon atoms outside of humans. Not enough space... okay that is weak, especially if you want a generation ship. Were you replace only dead people. Politicians were stupid and split men and women on different ships... Yeah.. Really stupid. Environment Some material release some toxin into the air/food. And they can't get it out or find it or stop it, because without the material or machine all would die. So yeah, less babies get born. **Social? aka stupid reasons ** It could be a society who doesn't like babies. Maybe because their religion says you can only have souls if you were born on earth. Or nobody wants to sex their children. So depending on population size in one ship, you could have an all male population. (Look below for a possibility) Or the opposite, everyone wants a boy. Or the 2nd generation doesn't like to be only considered breeders. Or only few are allowed to have children, so nobody wants any, because of envy from everybody else. Bad Luck? Through unlucky events, they get a population with less females. Maybe they started with 50 woman and 50 man because an evacuation wants to get everyone off planet. Not like a Generation ship which could send out an all female crew with frozen sperm that is selected for x chromosomes. And some freak accident happened and because of that 30 woman die or are now infertile. Genes? Maybe they kept only few men for reproduction (Like they only let 1 in 100 male fertilized eggs develop into a child). Because men have then more children (~1000) than women (~8), you get more offspring, if you produce more sons (Even if the sons have only 1 in 100 chance of surviving). Since the sperm cells decide which sex the baby will have, the genes to produce more male offspring will get passed down easier. (From father to son, which produces more sons.) Lets say they let a lottery decide which male embryos get implanted into a willing mother. Then the genes that produces 800 males from 1000 fertilization have better chances to get picked up than genes that produces 500 from 1000. Worse when they find out what happened, most males only produce male offspring and only very rarely female. And nearly all females have the same genes for male only sperm. Meaning if one male gets a female offspring, that female will have still the same gene for more male offspring, which she would pass on to potential sons. Of course there could be other reasons making each issue worse. Other reason: Maybe have the same effect (lack of babies/miscarriage) with another explanation/reason, where you don't need to make assumption about medicine. When people really get pregnant in space, your book/world wouldn't need to be adjusted. I wouldn't believe a world exactly like our earth, except where plains can't fly because of different physics. I would believe that it is to expensive, because we don't have much aluminum and kerosene. Some ideas I got from there: $URL$ 

And here's a size comparison between a magmatter nanotube (the tiny blue line on the lower left) and a classical carbon nanotube. 

Noumenal Conveyance Noumenon is the opposite of phenomenon. It is a thing as itself, an object's fundamental existence as opposed to a thing as represented by other things. If somehow, other sensory perceptions, correlations, and interpretations, are heightened and integrated altogether as to build a comprehensive copy of reality within the mind, wouldn't that create noumena out of raw phenomena? Likewise, a multimedia communication system that involves recreating the noumena by exhibiting all their constituent phenomena should be possible as well. A thing-as-itself can be made communicable by integrating and exhibiting the thing-as-it-appears from different sensory perspectives 

Simply put, this creature is engineered to be an interstellar steed, with enough reason to use insane amounts of power to sustain equally insane metabolic pathways. 

Organized Synesthesia is the biological version of multimedia arts. Within the brain, synesthesia occurs as an interpretation of sensory data from a sense organ that is somehow associated with a type of sensory data from a different sense organ. The idea of hearing smells and tasting emotions probably leads to disorganized thoughts, but enhances the synesthete's pattern recognition abilities. But by making the recognizable patterns available for correlation to consequently develop entirely new "meta-senses" arising from those correlations, maybe we can re-organize thoughts even better. The simplest example I could give would be a sensory ability made for sentient photosynthetic organisms, designed to find the optimal light settings to have enjoyable meals with maximum nutritional value. Simply put, a creature can taste the rainbow and the sunlight by having: