Several issues with this idea. 1) The vast majority of the solar wind is composed of electrons and protons, with small amounts of helium, oxygen, and other heavy elements depending on if the solar wind is coming from coronal holes or contains a solar flare/CME. 2) The particles coming to the poles (through the length process of day-side reconection, tail transport, lobe compression, and night side reconnection) are not moving perpendicular to the magnetic field, they are moving along the field (parallel) so the only difference between charged motion is the gyro-orbit, which you would be hard pressed to separate in a meaningful way. 3) Aurora are actually caused by the night side reconnection releasing large amounts of stored energy into the poles. This is not a continuous process but occurs in spurts. In addition, most of the charged particles coming into the poles are electrons, further limiting the amount of oxygen you are going to be able to collect. Overall, even with only a small energy draw, there won't be enough charge separation to power a contraption such as this with just polar flux. You are also only going to collect a very small amount of oxygen and even less from other elements. Even if you removed the artificial magnetosphere and collected the solar wind directly there won't be enough to create an artificial atmosphere. 

My story takes place in medieval times, where ghosts are a common sight. I'm not gonna go in too much detail, but lets just say that it's perfectly normal for living human beings to interact with ghosts, even in broad daylight. Unfortunately, some of the ghostly members of society can be very troublesome, especially because of some common ghost abilities they possess (hehe), the big five being: 

One of the characters in my (would be) game becomes deaf from a car accident early on in his life. Because of the circumstances surrounding the car crash, he refuses to use his hearing aid for anything outside school. So when he talks to people outside of school, he relies heavily on lip reading, to the point where some people don't even realize he's deaf - he keeps the fact that he's deaf a secret. The rare times his lip reading skills don't "save" him, such as when someone called out his name when he was looking the other way, is just blamed on social awkwardness, something along those lines. Cue the question above: how well would a deaf person be able to read lips? I know there are certain factors that affect how much you understand (I heard lip readers hate people with beards and moustaches), but could it be so good that someone might not even notice that the person they're talking to is deaf, unless they notice how fixated the person is on their lips? 

Earth experiences pretty significant tidal forces, and it doesn't seem to affect habitability too much. The crust flexes, the oceans rush in and out, and we're fine. Some life actually relies on it. Io, a moon of Jupiter, experiences significant tidal flexing, enough to generate serious heat and geological activity. So, it seems entirely possible for tidal forces to be strong enough to effect habitability. Constant volcanoes filling the air with ash and toxic chemicals, serious earthquakes moving dirt around and preventing plants from taking hold. So, you're question really boils down to "How strong are the tidal forces experienced by horseshoe moons?" Which is a very difficult question. The strength of tidal force is mostly based on distance, and it can be very difficult to predict how close these moons get to each-other. To get extremely close together, they would have a large difference between the innermost and outermost radius of their orbits. They would approach each other at a higher velocity. They would swap quickly. They would repeat their swaps more often. (relatively, we're still looking at several orbits to complete the swap and several hundred orbits between swaps) A horseshoe orbit that never gets very close is pretty much the same thing, but slower. The two moons are always close to the same distance from the planet. The swap places at a greater distance from each other. Since they interact with each other more weakly, the swap takes longer. It might be tens of thousands of orbits between swaps. tldr; It can probably be whatever you want, but the details are hard. 

First you need to answer if there will be another other celestially periodic behavior. Are there moons? Do they orbit in regular patterns? Are there other planets in the system that are detectable? Is the planet in a perfectly circular orbit? Lacking celestial observations I would think that the people would judge time based on some biological metric. Most likely judging their "year" to be dependent on their most commonly grown crop. Or some other local flora or fauna's life cycle. As they got more advanced they would most likely discover periodic motion of pendulums and such and tune their time keeping to a specific length pendulum. Until they got sufficiently advanced enough to develop atomic clocks. 

Imagine if instead of Leif Ericson or Christopher Columbus finding humans, they had found (insert your favorite non-hominid humanoid here) with a similar technological development to the humans they did find. Would there be any real difference in the end result (in terms of colonization and genocide)? 

Since this takes place in medieval times, Ghostbusters-type technology and gadgets are out of the question, and I also want to avoid "blessed" weapons, because not all ghosts are pure evil after all. The ghosts also can't harm each other, so you can't just enlist some friendly ghosts to take care of the troublemakers. I want the heroes of my story to use some kind of material for their weapons that would make sense to be effective against ghosts, either scientifically (if you assume something like ghosts can exist) or... mythologically? This material has to be availalbe in medieval times. Ideas I had: 

Two wedding rings - one on the ring finger, one on the middle finger - and something in the hand to transfer the force to the palm instead of the fingers (maybe a small piece of wood or metal). How well could this be used as an actual weapon to cause damage with normal punches? Would it be too risky for the user? 

Or Flat Jupiters, maybe. I'm imagining a space station with a large population orbiting very close to a gas giant. The horizon stretches away in all directions and an infinite variety of cloud patterns wiz by below. Some individuals get it in their head that they are flying over an infinite flat plane rather than going around an impossibly large sphere. Assume that, like modern Flat Earthers, they reject information from authorities outside of their social circles and measurements from equipment they can't use themselves. These people also wont or can't (perhaps for economic reasons) leave the space station to view the planetary system from a different vantage point. Is there something about their situation aboard the station that would make it plainly obvious that the planet they orbit is spherical and prevent this idea from spreading? 

To give your question a sociological answer rather than a geographic one, I think it's possible to have planets with multiple biomes which are, none the less, known as single biome planets. For example, take Africa. How many distinct biomes, cultures, and governments exist in Africa? And how often do people think of or refer to Africa as a single, homogeneous place? It's far away, and we don't consume very much media that is produced there. It takes a lot of effort to have a nuanced view of Africa. That tendency to simplify places which are foreign to us is going to be so much stronger in a galactic empire. Every planet is going to be reduced to a tag line. Desert planet. Ice planet. Jungle moon. Lava world. 

Depends, does it need to happen over the course of a few years, a few decades, or a few centuries? The way many fantasy worlds with extinct dragon populations handle it is by having the hominoids reproduce quickly and the dragons reproduce very slowly. This means that if it is at all possible for the hominoids to kill even one dragon, that eventually they will be able to out compete the dragons for space and resources. If you want it to happen very quickly, I would guess the best bet would be some sort of magical biological weapon that weakens the dragons, or some such. 

I would like a realistic evolutionary path for non-hominid humanoids, but evolution is extremely complex and varied, so I will narrow the question to examining how evolution might occur in felines to produce a humanoid. I would like to start with the Pseudaelurus (a prehistoric cat) and move to an upright walking, fingered and toed omnivore (cat's are obligate, "true", carnivores). I think I have a reasonable idea for how to evolve their diet (included below for reference), but I'm stuck trying to come up with a reason for hominid like fingers and toes and upright walking. My question is, what types of environmental/cultural/etc... changes could lead to a feline developing upright walking and hands capable of hominid like grasping? Evolution of Diet: Assuming the cats were native to a plains environment with ample hunting opportunities, an environmental shift (ocean's rising, tectonics, something else) could force the felines into a wooded environment with a much smaller number of prey. This would lead to adaptations for including fruits and other forest products into their diets. It would most likely also favor tree climbing adaptations like those seen in leopards. 

One option is to use stirling engines. They work just as well on cold as on heat. Or rather, they work on a temperature gradient. One of these toys will work if you place it on a cup of hot water or on an ice cube. You might also look at thermal electric generators, or TEG. These create a small amount of electric power from a heat gradient, and so also work with either a heat source or a 'cold source'. 

Filters will never fix this problem. The problem is getting oxygen into your blood. Humans can live down to about 40% of sea level pressure. (356 millibars) That's called the Death Zone in mountain climbing. (~8000m on earth). With an oxygen mask, you can survive down to the Armstrong limit, at about 6% of sea level (47 millibars). So, your medieval civilization needs to produce pure oxygen, bottle it and distribute it. That does not sound like medieval technology. Maybe someone with modern understanding of chemistry would be able to do it with medieval tools, but I would still call that modern technology. 

In my horror story, there's a scene where a serial killer, a man in his early 20s with an average build, is chasing down a young girl around the age of 10. The girl is supposed to escape from the serial killer in this scene. Now realistically, an adult male should be able to easily catch up to a girl this young. In order to make the escape more believable, I wanted to give the serial killer a leg injury earlier in the story. This leg injury would prevent him from catching her easily, while still making it possible for him to capture her. This leg injury shouldn't be severe enough where he can't properly run for long periods of time, but it should slow him down enough where a little girl could escape, even with some difficulty. He's unable to get this injury treated - both the serial killer and the girl are isolated from the outside world. What kind of leg injury should I give this serial killer?