I'm reading David Papineau's Philosophical Devices, and there's a section on numbers and set theory. But there's not deeper hint on why it's important to philosophy. I guess that in mathematics we can think of formulas for building the elements of some set, such as the set of even numbers, the set of odd numbers, the set of all the prime numbers (which I guess that until this date, have no formula) so perhaps it's important to make formulas for some objects in philosophy? I guess I can see the importance of the knowledge of the axiom of comprehension (and the Russell set), which states that for any condition C, there exists a set A such that (for any x)(x is an element of A iff x satisfies C). It is there to remind us that such axiom can't hold without some exceptions. Although I fail to see where one would create an object (in philosophy) and then notice a similarity of this object and Russell's set. Note: If you know better tags, please edit. I've tried to use the tag set theory, but It does not exist. 

(5 x 11111...)/(6 x 11111...) is not equal to 5/6 (5 x 11111...) equals infinity and (6 x 11111...) equals infinity. (infinity)/(infinity) is always undefined. The obscure nature of Pythagoras' School makes it hard to know who discovered irrational numbers (Hippasus?). They probably found the difficulty while examining a right triangle whose sides a and b are both equal to one. Perhaps, to their horror, they found the number two is not a perfect square (e.g. 4, 9, 16, ... are perfect squares and render an integer when their square root is taken). Pythagoras reasoned 'all is numbers' and also, that for any right triangle, the squares of sides a and b is exactly equal to the square of its hypotenuse (line c), but this can be said another way, the square erected on the diagonal of a square has twice the area of the original square. The difficulty they had was trying to create a ratio of two integers that would account for the square root of two. They tried and tried and tried, and they couldn't find such a ratio. Someone (Euclid?) later proved such a ratio does not exist. (The Presocratics, Philip Wheelwright (Editor), 1997, p.206). 

I've been thinking a bit about the core argument of social constructionism. Whenever I see the argument being employed, it seems that it means that if something is a social construction, then this thing is not too legitimate. This seems to agree a bit with Hacking here. I've noticed that I could take the argument itself and write: "The idea of social construction is a social construction. Then the idea of social construction is not too legitimate." At least for me, this seems to be a logical problem: An instance of the liar's paradox, with the argument eating itself. Is it actually a problem or the argument is built in an ideological framework unbeknownst to me in which this problem could be eliminated? I know that there are logics that deal with self-reference. But I don't know if the person who created the concept worked with these logics and conscientiously created the concept using it or if he/she didn't see that one could apply the argument to itself. 

In the near past, I've read about the work of Tversky and Kahneman, the text said that they presented their work to a famous american philosopher (without mentioning names) and he said that he wasn't interested in a philosophy of stupidness. From what I know, Kahneman and Tversky wrote about biases, not specifically stupidness. So, is there someone else who wrote some philosophy of stupidness? 

Newcomb's problem might help us understand our difficulties between freewill and determinism. There are two boxes; one box is opaque and the other is translucent. In the translucent box is one thousand pounds. The opaque box contains either a million pounds or nothing. There is an omniscient being capable of accurately predicting our choice before we execute it. If the being predicts we shall take only the contents of the opaque box, there shall be one million pounds in it for us to share. However, if we select the contents of both boxes, there will be nothing in the opaque box. According to the principle of maximizing expected utility, we should select only the contents of the opaque box and leave the other one alone. However, according to the principle of dominance, we should select the contents of both boxes because our action occurs after the contents of both boxes are already set up by the predictor. Here is the difficulty with the principle of maximizing expected utility: Suppose we decide to take the contents of only the opaque box. As we walk away with our loot, we look back at the transparent box and realize there is a thousand pounds in it. What is stopping us from going back and taking it? After all, we already received the million pounds and the thousand pounds in the translucent box just cannot disappear into thin air and we would also prove the predictor is unreliable. Suppose, we open the contents of just the opaque box and find nothing, then we can just leave the other box alone, it's just a paltry thousand pounds, to prove the predictor is unreliable. So, an omniscient being capable of accurately predicting our actions, in a deterministic universe, can easily be shown as being unreliable by doing as outlined above. I believe we have freewill (determinism doesn't pass muster), as we are able to outwit an omniscient being. 

This is something that attracted my attention several times, but I never heard of anyone who wrote about a philosophy of poorness, I guess Marx would be the nearest I've heard of, are there other ones who wrote about it? 

I don't understand how the fail to settle all disputes implies that one couldn't settle many of them. The only possibility I see is using the meaning of "all" as "all disputes of a certain class" as such that this class does not contain all possible disputes. 

I am a student of mathematics, that afirmation of the question I propose seems plausible to me. But I remember that some days ago, I was talking to a friend and he said that such terms are not exactly consequences of a quantitative method. Is that feasible? I don't remember perfectly if he said that one is not consequence of another or if it was about somethings that don't need to be quantified. But I would like to know about my initial question. Note: I have no idea of what tags should be used for this question - any edit is welcome. 

In North America, we celebrate a glorious holiday called Groundhog Day. On the second of February, the marmots awaken and leave their burrows, along with their families, to examine the weather. If the animals see their shadows, they'll retreat back in, and it means six more weeks of winter in the Northern Hemisphere. On the other hand, if they don't see their shadows, spring is well on its way. Hurray! For example, examine this poem from Scotland. If Candle-mas Day is bright and clear, There'll be two winters in the year. If Candle-mas be fair and bright, Winter has another flight. If Candle-mas brings clouds and rain, Winter will not come again. Now, skepticism says groundhogs are unable to predict future weather events. But are they so sure? Isn't it possible that groundhogs can sense things about weather that we are unable to? I understand marmots are dull sighted, but have an incredibly good sense of smell. It makes sense then, these rodents, are able to detect things about weather us humans are unable to? 

Conversing with friends, and even perceived enemies, are company. Very few people can stand being alone for long (even Sartre didn't like being alone). Good friends and loved ones, worthy of trust, can be comforting when nasty things happen (e.g. violence, war, massacre, crime, illness, insanity, hatred and so on). 

In mathematics, it seems that when we try to find relations about objects we are forced to set a unique object as a basis for the construction of each other object. For example: take one rectangle and define It's area as b•h, now if you take a line through Its center, it will allow you to cut the rectangle in two having its area divided in two pieces (b•h/2). Now if you rotate the line in a way that it passes through two vertices of the rectangle, then you have a triangle and it has the same area: (b•h/2). Now for the area of the circle, we need to make a comparison between what we made and we can do that by inscribing a regular polygon and taking the limit of its sides to infinity, that is: it's measure will depend on the sum of a infinity of triangles. Even in integral calculus, the area under the curves is defined as the sum of an infinity of rectangles, consequently: An infinity of triangles. And hence, the triangle seems to be the most basic object found when building these relations. Does this effect have a name? Has someone written about it? If yes, who? 

Consider the following, "if A then B" implies "A only if B". For example, take "if it is raining, the sidewalk will be wet,". Therefore, "it is raining only if the sidewalk is wet." The first expression is straightforward, but what about the second? Only if the sidewalk is wet, is it possible it is raining. This does not mean other things, such as a water hose, cannot make the sidewalk wet, rather if it's wet, only then is it possible it is raining. So, what is the relationship between "if A then B" and "A only if B"? In other words, does the first expression guarantee the truth of the second? 

Hatred, as best as I can define it, is a hardening of the heart fuelled by anger against perceived enemies. Does anything good ever come from anger and hatred? Hatred of enemies sounds like a good idea, but as Nietzsche put it, be careful of turning into a monster yourself. 

The only even number that is prime is the number two, and all other prime numbers are odd. It is true because an evil demon, as Descartes proposed, could not make me go wrong in believing this incorrect. It's, dare I say, categorically true. 

I am a mathematics student and am curious about how research in philosophy is done. In mathematics, let's say we have a geometric object, this object has various representations and each representation can make it easier to see some specific feature, for example: A geometric object could be the set of zeroes from a system of equations, it could be a set of distances from a certain set of points in a certain way, a category, etc. In there, these are some kinds of most basic methods of research, each one revealing in a certain way. Are there such things in philosophical research? From my naive view until now, it seems that metaphysics, epistemology, ontology, dialetic, logic, etc are these most basic methods and they can be combined to yield additional insights. Is that correct? I'm not sure if the tagging is adequate. If not, feel free to correct it. 

I guess everyone knows Plato's allegory of the cave. He assumes people are in caves and then, he suggests that there is a possibility of "going out of the caves", gaining several nice properties with this. Do we have evidence that he noticed that we could "get out of a cave" and still be inside another "cave"? And that there could be an arbitrary number of nested caves? 

Aristotle wrote, As for Comedy, it is an imitation of men worse than the average; worse, however, not as regards any and every sort of fault, but only as regards one particular kind, the Ridiculous, which is a species of the Ugly. (Poetics, 1449a, Ch. 5). In a crude sense, I suppose he means we laugh at the pitiful; it's the so called schadenfreude. That we derive amusement by seeing others suffer, as it makes us feel better about our own miseries and inadequacies. I've been guilty of it and this kind of humour is "sick," but I think Aristotle is right. Should one feel bad because they laugh at the misfortunes of others? 

Helen Keller lost her senses of both sight and hearing at a very young age. She was described as being an "animal". While her teacher, Annie Sullivan, held her hands under a water pump, the young girl realized the sign language impressed into her palm by her teacher were words. Certainly her experience of consciousness depended, at least in part, upon her available sense impressions. A being, like a bat, experiences consciousness differently than we do because they "see" with their ears. But to answer your question, if I lost all my senses, I would be in a vegetative state, in much the same way a person put under a general anaesthetic experiences nothing. In my opinion, consciousness does depend on the sense impressions and the mind is nothing without them. 

Is there a branch of philosophy that deals with the concept of classification? I guess that perhaps it's metaphysics or ontology - they are the nearest things I can think of, but I'm not really sure. 

Suppose you have two theories: T₁,T₂. Each one has a proposition that makes the other become contradictory. Question 1: Is it always possible to find a theory T₃ which conciliates both theory, that is: "removes the contradiction"? Question 2: Supposing the answer to the first question is affirmative, does it imply that we can prove anything to be true? I know the answer with logic, this will depend on the axioms and rules of inference of the logic you are using. But how they face this problem with Derrida's conception of languange? 

I'm still in the beginning of the book and I've read this in the introduction, so what's so speculative in rationalists metaphysics? 

When I was a kid, I remind that I had a strange type of game - I was mostly concerned of annoying other persons. Whenever they assumed something, I asked why, and then when they aswered, I asked why again, and then I kept asking why until the person was annoyed. There was a point where the person could not provide an answer to the why's, I always wondered if our knowledge behaves this way: This way of having an infinite series of why's and at some point, a nullity of answers. So, is this infinity of questions a problem somehow? Have someone thought about it?