The answer in this case is no since the intensity of emitted light is the number of photons emitted per unit time, which is not a continuous quantity. 

Obviously, there is no single accepted definition for God. However there seems to be a common core to how God is viewed in the Hindu Advaita Vedanta, Islamic Sufism, and some Jewish traditions, as reflected by Maimonides, and later in Hasidic Judaism. That core is roughly that God is immanent, that it is transcendental to human reason and language, that it is impersonal and unchanging, that it is "mirrored" in the human soul, and that most people fail to realize that reality, but have the potential for it. In Hindu Advaita Vedanta this is asserted directly. Atman is the divine and transcendental nature of human consciousness; Brahman, the Godhead, is the impersonal ultimate nature of reality; and the two are identical. I can already imagine readers protesting with rage that "this is a philosophy website, not theology!" — but what can you do? Advaita Vedanta is considered Eastern philosophy and the SEP article on Maimonides calls him "the greatest Jewish philosopher of the medieval period" - so swallow your Greek pride and open your mind (pun intended). The rest of this answer are examples and quotes from each tradition to the traits I have listed above. It is just a small selection of quotes. A full list and discussion could easily grow to the size of a book: 1) That God is immanent: In Hinduism: "I am the goal of life, the Lord and support of all, the inner witness, the abode of all." - Bhagavad Gita §9.18 In Judaism: "Hasidism teaches that while a superficial observance of the universe by the "eyes of the flesh" (Einei ha-Basar) purportedly reflects the reality of all things profane and worldly, a true devotee must transcend this illusory façade and realize that there is nothing but God." - Wikipedia 2) That God is transcendental: In Hinduism: "Subtler than the subtlest is this Self, and beyond all logic." - Katha Upanishad "He truly knows Brahman who knows him as beyond knowledge; he who thinks that he knows, knows not. The ignorant think that Brahman is known, but the wise know him to be beyond knowledge." - Kena Upanishad In Sufism: "failure dogs the analytic mind, Which whimpers like a child born deaf and blind." - The Conference of the Birds "since no words suffice, what use are mine to represent or to describe this sign?" - The Conference of the Birds In Judaism: "You must bear in mind, that by affirming anything of God, you are removed from Him in two respects; first, whatever you affirm, is only a perfection in relation to us; secondly, He does not possess anything superadded to this essence; His essence includes all His perfections, as we have shown. Since it is a well-known fact that even that knowledge of God which is accessible to man cannot be attained except by negations, and that negations do not convey a true idea of the being to which they refer, all people, both of past and present generations, declared that God cannot be the object of human comprehension" - Maimonides, Guide for the Perplexed 3) That God is impersonal and unchanging: In Hiduism: "Few see through the veil of maya. The world, deluded, does not know that I am without birth and changeless." - Bhagavad Gita §7.25 "My true being is unborn and changeless." - Bhagavad Gita §4.6 "Soundless, formless, intangible, undying, tasteless, odorless, without beginning, without end, eternal, immutable, beyond nature, is the Self." - Katha Upanishad Note that in Advaita Vedanta Atman (the true transcendental Self) is identical with Brahman. In Judaism: "all such [descriptions] and the like which are related in the Torah and the words of the Prophets - all these are metaphors and imagery. [For example,] 'He who sits in the heavens shall laugh' [Psalms 2:4], 'They angered Me with their emptiness' [Deuteronomy 32:21], and 'As God rejoiced' [ibid. 28:63]. With regard to all such statements, our Sages said: 'The Torah speaks in the language of man.' This is [borne out by the rhetorical question (Jeremiah 7:19):] 'Are they enraging Me?' Behold, [Malachi 3:6] states: 'I, God, have not changed.' Now were He to at times be enraged and at times be happy, He would change. Rather, all these matters are found only with regard to the dark and low bodies, those who dwell in houses of clay, whose foundation is dust. In contrast, He, blessed be He, is elevated and exalted above all this." - Maimonides, Yesodei haTorah 4) That God is "mirrored" in the human soul: In Hinduism: "In one’s own soul Brahman is realized clearly, as if seen in a mirror." - Katha Upanishad In Sufism: "Your heart is not a mirror bright and clear If there the Simorgh’s form does not appear; No one can bear His beauty face to face, And for this reason, of His perfect grace, He makes a mirror in our hearts – look there To see Him, search your hearts with anxious care" - The Conference of the Birds In Judaism: "And God created man in His image, in the image of God He created him" - Genesis 1 That "in His image" cannot refer to body or psychology follows from Maimonides. 6) That most people fail to realize that reality, but have the potential for it: In Hinduism: "The glory of the Self is beheld by a few, and a few describe it; a few listen, but many without understanding." - Bhagavad Gita §1.29 "Few see through the veil of maya. The world, deluded, does not know that I am without birth and changeless.” - Bhagavad Gita §7.25 "The Self is not known through study of the scriptures, nor through subtlety of the intellect, nor through much learning. But by him who longs for him is he known." - Katha Upanishad In Sufism: "Wanderer, you are distraught; Be calm. Our glorious King cannot admit All comers to His court; it is not fit That every rascal who sleeps out the night Should be allowed to glimpse its radiant light. Most are turned back, and few perceive the throne; Among a hundred thousand there is one" - The Conference of the Birds In Judaism: "And Moses answered and said: ‘But, behold, they will not believe me, nor hearken unto my voice; for they will say: The lord hath not appeared unto thee.’" - Exodus 4 "Hasidism teaches that while a superficial observance of the universe by the "eyes of the flesh" (Einei ha-Basar) purportedly reflects the reality of all things profane and worldly, a true devotee must transcend this illusory façade and realize that there is nothing but God." - Wikipedia 

Time does not necessarily go back infinitely into the past - read this funny lecture by Stephen Hawking for his explanation. 

I seems to me that your teacher is wrong. The case of Shakespeare with a real time machine is described in the Wikipedia article on the bootstrap paradox - $URL$ The case with the real time machine seems to be distinguishable from your teacher's since with a real time machine there is a causal loop; in particular the time traveler causes Shakespeare to publish his writings. In your teacher's case there does not seem to exist a causal link between the disappearing man in the future and the appearing quantum fluke man in the past. I would love to hear your teacher's explanation. 

Woody Allen once said "I don't know the question, but sex is definitely the answer" So, I don't know the answer but here is what Woody once had to say about it: Allen: That's quite a lovely Jackson Pollock, isn't it? Woman: Yes, it is. Allen: What does it say to you? Woman: It restates the negativeness of the universe. The hideous lonely emptiness of existence. Nothingness. The predicament of man forced to live in a barren, godless eternity like a tiny flame flickering in an immense void with nothing but waste, horror, and degradation, forming a useless, bleak straitjacket in a black, absurd cosmos. Allen: What are you doing Saturday night? Woman: Committing suicide. Allen: What about Friday night? Here is the scene: $URL$ 

Yes, it is sort of possible through the practice of Lucid dreaming. You can experience both falling asleep into dream sleep and waking up from dream sleep. From my personal experience, falling asleep feels like a roller coaster or an earth quake of the senses, in particular with a lot of noise. Then things become quiet and when you next open your eyes you may find yourself in your dream world. Waking up is usually more gentle, possibly with the visual field momentarily turning black right before waking up. Some people report momentarily experiencing the famous sleep paralysis before finally waking up. If you are interested in the moment of losing and gaining consciousness then that is probably not it, since consciousness is maintained throughout the process. There is a very interesting phenomenon related to waking up, called false awakening, in which the brain induces one to believe he has woken up, when in fact it is merely the onset of a new dream. Bertrand Russell reports such an experience in one of his books. The experience of becoming conscious within dream sleep is very interesting in itself. Particularly in the first several times that it happens, it is a moment of great wonder and exhilaration, akin to a powerful spiritual experience. Richard Feynman recounts his experience with Lucid Dreaming in his book Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman! In particular he writes that his motivation was exactly to catch the moment of falling asleep: 

I find it amazing that you are just 14 years old; you sound a little like Marvin the Paranoid Android, and even if you only have a brain half the size of his, I am getting high on just contemplating what wonders might occur if you dive into some books of philosophy, math and physics... 

Where does Dennett claim in Consciousness Explained that the mind is a Von Neumann machine? I think that in the book he calls his model a Joycean machine; but by claiming that the mind amounts to a computation he subscribes to the consequence that it may be implemented in principle by any universal computation device, be it a quantum computer, a Von Neumann computer, or a mechanical implementation of a Universal Turing Machine built from cog wheels and running on steam, and it does not matter if the specific architecture that he is contemplating now has changed in the last 20 years; ask him in 20 years and he may have another theory in mind; there is a lot of other good and bad stuff in the book that make it worth while reading, or at least going over; for example how not to treat other opinions (Dennett is often ridiculing and patronizing colleagues, sometimes it seems that he does it as a technique to make his arguments seem more convincing), and on the other hand his writing is always a beautiful example for communicating philosophy and interesting ideas clearly without using cryptic and highly technical jargon. and finally, especially if you disagree with him, it is good to read it as a challenge for ones ideas. 

I don't think this is about accuracy or some measurement being the right one. The measurement of the length of something with a ruler just laying besides it is called proper length or rest length: $URL$ What can you do that an object with 10m rest length flying by your reference frame with terrific speed only measures X where X < 10m? It is just a fact of life. In your reference frame it only measures X, and at the same time it still has a proper length of 10m. Neither fact is truer or more accurate than the other. As an illustration consider the Ladder Paradox: $URL$ Imagine a 10m long flying ladder, and imagine that due budget constraints engineers are required to build the smallest barn that can momentarily contain the entire ladder. These engineers would be right to build the barn X+ε long rather than a whooping and wasteful 10m. BTW, Einstein explains special relativity beautifully in Relativity: The Special and General Theory: $URL$ 

since we cannot describe qualia, we cannot know its attributes, and therefore, the answer to your questions is still "we don't know". 

What the problems in the argument are, and why it is overlooked, are two different questions. 1) Every argument has problems, so pointing out its problems does not explain why it is overlooked. 2) Is it really overlooked? I don't know. If people in this community do not come up with references I would appreciate if you could contact the author of said book with this question and let us know the answer here. (what is the name of the book?) 3) If it is indeed overlooked, then one possible explanation may be found in Peter Unger's recent bashing of philosophy: 

Isn't the observable behavior of elementary particles a real paradox? Here is how David Albert describes superposition in Quantum mechanics, in his book Quantum Mechanics and Experience: