In other words, Quine is saying that the criterion "to be is to be the value of a variable" is more or less a way of determining what are language commits us to ontologically, specifically, the referential/singular terms and quantified variables employed in language. So there may be existing things that may go 'undetected' by this criterion precisely because they haven't been referenced in our best scientific theories. For Quine, if there was no way of paraphrasing a instance of reference or quantification in a way that avoids that reference or quantification, then it has to exist. In fact, this is springboard for the Quine-Putnam Indispensability argument for Mathematical Platonism. Roughly, the argument is that, since our best physical theories contain existentially quantified propositions whose domain of quantification consists only of abstract objects, these abstract objects must exist. I think Seamus is correct when he says that this is the view accepted by most philosophers, but that isn't to say it has gone entirely uncontested. As with any philosophical thesis, the Quinean criterion for ontological commitment has been challenged. E.g., William Lane Craig in his relatively new book "God and Abstract Objects" launches an attack on the Indispensability argument precisely by disputing the Quinean criterion for ontological commitment. I think William Alston, Jodi Azzouni, and Penelope Maddy are others who take issue with it too. 

Okay. I am reading Russell's paper "On Propositions: What They are and How They Mean". Since the truth or falsehood of a belief depends upon a fact to which the belief "refers", and propositions are defined in terms of beliefs, Russell feels that an adequate treatment of propositions requires that we first inquire into the nature of facts. So in this first section he discusses facts; in particular, he discusses negative facts, whose existence his contemporaries evidently find repugnant. He discusses three different ways of escaping the existence of negative facts and then refutes them. I am having trouble seeing the difference between the first and third ways of escaping negative facts. Regarding the first way, when we deny something, we are really asserting something incompatible with what we deny. Regarding the third way, which he attributes to a Mr. Demos, propositions are in a ultimate, indefinable relation of opposition such that two propositions which are opposites cannot both be true, though both may be false (obviously this definition is circular, which Demos admits). Thus, on the third view, when we deny a proposition, what we are really doing is asserting "Some opposite of this proposition is true." I don't see how Mr. Demos' view is any different than the one first one Russell considered and refuted. In fact, couldn't he give the table example to refute Mr. Demos' position? I ask because I don't find Russell's infinite regress response to Demos' view particularly convincing in showing the absurdity of Demos' view; after all, Demos thinks this notion of 'opposition' is epistemologically primitive, so why should he have to answer the obstinate fellows questions? I am trying to put Russell's argument in a premise-conclusion form but I am having trouble doing so, perhaps because I don't find the argument particularly convincing. Does anyone know how to render it in this form? If I were Russell, I would just advance the table example against Mr. Demos and be done with it. On a side note, why did Russell's contemporary's find negative facts so repugnant? What was their motivation from ridding them from their ontology? 

Now, let me take a stab at (partially) answering your question. Your criterion seems to precludes the existence of abstract objects. In the comments on Dheeraj Verma, user193319 brings up this very point. However, Dheeraj Verma seems to misunderstand what abstract objects are. He states that abstract objects exist through the mind. First of all, it isn't entirely clear what "existing through" consists in; this seems to mean they have existence by virtue of us thinking about them, which is a very mistaken view of abstract objects. Abstracts objects, if they exist, do so necessarily and independently of whether they are conceived of by contingent human minds. Moreover, we don't know abstract objects exist because we interact with them by thinking about them; this is impossible because abstract objects don't stand in causal relations. Rather, we know they exist because we posit their existence because they fulfill some role (e.g., the role of explaining why mathematical truths are true and why they are necessarily true). Finally, note that the Indispensability argument, if successful, shows that your 'sensory' criterion doesn't work, since sensory affection is ultimately what justifies science, yet this in turn shows that abstract objects exist, which are causally inert and therefore cannot interact with our senses. First EDIT: In this edit I will try to answer the question Asmani posed in his comment. It gets tricky, however, since we begin to skirt issues in philosophy of mathematics and physics. Consider Newton's (differential) equation F=ma. You might imagine the following said in a physics course: "Such-and-such a particle is following this trajectory in space, and there exists a solution to Newton's equation describing its trajectory." These seem like to true statements. We might symbolize the last statement using logic in the following way: letting S be the set of all solutions and "s is a solution describing the particle's trajectory", the last sentence reads Now, the basic idea behind this ontological principle is that the existential quantifier ranges over S, and S only consists of abstract object (namely, solutions to the differential equation). Since the statement is true, there has to be a solution (i.e., value of the bound variable) which makes it true and therefore there exists an abstract object. I confess this is a somewhat artificial/contrived example, but I think it captures the gist of what "to be is to be the value of a variable" means and how this principle of ontological commitment is to be used; moreover, it shows how the Indispensability argument works. Indeed, I feel compelled to add that Quine himself would deny that this is a genuine example. Though Quine was a staunch Naturalist, he saw the need of abstract objects because of the success and truth of science; but he didn't want an 'extravagant' or 'inflated' ontology. Because he was able to reduce mathematics to set theory, he could see such things differential equations and their solutions as complicated logical constructions of set theory. I'm afraid I can't go into all details on the process whereby higher mathematics are reducible to set theory. But, e.g., the natural numbers can be reduced to sets in the following way: 0 is taken to be identical to , the empty set; 1 identical to ; 2 identical to ; etc. From the naturals you construct the rest of the integer, rationals from the integers, etc. So in Quine's ontology, there aren't numbers but pure sets, since numbers are in a sense logical constructions. Sorry for the extraordinarily long post--I have no one else to discuss philosophy with, so sometimes I go overboard; and sorry if this seems like a complicated example, but when I first read your comment, I was thinking you wanted an example in the context of the Indispensability argument. Second Edit: In answer to Asmani's request about a physical object. Well, it's somewhat tricky. I think it depends upon context to some degree. Typically, using the word "this" connotes direct acquaintance with the referent of the demonstrative. If you are in the presence of 'this', then pointing to it and uttering "This chair exists" I think should be interpreted as meaning "There is a chair that I am pointing at", in which case there is a bound variable and 'chair' is substituted in for this variable (i.e., 'chair' is in the domain of the quantifier). if the sentence is true, then the chair must exist since the truth of the sentence commits us to the existence of it. Unless, however, there is some way of rephrasing the sentence that gets rid of this commitment, e.g., "There is matter arranged tablewise that I am pointing at." (such a paraphrase might be provided by a mereological nihilist, one who thinks there aren't literally such thing as tables, chairs, etc. but only physical particles or some other such simples arranged in various ways). 

This way of viewing necessity seems to undergird many of the problems with, and objections to, modality that he identifies, particularly because he doesn't take kindly to the notion of analyticity. But defining necessity in terms of analyticity just seems plain wrong. I believe it is safe to say that every analytic statement is necessary, but I don't think the converse is true. I think I have a counterexample. "the morning star = the evening star" is true as a fact of astronomical discovery. According to Ruth Barcan, if "x=y" is true, then "necessarily x=y" is true. Thus "necessarily the morning star = the evening star" is true. But certainly the statement "the morning star = the evening star" is not analytic, which Frege realized long before Quine was even a philosopher. Does this sound right? If so, why didn't Quine see such a simple counterexample? Would he not think it is a genuine counterexample? If so, how would he respond to the above argument. Also: I am having trouble seeing the difference between saying "Necessarily, p" and " 'p' is necessarily true." . Quine seems to think there is a difference, which is most evident in his paper "Three Grades of Modal Involvement." He says of one (not sure which of the two) that it is a statement operator, while the other is a semantical predicate. However, I am having trouble seeing the difference between using necessarily in those two ways. 

I recently decided that it is high time I reacquaint myself with the early moderns, and I thought there could be no better place to start with than Descartes' Mediations on First Philosophy. Reading this work, I think it is evident that Descartes is carrying out his skeptical project within the framework of Foundationalism (of course, I am always eager to have my mistakes pointed out if I have wrongly interpreted him). Indeed, he writes 

This is the opinion of 'mathematician' (working on my mathematics PhD) who has studied a fair amount of (analytic) philosophy. I find it interesting that you feel this way, for I feel the very opposite is true. To my mind, philosophy seems to be just as difficult, if not considerably more difficult, precisely because of the high learning barrier and the fact that the problems aren't as well-defined (at least they take a rather long time to reach a state of well-definedness). With philosophy, there is just so much to read and the arguments in philosophy can be just as difficult/abstract as any mathematical argument, not to mention that arguments are sometimes hidden within pages of dense writing; and even if they are presented in premise-conclusion form, which is common in contemporary philosophy papers, they compensate for being in plain sight by being more difficult. So, dense philosophical texts combined with equally abstract arguments seems to indicate that philosophy is more difficult. I think that once you delve more deeply into philosophy, you'll find that the problems become much more challenging and nuanced. Moreover philosophy has great diversity, in terms of the problems and questions that fall within its purview, although it may be difficult to argue that philosophy possess greater diversity than mathematics, since mathematics is itself rather diverse. As for why intelligent laypeople find statements of philosophical problems more comprehensible than statements of mathematical problems, I refrain from rendering any opinion as I am not a psychologist/sociologist. The only concerns I have are: which philosophical problems were they presented with; and were they presented superficially? Often these "unsolved" problems can be presented in a way that makes them seem simple; but, as I said above, once you delve more deeply into these problems they can become overwhelmingly nuanced. That said, present the intelligent layperson with detailed treatment of Plantinga's Free Will defense using ideas of modal logic and counterfactuals of creaturely freedom or Putnam's Model-Theoretic Argument against Metaphysical Realism, I'm sure they'd be just as lost as hearing a presentation of the Riemann Hypothesis or Connes' Embedding Conjecture. 

Not only does this passage make it evident that Descartes is presupposing some form of Foundationalism, but this passage seems to suggest that such a skeptical project makes sense only in the context/framework of a Foundationalist epistemology. I say this because it is, from what I gather, Descartes' ultimate goal to remove himself from this doubt he has entrenched himself in, and to vindicate as many those beliefs he held before embarking on this skeptical project as possible. And it only seems possible to do this by first securing those beliefs forming the foundation which then, by extension, secure his former beliefs by being justified by those foundational beliefs. But I am now wondering whether this is mistaken, and wondering whether such a Cartesian skeptical project can be carried out within the framework of Coherentism. Is there any attempt out carry out some form of Cartesian skepticism within Coherentism? If so, what does such a project look like? Note: For those interested, I am referencing this translation. 

I cannot attest to his credibility (or lack thereof) in academic philosophy, since I do not work in it, but I still feel the urge to vindicate his philosophical abilities. Often it seems that Craig is critiqued on the basis of the lay-level books he writes and debates he participates in. Certainly one gets the impression from his debates that he is very sharp and is able to formulate rather cogent responses on the fly, but they are far from displaying the extent of his knowledge and philosophical acumen. I think if you read his more scholarly works, you'll be tremendously impressed, even if you disagree with most of his conclusions, especially by the diversity of topics on which he can speak. For instance, his more recent book "God and Abstract Objects: The Coherence of Theism: Aseity", published by Springer, is representative of this. In this book he launches an attacks on the Quine-Putnam indispensability argument for Platonism and Quinean criteria for making ontological commitments; sketches and critiques realist and anti-realist options, specifically showing how theists might find anti-realist options more agreeable than realist options (especially for those who wish to preserve divine aseity--he himself is an anti-realist). In addition to this written work, he has also given two lectures which I highly recommend, the C.S. Lewis Society Lecture and the Cadbury lectures (Watch out! There are five Cadbury lectures and they are very engrossing!). In these lectures you get better grasp of Craig's philosophical acumen and range of knowledge than in his debates---it is truly astonishing how much this fellow knows. 

My memory seems to be failing me at the moment, but I seem to recall Russell saying something like the following on some occasion: 

I think he might have said something like this in his book The Philosophy of Logical Atomism, but I can't seem to find it there. Anyone care to lend a hand by giving the exact phrasing and source?