Published in 1850, by 1852 Susan Warner’s The Wide, Wide World was on its 14th edition and continued to sell well after that. It was about 

James David Hart estimates that Bleak House sold 250,000 copies in the U.S. during this period (62), and so it may be in the running for 4th most popular book. 

Fried chicken was popular in the south at least a decade before the Scots Irish arrived in the colonies. David Hackett Fischer identifies fried foods with the tidewater settlements, not the highlands settled by the Scots Irish. For example, William Byrd (1674-1744), a wealthy Virginia planter, 

Note: The internet is filled with references to Islamic alchemists believing that milk and coffee cause leprosy. Some pages cite Allen, some cite no one. Unfortunately, Allen doesn't cite a source for this claim either, and in fact only mentions it in the two asides quoted above. I'd really like to see some Islamic sources supporting this claim. 

Nonetheless, I would guess that sharkskin has been used as an abrasive since ancient times, but definitive documentation may be hard to find. I assume that sharkskin doesn't tend to stick around to be discovered by archaeologists, nor is its use notable enough to receive much attention in historical records. Abrasives are certainly ancient though: sandstone as an abrasive goes back at least to the Egyptians, and sandpaper goes back at least to 13th century China and 17th century Europe. For example, here's some speculation that Viking woodworkers used sharkskin. And here's some speculation that sharkskin sandpaper was a common trade item in bronze age Indian Ocean trade routes. Maybe someone else can find a definitive mention of the practice before the 18th century. B) The skin of the coelacanth (not a shark) has also been used by Comoro Islanders like sandpaper--but given that the skin is primarily used to roughen the interior of bicycle tires before gluing on a patch, one can infer that the practice isn't exactly ancient. 

Because the Republicans knew that New York would be decisive in the 1800 elections, they decided that Burr (a New Yorker) should serve as the Virginian Jefferson’s running mate. According to Gordon Wood, no Republican expected Burr to get the same number of electoral votes as Jefferson (p. 282). In fact, one elector was supposed to abstain from voting for Burr, but somehow the Republican's plans got confused--not surprising, as this was still the early days of national party politics. Burr and Jefferson ended up accidentally getting the same number of votes. How would this be resolved? Most Federalists wanted to throw the election to Burr. Policy-wise, Burr could have been a Federalist as easily as a Republican. He was much more friendly to banks than Jefferson, for one. To Burr, politics was "fun and honor & profit" (Wood, p. 280). Burr was not averse to patronage, which a Revolutionary like Jefferson would label "corruption." He was no ideologue, but merely someone who saw politics as an activity befitting someone of his pedigree and talent (p. 280). It was Burr's lack of ideological fervor--his overweening concern for himself--that led Federalists to try to throw the election to Burr. Better Burr (whose own self-interest would lead him to play ball with existing Federalist power structures) than the ideologue Jefferson. Quoting Wood again (284): 

In Rome at War, Nathan Rosenstein provides a very careful study of mortality rates in the Republican Army from 200-168 B.C. The overall mortality rate strictly attributable to combat is estimated to be 2.6 percent of soldiers per year (125). Overall mortality is estimated at 4.75 to 5.45 percent of soldiers per year, with non-combat mortality amounting to 1.9 to 2.6 percent of soldiers per year. However, because 1.5 percent of conscripts would have died from disease even if they had remained civilians, the "excess mortality attributable to warfare" was 3.25 to 3.95 percent of all soldiers annually (136). However, these figures include legions that were in the field but did not engage in major battles. The average mortality rate for legions in combat was around 5.6 percent (124). And defeats were around 4 times as costly as victories: victories saw mortality rates of around 4.2 percent of participants, while defeats saw mortality rates around 16 percent (118). In general, Rosenstein finds that mortality rates due to both combat and disease were lower in the Roman legions than in 19th century mass warfare (125-126). Incidentally, Rosenstein warns against relying on estimates taken from accounts of one or two battles. There is heavy selection bias going into chronicles. He notes that "figures fall broadly into two clusters--those that are very high and many (like the eighty who died at Pydna) that are strikingly low" (23). 

So artisans lived in a surprisingly small social world and a surprisingly large geographic world. Kinship and Westward Migration Keep in mind that throughout this entire period, there is a steady drive westward. Younger sons who didn't inherit the family farm in Rhode Island might move to Rochester, NY or the Western Reserve in Ohio. For example, Paul Johnson's A Shopkeeper's Millenium has a fairly detailed accounting of the origins of families in Rochester, NY in the 1820s. Most still had close relatives in New England. Upshot The late colonial and early national United States were a fairly well-integrated society. If you thought you'd murdered someone and went on the lam like Simon Kenton, you would need to keep moving West along with the always-receding frontier. Yet while long interstate trips were occasional events in most Americans' lives, the farmers' data show that your "typical" daily routine was still fairly limited geographically by the difficulty of travel. 

So I'm inclined not to count the Whiskey tax. What is the first example of a Western government passing a tax primarily to discourage "immoral" behavior? 

Acne has always been with us. According to "The Historic Panorama of Acne Vulgaris," Pharaohs had acne: 

But I'm skeptical that the "boat crimpers" I find in public records are "crimps" as in this definition. Here's a Joseph Magee who lists himself as a "boat crimper" in the Rochester City Directory. Who would list themselves as a kidnapper? So, do any of you naval historians out there know what kind of occupation "boat crimper" was? Assuming crimpers are not crimps, were crimpers skilled, semi-skilled, or unskilled labor? 

Caution: I won't accept as evidence a historian casually referring to the founding of the Democratic Party by Martin Van Buren in 1828. Even good historians can be loose with party terminology in this period, and most just mean that in 1828 Van Buren created the national organization that would soon be known as the Democratic Party. The answer may very well be Van Buren, but I’d like to see that claim sourced. I would be thrilled if someone found an account of a convention or caucus where Jackson men debated the merits of possible names for their party. 

Though (or perhaps because) rightist groups have tried to generate love for Clovis, in part to celebrate monarchical over republican traditions in France, Clovis remains far from universally beloved in the almost apolitical manner that most Americans venerate George Washington. 

Sultan Awes, the last Sultan of Swat, was expelled from this territory along with his Tajik subjects. They settled near the source of the Oxus River, where they ruled for several more generations "as far as the frontier of Badakhshan." Wikipedia has little on this particular dynasty, but a few details may be found in this article on Sikandar Butshikan: 

There can be little doubt that indentured servitude decreased as reliance on slave labor increased. However, the dwindling supply of indentured European labor must be considered as at least one of the reasons American planters increasingly turned to an enslaved African labor force. Nonetheless, without the increased availability of enslaved Africans, American planters could not have quit their use of European labor so easily. This makes for such a muddy cause-effect story that historians disagree over why indentured servitude disappeared: 

Madison: Madison, as ever, is harder to pin down. During the election of 1828, he feared party and faction. But he was equally agitated by southern states’ indications that they might nullify the tariff and thereby destroy the Union. Try as he might to act as the elder statesmen and remain aloof from the campaign: 

It's well know that Lincoln and Seward handed out rewards to lame-duck Democrats who considered switching their vote to "Aye," so perhaps Ganson (himself a lame duck) was holding out for a sweeter pot. Perhaps Ganson was internally conflicted over whether the Amendment would help end or prolong the war. Maybe he would rather abolition didn't come up for a vote at that moment, but didn't want to be caught on the wrong side of history. Perhaps he wanted the 13th Amendment to pass, but hoped it would do so without his vote against his party leadership. It's hard to say precisely, because apparently historians aren't too interested in John Ganson in particular. What is known is that the vote on the 13th Amendment was so tight that neither side knew if it had enough support when it came up for consideration in January 1865. Democrats like Ganson, being the critical votes, would have been lobbied intensely by both sides up until the moment they cast their vote, so it isn't surprising that Ganson's voting record demonstrates some vacillation. 

Peter the Great founded the Russian Academy in 1724. In his decree, he says the Academy will be supported by an annual grant of 25,000 rubles drawn from the custom tolls of Baltic Sea ports. (source) As a matter of statecraft, why would Peter have tied particular expenditures to a particular revenue source? The variability of any given revenue source is much higher than the variability of a state's total revenues. With a system of earmarks like this, one year the Academy might be fully funded while another institution has a deficit, and the next year the reverse. That seems like it would wreak havoc on the orderly functions of the state. Also, as exceptions like these multiply, it becomes that much harder to keep track of the overall health of the economy and the nation's budget. The state becomes "illegible" to Peter and his ministers. Why not have a single centralized treasury and a single centralized budget to avoid this unnecessary confusion? I imagine Peter wasn't the only early modern monarch/autocrat who managed budgetary affairs like this, so I'm open to answers for other countries if they illustrate the issue at hand well. 

Secondly, Congress may have felt comfortable rewarding Nevada with valuable resources at the expense of Arizona, as Arizona had recently sided with the Confederacy, and in fact had been granted territorial status by the Confederate government. 

Some inventors did try out horse-drawn plows, but these were intended for pedestrian alleys, not thoroughfares. In the U.S., these were most popular in the "snow belt," with Milwaukee being the first major city to use one in 1862. However, horse-drawn snowplows are not able to handle blizzards, as the Blizzard of 1888 (which dropped 50 inches of snow on the East Coast) made clear: 

These economists consider the economic impact of this three-century ban to be substantial. In some very technical language, they argue: 

The Republican Party remained more responsive than Democrats to issues of civil rights throughout the Great Depression. The Republicans were not forced to choose between their reputation as the "Party of Lincoln" and the "Party of Business" until the 1940s, due to the establishment of agencies like the Fair Employment Practices Committee in 1941. Unlike anti-lynching bills (which the GOP overwhelmingly supported), the FEPC and legislation like it would restrict the freedom of action of business. Forced to choose between African Americans and business, the GOP overwhelmingly chose business. Northern Democrats saw this as an opening to further the gains FDR had made with African American voters in the late 1930s, and so African Americans were increasingly incorporated into the (northern) Democratic coalition. By the late 1960s, this decision led to the gradual exodus of white southerners from the Democratic coalition, eventually cementing the Democratic Party's reputation as the party of civil rights. From my other answer, the timeline for the "party of business" looks like this: 

Many prominent men of science in the 19th century believed that the Indians' ancestors had always been in America. This belief draws on the theory of polygenism--that the several races had independent origins as separate species. "Scientific" polygenism also had a religious aspect called "Pre-Adamism." Polygenists/Pre-Adamists didn't need to posit ancient transoceanic travel or land bridges because they just assumed that God had placed Indians in America during Creation. Some examples: Samuel George Morton studied the Mound Builders and concluded that they were an ancient race, autochthonous to America. Charles Caldwell thought there were four races (Caucasian, Mongolian, American Indian, and African), each a different species, created separately by God, while Charles Pickering thought there were eleven separate races. Also see Louis Agassiz and Josiah Clark Nott. Note that many American Indians at the time favored theories of polygenesis, as these were more consistent with their own origin stories. Semaphore's answer ably covers theories based on polygenism's rival, monogenism--that is, the assumption that all humans have a single origin--Adam and Eve, Africa, etc. Assuming monogenism, you then need to explain how American Indians got to the New World from the Old World. But if you believe in polygenism, no additional explanation is necessary. 

Wikipedia says that Karl Grün was "associated with the group of 'True Socialists' around Moses Hess, a Young Hegelian philosopher and forerunner of labour Zionism." So look for people associated with those two, and those are your "True Socialists." 

In 1861, Wendell Phillips used this line, but he was quoting William Seward, not Lincoln.* Seward used this line in his famous "Irrepressible Conflict" (full text here) speech of 1858. Seward was ardently anti-slavery, but also doubted the federal government had the legal power to mandate abolition. He therefore argued that the triumph of free labor over slavery was an ongoing revolution that could not be reversed, because modern states could only thrive with a free labor system. Seward meant for the speech to be moderate, but the South took much of the impassioned rhetoric to be tantamount to a declaration of war on their economic system. Seward's speech was about the inevitability of freedom despite Southerners and Democrats dragging their feet. Ironically, Phillips echoes Seward to argue for the inevitability of freedom despite men like Seward dragging their feet. Phillips argued in his 1861 speech (in which, as elsewhere, he excoriates Seward) that the Civil War is merely the latest event in a centuries-long revolution for human freedom: 

Source: Sean Wilentz's Chants Democratic is the best single-volume study I know for antebellum labor history. 

Cobb's books were action-packed pulp, and he was disdained by the educated classes. Cobb aside, the other most popular authors were women who wrote educational, moralistic tales more in the vein of Harriet Beecher Stowe. These women were prolific, and so were among the bestselling authors of the period. I'll describe two plots below, because the fact that such starchy parables sold well is pretty interesting to me from a cultural perspective: In 1853, Fanny Fern sold 70,000 copies of Fern Leaves from Fanny’s Portfolio, while Maria Susanna Cummin’s The Lamplighter sold 40,000 copies in eight weeks.