The only mountain bike pedal I've found that doesn't have spring recentering are Speedplay Frog Pedals. I've tried Shimano SPD pedals and Crank Bros Eggbeaters/Candy and both have spring recentering in the angular float. It appears most pedals have a spring or other retention system that increases the tension as you twist your foot away from center until you've unclipped. Are there any pedals similar to Speedplay X/Zero and Frog for mountain biking that have free float through its full range of angular motion? 

I've experienced some of the issues you've described when I started increasing my activity level. Your low energy level concerns me a bit as I found this was an indicator that I was getting insufficient nutrition (in my case, mostly calories) to sustain my activity level. I would be less concerned about the weight loss as long as you are not losing muscle mass and your body-fat percentage stays at a reasonable number. It will likely stabilize after a while. While not vegan, some of the foods I've added specifically because of cycling may work for you. One thing I will point out is that everyone's reaction to physical exertion is different. Some of the "expert" advice I've read and tried to followed made me feel worse or even ill. With that said, here's what I did when starting to commute by bicycle: First, I always eat before starting my morning commute or any workout. Generally, I eat a bowl of cereal with almond or soy milk. If I am particularly hungry, I will also include some protein-based foods such as egg-beaters. Unfortunately, I don't know of a vegan friendly alternative. I've also used hummus and a starch (bread, cracker, etc) when cereal/eggs weren't available. The point is to avoid starting on a completely empty stomach or with your body depleted of glycogen. Depending on the effort level, you may find that a small amount of food during the ride may help. When I first started, a small energy bar, a handful of nuts, or hummus/pita bread would help. Now, I don't need to eat during the ride. For longer rides, I've found that post-workout lethargy is always an indication of insufficient nutrition during the workout for me. Your experience will likely vary. Immediately after a hard workout (within a couple minutes of stopping), I drink 8-20 oz of soy milk (usually with some chocolate syrup, ovaltine or flavored protein powder) depending on the level of effort and duration. After a lighter workout (such as commuting), I will often subsitute a mixture of fruit and yogurt (not vegan friendly, I know) in place of the soy milk. What I've found is that a moderate amount of protein calories post workout (as someone else mentioned, in the range of a 4:1 ratio of carb calories to protein calories) seems to have improved my energy level overall. The rest of my nutrition throughout the day is more-or-less what I used to eat, though I increased my overall caloric intake around 25-40% just due to commuting. 

Mid range bikes commonly have a carbon-wrapped seat post which claims to reduce vibration and increase comfort. Basically, get some of the benefits of a full carbon seat post with less of the cost. I expect this manufacturer is using the same concept on the entire frame to get carbon-like ride at a reduced cost. Personally, I cannot discern the difference between a carbon-wrapped and a non-carbon wrapped seat post. I know other riders who believe it makes a difference (but they were using a different brand of seatpost). I think it's difficult to tell if the carbon-wrap would improve the ride any just based on the description. I've ridden aluminum frame bikes that ride far better than full-carbon frame bikes that cost quite a bit more. The frame material is just one factor in ride quality and a "carbon wrapped" frame could be a huge improvement for the right frame design or a huge marketing gimmick for the wrong one. 

Reflective strips are a vital part of backup lighting, but high quality lighting is far more effective. Flashing lights, lighting strips/tubes, or high intensity lights will be far more visible than reflective strips when you are not directly in the center of the car's headlights. Don't buy a jacket just because you want reflective clothing. Buy the jacket because you need the jacket. If you want reflective clothing, buy a safety vest and ankle straps. 

If your chainring or cassette is worn out, they will have "groves" cut into the sprockets that better fit a stretched chain than a new chain. When you put a new chain on a worn drive train, the chain will get stretched to fit into the existing wear pattern. Regardless of the exact effect of pitch or diameter, a worn-out cassette or chainring can accelerate chain wear. If your chains are wearing faster than you expect, you may need to replace your cassette and/or chainrings. 

My bike mechanic told me today that my front chainrings are starting to wear out and I should consider replacing it soon (with my next chain replacement). The cassette is still in good condition and does not show any signs of needing replacement. The bike has 3000 to 4000 miles on it and all parts except the chain are original. The specific reason for the visit to the mechanic was due to the chain dropping to the inside. The drivetrain is all SRAM Rival. There have been no other issues with the drive train. The mechanic seemed to think it was a bit unusual for the front chainring to wear out before the cassette, though it was not unheard of. Are there any common causes (ex: lack of specific maintenance?) that would cause the chainring to wear out so much faster than the cassette? 

The LBS's in my area tend to have major sales around the same time once or twice a year. During this time, I can get replacement tubes at about half their normal price. I can buy several tubes, enough to last a year or more. What is the best way to store the tubes so they last as long as possible? 

The three main advantages of a dedicated bike computer is battery life, reliability, and visibility. Only a handful of smartphones I've used can consistently run for 5+ hours with the GPS on. It would really suck to be 30 miles from home with a dead battery. Cycling computers can often run 10+ hours with a GPS. Some smartphone/app combos have questionable reliability. App crashes or flakey background functionality can leave you with big gaps in your data logs. Not critical, but it's really annoying when you're you use the data as part of your training. Most cycling computers are easier to read in direct sunlight. Of course, most of them are also B&W screens so this is easier for them to solve. But regardless, when travelling at high speed, I want to be able to read my screen with only a momentary glance. If you are on shorter rides, commutes, etc where your ride time is shorter, then a cycling computer is probably a waste of money. 

If you need the jacket for warmth or wind protection, then get an appropriate jacket for the conditions. The reflective properties of the jacket are secondary. I would not purchase a reflective jacket simply for the sake of reflective materials; rather, I would purchase a good quality jacket for the conditions and then supplement my clothing or bicycle with lighting and reflective strips. One point that often gets lost when discussing reflective materials is that they have a very limited range of visibility. They work great with direct illumination (or when using a flash), but are virtually useless if viewed from just a few degrees off angle. The specific scenario I have encountered numerous times were reflective materials are useless (and is a frequent cause of accidents) is when a vehicle is travelling perpendicular to the cyclist and pulls in front of or into the cyclist. Usually, a cyclist is travelling down a road and a driver pulls out of a driveway or cross street. Reflective materials will alert the motorist to your presence about the moment the car hits your bicycle. 

The recommendation I got from abike shop was to clamp to the seatpost (it is carbon). However, they said the safest thing to do would be to keep an aluminum seatpost around and swap it out whenever I want to use the repair stand. That said, I observed the same bike mechanics work on my bike and they simply clamped the bike by its carbon fiber seatpost without swapping it out. 

I have used the Bead Jack a few times now with great success. As with any tight tire-rim combination, you still have to be careful not to pinch the tube. However, I've found it a lot easier to keep the tool from pinching the tire when compared to using tire levers (I've given up on trying to use levers to put a tire back on--just too easy to damage the tube). It can still be a bit of a hassle until you get the hang of it because you will pull up on one spot using the jack and the tire will slip off on another spot. The tool is light-weight enough that you could carry it with you, though it's somewhat large. You would need to keep it in a pannier or would need an extra-ordinarily large saddle/frame bag. For $10, I'd definitely recommend it over any other tool or solution I've found short of buying a different rim/tire combination. 

The CycleOps PowerCal is a good, inexpensive way to get introduced to power. It uses a derivative of your heart rate to estimate power over a period of time. It also doubles as a heart rate monitor. $URL$ It is not suitable for short intervals or instantaneous power the way other power meters are. Rather it is good for comparing relative power output over a given period of time (usually a few minutes). It works very well for understanding your power output on long sustained climbs or moderate to long sprints. There are some excellent reviews of the PowerCal with comparisons to other power meters. It is actually quite accurate when used for its intended purpose. $URL$ 

21202 is discussing the position within the lane(s) that a cyclist can ride. You cannot take 21202 on its own without considering the rest of the vehicle code. 21650.1 states that a bicycle shall be operated in the same direction as vehicles are required to be driven on the roadway. So, California Vehicle Code says you cannot ride against traffic on a one-way street if you are on the street, shoulder, or bike lane (if present). However, the City of Los Angeles has local ordinances that govern bicycle riding which allows you to ride on the sidewalk, but does not specify a direction. I suspect, but am not certain, that you can ride against traffic while on a sidewalk within the city limits of Los Angeles. Clear as mud? A good place to start on California Vehicle Codes governing bicycles is the CABO website. 

I found that many drop bars are too skinny, putting a lot of pressure on a very small area of my hands. A wider gripping surface seemed to help relieve a lot of pressure. Consider adding some Bar Shapers under the tape. You can also add some Bar Phat under the tape to give more gel-cushioning. Then you don't have to use your padded gloves all the time. 

I would recommend a second shirt/jersey and shorts unless you have a reliable way of drying them (or you are comfortable wearing them even if they may still be a bit damp). In addition to the spare tubes and multitool(s) that others have mentioned, you may want to bring an extra chain link (I recommend an extra KMC Missing Link), a tire boot, and perhaps a tiny first aid kit (a few gauze pads and sterile wipes). Depending on what hours you plan to be on the road, you may want to bring a small front light or rear blinker with you--something to increase your visibility if you end up riding a little later than planed. I did a ride with a friend that was planned to be 5-7 hours and it ended up being over 10 hours due to some mechanical trouble and an injury. We ended up riding well into dusk hours before we managed to get back to our car. As far as riding with ear buds, I think it is a judgement call, but often alright. Some environments it's probably safe, other environments it might not be. I frequently ride with one ear-bud in rural and suburban environments, but would not do it in downtown or dense urban areas. If your MP3 player has a volume limiter, set it to a "safe" limit when you're off the bike. If it's too loud to hear when riding the bike, then there's no point in wearing the earbuds unless you want to risk hearing damage.