only "blackened stones" can be laid at my feet, and to be honest a neat fire ring with signs of use and a few logs stacked next to it warms my heart and gives me a sense of connection to those who camped here before me. The rest of it are by no means inevitable consequences of a campfire. 

There are two different kinds of Nalgene bottles. The originals were soft, sort of white/translucent, and designed for lab work. You absolutely could pour boiling water into them - and much worse. I certainly did it all the time - just don't screw the lid on tight until the whole thing cools a little, or pressure differential will be hard on the bottle. A site selling them describes these as HDPE. A summary page on that site says they are fine to 120C. 

I would recommend a soft open frameless pack, like a Duluth, which is made of canvas. We can fit three food barrels into our Duluth, but they are olive barrels (watertight) not the standard blue ones. I looked at the 115 L dry bags on the MEC site and it looks like your barrel might just squeeze into one, though paying for a drybag and then putting something rigid and waterproof in it doesn't seem like a great plan to me. Here are our two bags surrounded by some other stuff for scale: 

I am not sure why you want to do this, but I have noticed that in a group of people in cool (not cold) weather eg 5 C which is 41 F, those who live in places with a very cold winter (rural Ontario like me, Winnipeg) are not even zipping up their coats while those who live in year-round warm places (Texas) are shivering and complaining and borrowing gloves. My theories about why that is: 

I use Solarcaine, which contains a local anesthetic, on both mosquito bites and sunburn. Just don't get any in your eye, nose, or other tender areas. It's sold for sunburn relief but works just as well for preventing itching. 

Peanut butter has good calories. Dried beans are good too though they take a long time to prep and cook. You can home dry any vegetable - carrots, tomatoes, corn, mushrooms etc. I also take tomato leathers - mix canned tomato sauce and paste then prep like a fruit leather - and add to boiling water to make tomato sauce. I believe you can also buy dried TVP which you can use everywhere people use ground beef, and it's lightweight. Your best bet for space is to take ingredients rather than products. Flour takes up less room than the pancakes or dumplings or english muffins you would make from it. I don't make fresh pasta in the wilderness though, I just bring dried pasta from the store. I've done trips of a week or more with four adults and five children where we had to keep all our food in canisters and we didn't adjust what food we took to be especially small or dense. Your constraints may not actually be that bad. Try some test packing and see whether you really have an issue. 

I will suggest that the legality doesn't even matter. Since other people come to the site between visits from these friends, any one of those "other people" could decide the site was "too civilized" and undo what's been done. I have found picnic tables, stone furniture and the like at campsites in provincial parks, and left it how I found it. But I can easily imagine someone dismantling a structure because they disapprove of it. The best approach would be to keep everything low key - not likely to be spotted from the water or the trail, and thus not likely to offend any other visitor, whether a ranger or a member of the public. Focus on things that are useful, like log seats and fire rings, and avoid things that look like "marking your territory" or creating a sense of possession. I think a shelter of any kind is definitely over the line. I'm not talking about the law, but about how other campers will feel when they reach the site. A log and a fire ring: ooh, this is nice. A rope left strung between two trees at perfect tarp height: this is handy. A plywood roof supported by 2x4s connected to trees: what's going on here? 

Use the GPS to determine your position and then text or email that to your rescuers. That will be the end of the GPS's contribution to the rescue process. Staying put is generally best (saves your energy and ensures you don't move into an area they have searched and think you are not in) but that place should be safe and you should be discoverable in it. Ideally you would find that place and then send your co-ordinates. 

You are going to need some sort of sticks. If you're canoeing, you have paddles. (It would be great if you had 4 - lash them together blade to blade and get longer stretcher handles. With only two I hope your passenger can sit up or curl their legs up to fit on a shorter stretcher.) Any other activity, you're going to need to attack some trees - get poles as long as you can. I always carry a partial roll of duct tape in my repair kit. It would be ideal for lashing stretcher poles into a frame.If you have plenty of sticks, use two shorter ones to hold the long ones a constant width apart. Otherwise the thing will keep trying to collapse on you. If you don't have shorter sticks, make a triangle (think travois) and jam something up in the point to try to prevent it collapsing. Between the sticks you can lash rope, bits of tent, or clothing. The other advantage of a travois is that one person can grab the point and drag it. This will doubtless be an unpleasant ride for the injured person but if you have only a single uninjured person, what else are you going to do? (You need even longer poles in this case so you can get the person a fair way up the poles and not have their feet dragging in the dirt.) 

Your boat must contain (and to know it will contain these post-flip, they should be attached to it somehow) 

I have several gluten-intolerant people in my life, and though I haven't taken them camping, here's how I would feed them. Breakfast: for a short trip, bring some gluten-free muffins or bagels. For a longer trip, learn how to make a dough (premix the rice flour, xanthan gum etc at home) you can rise and then fry into English muffins. Not kidding, we did this on trips with small children and it's very feasible to make a batch of dough on arrival at the site, let it rise, and cook muffins after dinner. Jam, peanut butter or both on a muffin is a nice start to the morning. I've also made corn pone at breakfast time which is delicious warm with cheese. (Small packages of cheese, kept sealed, that spend each night underwater keep well for a week or so.) If oatmeal is an option for you it makes a great breakfast. Lunch: jerky, nuts, dried fruit, ... not much gluten happening here usually, because we tend to eat lunch on the go or at a portage. We sometimes have packaged dried soups for lunch on a stay-put day, choose a gluten-free one. Also the same gluten-free muffins and peanut butter, jam, or cheese as at breakfast can work well if you like a sandwich for lunch. Dinner: pasta and rice dominate for us. Either buy gluten free pasta or have rice more often. Premix some dumpling mix to use in stew or chili (I know it sounds weird but chili with dumplings is delicious.) The meat-and-sauce part of most dinners will be gluten free if you make it yourself (dehydrate vegetables, tomato sauce etc and put it all together at the camp site.) You can also buy dehydrated potato dishes (au gratin etc) but read carefully because not all are gluten free. I've made these in a pot and they are delicious. 

During the trip: duct tape. It's strong and flexible and it's easy to carry 3 or 4 feet with you. I've used it to repair a yoke in the middle of nowhere. Once you're home: a little fiberglass cloth and some epoxy resin. Or if it's more a deep scratch than a gouge, just the resin.