It seems like the same question but it isn't. Why not land? On the first point, you can avoid most land without being in the air (there's oceans, tall mountains, caves etc.). The usual dangers aren't sufficient: predators can be avoided through changing location, changing your place on the food cycle or changing the hours you look for food. Thus, there is something far more dangerous or detrimental that makes landing a guaranteed darwin award. Those that land die or don't have babies (or their babies don't survive). This could be because of starvation, predation etc. but I've already excluded these as insufficient dangers. It has to be something ubiquitous on land which is harder to adapt to than flying forever. I can't really think of anything ubiquitous enough that wouldn't be dangerous to all other life as well. It might be some temporary situation that lasted long enough for the adaptation of permanent flight (or just not ever landing on ground) but subsided far enough into the past to allow other life to re-emerge, leaving the fliers still in the air. Perhaps when both factors are combined there is sufficient motive to both avoid land and keep to the sky. Taking this into account, it may be possible to make predators a likely motivator - perhaps in the distant past, birds and fliers where so ubiquitous that land and water predators made them their main source of food, eventually making the ground and sea so dangerous that some of these creatures evolved to avoid that danger entirely. Why remain in the sky? In order to remain in the air perpetually, you would most definitely require an ecosystem. Whether that includes or excludes plants, it would definitely require at least one or two other species that have also adapted to perpetual flight. Have the mythical balloon-whales finally arrived? Indeed, it seems Gilles' idea and the ancient worldbuilding tag may be the answer. If you have large balloon-whales evolve to slowly and perpetually roam the skies, they could be the symbiotic platform to allow landing without grounding. By virtue of being full of hot air, they could remain aloft while allowing comparatively smaller creatures to nest on their backs (or somewhere safer from the wind, unless the whale has some sort of triceratops head providing cover). These need not evolve from actual whales, just be creatures that can survive on air plankton and sunlight. They could have the temperament of sloths rather than whales, consuming air-plankton, insect and fumes as they float around (or swim in the air), taking advantage of strong currents to help them. 

Prevention If someone had such a device, it's pretty obvious that they'd want to regulate use as much as possible. To the point where they might avoid even using it themselves unless absolutely necessary. Since in your premise this is used for transportation, it will be accessible to average people. One way of preventing the above abuses would be to intentionally engineer the device to only work with an artificial endpoint (thus, it can only send people to a specific place at a nearby time and that place has to be explicitly created for use with this device), to only be able to transport within small time distances (aka, it can transport someone from here to another planet, but when they appear, it's at most a few seconds after you start the transport) and make sure it has a time lock (like banks) and requires explicit monitoring and manual authorization for all transports. In essence, besides having to be controlled by some kind of incorruptible authority powerful enough to prevent abuse, it would have to be engineered to prevent abuse, even if reverse engineered. It would have to be made confusing, without anyone knowing the way it works entirely and possibly break or distort itself upon any attempt at disassembly. The stakes are too high. Of course, it can be built for a purpose and then destroyed after it is fulfilled. Paradoxical behavior As stated in the beginning, paradoxes are inevitable. It's easy to come up with thought experiments that end in paradoxes - it's tough to come up with ones you can test without catastrophic consequences. I'd say that, besides testing with tiny amounts of matter and energy to evaluate causality paradoxes (using only annihilations, collisions, transmutations and conservation laws) they would have to attempt all of this within very small time frames (in the order of milliseconds at most). Unless they mess up, they should be able to figure out at least the broad rules of how causality is affected and how far-reaching the effects can be, by extrapolating from stochastic processes. They might even be capable of evaluating the validity of deterministic physical laws. Other applications I can't think of many - time travel is manipulating time to your advantage. You might be able to speed things up (computers that send information backwards in time to themselves have been thought of in fiction) or slow things down (like stasis in star trek). You could perhaps experiment with processes that take millions of years to complete (send something back in time, in a container and attempt to meet it in your own time - provided your device isn't locked as I proposed). Reference frames The only way to really achieve this would be to pick something that isn't expected to change unpredictably within the amount of time you want to travel. This can be a signature the device can detect in space-time, rather than just space (perhaps the latter would be useless anyway). Since objects don't carry a tag in the universe, it would have to detect and measure its influence on its surroundings. This means it would have to be able to predict future behaviors accurately - if it's a star for instance, it would have to include very accurate stellar and orbital mechanics predictions to make sure it can maintain the reference. It could perhaps maintain a set of references - multiple points that it uses to produce coordinates in space-time. This would be much like how spacecraft and aviation computers are built in threes - all perform the same job and check each other for errors - if two agree, an operation is correct, if all disagree, there's an error. A reference matrix, made of multiple points, would be much more robust and would allow for some errors in the predictions.