Aquinas doesn't have anything to say about the liar's paradox, to my knowledge (informed, but finite) knowledge. However, a slightly later medieval philosopher named John Buridan certainly does. Take a look at Gyula Klima's paper on the topic to get a sense of his solution here. In essence what Buridan does is say that the Liar sentence is false, but then he attempts to block the inference that falsity of the Liar sentence entails that the negation of the Liar sentence is true. See Klima's paper for details on how this is supposed to work. 

Both Descartes and Luther mean that, for instance, God could have made it so that 2+2=5. Traditional Catholic theologians wouldn't have agreed with that interpretation of God's omnipotence, not least because it isn't a limitation on God's ability to be able to perform an incoherent action. God can't make a round square, not because he lacks some ability, but because there's nothing a round square could be. 

The major disagreement on beauty comes from not a disagreement on beauty but relative perception of such due to other factors. For example, when looking at a scenery, you may evoke certain memories which may lead you to classify something more beautiful than you would have if there were no memories attached to it. If you strip beauty of those definitions that encompass subjective perceptions arising from subject's own emotions, then beauty tends to looked at as objective rather than subjective. 

Firstly, Turing tests are not objective. They only show that it is possible to deceive people. Compare to a 3D hologram. It can fool humans into thinking that the object is really there though that does not mean it is there (or that our world is a big hologram). Free will is not about the fact whether human interaction is programmable or not. It is hardly affected by Turing tests. For e.g., a machine that passes Turing tests must fake emotions etc. and be able to parse sentences effectively (as in case of chat bots). It does not relate to free-will in any sense. Even if a machine is simulating a behaviour of a human accurately, does not mean that behaviour of humans is deterministic. Now, your point might be that if we can model a supposedly indeterminate process by a determinate model, probably the process is after all determinate. Good reasoning, the only problem is that you don't know who that human is. If you first decide to model a specific human's behaviour and then the model predicts the behaviour accurately every time, then you have a strong case against free will. It is important to note also that existence of free will does not mean we make use of it all the time. It is a potential and it may be used or not. So, the problems are - 

Quick question: Does the SCOTUS hold that the state isn't liable here just because the officers have a duty to intervene as far as the state is concerned? (i.e. there are standing orders like, "if you see an assault, stop it") If so, then it seems reasonable to hold the state blameless, and instead shift blame to the individual officer who is disobeying orders in this case. If the state says the officer should intervene and he doesn't, then it isn't the state who should be blamed. I don't know the answer to the question, but it seems relevant to the issue. 

Deductive arguments aren't non-falsifiable because arguments aren't either true or false. Deductive arguments are either sound, valid but unsound, or invalid. Here's an example: (1) All men are mortal. (2) Socrates is a man. (3) Therefore, Socrates is mortal. It's only the conclusion, or one of the premises that could meaningfully be said to be falsifiable. And of course, you could falsify (3) in one of two ways, which the argument makes clear: either by showing that all men aren't mortal, or by showing that Socrates isn't a man. I don't see any reason to think that Popper would have a problem with deducing (3) from (1) and (2). 

This is for same reason as St. Augustine writes. Just like something that might be considered a "metaphor" might be recognised as a fact, if it is found that the thing said is true, it might also be that a statement that is found to be false was just a metaphor by the author if that statement is not essential to the belief and the purpose of the author was not to pass information about that matter but for example, lead people to salvation. 

We should not believe in Y's claims only if there is evidence against them Y claims X There is evidence against X Hence we should not believe in X 

They can be used when the author cannot describe an event using known words as they fail to be an accurate description. So he uses a word that best fits the description and conveys what he wants to convey. When author wants to instill a poetic feel or playfulness in text to make it more entertaining or enriching They are used to create a strong imagery with a particular object whose main properties, the writer wants readers to acknowledge in the object or event that author is "metaphorising" A piece of text is linked to another piece of text. Then one of them can be thought of as metaphor describing the other event by means of less conspicuous analogy. 

Welcome to the site. I'll try to answer your questions and we'll hope somebody who's more expert about Kant comes along to improve my responses. 

There's just a basic logical mistake involved here. Think of your question being like, "How do I marry Nobody?" The answer is that you can't marry Nobody because there isn't any such person as Nobody. The capital letter makes it look like "nobody" is the name of a person that doesn't exist. But there aren't any people that don't exist. To marry nobody isn't to marry a special kind of person that doesn't exist, it's just to fail to marry anybody at all. Likewise, to imagine Nothing isn't to imagine something that doesn't exist, it's just not to imagine anything at all. The underlying issue in both cases is treating a quantifier as a name. For an excellent article (from which I think i've stolen the above examples, see Peter Geach .) 

In many cases it might not be possible to have direct evidence to conclude intention/action of a person. Only circumstantial evidence may be available. From position of a skeptic, is it right to deduce the intention of a person or actual action of a person from strong circumstantial evidence? Is there anything written about it or said about it? Or is it a matter of subjective opinion? 

An appeal to authority is almost never valid. However, if it is declared as such and accepted by both parties, it is alright to use it. First thing to know is that it is an informal fallacy. So it is wrong or right depending on the way it is used or more precisely what inference does the person using it wants the other party to draw. If the inference to be drawn is about the truth of a belief or proposition, then such appeal is never valid. If the person putting appeal to authority uses it to justify his belief or having a particular belief, then it may be not be fallacious to use it. Here hidden assumption is that it is justified to have those beliefs that are held by experts in a field. 

If I were you, I'd start with Alexander Miller's book. (I like it better than the Lycan intro text mentioned in one of the other comments, because I find it easier reading for beginners.) I'd also get the Martinich & Sosa anthology and read along those primary texts with the Miller. After that you'd be ready for a more advanced text like Soames's Philosophy of Language book (which is different than his two volume history of analytic philosophy--both are excellent resources though). 

i and -i are indistinguishable--there is no property that i has that -i lacks and vice versa. Nevertheless i and -i are distinct (i.e. it is false that i = -i, i and -i are distinct locations along the number line). 

There are many issues with several terms. Disregarding them, no, in "modus tollendo tollens" arguments, a higher probability of certainty is not required. As the first premise is conditional, it has nothing to do with the fact whether atheism is true, but what would follow if atheism is true. So, even with a prior probability of 1/2 that atheism is true, you can adjust probabilities of other part of the premise 1 so that the individual probabilities still come to around 71%. What is important to keep in mind, however, is that for second premise, the truth must not be based on truth of conclusion. If that is the case, then the argument will be circular and thus unconvincing. Non circularity ensures required independence. 

I'm a professional philosopher and I had never heard of him till now. Looks like he's more UK based, so maybe he's better known on that side of the Atlantic? (I'm in the US) 

Somebody in the comment thread below says that Jaworski, a professional philosopher of mind who published a peer-reviewed book on the subject with a reputable publisher is just wrong about the definition of "qualia." Ok, so let's look and see what other scholars in standard, peer-reviewed reference works thing. 

A norm is something you should obey--it's a rule guiding your actions. An epistemic norm then is going to be a rule guiding your acquisition of beliefs. Here's an example: Consistency. You cannot believe p and not-p. Obviously consistency and other norms connected to logic are going to be important epistemic norms for us, but clearly they aren't sufficient all by themselves to help us keep from forming false beliefs. Other norms we might need could include: Evidence. If some belief p concerns a fact about which it is easy to acquire evidence, believe p iff one has stronger evidence for p than for not-p. It is clear there are all kinds of epistemic norms like this that govern the practice of natural science as well as the ordinary everyday process of learning about the world. Making a complete list of epistemic norms would probably be very, very hard though.