You can get moon centered position and velocity vectors at the Horizons Ephemeris Generator. Here's a screen capture: 

For years I've been fascinated with the mutually tide-locked bodies Pluto and Charon. In July 2012, The Astronomical Journal published an article The Orbit of Charon Is Circular by Buie, Tholen and Grundy. The authors thought that the eccentricity of Charon's orbit is very close to zero. It seems to me their opinion is somewhat speculative given the low quality of images from Hubble. Has New Horizons data verified Charon's circular orbit? Is there an online source giving more precise orbital elements from New Horizons data? I'm also interested in the obliquity of Pluto and Charon. 

There are other ways to lose atmosphere. For example Jean's Escape. If average velocity of a gas molecule exceeds escape velocity, the planet will lose atmosphere. Venus' atmopshere is mostly $CO_2$ which has a higher molecular weight than the $0_2$ and $N_2$ of our atmosphere. So, for a given temperature and pressure, the carbon dioxide molecules have a slower speed. Venus' gravity is about the same as earth's and about twice Mars' gravity. In summary, Venus' steep gravity well and massive gas molecules might be helpful in letting Venus hold on to an atmosphere. 

I don't think it's doable to pulverize a dino-killer on such short notice. But years of movie and TV sci fi have stretched my WSOD bubble enough that I can consider this. For an 3 km diameter asteroid moving 13 km/s and having a density of 3 tonnes per cubic meter, I get kinetic energy of about 3.6e21 joules. If my arithmetic's right, earth receives about 1.75e17 joules of sunlight each second. So my BOTE seems to indicate about the same energy as 6 hours of sunlight. A hemisphere receiving the energy equivalent of 6 hours of sunlight over a brief time -- it wouldn't be pleasant. I believe we'd be screwed whether the impactor was one chunk or a cloud of gravel. 

It's said S/J needs to be equal to or greater than 24.96 for the system to be stable. For a stable system there's a ceiling on J, it can't be more than 4% of S. My question: Is there a ceiling on mass T? If T were as massive as J, could the system still be stable? 

I only entered 48 of the closest stars so it's by no mean an exhaustive list. It looks like your graphic matches my estimates which is reassuring. I don't know why the Ross Stars aren't in my list, possibly the omission is an error on my part when I was entering data to the spreadsheet. Looks like the closest approaches are around 3 lightyears. If each star has an Oort cloud, I believe the comets' velocity with regard to our sun would be pretty close to the star's relative velocity. Slowest star wrt our solar system seems to be Gliese 729 which is moving ~14 km/s wrt the sun. If, for example, some of Van Maanen's Oort cloud came within a light year of our sun, they would have been moving 270 km/s. Those snowballs would have zoomed in and out of our neighborhood. With these distances and relative velocities I don't see much opportunity for swapping comets. It's speculated that our sun swapped comets with neighboring stars when our solar system was being formed. From Wikipedia: 

The CMB is nearly featureless, but the operative word is nearly. The tiny temperature fluctuations that we've measured should look about the same anywhere within tens to hundreds of millions of light years of Earth or so. This would allow you to get an absolute orientation relative to the CMB and thus relative to Earth. It's fairly easy to measure velocity relative to the CMB, so if you measure your velocity relative to the CMB somewhere else (within that 10-100 million lightyears of Earth, anyway) and if you know your orientation, you can compute your velocity relative to Earth. But I don't see any way to easily measure the distance from Earth except very approximately. (The CMB that you see from any point is different because it comes from a different sphere. If you move far enough from Earth, the temperature fluctuations you see are no longer the ones we see from Earth because you're sampling a different part of the 300-year-old universe.) Later: I've been thinking about the position problem and there's a solution, but it's complicated. The CMB samples the universe of 13.7 billion years ago and from any point in it see the distribution of matter in a shell that old. If we move to another point, in effect, the shell shifts also and samples different parts of the gas. The key point is that the faint ripples in the gas's temperature that we see as mottling in the CMB are three-dimensional bubbles. So if you shift a short distance in space, the CMB will shift the most in the direction of motion (both in front and behind) and the least at right angles. Furthermore, the amount of shift will depend on the angular size of the fluctuation you're looking at. Low-angular-frequency fluctuations come from physically large ripples int he gas and you need to move a long distance to move the shell you are sampling out of the bubble. High-angular-frequencies ripples come from smaller bubbles and shorter shifts in position will take the shell you observe out of one bubble and into another. Waving my hands just a tiny bit, it should be possible to use statistical methods to estimate the amount and direction of movement by comparing two detailed CMB maps. A major limitation of the method is that the finer the angular resolution, the sooner you lose all correlation between the two views fo the CMB, but the coarser the angular resolution, the coarser your measurement will be. Numbers? As long as we're not talking about jaunteing many billions of light years, we can ignore general relativistic issues. A fluctuation with an angular size of 1 degree corresponds to a CMB fluctuation which appears to us right now to be around 250 million light years across and consequently ought have a good chance to be visible for moves within roughly that distance. This suggests that the CMB method ought to be able to give you a rough position up to maybe a half-billion or even a billion light years, but will drop off rapidly in accuracy after that. Note that for shorter hops, it ought to be possible to actually recognize galaxy super-clusters and get a position that way. 

You are correct that an hyperbola's outgoing speed is the same as the incoming speed with regard to the body lieing at hyperbola's focus. The direction is changed. But with regard to another body, the change of direction can mean a change of speed. Here is a diagram of how the moon might be employed in the capture of an asteroid to reduce it's hyperbolic orbit with regard to the earth to a capture orbit about the earth: 

I'd like to know a little more about the geometry of the ship's trajectory. I would be asking for clarification in comments but I don't know how to put images in comments. A good distance away the ship is moving nearly a straight line with regard to the large mass. As the ship gets closer the path gradually bends towards the large mass. If you're still a fair distance from the star, the path can be fairly well modeled with Newtonian mechanics and the curving path can be modeled as a hyperbola. The straight line the hyperbola is gradually deviating from is called an asymptote: 

This illustration (page 36 of my coloring book) is a hyperbola about the earth, but it could also be a hyperbola about a larger mass. Escape velocity climbs as you get closer to the mass. The hyperbola's speed is sqrt(Vescape^2 + Vinf^2). I use this right triangle and the Pythagorean theorem as a memory device: 

I was curious about the same things. I believe it was in the astronomy stack exchange I was referred to an online data base that gives position and velocity vectors for neighboring stars. From those I put together a spreadsheet. Here's a screen capture: 

If you did a burn in the opposite direction from your Vinf vector, it could reduce your Vinf and drop you even closer to the mass. If your burn vector is at right angles to your velocity vector, it would increase your vinf (and thus raise point of closest approach aka periapsis). It would also change the direction of the hyperbola's asymptote. To better answer your question, I'd need to know more about the geometry of this scenario, what Vesc and Vinf is and how much delta V the ship was capable of. It would be helpful to know at what distance our heroes discover they're in trouble. If the ship has already fallen close enough that it's traveling an appreciable fraction of c, the above doesn't apply. Conics from Newtonian mechanics is a good approximation until you get too close to the black hole. Then you'd need general relativity to model the trajectory -- and that's above my pay grade. 

L4 and L5, the Lagrange points 60 degrees leading and trailing an orbiting body, are famous for being stable. A well known example are the Trojan aseroids at the Sun Jupiter L4 and L5. Nodding to these bodies I label the central mass S, orbiting mass J and the L4 mass T: 

The total energy of the universe consists of the mass energy of all the matter (both normal and dark), the mass-energy of the radiation and of the dark energy plus the gravitational potential energy of the universe (which is negative). The hypotheses is that this sums to zero. As far as I know, there is no experimental evidence for this. But there is good evidence for the size of the various mass-energy terms. The best current estimates are that the mass-energy of the universe is: 

First of all, at that distance seeing the Moon and seeing the Earth amounts to the same thing. At its closest, Saturn is around 3000 times as far from Earth as the Moon is, so viewed from Saturn, the Moon is never more than about a minute of arc away from the Earth. If you can see Earth from the North Pole of Saturn, you can see the Moon, also. (Though it would be a lot dimmer.) But if you can See the Earth from Saturn's pole, then you can also see Saturn's pole from Earth. So your question can equally well be phrased as "Can Saturn's north pole be seen from Earth and if so, when?" If you look at pictures of Saturn from Earth, the rings are sometimes tilted so far that they cover one polar region, though it's also true at those times that polar region tilted away from Earth, anyway! Most of the time the rings are either not tilted enough to cover the poles or tilted to cover the south pole. So the answer is that during most of Saturn's orbit around the Sun, the rings would not obscure the sightline from Saturn's north pole to the Moon. 

This is unpredictable. The solar system is a chaotic system and it's long-term behavior can't be predicted. But it's also a very stable chaotic system and the planetary orbits have been stable for 4 billion years and will remain stable for some millions of years into the future. See the Wikipedia article for an overview. When we numerically integrate the orbits of the planets into the future in an ensemble (doing many integrations, each with small differences in starting values that are still within experimental error), a small fraction of the ensemble members diverge chaotically. (E.g., Mercury is eventually flung into a wild orbit which may impact Venus.) The key point here is that it is intrinsically unpredictable more than some millions of years into the future -- we're definitely safe for much more than a thousand human lifetimes -- other than statistically. But base don those statistics, it seems likely that the solar system will be disrupted due to chaotic dynamics before the Earth's orbit decays due to tidal forces or anything like that. (Another presently unpredictable future is an interloping star coming close enough to disrupt planetary orbits. Stars pass through the Oort cloud on a regular basis -- one each million years or so -- but getting inside the orbit of Pluto is much less likely and hasn't happened yet as far as we can tell. Nonetheless, this could happen any time.)