You might be able to work with your current employer to help you get a new employer who will sponsor you, so that you don't lose your visa. It might be a challenge to find a male-only employer. Again, you can ask if it comes down to this. 

"Required" is an attribute of an employer. If the employer decides that it is "required" (for any reason), then it is. 

It's not clear what your motivation for leaving a review might be, and clearly you don't want to leave a positive review, but there are several possibilities here. 

At least in the US, it's not at all illegal. As far as taboo, in my part of the world salaries are seldom discussed, but I wouldn't categorize such discussion as "taboo". And I think the way you have phrased it is perfectly appropriate. If you and your friend get confirmation that the offer is low as you suspect, make sure not to name this person as the reason for your feelings. That wouldn't be appropriate. 

Well, taxes weren't taken out by your spouse's employer, but of course your filed the taxes on your spouse's 1099, since that's the law. A decent background check would easily point out this sort of deceit. Just leave this off of your employment history, since you weren't actually employed. 

The key phrase in the application is "limit [your] ability to work for them". Most often, signing an NDA with one company would not prohibit your working for another. But the only way to know for sure is to understand the document you signed. Before signing an NDA, you must read and understand it. If you don't understand it, bring it to someone who can explain it to you, and only then sign it. Now, you are asking if it's okay to give this prospective employer a copy of the signed NDA and let them determine if it would cause legal troubles for you. This is a very bad idea for several reasons: 

Yeah, that was kind of a mistake. You could instead have simply stated something like "My current job is at a higher salary than what you are offering. And I have another offer on the table for significantly more than what you are offering. While I really like what I see about your company and job, and I''m eager to work with you, I feel like we need to discuss a higher salary." That way, you haven't given them a $53k "anchor" from which they can counter-offer. (Imagine them thinking "we'll split the difference" then offering you $49k) And you haven't lied. But that's done. Now it's time to be a bit more patient and get straight in your own mind exactly what you would accept, what you wouldn't, and if you are willing to turn down the $61k offer in hopes of landing this one or not. 

Your friend should be able to prep you for the kinds of questions that might be asked, and for how she would prefer you to respond. Your friend should also tell you specifically, every time she expects someone to call you for a reference check. She should tell you the position being applied for, and wherever possible the name and position of the individual performing the reference check. Aside from that, just be honest, helpful, and answer the questions being asked. Be prepared for the inevitable "Would you recommend this person?" type of question. I've been a reference many times. I always get a question at the end of the discussion along the lines of "Is there anything else about X I should know?" For my friends, I always answer with something like "If you hire X, I know you won't regret it." 

If you are a C-Level executive at a startup, you talk to members of the Board and the other founders, explain why the CEO must go, and talk about who should replace the CEO. I worked at a small startup, and this was how the CFO ousted the CEO/founder and got himself moved into the CEO role. Be careful here. Unless you can make a great case and unless you already sense that at least some members of the Board share your feelings, you might be betting your job on this move. 

All HR departments that I have personal knowledge of keep track of all applicants and the outcome of interviews/offers. In those cases, if you applied to the same company they would pull up your file and likely reject your application immediately. 

I've often seen a section heading of "Current Certifications". Under that, the certifications are listed like this: 

It's fun to have technical discussions. But here, as in everything, it often pays to seek some moderation. You colleagues are suggesting that you are taking things too far. Try to remember: 

Job requirements evolve over time. This happens in most jobs. If you look closely at a written offer letter, you'll almost always see a phrase along the lines of "... and other tasks as required." If this new couple-of-times-per-year requirement is truly a deal-breaker for you, then you should certainly find a new job, then hand in your resignation for this one. I've done the same when my job requirements changed in ways that simply didn't work for me. That said, in my current position we were told a few years back that we would be on call in a rotation. It hasn't turned out to be very burdensome so far. 

Anything is possible. And you know your friend more than we do, so know better if he would actually do such a thing. That said, I can't imagine I'd take some random stranger's "bad word" into consideration when making a hiring decision. Unless your friend already has some connection with this company, it's extremely unlikely that he could exert any influence without the hiring manager at least asking you about it. 

Your best bet is to be honest with Company A and explain why you have changed your mind. I'm sure they won't be happy about it, but these things happen. If you are prompt, polite, and professional they will understand. Don't delay any longer than necessary, so as to minimize the damage. I once worked for a company that hired a software engineer. He was due to start in a month, and waited until his expected start date to tell the company that he changed his mind and wasn't going to show up. There's no way anyone who worked there at the time would ever want to work with him in the future. On the other hand, I've had several people over the years change their mind within a week or so after accepting my offer. I wasn't happy, but I understand that these things happen. 

Of these choices, I recommend the third option - consider temp work. Based on my past experience hiring people, I think you are correct that few employers will want to bring on an entry-level person, train them, then see them leave within 2 years. I know when I hire someone it is a major commitment for me and my company - one that I don't want to waste on someone who isn't going to be around for the long haul. That said, there are probably a few out there - only one month of looking and 5 or 6 rejections in this economy doesn't mean the end. I never recommend lying or intentionally withholding information, so I'd be iffy about just not telling potential employers about your plans. That sort of information tends to get around quickly anyway, so unless you are really good about not talking to people, your new employer will eventually find out - and you could lose your good reputation. Whenever someone is not confident of their future situation, I recommend short temporary gigs, until the situation clears up. In your case, you may be able to find temp jobs, even at an entry level, where what you plan to do in 2 years won't matter at all. I've brought in several people in similar situations in the past, and it has worked out well each time (although there was one person who I tried hard to convince to stick around but failed). Good luck! 

You could just show up and hope for the best. You could also remain quiet and let the deal fall apart. Neither of those options seem best to me. The third option is to contact the company now. Make sure they understand in no uncertain terms that you have absolutely no intention of showing up and working without a written, signed contract. Then continue your job search in case they can't manage to come up with a contract in the time allotted. 

Yes. Before you accept an offer, disclose your plans and gain your employer's agreement in writing to allow you to continue working on your project. Then, check with your lawyer to ensure this agreement is sufficient to stand up against a conflict of interest lawsuit. If your potential employer won't sign such an agreement, move on to the next potential employer. That way, you'll be sure to be protected. 

It's obviously not your document, so of course you would be reading the documents of others without their permission. While you might get away with it, this would certainly be unethical. I think you already know that. Now you get to decide how ethically you wish to act. 

Since you feel that one of the key questions in the minds of the interviewer is your willingness and ability to learn this technology, it makes perfect sense to demonstrate your ability to do so. I don't think this is pushy at all. It you way to see "See. Not only am I willing to learn this technology - I have already started to learn!" This is a great technique, and could make you stand out over other applicants. Two things to consider. First, make sure this is a really good example application. No bugs. No typos, etc. If necessary, have someone who is expert in the technology look it over to make sure it's valid. Second, make sure you don't ask too much time of your interviewers in looking over this application. Make it easy for them to install, use, and review.