In The Dark Tower VI: Song of Susannah Eddie and Roland pay a visit to Stephen King in 1977, after learning that he apparently wrote about Pere Callahan's story. In order to learn what is really going on and how King knows about Roland and the Tower, he hypnotizes him, which leads to King telling about an event from his early childhood, where he had to saw wood in the barn of his uncle and was attacked by a group of little red spiders coming from dead chickens, only to be saved by Eddie and Cuthbert Allgood. 

The same how spring reinvigorates nature as well as humanity, the same it reinvigorates some of Faust's life spirits, be it only the more mundane spirits realizing that there is more in life than just knowledge. This can be seen as well in relation to his ealier struggles that contrast the gaining of knowledge and ascension into higher spheres with his clinging to the enjoyment and experience of earthly life: 

I'd really like to see the full text of your translation. It differs from the two translations I posted in the body of your question. In the latter cases, they use the English "obscured", but yours uses the literal translation of "darkness". Looking at the etymology of obscure, the direct use of the English term, as opposed to the literal translation is apropos, and could be more what Neruda intended--Romance languages are much closer to Latin roots than English. My recollection is that "shadow" (sombra) appears not infrequently in Neruda. I get a very Jungian sense of shadow in the poem, and in Neruda in general--he was certainly writing in a period when Jung loomed large in literature. Neruda is making the point that he doesn't love the object of desire in such concrete, if poetic, ways, or love her the for obvious things. "o flecha de claveles que propagan el fuego" (arrow of carnations that propagate fire) is a reference to Cupid's arrow and the more conventional gift of flowers that inspires romantic love [See: Symbolism of Carnations] "Dark" is surely meant in terms of obscure, abstract, difficult to quantify or qualify. He loves her for reasons he can't explain. The idea that "I love you without knowing how, or when, or from where" is liberating, because it does not require rationale or justification. For a referent on osucra = obscure, see Cet Obscur Objet du Désir/Ese Oscuro Objeto del Deseo/That Obscure Object of Desire (Buñuel, 1977) (Essentially, oscura means oscura, and literal darkness is metaphoric only--literally it is inability to see something clearly, which can include darkness as the cause, but not exclusively. So the translation to "dark" is likely based on idiom.) There's also the idea that loving for concrete reasons may be somewhat artificial. But real love is not bound by symbols or convention. ---------- For a sense of Neruda's admiration of the more obscure aspect, one might look at one of my personal favorites: Tus Pies (aka Your Feet). Here he writes a wonderful love poem, made more remarkable for the non-standard choice of feature to praise. This is consistent with Whitman's invocation in Song of Myself: "Welcome is every organ and attribute of me, and of any one hearty and clean. Not an inch nor a particle of an inch is vile, and none shall be less familiar than the rest." 

While Easter sure comes with a significant religious meaning, it seems to be distinctly its more earthly and mundane aspects that are emphasised in Faust. Though, the connections to resurrection aren't there for nothing either and surely intertwined with its less religious importance. If we take a look at the situation when we're introduced to Easter, through the Easter bells ringing right when Faust is about to end his life, we see that Faust himself doesn't care too much about the religious aspects either, they only remind him of the experiences that are beyond his reach: 

Apparently this early experience was the first moment where Stephen King was tempted or attacked by the Crimson King in order to drag him and his creative powers onto his side and where he was ultimately drawn to the ways of Gan instead by Eddie and Cuthbert. What I wonder is how much this event actually resembles a real event, or even trauma, from Stephen King's childhood. Many parts of the finctionalized King's story in The Dark Tower seem autobiographical to some degree. Was all of this childhood story just made up or does this resemble a real sitaution that happened to Stephen King? Could we even go as far as this experience, if it happened, influencing the imagery of the Crimson King as a big red spider or was that just retrofitted into the existing, possibly less traumatic, real memory? 

A little bit out there in a modern context, admittedly, but it's important to remember that the Festival of Dionysus was a religious event centered around dramatic poetry, the Homeric Hymns has religious function, and the pronouncements of ancient oracles were highly stylized language with obscured meaning. ("Stylized language with obscured meaning" is one definition of poetry.) As a sometimes poet, I find the idea that poetry is a "sacred language" to be quite resonant, and substantiated by the sublime effect great work produces. This is to say the effect of great poetry goes beyond the strictly rational, which is the domain of both creative insight and religion. It is not an uncommon idea. A second excerpt from Anderson's essay heavily utilizes religious language: 

Which fits the poem relatively well. Shmoop believes that the question you have is over analyzing the text. They believe the purpose of the poem is to give an example of a poem that is exactly as it seems. Both the sites thought you were overanalyzing, and I was unable to find a credible site that argued the same point as the people who took it as murder or sexual assault. 

I don't think your missing the joke, I believe that Gilbert emphasized the "riches" rather than the "rank" when choosing her two engaged, However I can address your points of concern. Firstly in response to your third theory, the term "earl" does not appear in any of the songs in Iolanthe, so that I can definitely debunk. Secondly I can address your first point. My first thought was that there were no Dukes or Marquises in the show. I was woefully mistaken. In the operetta it lists the chorus as 

This relates back to his earlier mournings of reaching a dead end in his studies and in what we are able to learn and know. We see this also in his earlier conversation with his student Wagner, a "bookworm" par excellence, where he looks down cynically onto Wanger's optimism towards gaining knowledge from reading the thoughts of past researchers who came to the same hopeless realization that Faust is facing. He basically has lost his will to strive and experience (and ultimately to live) for there is nothing to gain anymore, and the Easter bells are calling back that youthfull naiveté and optimism to some degree. And you'll notice how he says that it's "spring's idle holiday". It is the mundane qualities of Easter as a social holiday and the beginning of spring that calls him back to life, not the sublime religiosity that only proclaims spheres he can't and won't reach anyway. This is strengthened by the following scene at the city gates, where we first see all kinds of merry folk going about their holiday business, as well as in the "Osterspaziergang", one of Faust's most famous monologues while he walks the streets with Wagner. It sets off by classic natural descriptions of spring's awakening and winter's retreat, while then juxtaposing that with the social awakening of civilization from winter's drabness: 

People keep telling me there is irony at the end of Lord of The Flies, specifically during the conversation with the captain of the ship. What was ironic about that scene? 

I checked multiple sources for you, and I found a common thread. Wikipedia says that it is just about plums, as they define it as an imagist poem. Imagists poems are defined by wikipedia as. 

This shows that Christ exists in the society (I will get back to that passage) However, despite there being Jesus, there are no bibles in the country 

The "Thursday Next" series by Jasper Fforde. The series takes place in a "book world" where the "actors" live. Thursday Next is a detective with the ability to travel between the book world and the real world. The first book is The Eyre Affair and is followed by Lost in a Good Book, although I was not able to find the internet thing you mentioned. The series also takes place in an alt history setting if that helps. 

Note: "You saw her bathing on the roof/Her beauty and the moonlight overthrew" made me think of Diana/Artemis, but this may be per my background in Classical mythology. Bathed may have a literal meaning, but for me it is clearly an allusion to the moon goddess, for whom being spied bathing is a central myth. Acteaon is torn apart by his own hounds, which can be a metaphor for the agony of desire, or the inability to contextualize such transcendental beauty. The story also has an element of human sacrifice to appease the goddess. Clearly, Cohen's object of desire is a goddess to him, worth any sacrifice or torment. I have no doubt the highly literate Cohen was aware of this story, and I think it's also extremely probably he was familiar with The White Goddess, which among other ideas, casts poetry as sort of a sacred language. The matriarchal elements are consistent with Cohen's surrender, romantically and spiritually, to the object of desire. 

Rather than that, it makes him recall the memories of his youth, where he was still striving full of energy and free from the hopeless realization of scholarly impotence that he's facing now: 

So to sum up, to me Easter here, by marking the return of spring as well as in its significance as a joyful holiday, serves as both a reinvigoration of Faust's spirits and his nature to strive as well as a reminder of the mundane qualities of life and the merits of experience and enjoyment contrasted to studying and book-based knowledge which Faust feels to have wasted his life on. The above admittedly relates more to the signifance of Easter for Faust at that specific moment in his life and less directly to his meeting with Mephisto. But I also won't claim that to be the end of the story. I'm far from an expert on the topic and all that is based on a reread inspired by the question. I'm sure this has been studied time and time again and there might be more to Easter's significance under the hood. And even when seeing this angle of spring and revitalization, the connection to Christian resurrection isn't too hard to draw, in fact the very words of the work already do that (neither would the celebration of Jesus's resurrection at the very beginning of nature's be entirely coincidental in the first place). 

so there were Marquises and Dukes to be chosen. I would say that either none of them were in the running to marry her (as you said), or the Earls were richer than they were. You also have to bear in mind that Phyllis maybe was not in the most sane state of mind, having just seen her boyfriend cheat on her and discovering that faeries were real. She could have just picked the first two she saw. This could confirm your 2nd point, if she is not thinking clearly and doesn't really care. 

I re-highlighted a part that I found important that was not in your question. It calls Christ a member of the "family" which in the context of the book was a term used to describe the T.V. "Family" which acted as perfect models of society.