Forcing smart people never works. You need to remember that you're dealing with highly educated, smart, creative people who are good at solving complex, abstract, and unique problems. These people, at least the really good ones, will never just blindly follow orders. This goes back to putting the problem in their hands, at least at first. If they do nothing, then you'll want to step in with your own solution. You mentioned that you're a new team lead. Stepping into a new position like this is challenging and stressful as you're not sure how to gain respect of the team and also be a good leader. This comes with experience, and it's common for inexperienced new team leads to attempt to "compel" or force people to do things their way. This is not leadership. Developers, and other knowledge workers, don't need a manager; instead, they need a leader. Great leaders inspire others to do great things, and this is your opportunity to lead your team to greatness rather than dictate it into despair. Research shows that people are more likely to commit when they have participated in determining what the solution will be rather than have that solution told to them, and this is especially true with knowledge workers. For inspiration, please see Seth Godin's Interview on the Difference Between Leadership and Management. I highly recommend that anyone and everyone in a leadership capacity watch this short interview. 

This doesn't have to be a bigger issue than it is. The simple solution to the problem is to communicate with the director. Your boss, the COO, asked you to "help" the director, but it sounds like it wasn't quite clear what kind of help you were specifically asked to give. Your roles were not clarified. There are many ways to help someone. One of those ways is to contribute to a goal they're responsible for meeting. Another is to manage a relationship with a vendor or to communicate with a vendor. Since help could mean a plethora of things, you should clarify what that help involves by openly communicating with both the COO and the director. Here is how to approach them: 

This does indeed sound like a lot of stress. Too much! Here are some things that you should seriously consider doing: 

Since you're not responsible to this person, you need not provide any explanation; instead, just matter-of-factly move on. People like this say things like that to try and get a rise out of you, so if you keep your cool and keep your power by not getting defensive, then it takes away their power and may hopefully make them stop. It also just makes them look bad if there are undertones of hostility on his part but not on yours. Afterwards, it may be a good idea to talk with this person in private, ideally after the meeting. Remember, the sooner issues like this are confronted, the better. After the meeting, take this person aside and calmly explain that you don't appreciate the "Jane sightings" and that you'd appreciate the person stop. It may be possible he doesn't know he's doing harm, and even if he does know, calling him out on it privately may get him to change his behavior. As others have said, if the behavior doesn't stop, then you'd need to escalate it to your manager or HR, but I also believe that, as a manager, you need to demonstrate that you are capable of handling personnel issues and personality conflicts on your own. Dr. Henry Cloud, clinical psychologist and leadership coach, in a Forbes article titled "How to Manage Boundaries in the Workplace" answers the following question: 

Lastly, I recommend you listen to the archives of the podcast Tweak! The Podcast for the Creative Entrepreneur. I found it very extremely when I started doing consulting work. These podcasts were authored by one of my awesome colleagues. 

It's quite possible that you didn't get hired simply because your skills at the time didn't quite match what they were looking for at the time. If they're still hiring, this could be a good opportunity to demonstrate what you've been working on since then. The advantage you have is that you know the interviewing process, since you've already experienced it before. You know what they were looking for at the time, and it sounds like you're prepared to demonstrate what you've learned in the 6 months since your last encounter with the interviewers. While it never hurts to apply a second time, focusing heavily on the specific areas and skills that are important to this position will make you appear like a more attractive candidate. If you mention you've applied before, explain to them what you've been doing with your time since the last time you spoke, and explain how your skills will help move the organization forward. If nothing else, this demonstrates your passion and dedication, which could be a benefit. If I were interviewing you, and you followed these guidelines, I would strongly consider hiring you. This of course assumes that you didn't do or say something that made me feel like you weren't going to be a good candidate. If there were cultural fit issues, applying a second or subsequent time may not lead to success. Lastly, remember that finding employment is a numbers game. Don't get too hung up on any one employer as there are many great employers out there who are looking for your skills. 

This works really well in our organization, and it should also work in structures that aren't so flat as well. The key is to be honest, be respectful, and if there really is a problem, contact your direct supervisor for clarification. Lastly, before applying these techniques (or any other techniques from other answers here) I strongly advise you to discuss the proper behavior with your manager. Corporate cultural norms can vary widely from organization to organization, and this is just meant as a guideline or a means of getting started. For instance, in the US Army, an Army Private telling a Sergeant that he/she is busy may not be acceptable, whereas it may be more acceptable for a developer at a medium sized business as part of a Scrum team to tell a marketing manager that he is working on a critical deadline that's behind schedule. Either way, in most organizations, it doesn't hurt to be honest and ask for clarifications. If in doubt, ask your manager. Good luck! 

In my experience, in all of the interviews I've had, I've either asked the interviewer him/herself what he/she expects me to bring to the interview, or I've asked one of the recruiting agents what I should do to be prepared. In all instances, they were very helpful and provided me with much more information than I expected, and in those instances, I usually got an offer for employment after the interview. As far as how to approach the interviewer with your questions, it may be easier to do over the phone, since you could then probe for more details without a lot of unnecessary back and forth emails. I'd start with "Could you please tell me what I should expect during our interview on X date?" and then go from there. If the interviewer is vague, you could ask a few more follow-up questions and then thank him/her for his/her time. If they're really detailed, then pay attention and take notes, as the interviewer is setting you up for success. 

The people on the front lines are the ones who are most likely consuming the cash, so to speak, whether that be directly or indirectly. As an example, if your engineers have the ability to just fire up a new server on Rackspace at will, that means they have the ability to affect your bottom line. Instead of making this an issue that could possibly cause panic; instead, provide encouragement to your team to keep an eye on these costs. Start by doing an audit of all of the current costs on your team and then ask your team to find any waste. Afterwards, consider putting some incentives in place to have your team hit the goal of operating under a certain budget, and then empower them to make the decisions. Put a bi-weekly audit/review in place where you and the team look at current costs and review ideas. As an example, one of your engineers might do some shopping around and find someone cheaper than Rackspace, which would save money. Combine that with eliminating general waste, and you could quickly find yourself operating within budget. In short, there is nothing wrong with getting your team to participate; it could actually create more of a sense of ownership and teamwork to have people participating in these kinds of decisions. 

If you're 100% certain that the people interviewing you will be people who already know you, then the first impressions were made long ago, and you'll all have the advantage of knowing each other, their personalities, and everyone will have a good understanding of what everyone else is capable of. Thus, the types of things you'd normally do for that first impression may not be as critical as if you were walking through the door for the first time. However, you may find that someone wants to interview you who doesn't know you. Perhaps a senior level executive or someone else with a stake in the hiring decision. In this case, being prepared to make a good first impression will be helpful to not only you feeling comfortable but for everyone else to feel comfortable knowing you have good judgement. My suggestion isn't to overdo it though. I wouldn't suggest treating the interview like casual Fridays, but perhaps being too overly formal might be too much. The key is to dress how you would feel comfortable if that senior level executive were to meet you in her office while at the same time not making yourself uncomfortable around your colleagues who might not normally see you in your formal attire. Since this is a larger company, you may know of other former contractors who have interviewed for a permanent position. You might consider asking them what they did so that you can determine what the company norms are, as they may differ from company to company. This may help you decide what level of formality would be right in terms of what's expected and what you're comfortable with. In the end, the answer likely sits somewhere between your normal, everyday attire and your first interview formal outfit. 

So, to be a team player and not come off as a pompous jerk to your colleagues, and to not be a problem employee in the eyes of management, who can't be trusted to just take a task and run with it, you could consider taking such requests from colleagues and using those opportunities to teach not tell. Show those colleagues how to do those tasks so that next time the issue comes up, they have the tools to complete the task themselves. For example, next time someone comes in and asks you to change the header/footer, don't do it at your desk; instead, walk with them back to their desk. Have them sit down at their computer, and then walk them through the steps. Different people learn differently, some visually, some auditory, and some by doing, so if the person you've walked through it keeps coming back, maybe try doing it yourself while they watch (visual) and then have them repeat the steps back to you (auditory). You're more likely to win friends taking this approach (not that you're at work to make friends), and you'll be more likely to feel a little bit more sense of satisfaction in your job than you would by trying to impersonate Nick Burns. The thing to remember is that you're part of a team, and you have skills that others don't have. By helping out, you increase your value to the organization and the team. But by not helping, you risk being seen as "not as valuable" when it comes time for the organization to cut perceived dead-weight. Plus, there are certain things that you might not be good at. Perhaps, for instance, your social or negotiating skills aren't as good as those folks in sales or marketing, and they may be able to make a phone call on your behalf for something that you may need.