The Sudetenland was planned to be fully repopulated so that the farms and other businesses could continue as before the expulsion – and so that even the 1945 harvest would go as smoothly as in the previous years. To achieve that optimistic goal, the July 1945 Beneš decrees already contained some sketch how to achieve this outcome. Just to be sure, the "total revival" outcome was obviously way too optimistic. 3,000 small villages were abolished altogether, 70,000 have self-employed jobs evaporated, lots of associations and family farms were cancelled. Hundreds of churches were gradually collapsing and the clever small industry of the Germans went down. To compensate, lots of new heavy industrial factories were moved to the Sudetenland which meant that those areas became environmentally dirtier than the mainland "protectorate" area. The crime rate in the Sudetenland went up since May 1945, the end of the war. The conditions for theft etc. were very "favorable". But the plan was still more than 50% successful. The people who got the ex-German houses were 

They're completely different in 1910, 2005, and 2025 (projected). The Bronze Age lasted for thousands of years and things were at least as unsafe and unstable as during the 20th century. You may get some reasonable idea if you take any distribution relevant for the contemporary eras and divide all ages by 3 or so. 

The 1618 Prague defenestration took place on May 23th, 1618 and Oñate's news about it arrived to Madrid in July 1618. This is compatible with the duration of the communication to be 5-7 weeks which is absolutely reasonable. 200,000 ducats were immediately reserved to beat the courageous Czechs and additional 500,000 ducates were sent in November. The distance between Prague and Madrid is some 1800 kilometers by air. The actual route could have been substantially longer, perhaps 2500 kilometers, and Alps are in between. 40 days of transmission of the signal is absolutely reasonable without any electromagnetic communication – some 60 km per day. 

The Holy Roman Empire was an institution with the emperor – and later the Diet (some Parliament) and other parts of the government – but it existed independently from ordinary kingdoms and overlapped with them. So there was no need for the kingdoms to be "fully inside" and "fully outside" the Holy Roman Empire. One may imagine that the Holy Roman Empire is analogous to the European Union today while the Austrian monarchy is the British Commonwealth today (the British Commonwealth is also unified through the personal union under the queen and her descendants, whether or not Charles is up to the job). It's simply not true that the whole British Commonwealth has to be either inside or outside the EU. A part of it is inside, a part of it is outside. (At least for another month – afterwards, all of it may be outside.) For example, Ferdinand I of Austria inherited the Kingdom of Bohemia and also Croatia and Hungary in 1526. The latter hadn't belonged to the Holy Roman Empire but it was simply unified with Austria inside the Holy Roman Empire because of the shared king and this personal unification continued for centuries because the House of Habsburg, i.e. Ferdinand's descendants, inherited both, too. But what they inherited was a collection of territories whose status relatively to the Holy Roman Empire differed. For example, Bohemia (later Czech lands) belonged to the HRE while Hungary hadn't. That fact couldn't have been changed by the personal union that covered the whole Austrian monarchy. Even when the same Ferdinand I became the Holy Roman Emperor in 1531 (five years after he inherited the kingdoms), he couldn't have incorporated Hungary. Why? Because his two jobs were held by the same man "coincidentally". He had to act either as the emperor or the Hungarian king but not both at the same time which would be a "conflict of interest". I am presenting the issues in modern moral terms but that is distorting the reality. The real issue is that the House of Habsburg owned all the territories of the Austrian monarchy, anyway. That's what mattered to the Habsburg rulers. They had no reason to incorporate all these kingdoms into the Holy Roman Empire because they were not owning the whole Holy Roman Empire in a hereditary way. And it may be better not to put all the eggs in the same basket. Imagine that an owner, Hubert Volkswagen, inherits the companies Volkswagen, Audi, Seat, and also Škoda. The former three belong to the Old Western European Club (it's the Holy Roman Empire). It's not automatically sensible to add Škoda there as well, is it? I think that the main misunderstanding hiding in the formulation of the question was that the territories were determined by "members". That's not how feudalism worked. Feudalism was about the ownership of the land. For a king or his House, it is great and important to own some land while the membership in an organization one doesn't permanently own is a neutral thing. Great Britain is another example. It stayed outside the Holy Roman Empire despite its personal union with Hanover which was inside. Examples from Prussia, Spain, Sweden etc. exist, too. 

As far as I can say, the only historically supported template that the scene was based on was the Avenue of Sphinxes in Luxor (previously known as Thebes). The statues of sphinxes were there and they are still there while the additional statues of Gods were being moved there for special events. 

Nazism may be described as a version of fascism that incorporates antisemitism and the so-called scientific racism. This particular package of the themes was new and invented largely by Hitler (although there were probably many, less famous or infamous people whose beliefs corresponded to the very same mixture). However, the individual pieces were not new at all. Fascism is a radical authoritarian nationalism, energized by its opposition to liberalism, anarchism, and Marxism. The modern nationalist roots go back to the 19th century when nation states of the modern type started to be born while the particular opposition to the other ideologies only arose after those were established, e.g. after Marx's ideas were converted to practice. Hitler was not the first fascist. The first successful fascist party was Benito Mussolini's party founded in 1919. Antisemitism has existed in the Christian Europe for a very long time, basically from the era of Jesus Christ who was "crucified by the Jews" (those who say this thing usually overlook that Jesus was another Jew, too). Many countries experienced a strong wave of antisemitism in the late 19th century and the term was coined in 1879. Scientific racism has been debated since the enlightenment, around 1650, and lots of great thinkers were involved in the debate in one way or another. In the early 20th century, eugenics and similar ideas were extremely popular among many academics. They looked innocent because they seemed largely detached from the real-world politics. It may be accurate to say that Hitler was the first one who brought scientific racism and especially its hostile form to the Realpolitik, who combined the previously scholarly dangerous ideas with the ordinary people's emotions and their desire to act. Aside from these pillars of the ideology, Nazism may also be said to include many other things – perhaps also positive things – associated either with the German approach to many affairs in the society and the economy or Hitler's idiosyncrasies. Nazism was also inspired by some old traditions of the German nation as well as some philosophers such as Nietzsche. It was really a strange package of assorted ideas, beliefs, plans, and emotions. 

The snake isn't just a snake, it's a defensive cobra known as Uraeus, and the woman depicted by this statue is may be Wadjet, an Egyptian goddess, whose symbol Uraeus primarily was. According to some newer mythologies, it was Isis who created the first Uraeus. The Uraeus could have been added on the mask of important mortals as well, so Tutankhamun had one on his mask, too. So there's some chance that it could have been any important enough woman in the ancient Egyptian history. The inscription probably makes it clear who the woman is supposed to be. The body is clearly a modern attractive woman – no woman on the old Egyptian statues was in such a good physical condition and so realistic – so the piece isn't supposed to be a replica of any ancient Egyptian sculpture. 

Don't forget that 500,000 Czechs could have lived there all the time, even during the war when it was a German territory, and they stayed there. As a result, when the terms are combined, the population of the whole territory once known as Sudetenland (the term was banned at that time, of course, and even today, Czechs use different, more local terms for the mountain ranges etc) was 2.5 million in March 1947. The diverse and mostly "poor" origin of most of the people in that territory has had implications. The degree of attachment to the land is vastly lower than what the ethnic Germans used to have. The average people who live there today are less skillful and hard-working than the average people before the war. And when one looks at the unemployment rate maps, the higher unemployment areas in the Czech Republic almost exactly coincide with the Sudetenland territory, a fact that is never mentioned and most people probably don't realize what the shape of the high-unemployment areas resembles. The decreased and decimated population in that area may have contributed about 50% to the visible "shock" that one had when crossing the Czech-Bavarian border, for example, a difference that still exists. The remaining 50% is due to communism itself. The expulsion of Germans and the repopulation weren't a path to paradise but they were arguably paths away from hell. Due to the ethnic tensions that dramatically strengthened in the 1930s and exploded thanks to the acts during the war, the co-existence of Czechs and Germans would probably have been extremely problematic for many years. The territory has belonged to the Czech lands – governed from Prague – for 1,000 years and because of their general support for the Third Reich, most of the Germans did deserve to lose their homes etc. On the other hand, the expelled Germans really benefited because one was lucky if he could have escaped communism. All these events have left some scars but they're not capable of igniting new wars. Some descendants of the Sudetenland Germans would probably like to get their real estate back but they're getting weaker and increasingly sensible, too. The descendants of the ethnic Germans who live in the Sudetenland do realize and like to point out the relative decline of the area after the expulsion. But one may say that the area was basically "successfully reunited" with the rest of the Czech lands, perhaps in analogy with East Germany in the wake of reunification. And despite disagreements, the relationships between Czechia and Germany are excellent these days, too. Some detailed texts in Czech (use Google Translate etc.): 

No, individuals didn't have and couldn't have electricity for free. It's clear that if there were just a limit on the maximum consumption of electricity (or water or anything else), most people would saturate it and the production wouldn't be sufficient. The prices only followed the template of "total regulation" and "permanent monopoly", so they were constant for a very long time and universal everywhere in the whole country. Because of the absence of the market, no one actually knew whether the electricity sector was subsidized or profitable. Also, one must realize that most of the consumption wasn't attributed to households but to organizations (public transportation, factories, schools, hospitals etc.) and all of them were basically state-owned and got whatever subsidies they needed so all of their accounting (including the consumption of electricity) was a political issue, not a financial issue. See e.g. the book Electricity Market Reforms: Economics and Policy Challenges 

In the Hebrew square script, the first line of the stele says אנכ.משע.בנ.כמש[מלכ].מלכ.מאב.הד The letters "מלכ" (m-l-k) are indeed repeated twice, but none of these two copies is a part of the true name of the father which is just "Chemosh". The line really says "I am Mesha son of King Chemosh, the king of Moab the Dibonite". The word "King" is probably repeated at the beginning to distinguish the king (father) from Chemosh, the Moabite god, after whom the nation sometimes called itself "the people of Chemosh". The king had to be named after the god, not the other way around. The modified king's (father's) name Cheroshyat boils down to another stele, the El-Kerak Inscription, discovered in Jordan in 1958, which starts almost identically, except for the extra characters in the king's name. 

I would recommend e.g. this page for a fair review of the dropping unemployment figures. Before Hitler took over, the Weimar Republic's body of unemployed citizens peaked at 6 million people. The figure was dramatically decreasing down to the figure of only 300,000 people (a decrease by a factor of 20) in 1939. However, that doesn't mean that this decrease was a universally good thing. It seems fair to say that it was "mostly bad". 

All these words refer to the hierarchical organization of the society. "Tlatoani" was the title of the ruler. The word derives from the local "nahuatl" language and denotes a spokesman. Huey tlatoani was the really highest one. "Altepetl" was the city state, a local ethnically based province. The word is a combination of words for "water" and "mountain". These city states were divided to "calpulli" ("suburbs") whose top executives were known as "calpuleque". There were also additional pipiltin (noblemen). 

With one exception, almost all the reasons for the dramatically dropping figures were bad. And economists would generally agree that the super-low unemployment in Germany was a bad outcome, anyway. Companies need some nontrivial pool from which they can hire when someone leaves or dies or a pool that allows them to expand or reshuffle etc. 300,000 people was unquestionably a pathologically low number for a country of Germany's size. Too bad, there still exist people who are so obsessed with the reduction of the unemployment rate that they could be ready to do similar things that were taking place in Germany of the 1930s. I personally find it totally fine to appreciate things that worked even when we're talking about an unpopular and inhuman country such as the Third Reich (and I think that even on our occupied territory, there were things that just "worked"). But I am convinced that the people who think that the whole "package" leading to the low unemployment in the Third Reich – the reasons, methods, and the results – was a "good thing" are much closer in their reasoning to the Nazi (or otherwise totalitarian) reasoning than they are probably willing to admit. 

The emperors have often spoken many languages and Hungarian was an important one so one may find numerous Habsburg rulers who spoke Hungarian, too. For example, Maximillian II fluently spoke Spanish, French, Latin, Hungarian, and Italian. Maria Theresa spoke German, Italian, French, Spanish, Latin, Czech and she added Hungarian before she became the empress. The long-time "last" emperor Franz Joseph I of Austria was led to his skills by his mother Sophia and he was proud about them. He could speak, write, and read in French, Italian, Hungarian, and Czech. His successor Charles I of Austria did speak Czech extremely well (and he wanted some autonomy for the Czech lands around the time of the First World War) but I am not able to find out whether he spoke Hungarian. However, Charles' recently deceased son Otto von Habsburg (1912-2011) surely did. If we count German, he spoke 15 different languages that included Hungarian and Czech. He has also passed the standard Austrian as well as Hungarian high school (gymnasium) requirements. Nevertheless, even with these credentials, he wasn't allowed to restore the Habsburg monarchy. Almost all the members of the Habsburg House in the 20th century spoke Hungarian. 

In Poland since 1918, it's been the case that the citizenship could only be earned by descendants of Polish citizens. However, a big one-time change – which turned "almost everyone" into a citizen – came through the Polish Citizenship Act of 1920, Article 2 and 2a. On January 20th, 1920, everyone became a Polish citizen who was a resident on the new, greater Polish territory and had no other citizenship. To be a resident on the new, greater Polish territory, one had to prove it either by papers showing his citizenship in the former Kingdom of Poland; or Prussian, Russian, or Austrian/Hungarian documents showing the residence with a specific proof that he or she lived on the territories later acquired by the new Polish state. The citizenship was also given to some exceptions based on international treaties; and, after a 1938 update of the law, most of the former citizens of Czechoslovakia in the vicinity of Těšín that was partly conquered by Czechoslovakia after the (tied) 1919 Czechoslovak-Polish seven-day war, and re-acquired by Poland as a gift from Adolf Hitler in 1938 (no one had to ask Czechoslovakia since the Munich Treaty). Many people were of Polish origin but hadn't lived on the "right" territory before 1918 so they didn't become Polish citizens but were recognized as a special category of people of "Polish origins". In practice, this was the first step to becoming a Polish citizen if (as Article 3 of the 1920 law says) they renounced the previous citizenship and declared their desire to become Polish citizens. Any "break" in the citizenship could have eliminated the citizenship for the family, and so on, see Polish nationality law.