I think you may be overdoing the run, even considering your weight and training history. When they say run in the typical couch to 5k (c25k) program, they merely mean a jogging pace. If you ARE doing nothing more than a jogging pace and still hitting heart rates that are that high, I would go for an actual clinical stress test. (That's probably not a bad idea anyway, with the family history). On a personal note, I am not a fan of training by heart rate. I don't believe that people should base training on a metric that can change dramatically by what you ate or drank the day before. If your heart rate is elevated 10 beats because of stress and dehydration, you aren't working as hard as you think you are. I much prefer perceived exertion, i.e. how hard you feel like you are working. As far as your advisor, I would be interested in his clinical background, to where he can confidently assert that he can train you without hurting your heart. If you haven't already, I would highly encourage you to get a physical and talk over your concerns and family history with a medical doctor. That way you KNOW you have a clean bill of health to be working out. 

Good shoes can make the difference between enjoying running, and dreading going out the door. Especially if you are going to be running a half marathon, then you are going to be putting in a lot of miles in preparation and then the race itself. If you have never had a gait analysis done, I would highly suggest that you have it done. And yes, while it is possible that their advice is rubbish, there is nothing that says you have to buy the shoes there. You can always tell them "Thank you, but I will need to save for these" or some other line, and then go to a different store and see what they say. Comparison shopping. Also yes, it will open you up to more expensive shoes, but I can tell you from long years of experience, it's worth it. Finding the right shoe is like running on a cloud. You would be amazed at the difference between a shoe for 30 quid and a shoe for 60 quid. One warning, the cushioning in higher end shoes may not last as long, so if you start noticing odd little aches when starting your run, you may need to replace your running shoes. Also, use your running shoes only for running. The more you wear them, the quicker they break down. Wear your low end stuff for everything else, and the running shoes for running. 

Take it as soon as you wake up in the morning. Lower heart rates are better. Take it immediately after stopping exercise (Such as a run) and then again a few minutes later. 

Unless you have a condition that requires specific monitoring and fluid intake, weighing yourself during a workout is of an academic interest, nothing more. There are studies that show a certain amount of weight loss during exercise can have a detrimental effect, but just replacing fluid doesn't account for the muscle glycogen loss and other factors. If you are monitoring weight for gain/loss, once a day under the same conditions is the best way to track it, anything more than that is just for personal interest. 

Any fitness regimen can be done by women. As far as the gains, that is going to be highly personally dependent. Another woman (or even man) might increase every few days, someone else might only go up every couple months. It will depend on many factors, only one of which may be nutrition. Training history, regular sessions, proper form/technique, proper rest, proper nutrition, etc. These are all factors in the success and efficacy of an exercise routine. 

Unfortunately, adaptation to altitude is a few weeks of process, as what happens is the body kicks up production of red blood cells, and that's not an instant thing. As noted in the comments, getting there a few days ahead will help. Also, be very aware of hydration, and make sure that in the days leading up and especially during the event, you are getting a lot of water, and avoiding high doses of caffeine (If you are a regular consumer of drinks such as monster, etc). Caffeine in low doses is not a diuretic, but 600mg+ it can have a diuretic effect, and with the consumption of multiple energy drinks you can hit that level. You dehydrate faster at altitude than you do at lower elevations, so you will probably need more water than you think you do. Be aware of symptoms such as headaches, vomiting, dizziness and somewhat sudden fatigue, as these are signs of altitude sickness. Most people can ascend to 8000 feet without too many problems, but you will also be doing the tough mudder which is a pretty rigorous event. Don't be afraid to stop and breathe for a bit if you start getting dizzy and nauseous. 

No plan - You're doing "some sit squats", some random things you found on the internet, and a few planks here and there. It's having a small effect, but towards what? You need to define some goals. Short (6 month), medium (6 mos to 2 years) and long term (longer than 2 years) type goals. Then come up with a complete, well rounded overall body workout plan geared towards those goals. Without a plan, you'll just kind of lumber around doing stuff and wondering why it's not really working. Figure out that goal, and the other planning will be easier. No eating plan - Note I don't say diet. A diet is a short term thing, usually abandoned after the initial success wears off. An eating plan is persistent, long term habits designed to ensure the success of your fitness plan (See note #1). For weight loss, you simply need burn off more calories than you eat. Take a look at your fitness/weight plan, and see how your diet really stacks up. There are tons of calculators around, use them as a starting point but realize that you may need to adjust up or down, since they are all just educated guesses. Keep a diary/logs - Wondering why you gain weight in the spring? Or why you seem to always feel droopy by Thursday? You can't know what might be causing it, if you don't track the history. Also, until you REALLY know how many calories are in the various foods you eat, keeping a food diary/log religiously can be very enlightening as to how many calories you're really eating. This can include borrowing or buying a food scale. You'd be astonished at what actually constitutes a serving vs how much your probably eating. 

For an inversion or eversion type injury (Fancy terms for rolling your ankle, the most common kind of sprain), the main taping is going to be to try and prevent the same injury again. Most of the time the taping job is going to be a U shaped type stirrup configuration, pulling the tension opposite the direction of the injury and then taping around the leg in series to hold the tape tight. This is going to be more important with weight bearing, lateral direction change sports such as tennis or soccer, and becoming progressively less critical with non/slight weight bearing, linear activities such as swimming and cycling. With swimming, it is very unlikely (unless you get really clumsy on a flip turn) that you are going to invert or evert your ankle on the wall during a push off, and the main motion is going to be plantar or dorsiflexion. (The same motion of stepping on or releasing the gas pedal in a car). It's also almost completely non weight bearing, which is an advantage. If the action of pointing or raising your toes causes no pain, then it is probably safe for you to swim without taping your ankle. I would caution you, however, to consult with your doctor or physical therapist, as there may be other complications. As a precaution, you can tape your ankle (It takes a bit of practice to do it well on yourself) and swim, as there are water resistant tapes that you can purchase. But again, check with your PT/doc, they may say that swimming is safe to do without any support (Although just in case, I would wear the air cast on the slippery pool deck). 

So using the Cool Running pace calculator (Love this tool), you are slightly over 9 minutes/mile for a 2 hour half marathon. I would then go to 11 minutes per mile for the marathon, which would be 2:30 minutes running, 1:00 minute walking. In theory, that should allow you to complete the marathon. For the training prior, I would just continue your 20 mile weeks, since there isn't really that much to taper. I would back off on the intensity a bit for any speedwork you are doing, and get a couple of good days rest leading up to the event. 

Conditioning - I would concentrate on HIIT training for your lunch sessions, with an emphasis on agility and footwork drills. Leave the heavy lifting stuff for your lifting/mobility sessions. This will have the double effect of conditioning, as well as maximizing footwork and balance work in a short period of time. Reaction drills - Add in reaction training, much like hockey and other goalies go through. One example is a person standing behind you throwing a tennis ball at a wall in front of you, and you catch it on the rebound. This will help with response times as well as target tracking. Isometric training - As you get closer to the competition, I would work on isometric contractions and your ability to "root" yourself. Set yourself, then use a frame to pull yourself towards, and resist the pull as much as possible. I'm not sure how much of this you will get in regular judo training. 

As a conclusion, the author determined after the reviews that the apparent optimal workout routine should have the following points: 

The best replacement drink after cardio exercise is chocolate milk. It's got the 3:1 carb to protein ratio that's been determined to be the optimum, it's cheap, and easily obtainable. (There are studies that reference this as well.) Cardio exercise, especially if you are training long distances (Such as marathoners, triathletes, etc) where you are exercising for upwards of 1 hour, it's as much about recovery as anything. Replenish fluids (Again, chocolate milk :D), and get a good solid meal of real food soon after, and you should be good to go. 

I would second the recommendation for www.myfitnesspal.com or similar, and I would also recommend picking up a basic nutrition book. I would also caution you against revamping your diet in such a drastic way until you understand your needs a little better. The diet you have listed is one that I'm afraid will introduce deficiencies, and I don't think it would support the activities that you have in your other post. You have minimal protein and fats, and are VERY heavy on carbohydrates. May I ask why you want to go vegetarian? Vegetarian is not a "recipe" for weight loss. I know plenty of overweight vegetarians, and if you truly do go that way, you really need to know food makeup, as there are only two vegetarian complete protein sources (quinoa and...the name escapes me), so you have to be careful about knowing what amino acids are in various foods to get complete proteins for your body. 

There's not really a correlation between twitching your fingers and power in your legs. Plus, you don't "activate" your fast twitch fibers. There isn't a switch that turns them on, and they are not independent. You would also be using the slow twitch fibers in the muscle as well. So physically speaking, the finger twitching isn't doing what she says/thinks it does. What it does do, however, is act as a mental trigger. She has a pre race routine, with the hops, bends, leg and finger twitching, etc. What this does is get her in the mental state to race. You see this with all kinds of athletes in various sports, they all have different routines that basically tell their brain and body "Hey, it's time to race".