Kill ratios are a tactical consideration - the Allies were more interested in beating Germany from a strategic position: deprive it of resources and manufacturing capability, and overwhelm it with mass production and superior logistics. It's fortunate that Monty, Patton and Zhukov were excellent tacticians, but it was Eisenhower and Shaposhnikov, with the support of civilian political leadership, who truly understood how to beat the Germans with logistical supremacy in support of an aggressive offense. This was also U.S. Grant's strategy during the end phase of the Civil War, and the kill ratios strongly favored the South (nota bene: Cold Harbor). 

No, no Russian warships from 1944 until 2008 traveled through the Panama Canal. Here is a BBC web article on the topic. 

Also, Henry Stuart, Lord Darnley had his house blown up by his wife, Mary Queen of Scotts - after he stabbed her handsome continental boy-toy in front of her - 

Ugarkina of Lagash, circa the 24th century BCE, is generally credited* as the first effective reformer in recorded history to grant broad legal rights to commoners, the poor and disabled, and elevate many more women into the ranks of the political elite while reigning in secular corruption and abuse of power by wealthy landowners and the priestly class. These reforms and rights are documented on the Liberty Cones of Lagash. The economic reforms are based on those of his predecessor Enmetena, but Ugarkina goes further in guaranteeing the rights of his subjects, and there is evidence of both their positive outcomes, and disastrous consequences (the reactionary military class stood by while the city was conquered.) (*Criticisms of this claim are typically from the extreme left and right wings of the political spectrum and not supported by available evidence, or worse, confused with Enmetena or other rulers not associated with Lagash.) 

The most important thing Kublai Khan did for culture was to found the Yuan Dynasty, which sought to rule what Genghis had conquered. It initiated trade between east and west, cross-pollinating ideas and culture. Specifically in China, this resulted in advancements in the arts - painting, calligraphy and poetry combined into a new discipline similar to Persian art, and poetry likewise was introduced to theater, along with western instruments, in zaju and sanqu. 

The Battle of Nájera - Peter the Cruel hired his friend, the Black Prince (no, really) to beat the French-backed "rightful" ruler of Castile, Henry of Trastámara, to take back the crown. Since the generals on one side of the battle were known as "Peter the Cruel", "The Black Prince" and "John of Gaunt" (no, really), and the other side did not have any superhero-nicknames to counter, they did indeed kick the hell out of Castile and her French allies, lead by Henry. This victory caused a falling out between Pedro of Castile and Edward, as Pedro reneged on paying the bill and instead kept busy living up to his nickname. Losing his powerful ally after a victorious battle prevented Peter the Cruel from cementing his rule, which resulted in his ultimate defeat at Henry's hands. 

He also discusses the difficulty in comparing infantry to infantry, as the AUS and Wehrmacht had very different tactical doctrines that do not match up neatly, and cannot be separated from their role in combined arms warfare. 

The Wikipedia article on Egyptian Temples has a rough estimate as to when the last temple of the Old Egyptian Religion, The Temple of Isis at Philae, was closed - as early as 456 if one goes by inscriptions found at the site, or as late as 535, if one believes Procopious. They source the claim from the 2011 edition of The Archaeology of Late Antique Paganism, which argues a gradual and organic decline that culminated in the abandonment of cult activities well before the hard cut-off of Justinian's command to destroy the temple. While cult activities may have continued in isolation, this is the end of the Old Egyptian Religion in recorded history. 

1900 presents one dominant challenge, time. 54 years after the last land grants were given. There wouldn't be a lot of original deed holders alive by 1900. The ranchos were intended to be used for farming. Once split up that use might have been lost. This would in some cases invalidate the property thanks to efforts to take the land, or descendents would simply have no use for the land anymore. Obviously you know beyond squatters and the issue of getting government recognition of property, Californios weren't a heavy currency society and so much of what wealth they had was in property. To adapt to the changing culture they would have had to sell land to get cash. Many did. This was far more likely where larger cities were developing. There would be immense pressure to sell as the value of the land was rising. There was also the issue of property taxes. If one owned a large parcel of land in a less populated area, even this steady pressure of having to continuously pay the state government year after year for the land probably contributed to sales. The original Spanish vision for the land was to give it to the Native Americans that had come to work the missions, but the Mexican government instead gave the land to Californios. As it became apparent that there was substantial interest by America to take California, the local government began handing out numerous grants in hopes of gaining loyalty. Not only to Californios, but to all kinds of people who lived in California with Mexican citizenship. The vast majority of all land grants were given in the last few years of Mexican California. This rushed effort left many properties ill-defined or without substantial legal documentation and made it easy for the US government to reject the claims. Every property I've looked at seems to have fallen to descendants or others decades before 1900, and where descendents got the land, few didn't sell their property before 1900. I have found instances where subsequent purchasers held onto the land until today in their families, but not the original families, and there today seems to exist only 2 original land grants in single private ownership, one of them has remained essentially undeveloped. Salvador Vallejo, Mariano Vallejo's younger brother, had Rancho Napa and Salvador, he sold most of the land from both ranchos relatively early on. However he kept a personal area for his home which he willed to his son Ignacio upon his death. Ignacio lived on the land until at least 1919 when the house burned down. Rancho Boca de Santa Monica was given in part to Francisco Marquez. While portions of it were sold through the years, much of it stayed in the family past 1900, and in fact a portion is still in Marquez family ownership today. So there were some instances, probably more I haven't found. But not likely many. So many natural and artificial challenges were presented. I found this very informative searching for information. Amazed at the lengths people had to go through to keep any land, and the lengths others went to take it. One interesting instance I found was for Rancho Suscol. Originally granted to Mariano Vallejo, he had sold it to his son-in-law John Frisbie. Frisbie then subdivided it and sold it to more people. Then the US government declared the original claim invalid. This opened the land to the Homestead Act allowing people to move in and claim land for occupying it. Frisbie didn't give up however, and appealed to an older law that allowed previous owners to buy the land from the government before homesteaders could claim it. This failed too. But he had enough support to get a new law passed just for this one property, The Suscol Act which allowed him to buy the land and maintain ownership. However by this time the attempted homesteaders were beginning to make the same claims he did originally, claiming to be the lawful original owners citing the same act he did. It ended up being a US Supreme Court case, which ruled in favor of Frisbie and the homesteaders were evicted. So it took an act of Congress AND a US Supreme Court ruling just to save one Rancho in California that was being subdivided anyway. 

In this web posting by Charles Kent Smith, former president of the American Names Society, he claims the popularity of Omar as the name of Americans in the 19th century (as in Omar Bradley) is due to the popularity of poems like the Rubaiyat. They are named after the famed poet Omar Khayyam, much the same way the names Homer or Milton or Virgil came into common usage. 

Italy was (and is) an industrial and financial powerhouse - Mussolini was an ineffective wartime leader, but the resources his nation lent Hitler were essential to continuing the war. Removing Italy from the Axis sphere of influence was high on the list of Allied strategic goals - remember, the Allies' game plan was to deny Germany the means to make war in support of aggressive offense and counter-offense. More, by defending Italy, the Germans had to keep a major investment of men and materiel in the peninsula, which it could not bring to bear against the Soviets, or redeploy to defend against an invasion of France. This made long-term strategic sense, even if they were stalemated or out-fought during portions of the campaign. It was a compromise between Roosevelt and Churchill made at the Casablanca Conference - the tried-and-true British strategy was to contain Continental threats with overwhelming Naval power, and weaken them with constant peripheral campaigns. The British were very keen to remove the Axis from the Mediterranean, particularly Sicily, as they could then dominate shipping from the Middle East and Subcontinent without German or Italian interference. American generals wanted to use their massive land-based strength to tackle the Germans head-on with an invasion of France. Roosevelt and Churchill agreed on Italy, to meet British strategic goals, to prepare the way for D-Day to meet American strategic goals and to help clear a path for the Russians in the East. In return for playing things their way, the British would step up their efforts to bolster American allies in the Pacific. 

Asthma cigarettes were an actual treatment at the time - I don't know if the scriptwriters, or history, knew whether the prescription was for tobacco or stramonium cigarettes. It's unlikely anyone believed tobacco had any medical purpose at that time, though its dangers were still largely unknown. Stramonium, on the other hand, was a well known cure for asthma or other issues with swelling or inflamation of the throat or airways. Also known as thorn-apple cigarettes, they were packed with the dried leaves, flower and fruiting body of the Datura Stramonium plant (aka the thorn-apple). The smoke of the plant contained beladonna alkaloids which acted as an anticholinergic - the physicians may have hoped whatever was causing his stutter would react in the same way to the asthma cigarette as a bronchial tube spasm would. 

The earliest written reference to a war was between Sumer and Elam in 2700BCE. The earliest battle we have a written account for is Megiddo... Thutmose III vs. The Caananites, lead by the city of Kadesh. The Egyptians won, and tossed up a bunch of monuments to celebrate the victory, wrote a bunch of scrolls on the topic, and so knowledge of the battle was passed down to the present. The earliest archaeological record of warfare was also in Egypt, but between those who lived on the lower nile and those who lived on the upper nile in Sudan. 

The Soviets only had a small presence in Yugoslavia, during the capture of Belgrade where they only had an assisting role - Tito's Partisans proved more than capable of defeating the Nazis on their own. The troops in Yugoslavia, the 2nd and 3rd Ukranian Front, were needed elsewhere, and so were redeployed to Hungary once it was clear the Yugoslavians had things well in hand. The Wiki article on the Tito-Stalin split has some more background on how Yugoslavia avoided becoming a satellite state of the Soviet Union.