In many (most?) countries on Earth today, one acquires citizenship in one of two ways: being born into it, or going through a formal process to become a citizen. Your vampires will presumably undergo the latter. Their descendants would presumably be born into it -- but you're going to have to define "born". Your question implies that vampires can raise other vampires (hence they don't get human criminals); does that count as "birth" for citizenship purposes? Or does the person's original citizenship continue past his undeath? No current laws address this question. Some countries assign different rights to born and naturalized citizens. For example, in the US the latter are disqualified from the office of president. Your undead might not, over time, demand privileges equivalent to born citizens, especially in light of the colonization task they are doing on behalf of the empire. Alternatively, your undead might argue that, as in the previous paragraph, their citizenship when they still lived should continue to apply -- they might argue that they are born citizens, not naturalized, in other words. Citizenship confers rights for residency and travel that do not always apply to non-citizens. There shouldn't be major changes here, with one wrinkle: can your vampires be photographed? If not, laws about valid ID, photos on passports, and the like will need to change for them to be able to legally travel. In some (most?) countries, citizens (but not non-citizens) working for or as part of the government or military are sometimes granted security clearances. As part of the process, identity needs to be validated, including biometrically. Can your vampires be fingerprinted? Do they have personally-identifiable DNA? If any of your vampires want to work in national defense, these processes might need to change. In some countries, citizenship grants rights to publicly-funded social services such as medical care. Human citizens might push back on that because vampires live forever and people don't, so the commitment for each vampire-citizen is greater. Your vampires might be fine with this, but expect your humans to lobby for lifetime limits, mandatory contributions (you only draw out if you pay enough taxes in), or other restrictions. There are other laws that will need to change in a world that integrates the undead, particularly inheritance law, but those aren't usually tied to citizenship. 

For starters, I'd say it would depend a lot on the nature of the proof. As a Christian, I'd say that there is overwhelming evidence that Christianity is true if people were only willing to look at it with a fair mind. Of course, atheists are just as quick to say that there is overwhelming evidence that their beliefs are true and it's the Christians who are obstinately ignoring the facts. Etc. Every now and then an atheist will say something like, "If there really is a God, why doesn't he strike me with lightning right now for blaspheming him?" Suppose that at the very moment that an atheist said that, a bolt of lightning tore through the roof the building and hit him. Would all the atheists in the world then say, "Zounds, we were wrong! There really is a God!" I sincerely doubt it. More likely they would say, "Wow, what a bizarre coincidence!" I'm sure most would deny that any such thing ever happened. Even if you had video of it, I'm sure there would quickly be people coming forward with absolute proof that the video was faked. I'm not singling out atheists here. Lots of people come to their conclusions first and then look for evidence to support those conclusions, and any contradictory evidence is just ignored. (Lots of people who disagree with me, I mean. Obviously people who agree with me have all examined the evidence with absolute fairness and objectivity. That's why they agree with me. :-) So frankly, if there was some such proof -- like if someone actually made the Sun stand still or came back from the dead or something irrefutable like that -- I'm sure that many people would find a way to explain it away, from claiming that it was all a fraud or a hallucination to elaborate alternative explanations. Sure, some would be convinced. So I think you'd just end up with what goes on in the world today, but more so to whatever degree that this "proof" was hard to deny or refute. Some atheists would be convinced, others would not. Some people of other religions would convert. Some other religions would adapt their teaching to the new information. Etc. 

You know the parents whose hostility to their kids sometimes takes the form of "I slaved away / gave up a plum job / worked three jobs and ate rice and beans / etc to raise you and this is how you treat me?!"? For some of them this class will be like that, so expect some kids to hear about it. How could people cheat? That depends; your law doesn't actually specify that they have to pass an exam, just show up, so some could tune out. If you have an exam, assume that any methods used by students to cheat on school exams could also be applied here. Resistance to the class isn't limited to those who will be terrible parents. Some parents will do fine even though they cheated their way through the class. Some will then use that as ammo to argue against the need for the law. I know you're trying to dismiss the financial aspect, but that money has to come from somewhere. Expect some resentment from those whose taxes are raised or budgets cut in order to provide this. Some will be swayed by the public-good argument (as with school taxes); others will not. Those with political power might act against the law; if they can't get the law revoked directly they'll cut the program's funding. Look to modern US social-welfare programs for examples of such political maneuvering. 

I'd quibble with your politics. A one-world government would surely quickly become a heavily bureaucratic government and likely a tyrannical government, as there would be no outside forces they would need to compete with. It is not at all clear that such a society would have rapid technological progress. A one-world government would have every incentive to oppose colonizing other planets: people on other planets would be hard to control and would likely become a breeding ground for dangerous non-conformist ideas, maybe even revolution. But regardless, even assuming that this society or some other hypothetical society had roaring technology and the spirit of adventure to want to engage in space travel ... I think it is wildly optimistic to assume that we would make even small progress to colonizing the Solar System in 170 years. Recall that from when Columbus discovered the New World to the American Revolution was 284 years. It took centuries to get from "first trip" to "a self-sufficient colony". We have yet to send human beings farther than the Moon. Planting even a tiny research post on Mars or the asteroids is a daunting challenge. Even if a major nation or corporation was willing to devote tens of billions to the project, it's not at all clear that it could be done successfully. Yes, we have superior technology now to what the early settlers in America had. But the challenges in colonizing the planets are also greater. I think it likely we will eventually terraform Mars, but how long will that take? I'd guess centuries. It's easy to get arrogant and suppose that we are so advanced that we could do anything if we just put our minds to it. But there is so much we don't know. For example, just recently I read about an experiment to construct an enclosed biosphere that ran into trouble because, it turned out, trees can't grow properly without wind. (This isn't the article but I think it's the same experiment: $URL$ They had never thought of that. How many other subtle things like that go into making a viable self-contained biosphere? We're not even talking some subtle, microscopic factor in a chromosome. We're talking about ... wind. No one is devoting major resources to colonizing the planets today because, despite all the talk of the world being overpopulated, there's still plenty of empty land, and the risks and costs of colonizing Mars are way higher than the risks and costs of colonizing, say, a desert, or the Antarctic. As a science fiction fan, I love the idea of living on Mars, or at least visiting before I die. But I really doubt it's going to happen in my lifetime. Likewise, once we do reach the planets, it will be many centuries before the solar system is fully colonized, to the point where an expedition to another star is worth the cost. I'm sure we'd do it well before it was economically viable for the fun and adventure. Or, as people who try to sound sophisticated put it, "for scientific research purposes". But I think a colony in another solar system is many centuries away. 

Humans (even programmers :-) ) are used to having some access to natural light, but in a colony on the dark side of a moon or underground (for example) this won't happen. Are there known (documented) effects on people's health (physical and psychological) as a result of living in such an environment, where all light is artificial? I'm not asking about temporary situations but about living in such an environment for years. I'm aware of Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) and that it can be mitigated by special lamps producing light in a particular range of the spectrum. What else could go wrong in this environment? Assume the use of dietary supplements to make up for the loss of Vitamin D through sunlight. Because they will have access to light (just not sunlight) I'm assuming that their vision won't degrade (a la Wells's Morlocks), but if that's wrong, please correct me. 

They're going to need outside income in order to advance their cause. That means they need to produce something for sale -- physical goods, digital goods, or hopes and dreams, just like monasteries of yore. Physical goods -- specifically, hardware: the path to that kind of AI passes through lots of useful technology. One path they can take is to commercialize that -- not the actual AI, of course, but lesser forms -- household robots, self-driving vehicles, hard-labor robots, and so on. Their AI can guide them in choosing the most-profitable products. Digital goods: some medieval monasteries excelled in scribal arts; your monastery, led by its AI, could produce music, fiction, videos, software, and games of high quality to sell to the masses. Consider in particular the subscription model a la World of Warcraft. If some of these products are seen as culture-enhancing and not just entertainment, they could even aim for patronage just like their forebears. Hopes and dreams: "we all want to be able to live forever, right? This upload process will bring that, but it requires great dedication to be declared worthy. But don't despair -- you're not a millionaire, but if you are dedicated, you can help our monastery bring this gift to everybody, maybe even you! All you have to do is..." Charismatic leaders have gained fanatic followers while demonstrating less than your monks will be able to show; they ought to be able to do as well as modern cults, presumably with less evil since your AI is benevolent. 

I think who would be most likely to secede depends largely on who is in power in the Federal government. To put it simply, if liberals are in charge, the conservative states would be more likely to secede, and vice versa. As the U.S. government has been trending liberal since the 1990s, I'd say a scenario where the conservative states rebel is more likely. But that could change overnight if, say, an extreme right-winger was elected president. A closely related question is what would happen if one or more states did try to secede today. Expectations about what would happen would heavily influence who would be willing to try it. Would the Feds immediately send the military in with guns blazing? I doubt it. I expect there'd be a period of negotiations before any violence. If the Feds thought they could send in the FBI or marshals and arrest the governor or other leaders of the secession movement, they might try that. Would local police and National Guard troops back the secessionists or would they side with the Feds? Bear in mind that local police today are being increasingly "militarized", with military-class weapons, including armored vehicles. If the police and National Guard backed the secessionists, would the military be willing to fight them? For that matter, what would the military do? If we were talking about half the country seceding a la the Civil War, then half the military might come from seceding states, including the leaders. Depending on the reasons for the secession, many in the military might be sympathetic. 

We know that something similar happens in mammals; a mother who is infected, or drug-addicted, can transmit that condition to her fetus. So, what we need is a way for a jellyfish-borne virus to affect a pregnant cat. 

You ask what government the people would choose, as if they have any say in it. Unless your centuries-old hereditary monarchy is more of a figurehead (think modern UK) than actual rulers, the idea of the people choosing their government is foreign and unlikely to gain traction on its own. The masses will, by and large, expect the monarchy to keep producing monarchs. The lack of an heir could cause unrest; historically (I'm thinking western Europe here), that's the sort of thing that a rival faction would take advantage of to put its candidate on the throne. A smart monarch, therefore, will make sure there is an heir waiting. With the new reality -- at best your heir would be a very young child -- I would expect the monarch to broaden the pool -- in the absence of a son the crown might pass to a younger brother. We might see the crown bounce back and forth among branches of the same family -- it passes to the king's brother and then to the previous king's son (who's just now coming of age) and then to the brother's son and so on, zigzagging down the family tree. The medieval Rus used something close to this, called the Rota system (thanks to PyRulez for this information). In your world of short lifespans it becomes a priority for all in the royal line to "queue up" a son as soon as they're able, but knowing that the son will be your successor's successor rather than your own. Clever monarchs will be able to sell this to the masses as natural, so they don't get any ideas that the monarchy is in trouble. One consequence of this is that it will become the responsibility of everyone in the same generation of this family to teach and train the next generation. A king won't be training his son to take over; he'll be training his nephew, and should expect his brother (as the child's father) to be heavily involved. The other siblings in the family will have more influence than they might have with a traditional patrilineal monarchy. We should expect to see more jockeying for position in generations with more than two brothers. A system without a single, unambiguous line of succession is less stable, so the royal family will need to find a way to contend with the competition for position. That any one person's time on the throne will be short, and that he might care about consequences for his descendants, could help mitigate. 

I might point out that this would be more of a return to historical norms than a new phenomenon. Before driver's licenses were invented, young people were just about as mobile as their parents, not particularly more or less. A young person was just as capable of walking or riding an animal somewhere as his parents were. Parents might tell a young person that he's not allowed to go somewhere alone, but the only limit was really what was imposed by parents, and not things like an inability to drive or legally get a license. I don't know what the cultural norms were back then. I don't suppose that parents let a 5 year old wander around without supervision. But how about a 15 year old? When I was a boy, people who were not old enough to drive routinely rode bicycles everywhere. My parents only drove me if I was going somewhere that was impractical to reach on a bicycle, which was rare. I regularly rode a bike to school, to the library, to stores, to friends' houses, etc. I haven't been following the development of self-driving cars that closely, but from casual news stories I've read, there appears to have been remarkable progress in the last few years. I think it's a pretty safe prediction that they'll be practical for routine use within as little as a few years, though probably not as soon as the more optimistic predictions. People are always saying that some new technology will be everywhere in just 3 or 4 or 5 years, when it's really still decades away. But we'll see. I'd guess it will take longer for them to be legal throughout the U.S. and Europe than proponents assume. People with something to lose economically, like taxi drivers and cities with mass transit systems, will fight them tooth and nail. There will be studies proving they're dangerous, protests, and court cases. Some cities or states will ban them. Like California refused to allow plastic plumbing pipe until 2002, decades after the rest of the country was using it routinely, citing "safety concerns" but everyone knew the real reason was that plumbers fought it because it made plumbing work too cheap and easy. Or see the present opposition to Uber. Etc. You also have to consider the cost of a self-driving car. I just found a study that estimates it will add $7,000 to $10,000 to the cost of a car. And of course it will be a while before there are a significant number of used self-driving car available for the cost conscious. So initially, self-driving cars will be limited to upper-income folks. To an extent a family could share a self-driving car, of course. I presume there would be some mechanism that mom or dad could drive the car to work, than have it drive itself home to take the kids somewhere. But there are limits to that. It can't be in two places at once. And plenty of parents would say no, the car has to stay with me in case I need it in an emergency. Some families could afford to buy one or more additional cars for their kids, but many could not. Presumably there will be self-driving taxi services. As you don't have to pay a driver, these would ultimately be cheaper than human-driven taxi services. But the cost of the service would still have to recoup depreciation on the car, operating expenses, insurance, and all the other costs that go into running a business. Very few families are willing to routinely pay for taxis to shuttle their kids around today. Perhaps with self-driving cars the cost would go down and thus the numbers would go up, but it doesn't follow that this would become common practice. Consider how many parents today won't let their kids walk or take a bike somewhere. Would they be more willing to let the child make the trip alone in a self-driving car? Maybe it would be perceived as safer. Maybe not. I've seen news stories about parents getting into trouble with children's services agencies for letting their kids walk to a park by themselves. It's quite possible that social pressure or actual laws would make it illegal or otherwise unacceptable to send children under some age anywhere by self-driving car. Personally, I couldn't imagine putting a 5 year old in a self-driving car and sending him off on a 100 mile trip by himself. I'd be terrified of all sorts of real and imagined dangers. 

Resort yurts are actually a thing in some places today, and I've heard descriptions of "compounds" where several round yurts are placed in adjacent, contiguous clusters. (Here's a site that describes how to do this.) So you can have your bedroom round rooms and your shared-space round rooms in the same structure. Yurts are made, traditionally, from saplings or other flexible pieces of wood, lashed together into the lattice structure that forms the walls. Canvas or felt completes the construction. The peak usually has a flap, so you can (and Mongols did) have a fire inside, in the center, with a place for smoke to escape. Once you have your round rooms, you can make basket beds (as suggested in another answer) or use cloth cases stuffed with your choice of filling. Historically on Earth, straw bedding has been used in this way. Your world might provide more supple, comfortable plant material. Round cases (bags) are no harder to sew than rectangular ones. They're probably easier, actually -- the stresses are the same all the way around, with no corners to finish. 

If your technical bag of tricks includes environmental manipulation and you have time, you might even be able to program your teleport pad to match gravity, air pressure, and atmosphere with where they're coming from. This would allow you to ease them out of big changes. ("Ok, they're back; start turning down the gravity slowly.")