I use a VitaMix, so stuff is more than fine enough to allow nutrient absorption. Easy to see if they're being broken down--same way you can tell if you've been chewing your corn. Cooked oats are more likely to be absorbed because they don't require as much processing (chewing, digestion) as raw oats. The size of the pieces also matters; more surface area equals easier digestion--one reason we have molars. I don't use a "huge" amount (I think I was using about 1/2c uncooked?) and I noticed it added a slight "dusty" flavor, but it was not particularly unpleasant; I actually kind of liked it but when I use it as part of a drink now I use about 1/4c, just for a boost of some middle-of-the-road carbs and fiber. 

If you've just started, it doesn't make a significant difference. The caveat I'd mention is that pushups engage the triceps, so a completely random order might put them next to each other, which could have some impact. The pushup hand location modulates tricep engagement. I wouldn't call this a mass-building routine, either, although again–if you're just starting, it's fine. 

As commented by others, without seeing a video of your form or knowing a bit more information it is hard to say if you are doing proper form 100%. Even then, sometimes what one person feels is proper form and causes 0 pain, someone else might have a different reaction. I find this true especially with squats. You might want to pay attention to how straight your back is, the direction of your legs / knees, and how low you go before you might feel the discomfort. I found an article which elaborates on this: 

You should at the least know how much the portions you're eating are as well as adjusting how much you eat (not necessarily what you eat) accordingly. If you can change your habits to properly reflect a close enough caloric intake per day to match what you're burning or less, you can lose weight. Obviously it is easier when you avoid bad foods, but just monitoring your overall intake / burned calories is a great start. Use this tool to calculate how many calories your body is burning to know how much you should be eating. As for soccer / feeling you're lacking strength, dedicate (at least) one day a week to do just legs at the gym and really work them out. This article has quite a bit of information on improving your strength for soccer. The tips here all revolve around the idea of reverse engineering your goals, and starting first with strength to be able to then use that power to obtain speed. It is an interesting read, and you should definitely check it out for a better understanding on how to improve your legs for soccer. My own tips for training your legs for strength would be to try doing your exercises one leg at a time, and make sure to do high enough weight / reps to really push them to their potential. Legs tend to have more endurance than other muscles since they are constantly being used throughout the day versus something like your chest that doesn't get nearly as much use. 

I'd really recommend getting a coach/trainer, even if only temporarily. It's very difficult to diagnose your own mechanics, even with video, without the experience. Even a few sessions could do wonders and help you decide what area(s) to focus on. 

IMO you should always eat after exercise to replenish glycogen and protein. Waiting (or not) will not be the gating factor in determining if you lose belly fat. Losing fat is (largely) a matter of math: expend more calories than you consume. Differences caused by specific post-working meal timing will be trivial compared to overall, long-term habits. 

I think that is the benefit, although it's primarily the casein (a slowly-digested protein) that's beneficial. IMO any nut would do if you were interested in the additional calories or a small amount of fiber. If you're eating enough food during the day you're not likely to become overly-catabolic during the night. The type of training doesn't have a huge impact on your body's nighttime caloric needs. 400 calories worth? That's almost a quarter of your daily calories, which already seems low. Assuming you weigh 150-175, you'd need 1500-2000 calories just to maintain weight, assuming low activity levels. I don't know your specifics, but 1500 cals/day plus an amount of cardio sounds like a bit much. 

Keep challenging your body and it'll get stronger, faster, and more agile. Keep the good work up! :) 

If your goal is to gain muscles and not be skinny, Insanity videos isn't really for you. If you want to be fit, it's an option for you. 

The exercise itself will not result in any injury; however, you'll injure yourself if you use a weight your body isn't prepared to carry. This is because the weight will be automatically shifted to the lowest part of your back, where more pressure will be applied. 

Right now, there's no conclusive evidence against aspertame. That being said, I personally avoid all diet drinks. I drink water most of the time and if/when I need soda, I go for the real, full-caloried versions. That way, 

BMI simply measures the relationship between your weight and height and doesn't care if the weight is muscle-based or fat-based. You're focusing on the wrong thing: your body fat in the first measurement was 16.3% and it changed to 13.3% in the second. The second value fell within the range of your ideal body fat. You also lost over 2-kg in body fat, all within two weeks. That's a big improvement! And you should certainly continue what you've been doing as it clearly works. If the BMI value bothers you so much, try another machine after another two weeks. However, you shouldn't worry much about it because your body fat percentage is much more important than your BMI and that's going down. Congratulations on burning the goo. Now, go burn some more :). 

Read the full article here Also give front squats a try. I wouldn't replace regular squats with them, but alternating might give your lower back a break and let you get more insight on whether it is the muscle that isn't adapting or your form that is causing the issue. 

So all we can really suggest (unless being a nutritionist and making you a complete plan specifically for your needs) is to: 1 - Replace any foods you have no access to with other foods of similar nutritional value. 2 - Don't be lazy. If you need to prepare meals / snacks for the day to achieve the proper nutritional / caloric intake, then do it. There are no shortcuts to a proper diet or putting on muscle. I try and cook for 2-3 days worth of work lunches and snacks at a time and make it part of my routine / schedule to keep up with my nutritional program. You can still eat meals with your family, but you may need to prepare some stuff individually to eat with them while they eat their food, or change your plan to accommodate the different foods you will be eating. But most importantly, if you're going to put in the time to do the workout, you mind as well put in the time to do the nutrition side of things or you will not be getting the desired results. Diet is key in any change in physique. Good luck with your program! 

High reps isn't the primary metabolic booster--increased muscle mass is. Increased muscle mass comes from lifting heavy and increasing base strength. HIIT increases mass, ergo resting metabolism. At the same time, HIIT isn't the only way to increase base metabolism. 

Your doctor is closer to being right (but probably not 100%). The body starts eating muscle when you're out of glycogen. If you're drinking sugary beverages (i.e., not diet) that will delay the onset of chowing down on muscles, at least to some extent. You'll become marginally de-conditioned after five days, but not radically; most of the issues will be related to not having sufficient fuel stores to bust out a pre-weakness workout. 

Cold showers/icing help reduce swelling and inflammation. I view it the same way as treating acute injuries: you ice the first 24-48 hrs, then heat. OTOH, I dislike cold showers, so my view, and my actions, aren't always in alignment. 

They'll rust, cover or not, unless they're kept painted/oiled/whatever. In CO it wasn't much of an issue because it's dry, in NH I got surface rust sometimes. That may not be a concern, although if the hole rusts it can be a pain getting them on or off the bar. A small lean-to/a-frame is the easiest, with a flap for the opening. If they're near a building, a small, low awning that will either shed, or support, snow weight is enough, again with a flap and tiedowns. On a side note, I don't know if I just dropped more weights when it was cold, but I cracked a few plates in the winter--I'm not sure if cold makes cast iron more brittle, or makes Dave clumsy. Also snapped a kettlebell handle, but I suspect that would have happened in the summer as well. 

Given that outside running utilizes different terrains, some steeper than others, it's possible that your terrain slopes downhill or you usually run with the wind, thus making your speed faster. It could also be that the mechanics by which each device measures speed varies slightly (due to the materials used). Lastly, given that on a treadmill, you are actually exerting more speed to counteract the backward movement of the belt (running outdoors doesn't have that), it's possible that your net speed is reduced, thus the values shown on the treadmills. 

Caveat: If you're young (14 - 22), it's possible to counteract bad diet with exercises because your body's still developing and your metabolism is high; however, it still won't be sustainable over time. Although there are articles about ectomorphs that claim they can eat anything without gaining weight, many are being debunked. To answer your question, I cannot find the article (it probably was taken offline because it's inaccurate :)). 

I'm pretty sure there are more options; however, there's no need to exhaust the whole list to start something. 

If you've undergone strength building programs such as Strong Lift's 5X5, then, the only way you'll derive much benefits from a 45-lb plate is through high intensity and high repetitions/sets. While compound exercises are highly recommended, a lot of high repetitions/sets exercises are isolation movements (which allows some parts of the body to rest while others are being activated). While there are many exercises that I can recommend, it would be better to follow a program. If you can lay your hands on P90X videos, there are many routines in it that you can perform with 25-lb dumbbells which will effectively work your muscles. Another program I've seen (but haven't tried) is the Bizzy Diet. The intensity and reps of the program should work your muscles. And of course, my favorite exercises: body weight exercises. The only equipment you need is a pull up bar. Those can be done anywhere and are guaranteed to give you a very intense workout. Push ups, pull ups, chin ups, L-sit, legs up, reverse crunches, standing crunches, regular crunches, planks, etc. They are numerous and are guaranteed to give your body the workout of its life. Whatever you do, ensure you keep exercising ;). 

Well it looks like you have your exercise portion of things in order. Running and going to the gym regularly is for sure helping, but here is your main problem: 

The short Answer: It is safe to do cardio daily. The use of "intense" really depends on your body. If you build up your routine by starting with 20 minutes of running daily and then the week after 30, 40, etc. eventually getting to an "intense" cardio workout, then it is fine. Throwing yourself into an intense routine every day without the build up may cause certain muscles or joints to have a hard time keeping up. Example: I play basketball in the summertime as my form of cardio to lean up. I start with 1-3 days a week, for 1-2 hours. At first, my knees will be a bit sore after playing, and by week 3-4 I am at 5+ days a week, minimum 2 hours a day without soreness. With cardio (as with many things), the more you do it the better you get at it. It is all about pace (moving up at your body's rhythm) and just being attentive to what your body needs. If you feel you need a day off, take one, but it isn't necessary to do so for cardio. Just make sure your diet and rest reflect the work you are going to be doing (providing your body with the nutrition it needs to keep up). 

To answer your question, you can perform as many sessions daily as time permit you; however, that shouldn't be your goal. Your goal should be to progressively increase the duration. If 6 seconds is all you can currently do, endeavor to increase it. Try holding out for 8 seconds. Increase the duration once you've reached that goal. The beauty of this exercise is that it can be performed almost anywhere :). So, do it as many times as you desire. 

Above all, persevere and continue challenging yourself. Oh, you need to be patient too; otherwise, you might give up fast because the weight isn't dropping as fast as possible. As long as you keep working at it, you'll see results. Have fun at the gym, buddy :) 

The shorter answer is NO. Dumbbells, by design, exercise only an arm. Barbells, by design, exercise both arms. Since deadlift is a 2-arm exercise, it cannot be completely and effectively done by dumbbells. This doesn't indicate that you cannot use dumbbells; you can use the same dumbbells for various exercises. And you can even use it for deadlift-like exercises; you just cannot call those exercises deadlifts and you certainly will not obtain the benefits of deadlifting. Use whatever you have around you, till when you have access to your beloved barbells :). Whatever you do, don't stop exercising. Now, go lift some weights :).