But why did he choose specifically Flavius? A cursory search reveals that in the 3rd century a popular soi-disant name for emperors was Aurelius and that Diocletian called himself Aurelius Valerius (so that explains the Valerius part all right). Was Constantius trying to be special? Was he claiming some particular affinity to the real Flavian dynasty of the 1st century? What makes this a bit more weird is that apparently Constantius did have a fabricated genealogy but there was nothing Flavian about it: 

From a very preliminary analysis it seems as if the conversation indeed took place and that Ahtisaari was indeed playing the bad cop routine on Milosevic. However the bloodthirsty quotes ascribed to him look like inventions. Here's why - I looked up footnote (6) in the counterpunch article. It refers to a Time article from 1999 and here's the relevant bit from there: 

In 1980 E.P.Thompson published an interesting paper called *Barbarian Invaders and Roman Collaborators *. Among other subjects he consdiers there the leakage from Rome to its enemies of technical knowledge needed to construct and deploy ancient artillery pieces: 

Napoleon's letter seeking hospitality from the British The Prince Regent declined to offer hospitality in Britain, so he was summarily transported to St. Helena, a distant and isolated island in the south Atlantic, to stay for the remainder of his days. Note added thanks to the research of @user8654. A few months later an act was passed "for the more effectually detaining in custody Napoleon Buonaparte", an ex-post facto law intended to regularize Napoleon's indefinite detention at the pleasure of the British government. In this act it states that he is to be treated as a prisoner of war, this despite the fact that all prisoners captured during the wars have already been released. This act regularized Napoleon's indefinite detention. Prisoners and Detainees in War discusses the evolution of the legal theory of prisoners taken during war; it has evolved considerably since the days of the French Revolution and the Napoleonic wars; one should not expect that the legal status of "Prisoner of War" could even be determined for a ruler who had abdicated 

If we extend the definition to cover a daughter, then Yiftah, the biblical Judge, and Agamemnon both come to mind. 

It is then followed, however, by a dead link to a pdf file, so my curiousity is not entirely satisfied. 

The plane crash version does indeed feel fishy. The answer is likely to be in the Russian archives - which means it will not be forthcoming for a long time, I am afraid. 

However, FDR was the Democratic vice-presidential candidate himself in 1920! (wiki) Isn't there something of a contradiction here? Perhaps FDR was supporting a Hoover run before he decided to run himself? Am I engaging in an anachronism here? 

In one word the answer is: specialization. The Romans developed massed heavy infantry fighting to almost perfection in the legion (manipular and later cohortal). On the other hand, their cavalry was, on the whole, very indifferent. Thus, once the Roman state got powerful enough to call upon client states and tribes to supply specialist cavalry units (Numidian, Gallic, or German, etc) it rightly preferred to do so. Note also that the Romans employed other auxiliary specialist units as well: e.g., Balearic slingers and Cretan archers. As to why the Roman cavalry was so indifferent - well, to have a powerful cavalry arm in antiquity required a body of men who: (a) were sufficiently affluent to afford the large expense of war horse(s) and ancillary equipment (b) spent their leisure riding/hunting/fighting/jousting. While the Roman nobles had the money and the warlike spirit alright, their way of life was sedentary and more indoor than outdoor (many of them were merchants and businessmen). The same goes for the Greek city states - none of them, as far as I know, had cavalry worthy of its name. On the other hand, less civilized areas with large plains on the fringes of the Greek world, like Thessaly or Macedonia, produced splendid cavalry forces. 

You can search Archives.org for books with the title "Democracy in America"; then do a text search for "experiment". In the above example there are several pages containing "experiment"; p.23 is the last page of chapter 1, and the final paragraph begins "In that land the great experiment ...". This is the New Edition, translated by Henry Reeve, C.B., published in 1889. This later version, published 1900, with different translators also contains this phrase. For comparison, the thirteenth French edition, of 1850; the final paragraph says "des fondements nouveaux" - which in literal translation is "new foundations". 

Bearing in mind the dates already mentioned in the OP, and the fact that the British evacuation of New York City did not occur until November 25, 1783, there was no functioning government of New York during the negotiations, nor had there been since the evacuation of Manhattan by Washington's army on November 16th, 1776. Vermont was a center of fighting between the colonies and British Quebec due to the water route through Lake Champlain. The exigencies of war lead them to organize themselves, in 1777, though the Continental Congress refused to recognize this self-generated status due to complaints from the exiled government of New York. The Haldimand negotiations(1781) went nowhere, and Haldimand said Mr. Allen was evasive, and the British concluded that the Vermonter's were primarily interested in gaining leverage in negotiations with the government of New York over future statehood. In the meantime, British and Indian raids were stopped. Returning to the negotiations, which were conducted by a committee of three in Paris , none of the colonies were directly involved in the negotiations. The committee represented the interests of the Nation: here is a transcript of the treaty. The states are listed in article 1st; no mention is made of Vermont, for the Continental Congress never recognized it as a state; it only achieved this status years later, in 1791. The boundaries are listed in article 2d, and are geographical. Many of the boundaries were slightly revised by later negotiations, especially following the Jay Treaty of 1794 (signed 18 August 1795). By the terms of this treaty the Indian Wars of the Northwest Territories were ended, and the British evacuated Detroit and many other western posts which were to have been evacuated according to the terms of the Treaty of Paris (1783). But the affairs of Vermont had been concluded earlier, and the British were to return to their area during the War of 1812. 

This is, as I said, highly conjectural and I can see some holes in the asrgument. But it does make sense. 

Turns out that wiki is misleading on this point (I will try to amend it). The original name was Flavius Constantius. My reference for this is p. 139 of the following paper. Salway, Benet. "What's in a Name? A Survey of Roman Onomastic Practice from c. 700 BC to AD 700." Journal of Roman Studies 84 (1994): 124-145. 

Some more names and details are given here and here. All in all, it seems that about 500 communists were handed over by the USSR more or less directly to the care of the Gestapo (or 1000, it is possible that 500 refers to a first large tranche, I haven't got time to research it more fully right now). 

Actually, according to recently declassified records, it seems that Churchill was very much in favour of summarily executing Hitler should he be captured. Whether this would have really become policy or remained just a bit of Churchillian bluster is impossible to tell. 

I've found sources saying that Sparta's population was about 3% citizens, but obviously that number fluxed over time, and given that at one point the Spartan Empire was about 80% helots, it makes me wonder if at an earlier time a much larger population were citizens (say 15%). Does anyone have any sources mentioning the percentages of citizens at various times, or the populations of citizens and corresponding total populations so I can calculate percents? 

Its not in any way a given that the desirability of a government should coincide with the length of time it manages to stick around for. Never-the-less, ancient democracies had pretty good track records as far as governments go. Sparta lasted for 400 years, Athens for 250, the Roman Republic for almost 500 years. If you include states with even more limited representation, Venice's government lasted for 1000 years, tho it changed a whole lot in that time and lost what little democracy it generated early on. Democracies have a much better track record for length than monarchies do (on average). Ancient democracies didn't have the conception of a difference between constitutional law and normal law. Because of this their governments weren't stable and changed continuously. Many democracies quickly changed to solidify the status quo, benefiting the new elites that had managed to rise up during the period of elevated representation. Sparta's Apella was undermined less than 100 years after it gave representation to about 3% of Sparta's population - a world record at that time in history. The power between the patricians and the plebians in the Roman Republic constantly shifted back and forth, ultimately leading to the merging of the patricians and the newly created plebian aristocracy. In Venice, the relatively representative Great Council was closed off to new entrants, again less than 100 years after it was created. Similar things surely happened in the Pala Empire, the Mali Empire, Sakai, and various other places where some representation temporarily flourished. Some of these were essentially cities that controlled other cities. Sparta, Athens, and Venice were all conquered by a larger power in the end - tho only Athens still had its democracy by that time. I wrote a whole article on ancient democracies, which in part, discusses this in more detail. Check it out here: $URL$ 

I think Freeman Dyson may have a point, but his facts seem to lack foundation. One only needs hay for horses that lack sufficient winter pasture for forage. Cattle were domesticated by 6,000 BC, and horses by 4,000 BC. Horses are able to forage during winter by using their hoofs to paw through ice and snow, and to break ice to get water. Unless the weather is very severe horses do not require winter fodder if they can forage. This is discussed in The Horse, the Wheel, and Language: How Bronze-Age Riders from the Eurasian Steppes Shaped the Modern World. Most cattle are not able to fare so well, as they tend to push the snow aside with their noses; once ice forms they are often not able to feed themselves or drink. Thus one must bring cattle in, and feed them fodder. Today's hay often consists of alfalfa, clover, and timothy grass; it also requires careful drying if it is not to become moldy. Other types of fodder include turnips - our neighbors fed turnips to their turkeys - and other vegetable matter. The Romans used turnips, according to Pliny When did farmers start "making hay" for winter fodder? Making Hay in Colonial Pennsylvania describes recent times, and why it was required. The history of forage preservation mentions evidence from ancient Egypt, from the Middle East, circa 700 BC, and early Rome, where it was recorded that German tribes, the "Teutons", buried green forage in a pit, covered with dung. The methods discussed are called ensiling, methods for creating silage. Hay is different from silage because it is dried. The article assumes that making hay is just as old as making silage - because it is simpler. All you do is cut the hay, and let it dry in the sun. Making hay in Germany, which lacks sun, but not rain! makes silage more important. Perhaps the hay rick was invented in Germany, during the middle ages. 

Howard Roark explains why the Parthenon is not great architecture and in passing explains that the whole of architectural history has been nothing but a series of copycatting: 

As a professional should, Dykstra also warns from committing the fallacy of small numbers. I also found in a Texan blog an example, apparently drawn from the first-mentioned paper: 

I think that another explanation is also possible. We can safely assume, I think, that Napoleon was burning with ambition to achieve fame and power from an early age. But in 1785 under the ancien regime a young officer from a minor nolbe family hailing from a recently-annexed backwater province could hardly expect much in the line of fame an power in France, so his best bet would be to stir up something on his native island. So to speak, he might have been acting according to Caesar's maxim that it's better to be the first man in a village than the second - or the 20,000th in this case - in Rome. After the Revolution, of course, everything has changed and the upheaval in France could carry an ambitiouns subaltern very high, so there was no need or sense in wasting one's talents and time in a backwater anymore. 

In 1877 Japan joined the Universal Postal Union, which specifies cooperative rules for international mail. The UPU’s history can be traced as far back as 1863, when then United States Postmaster General Montgomery Blair called a conference in Paris, France, to lay down a number of general principles for mutual agreements, but delegates failed to agree on an international postal agreement. 

Nok culture - 1000 BC to 300 AD - Iron Age There are other avenues of technology transfer at work in Africa: the trans-Saharan trade in salt and gold, between the sahel empires and Moroco, mediated by the Berbers. 

The land sieges were ineffective in both cases. In 1453 the Greeks had no navy, and not enough men to man the walls; but the Turks had great cannons -- they battered the great walls, and were able to climb over the weak points nearly unopposed. So no, there was no secret weapon which could have saved Constantinople in 1453. 

Note that GPW = Great Patriotic War in the above quote. On p. 20 this paper notes that Moscow was growing by annexation in 1960: 

So, Constantius was a Flavius to begin with. Probably this means that there is no way to trace his name any further back, as we know next to nothing about his background and family (except that unhelpful probably-fake genealogy). Salway's paper mentions a soldier by the name Flavius Euclides, by the way. P.S. The absence of pre-nomen is not a mistake. According to Salway's theory the "New Romans" (i.e. those enfranchised in 212 by Caracalla) did not take to the use of pre-nomen outside of official documents (where most people were called M. Aurelius Something anyway, like our friend Flavius Euclides who was officially listed as M. Aurelius Flavius Euclides in his unit's roster). Read the whole paper for more fun stuff about names. 

This memorial plaque lists the numbers of Georgians who served in various wars and details the casualties. What I find odd is that for WWI, Korea, Vietnam, and Gulf round numbers are given for the participants, whereas for WWII a strangely exact number is given - 324373. The lists of casualties do not appear to be rounded throughout. Is there an explanation for this oddness? 

Venice's political institutions became much more inclusive between 900 and 1200 AD especially with the creation of the Consilium Sapientis. How many of Venice's population were citizens entitled to vote as part of the Concio for members of the Consilium Sapientis and the Doge? I've checked wikipedia and done some rather extensive research on Venice. It seems about 5% of the population were patricians, but non-patrician citizens could also vote, and I haven't found any estimates for the proportion of people who were citizens. 

I found this reference, Venice in Environmental Peril?: Myth and Reality By Dominic Standish, citing that about 4% of the population were patricians and about 6% were citizens "leaving about 90% powerless". 

I believe these are the official census numbers, which should be taken with a large grain of salt since counts were done in different ways at different times. I've been finding this kind of information really hard to come by : / 

Does anyone have any sources mentioning the percentages of citizens at various times, or the populations of citizens and corresponding total populations so I can calculate percents? I looked at dozens of sources online without finding this kind of information.