The precession of the perihelion of the planets depends mostly on the effects of the other planets perterbations, but also to a lesser extent on relativistic effects, the aspherical shape of the sun and solar tides. [Wikipedia] This calculation of the effects of pertubations includes a comparison of the actual and observed rates of precession of perihelion. It gives rates in arcseconds per year: 

An orbit as you describe is not stable. Even if the two moons are intially exactly the same distance from the Earth, small perturbations from the sun and other planets will cause one of them to speed up and the other to slow down. Eventually either one of them will hit the other, or one of them will hit the Earth. Whichever happens, it's not good. 

There is a symmetry in the rotating gravitational field, which means that capture of an asteroid to the L4 is just as likely as to the L5 Lagrange point. In the case of Mars the split is 1:6, and a simple binomial model suggests a probability of 0.0625 (the probability of a 1:6 or 0:7 split given the hypothesis that they are distributed randomly is 0.0625) This doesn't give a reason to suppose there is anything unusual happening, and as noted in the comments, there is no favouring of L5 when other planets are considered. As noted by UserLTK: "Earth has an L4 asteroid, none in L5. Uranus also has an L4, no L5 and Neptune has more L4 than L5 objects." The conclusion is that No, the greater number of L5 martian trojans is just a random effect. 

The iss is orbiting around the earth, but even as it does so, the earth is rotating, and the orbital rate of the iss is not aligned to the rotation of the earth. The effect is that the track that the iss takes changes with each orbit. Roughly the Iss move back about 10 degrees with each orbit, though this amount varies, as the Iss is not in a stable orbit wrt the earth, over long periods of tim. 

There is currently only one planet known to be capable of supporting human life, and you're on it. Several planets have been found in the region in which we expect water to be liquid on much of the planet. Of these, only one fits the criteria of being Earth-sized and well placed in the habitable zone: Kepler 186-f However we know nothing about it's atmosphere (or lack of one). The star is a red dwarf, so it could be subject to dramatic solar flares. The planet is rather colder than earth, so could be in a perpetual "snowball world" state, depending on the composition of the atmosphere and the strength of the greenhouse effect. The atmosphere would be very unlikely to be even close to breathable, and it is nearly 500 light-years from Earth, so could not be reached in a reasonable amount of time, even with much more advanced propulsion. At the moment we can't usually detect most Earth-like planets in the habitable zone of brighter stars like the sun, though the probably do exist and may be common. 

The first part, "could the galactic cluster orbit another at 10000000km/h". Is no. For simple observational reasons. If the local group were in orbit, we would be able to see and measure the supercluster which we were orbiting. We don't see it so it isn't there. I take it that you hypothesise that the 28% of the mass of the universe that is not visible, is in fact the moving mass of the galaxies. That is not the case. Dark matter is not the moving mass of visible matter. First remember that velocity is a relative concept, and when specifying it, you must give a frame of reference. The relativistic mass of an object is dependent on the frame of reference. For clarity lets agree to use the frame of reference co-moving with our galaxy (which is very nearly inertial) Our own Milky way has an excess of mass. Since we are in the Milky Way, we are not moving relative to it, there is low relative velocity, low moving mass. The first observation of dark matter was in the rotation rates of spiral galaxies. There is a missing mass in the galaxy in its own frame of reference, and in its frame of reference. Thus the missing mass is not relativistic mass. There is a "real" missing rest mass in the universe, probably supplied by a weakly interacting massive particle. 

The early atmospheres of Venus, Earth and Mars all had a lot of CO2, Carbon and oxygen are some of the most common elements in molecular clouds, and so it is no surprise that their most common and stable compound should be common in atmospheres. On the Earth, life happened. The carbon in the atmosphere was fixed by autotrophs (particularly blue-green algae and the later plants) into the bodies of living things, and then into rocks formed from those bodies: Chalk, Limestone, Coal and Oil. This left an atmosphere dominated by Nitrogen, and later by the toxic waste products from those algae: oxygen. Mars was too small to hold onto lighter gases like Nitrogen, and these escaped into space, there is just a trace of the heavier gases: CO2, but at a very low pressure. Venus retains a dense atmosphere dominated by CO2 

I'll take the reference of an observer falling with the helium atom. At the Event horizon, the tidal force across a helium atom is still minute, $10^{-29}N$ much less than the Coulomb forces between the electrons and nucleus, still less than the strong forces inside the nucleus. So the atom will fall through the event horizon without damage. (The region around the black hole can be a pretty violent place, with lots of hard X rays from the superheated matter, which would likely have ionised the atom, but I'll suppose it somehow manages to avoid this) As it falls past the event horizon it is doomed. Think of the singularity less of a place in the middle of the black hole, and more as a point in time. It is inevitable our He atom will reach that point. As it approaches it the tidal forces will grow larger, eventually sufficient pull the atom apart. To describe what happens now would require a good description of quantum gravity, which we don't have. The is no physics that describes what happens "after" the singularity. Think of the singularity as a point in time, but for the atom it is also the end of time for the atom. It is possible that something beyond our current understanding prevents a singularity from forming, but that is speculation. This is explained diagramatically in a Penrose diagram 

We detect black holes mostly by their effects on nearby matter. The "radial velocity" method is important after x-ray observations suggest a likely black-hole. Matter in orbit around a black hole can form an accretion disc. This disc will become very hot, and glow brightly in X-ray radiation. If we see X-ray radiation coming from a star we look at the radial velocity of the star, and use this to infer the mass of the orbiting object. Since a neutron star cannot exist at more than 3 solar masses, if the object is more than that it must be a black hole. Compared to planets, black holes are rare. Only about 20 candidates are known in the Milky way. 

Treating as a school question Each change of 1 magnitude changes brightness by how much? So by what factor will a change of 5 magnitudes give? (5 magnitudes is a very convenient number for this question) You will need to reduce the area of the telescope by the same factor. 

The Variable stars that Hubble studied in M31 when he showed that it was a galaxy are among the most luminous. They include Var-A1, a luminous blue variable, and magnitude about 16.5. Var A-1 is one of the most luminous stars known. Nasa has a catalog of stars in the m31 field, The brightest star in this catalog is an 11.4 magnitude star. But I think that database needs careful interpretation. 

This calculation agrees with the online calculator. The method here (or as described at the link) should be easy to implement. 

In a solar system model by Varadi Runnegar and Ghil Earth's inclination varies between 0 and about 0.05 radians (or about 3 degrees) The variation is rather chaotic, but you may note that there seems to have been a qualitative change in the pattern about 60-70 million years ago 

The apparent motion of planets is complex but predictable. The apparent motion is due to the combination of three different motions: 

No. First your scale is all wrong. If the scale of the diagram is such that the planet orbits Star X of a centimetre (on the diagram) then the distance between the stars would be 50 km or so. In other words, it would be an unimaginable coincidence for a planet to line up exactly. And since the stars are moving relative to each other (even if they are in a cluster) by the time the planet has orbited once, the planet would no longer be lined up. The hypothesis doesn't explain much of the observed strangeness, the very large variation in brightness, the odd shape of the brightness graph. And finally, if the planet can orbit of star X, where is the star. We can't see a star in the right location. So this hypothesis doesn't explain the observations, so would have to be rejected. 

If I understand the question the answer is, no, you can't estimate the final size of the Universe by calculating the schwarzschild radius of the universe. The mass of the Universe is not known, and may be infinite. It is not know if the observable universe will ever stop expanding, however the evidence suggests that it won't, and so won't have an "ultimate" size. The mass of the observable universe is of the order $10^{53}kg$, mostly comprised of dark energy and dark matter. A black hole with that mass would have a radius of $2MG/c^2 = 10^{26}m$, which as has been observed is on the same order of magnitude as the (comoving) radius of the observable universe. Whether this has any cosmological implications is not clear. It doesn't imply that the Universe is a black hole. It doesn't say anything about the Universe at all, as this calculation was for the observable universe. It doesn't say anything about the "ultimate size" of the universe or the observable universe (which is expected to continue expanding without limit) 

The collision of another star with our sun would be a very effective way of ending all life on Earth. Fortunately stars are so far apart that the the chance of it happening in the life of the sun is very close to zero. However in the densely packed cores of globular clusters the rate of collision is much higher, and there may be a collision somewhere in the milkyway once every 10000 years or so. Three way collisions don't happen (or are exceptionally unlikely) but would be similar to two two-star collisions. The result varies depending on the size of the stars, their density, the relative velocity, and whether a collision is head on or not. Generally a denser star is likely to come out of a collision in better shape. So a red giant, could have most of its very rarified outer layers pulled off and the core escaping. On the other hand, if two main sequence stars, like our sun, collide, they first compress each other. Some of the stellar envelope escapes perpendicular to the collision (think of jam being squeezed out of a sandwich). But within a few hours the two stars have mixed and merged, and a new, larger star formed. The mixing adds lots more hydrogen to the core of the star, which causes it to rejuventate. The first evidence of stellar collisions is in globular clusters, in which there are some large blue stars that seem younger than all the other stars in the cluster (Blue stragglers) A white dwarf and main sequence star collision is bad news for the star. The collision causes the core of the star to heat up and a massive release of thermonuclear energy. Plenty more than is needed to completely disrupt the star. The star is completely destroyed in the process. However the white dwarf is relatively unscathed. White dwarf-white dwarf collisions can, depending on the size result in gravitational collapse to a neutron star. The paper Stellar collisions, mergers and their consequences is a very readable summary.