I would rig a small microwave gun from the emitter off the MW oven in my house. Any signal the device might send gets overwhelmed by the microwaves and associated noise, the device is destroyed, and about the same time, its wearer dies. I'd stick the emitter inside a metal bowl, with a hole drilled through its bottom, to serve as a kind of parabolic antenna and to shield me from at least some of the MW radiation. 

It is already happening. Cellphone signals are very short range. TV and Radio stations are moving more and more to the Internet. I think the main thing would be cutting off signals to satellites except for tight beam and even that I would probably cut out. No matter how tight beam you make the signal, scattering will always produce stray radiation. I think the US Government and UN would basically just move all communications to the Internet and regulate that all Internet traffic will be wired, except for highly local wi-fi and cell-phone type signals. No more amateur radio, no more local tv stations over the air, no more local radio stations broadcasting over the air. Like I said, most things are moving that way anyway, so just complete the move - force it by law. 

The Mind-Wolf would not need to "be conscious" to produce full blown psychosis. Consider that fairly simple drugs, produced from naturally occurring compounds, can produce all kinds of havoc in the mind, all the way to full-blown psychotic episodes (See Wikipedia). I lived in Malaria prone areas for most of the last 16 years, and know from first-hand experience how these common compounds can produce really horrid dreams. That can escalate to paranoia and psychosis. All your Mind-Wolf would have to do is to cause the same type of chemical changes in the brain that these drugs do, maybe amped up a bit. Also consider the way animals respond to people's emotions and moods. A dog does not have to have a "conscious" mind in order to respond to its owner being angry at something that has nothing to do with it. And also consider the mythic hypnotic capabilities of snakes, lulling their prey to mindlessness so they can kill them more easily. Then extrapolate that. Imagine a primitive, non-conscious mind that is able to respond to its victims moods, sensing their fear, disgust or other negative emotions that cause an agitated state or a disjointed state of mind. Imagine that your Mind-Wolf is also able to instinctively capture the thoughts or sensory perceptions that cause those negative states and is able to amplify them and feed them back, eventually rendering its victim helpless. The key would be that your Mind-Wolf would need to be able to sense what its prey is perceiving (sight, sound, touch, smell...) or thinking, even without understanding it, while also being able to sense what the effect on the prey's mind. Are the prey's reactions slowed down, thoughts disjointed? Chaos happens in our minds all the time. The Mind-Wolf would be able to sense that and enhance it, causing its prey to become helpless. It would not need to understand the thoughts and perceptions, just an instinctive feel that they are chaotic or disjointed. Mind you, most animals do a primitive very superficial form of this. When a blowfish inflates its body, it is engaging in a very mild form of thought control (all communication and interaction, at some level, is thought control), causing a perceived predator to become afraid and flee. Still, nothing about this reaction from the blowfish indicates that it is a conscious rather than instinctive reaction. We could get into discussions as to whether a dog (or a blowfish) has consciousness, but I think it is enough, for your question, to say that your Mind-Wolf does not need to have a more conscious mind than your run of the mill dog or wolf. 

This is not only feasible but preferable. If I was living in that world and needed to mine and process metals, I would get them out of the ruins and leftover items from those ancient times. First, as to how long the metal will last. We are still finding metal coins from the Roman Empire. It is amazing how long metal will last. Some of it might be unusable, but even with medieval technology, you could smelt metal ore with a lot more impurities than what you would find in say the ruins of a skyscraper. Mind you, a lot of the ore that is pulled out of mines is combined with other elements or is Iron Oxide (Fe2O3). Pulling the oxygen off is part of the smelting process, so rusty iron, is just fine for smelting. As to safety, I would rather mine a collapsed building or beached aircraft carrier than mine into the side of a mountain. Dangerous, absolutely, but mining for ore is far more so. And the melting temperature of steel (1370 C) is actually lower than the melting temperature of iron you would dig out of the ground (1510 C), which is a bigger part of the reason that recycling can be profitable. If you could mine and process iron ore in medieval times, you will be able to mine and process steel from ruined buildings, beached ships, etc. 

So, elves are creatures that are rather heavy on magic, so this sort of feat is not a big deal if you just answer - "hey, it's magic!" But that is a cheap answer... unless you stop to realize that what you are asking really goes to the question: how can magic happen and still follow conservation of energy? Basically, we humans store the energy we get from food in these molecules called Adenosine Triphosphate (ATP). But any being that would be able to perform feats like this would have to use a different way of storing and freeing up energy - a different molecule that could store up a lot more energy, and a lot more of it. According to Wikipedia, we only have about 250 grams of ATP in our body, but turn over the equivalent of our entire weight, worth of ATP, in one day. That seems hard to believe, but gives a good gist. Imagine a being that has as much as a kilo of Adeno-TriHeptose-Pentaphosphate, and can turn over five times her body weight of it in a day. ATP is adenine with two molecules of C5H10O5 and three phosphates. This molecule i am making up, ATHPP (probably cannot exist) is Adenine with three molecules of a much more complex sugar (C7H14O7) and five phosphates. This being is basically a walking gas can - no smoking in her vicinity, please. By the way, adenine is used to control heart rythm, if I remember correctly, so the additional adenine would help explain why his heart-rate does not go through the roof when he uses that much energy. Also, the vast storage of sugar also explains why they are not much affected by alcoholic drinks. You don't need lots of food, you mostly need highly concentrated sugars. Equip this gal with a pack filled with momma's special recipe syrup, and let her rip. 

You don't have to go very far afield to encounter "aliens" that use very different math. The typical counting system for tribes in the Amazon is 1, 2, 3, 4, "many". That's it. If you tried to exchange differential equations with them, they simply would not care and find you incomprehensible. And when trying to communicate with these or other cultures with far more math in their knowledge base, linguists never resort to math as a "universal". The thing is, math has in it some universal things, but it does nothing for the concepts that language most often deals with. Relationships, words like "peace", concepts like greetings and honorifics, expressions of concern, empathy, disgust, all of these are abstract concepts that have no correspondent in mathematics. A linguist trying to get the word for "friend" in another language will never use mathematics as a help. At some point, in the collection of language data, a linguist will elicit numbers and ordinals, but that is a small, very tiny subset of language. Nowhere in the vicinity of being a language in itself. 

Why would you worry about transmitting an electromagnetic signal. I don't even use that anymore myself. All our tv comes into our home through fiber-optic cable and in the end through shielded wires. Some of the wiring for TV transmission (and all other kinds of telecommunications) in fact runs under the ocean. Makes no matter whether the sea water is conducive or not. And you say about not laying cable all over the ocean floor. But, laying cable all over the landscape has not stopped man, why would it stop mer-people? 

There is no doubt that two dialects of a language can be spoken in the same area, i have seen it in the same village. But there is a problem with your question. If two "dialects" are so different that the speakers of one could not understand the other, then generally they would be considered two different languages, not dialects, at least from a linguist's standpoint. However political/cultural/historical factors sometimes take over and things are called dialects that a linguist would call different languages. So what we are talking about, from a linguist's perspective, is really two related languages. They are related enough and have enough cognates that the speakers of L1 can understand L2, and speakers of L2 can catch a few bits here and there but cannot understand L1. This is not only possible, but actual fact. Consider Latin and Italian. If my understanding is right, Latin is the official language of the Vatican, but that just means that this language is reserved for especially important or official business, while Italian is often spoken throughout the Vatican and of course Italy. Your average Italian will not understand Latin, but because the two languages are strongly related to each other, he can catch bits here and there. Your average high ranking church official in the Vatican will speak both Latin and Italian fluently and be able to read and write both. Not exactly royalty and commoners, but a useful parallel. Also take Koine Greek and modern Greek. The more educated a person is in modern day Greece, the more they will understand Koine Greek (ancient Greek, used in the New Testament), especially if they have any knowledge of classical Greek. But an uneducated Greek of today would gets bits from a person speaking or reading Koine Greek, but would get easily lost. And today there are people who learn Koine Greek (myself included), and can read it and understand it, but cannot understand modern Greek. There are also people, I expect, in Greece who have learned enough Koine Greek to be able to speak it fluently and read and write it (probably in the analysis and discussion of ancient documents, including the NT) and who are also fluent in modern Greek. I hope you see the pattern - education. It would be easy to conceive a world in which only the nobility are educated. Because it is a medieval world, documents are not publicly available, and books and libraries are rare and only maintained by the wealthy nobles. Because there is no printing press, the language shifts - like happened to Greek and to English. Try to read John Wycliffe's translation of the Bible and you will not be able to understand it (Middle English) but read the Tyndale Bible (translation done just after the printing press - modern English) and you will have no problem. But in this world, the nobility decides that their education must all be carried out int the ancient form of their language, the one used for their most sacred documents, perhaps the very documents that established them as nobility. A noble must be able to read and understand their letters of patent, and all official business is conducted in the language of those patents of nobility. The uneducated commoner is lost. He catches a word here and there, but not more. The educated noble understands every word.