Eventually the Quarians would be driven from their home world by the Geth nearly 300 years before the Mass Effect games took place. In these games, the Geth were still a major threat, acting as the main antagonist. One interesting bit that intrigued me regarding this topic: 

The founders originally came as a scientific expedition. They devised a habitation that could support larger crews, where eventually multiple teams would come by to study the continent. Potentially hundreds or thousands of scientists might be staying at once in a growing colony. Now for whatever reason, the rest of the world nuked themselves back to the stone age (or completely died off), leaving the current colony stranded with no external supplies. Ideally, they imported the technology necessary to sustain themselves so they could grow food and collect water as necessary. However the elements are harsh and tend to erode the structure above ground. You could have two possibilities from here: 

The first thing that came to mind was the Star Forge from Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, that effectively funneled mass from the star it orbited (yes, Bioware had the idea long before Episode 7 was written). It is a tad small, however, sustaining from a single star for a looong time, so you could scale it up a bit to take mass over a much smaller time frame. It also reminded me of the Vasari Loyalists from Sins of a Solar Empire: Rebellion: 

Prevent? No, but our potential time traveler could certainly make the situation much better. The unfortunate thing about this plague is that vaccines don't work to prevent it. Meaning that we would have to effectively stop it from originating in the first place. Very difficult to do with the little information that we have! Instead of attempting to locate a needle in a haystack (or really, a flea in all of Asia), we need to instead look at minimizing the damage. Your time traveler has an extensive medical history, and should be capable of manufacturing antibiotics. Additionally, they should be able to arm themselves with knowledge of generally where the plague spread and when. By setting up manufacturing of antibiotics near common shipping lanes, it should be possible to get them out to the general populace before the plague hits their area. Of course, prep time and gathering supplies may be tricky to come across. 

A spell is a merely a complex component composed of many complex components. Spells are layered and stacked, from the most basic roots to the most advanced reality-bending magicks. Simple spells may only require a few key components. A fireball, for example, might require components that extract key elements from the air, components to bring these components together, and components to drive some form of reaction. A component to extract oxygen from the air might be composed of multiple components that deal with splitting/separating the individual elements. A mage/wizard would be able to draw out these components in a way that best fits their own theme. A dark evil wizard might find that certain components can be formed within blood allowing specific uses of blood magic - The actual lines of blood that he draws may be composed of several layers of component spells already. Another wizard may write out / carry runes composing of key components that allow them a variety of uses. A grimoire/spellbook/tome would teach all of the required components necessary to perform some spell. Other books might teach broader theory, layering theory, or theories on producing automated spell matrices to channel through. The bonus here is that a sufficiently talented caster can then work with these individual components-of-components to produce their own spells and new magicks. They might learn a trick that allows them to take a component from a Fire Wall spell and apply it to water instead. Additionally, this would offer a way for one-time spells. Instead of detailing the exact intricacies of how these components are formed and behave, the components are simply laid out in a complex matrix; potentially obfuscated by the mage/wizard to be very difficult if not impossible to properly decipher. The mage who purchased such a book would simply put in their own power/energy/magic, and it would run the complex system of components, burning the "circuitry" in the process. 

It depends on the degree of similarity you require and how believable you want your world to be. I am approaching assuming you wish to retain most aspects of Greek culture. Greeks were/are Greeks, as Romans were Romans, because of the lands that shaped them. Art, architecture, diet, language, political spheres, policies, wealth, all are influenced heavily by geography. People in a landlocked, snow capped northern plain would not developed as the Greeks did. Climate and geography for example have been shown to have influence on language. Humid climates promote tonal language, temperature influences volume, thinner air promotes ejectives etc. The mountainous geography of Greece played into the development of the various Greek city states by isolating these ancient cities. The vast coasts of Greece would have effected their diet, their access to trade and thus wealth, the degree of foreign influences etc. In short there is a cause for everything, and if you take the Greeks from their lands, but wish to retain all aspects of their culture you best find reason for it, otherwise it may impact the believability of your world. 

Simplest thing I can think of is the existence of large and dangerous ocean creatures, large horned whales and the like. Perhaps they are attracted to the movement of the ships on the surface and track them once they enter the deeper waters where they reside. 

Mixed Reactions? As alluded to by Ian, some would approach with caution, while others, as alluded to by Gary, would be far more bullish. Remain Cautious There are untold reasons why one should be cautious, not the least of which is the potential for world destroying paradoxes. Unknown effects on our physical world We would have no way of knowing what potential disaster could unfold from use of this technology. Could it tear at the very fabric of space and time, ripping apart our world? Was it merely luck that the chrononaut who has to come to visit us from the future even made it here in the first place without causing irreparable damage? Whether or not these thoughts would occur to Presidents, MPs or Senators, they would come to the minds of scientists and activists that sit on advisory panels or leader multinational NGOs, and international research institutes. As such there would be a healthy body of people pressuring leaders into methodically researching any potential adverse effects of the technology on the user, and the world as a whole. Temporal War It's not just present day world governments who might seek power, and meddling in the affairs of the chrononaut and his technology might cause an outrage in the future leading to potential repercussive actions. I am thinking of a few Star Trek plots which revolve around guardians of space-time who prevent any interference in timelines. Who can say whether or not any attempted interfering with the time traveler and his technology isn't being monitored in the future. Governments would be right to be concerned with this possibility. Time Paradoxes I wont even go into detail as I think he are aware of this. But For reasons similar to ' Unknown effects on our physical world' I can see a fair amount of public pressure to investigate these. presumable some dialogue would occur between our time traveler and world governments on their own findings from the future on these issues, but I am sure we would try and verify them for the sake of understanding and reassurance. Neutral For a variety of reasons some nations would probably have little reaction to the news. Denial There reasons are varied, whether it would count as blasphemy, or it comes across as an impossibility, majorities in some nations would assuredly refuse to believe it as a true event. Apathetic Acceptance Some governments would accept this as a true, and move on with the matter of the day do to overwhelming pressure to deal with current and very troubling affairs. It may become a back burner issue for nations dealing with disease and famine (even if it presents an opportunity to resolve these issues another way) Take Control More to Gary's point, whether open about it, or keeping it a secret, undoubtedly some nations will seek to control what is the greatest potential military and economic leap forward ever presented to mankind. Some may openly call for its control to have a tool to help prevent complete exploitation by those in the future who now many control our past and as such our futures. This could easily lead to both unilateral and multilateral actions to attempt and control this technology. Some would seek the technology to gain the upper hand against present day enemies. They may even use the guise of controlling the technology to counter those from future, while truly maintaining eyes on today. Whether or not that is through force or negotiation is inevitably up to the whims of your nations, and the perceived nature of the time traveler. Militarily Those who have the power may try through military means to gain access to the technology and time traveler. Covertly More interesting would be those who seek to control it covertly. I could see nations trying to bribe or seduce the time traveler to gain access. Or perhaps nations look forward, planning multi-generational infiltration plans to gaining access to the not-yet-invented machine. To that point perhaps out time traveler is a spy from one of these programs (The paradoxes begin)