Using the mass and distance we can make some basic calculations using $F = G*\frac{M^2}{d^2}$, where $M$ is the mass of sun and $d$ is the distance of separation between the two 'suns'. Keeping in mind of the fact they must obviously be rotating about their center of mass which is half-way in this case, we can use $a = \frac{v^2}{r}$ accordingly and get to the solution you are seeking. So, depending on the above factors (there may be few more), we may find the linear or angular velocity with which they are rotating around their center of mass, and accordingly we can calculate the period of rotation. 

Finally, after searching quite a deal, I found this paper which would aptly answer the question. The paper from 1999 published by Pietrzynski and Udalski in Acta Astronomica lists the Cepheids in the star clusters of Magellanic Clouds. 

In the Gliese catalog there are a bunch of prefixes, such as GJ, GI, Wo, etc. My question is do the numbers overlap ever? I tried to look it up, but nothing I could find was conclusive to me. 

Also... Is there any way to get these percentages for systems that have primaries that are Giants (more than 2 Solar Masses) Major Stars (0.5 to 2 Solar Masses), and Minor Stars (0.5 Solar Masses... red dwarfs) I have found an article that says... Giant Stars = 80% have companions Major Stars = 50% have companions Minor Stars = 25% have companions Sources: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

What are the percentages of systems that have x number of stars in them? What I have found thus far is something like: 

From what I know, the heat was mostly generated when the gas giants are created. Some of this was from the friction caused by internal pressure. However, this heat is not being generated anymore, as it was only generated as matter fell into the planet. They presumably do generate heat from radioactive elements in the core (though nobody has ever been down and checked if there are any :P), and will also receive a 'boost' from solar heating. Over time, however, each heat source will diminish. The latent heat from birth will be dissipated into space in the form of radiation, the radioactive elements will decay, and the star it's orbiting will die off. So I guess that Jupiter will no longer have its dramatic weather in a trillion years. 

Sol is about in the middle betwen the center and the classically defined edge. We have a density of about 1/4ly stars. It gets much denser within 5kly of the center of the galaxy, not sure how the density falls towards the edge. We also have the spiral arms which are density waves which are less dense outside of them... Beyond this there isn't much more of an exact answer due to not be able to see beyond 100 or 1000pc of Sol. As far as density beyond that, just look up the equation for volume of a cylinder, you can get that from the density in the wiki page if you find the volume of a sphere or cylinder (which is what you need beyond 1000ly radius) and then just divide. 

There have been many questions and answers about finding the distance of a star from the earth. But as I did some research on the net, I found that we have specific approaches for finding the distances of different types of stars. So, my question is more specific now. How to determine how far a Classical Cepheid is? What if the Cepheid is extra-galactic? Is there a good method to finding the solution? Can anybody suggest how to make a start at deriving a relation at finding the distance of a Cepheid from us? There is this Period-Luminosity-Color relation. Can anyone at least enlist the journal articles where I can make a study to get closer to finding the answer to my question? 

It is argued that the edge of the galaxy has the halo of dark matter at around 100,000 light years, but there are arguments that extend the galaxy from anywhere between it being 120,000 to 200,000. The major factor though for putting the edge at around 100,000 light years is that there is a major star density fall off for no known reason. Similarly the depth of the galaxy is said to be 10,000 ly at the bulge and 1,000 ly for the rest of the galactic plane. There is similarly no reason for the fall off in star density in that direction known. And there are massive xray and gamma ray structure coming out of the galactic center that is 50,000 ly on either side which you could argue is the real edge of the galaxy along that axis. So what lies at the edge of the galaxy depends on how you define the edge of the galaxy which could be: 

There are a few methods that could be used to measure distances to objects in space. I'm not sure of the ages of these methods, but in many cases, the smaller-scaled methods tend to be older (as we simply didn't know about the larger scale). The scale of the solar system was initially calculated using the parallax effect - measuring the position of Venus relative to the Sun at different times from several places across the Earth, during a transit. We can use orbital velocities nowadays to calculate average distances from the Sun. In some cases, we can use the light travel time to orbiting satellites to calculate distances very accurately, too. For nearby stars, the main method is to measure the change in position of the star as the Earth moves across its orbit. This also uses the parallax effect. For more distant stars, scientists often need to use specific variable stars (such as Cepheids, and RR Lyrae type stars), whose variations are related to their mass. Scientists can then use this data to calculate distance. Cepheid variables are also used for measuring distances to nearby galaxies. For more distant galaxies, scientists can use redshift to calculate distance, as more distant galaxies are receding faster than nearer ones, causing a larger doppler effect. Another method for measuring extremely distant objects is to look for Type 1a supernovae, which, since they always have the same luminosity (their mass is always the Chandrasekhar limit, or about 1.4 solar masses). This was used to calculate that the expansion of the universe was accelerating. However, this method isn't used very often, as these supernovae don't happen very often. 

I'm looking for the distribution of spectral types in the "giant" star category. This category is defined as basically B and O main sequence stars and any star that is larger than main sequences outside of it. My first thought was that the M, K, G, F, and A type distribution were the same as they are in the main sequence but then I realized M has to be dropped, and then i'm not quite sure how K, G, F, and A types evolve and usually only Red Giants are mentioned and I couldn't find numbers for the giants so I'm stuck. To be clear, I want to know the percentage of giant stars that are in each of the spectral types. So if there are 1000 stars in a given area and 100 giant stars in that areas I only want to know the percentage of each spectral type of the stars in that 100.