Presssure at the Mt. Everest summit has been measured to be 253 Torr (337 hPa). $URL$ Pressure at the Dead Sea as high as 1079 hPa is reported in Fig. 12 of this reference: $URL$ As far as at sea level, 870 hPa was measured for typhoon Tip in 1979. $URL$ And 1067 hPa at coastal areas of Estonia and Lativa are reported here: $URL$ 

There are several journal articles on this topic, for example Optimal Sunshade Configurations for Space-Based Geoengineering near the Sun-Earth L1 Point. Being truly at the L1 point is unsuitable because the radiation pressure of the photons acting on the shade (like solar sail) would disrupt the equilibrium, so the equilibrium point is shifted toward the sun from the L1 point and depends on the degree to which the shade reflects versus absorbs. The shade should be made of black material to minimize the effect of radiation pressure on the equilibrium point, thereby permitting it to be as close as possible to the L1 point, and closer to the Earth, where it can more effectively shade. The size required is roughly a 1,500 kilometer diameter structure. All parts of the Earth would be shaded to some degree. From Earth, the sun would appear as it does during a transit of Venus or Mercury, but the position on the sun's disc would vary more with ones location on Earth since the shade would be much closer to Earth than Venus is. 

Firstly you need to define what you mean by average daily temperature. What algorithm are you going to use to compute it (from several time spaced measurements), why and what do you think the result represents. Obviously if you use a measurement which is going to be affected by very local anthropogenic activity (e.g. cars) you can expect timing of activities to affect individual measurements. a measuring station which is going to be thus affected is not really going to be useful for anything wider or general though. When siting weather stations we try to find locations which are not subject to such local disturbances. Ideally well away from any heat producing apparatus (e.g. fixed a/c units), heated buildings, variable traffic and so on. Locations in open non urban areas are preferable for understanding changes in the weather and climate. Past locations thus chosen however have often been compromised by the expansion of nearby housing or industry as populations and cities have expanded. This is why you sometimes see references to Urban Heat Islands (UHI) in discussions of climate measurement. 

There is no inconsistency between the 2012 paper and the older reference(s). Fig. 2 arbitrarily sets all the components (x,y,z) of all the displacement vectors of all the centers to zero at the beginning of the time period (about 123,000 years ago). Furthermore the 2012 article states: 

April and later ice cover is primarily on Lake Superior, since this lake is in the coldest region and also because it is the largest lake. Raymond Assel analyzed the Great Lakes ice coverage for the winters of 1897-1982 in AN ICE-COVER CLIMATOLOGY FOR LAKE ERIE AND LAKE SUPERIOR FOR THE WINTER SEASONS 1897-1898 to 1982-1983 INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF CLIMATOLOGY, VOL. 10,731-748 (1990). According to table IV of Assel, in the winter of 1911-12 Lake Superior had an ice cover of 80% or greater for 74 days. No other winter had more than 52 such days. According to this NOAA file in the winter of 2013-14 Lake Superior has an ice cover of 80% or greater on 68 days. Assel also studied Lake Erie, and finds that 1911-12 had 72 days with 80% or greater ice cover. This compares to 70 such days in 2013-14. Based on the above, it is very likely that 1911-12 was the most recent winter with similar April ice cover to 2013-14. 

OK, you have all seen the question before BUT let's make the challenge a little different this time. I want you to use the Feynman Method ! You have to explain it simply, preferably just text but one or 2 sketch diagrams may be OK (no complicated graphs with multiple colours please) and I am going to limit you to 150 words. Who fancies the challenge - make sure you don't leave out any of the important physics. This question is asking for an explanation of how something works. I am not interested in experimental evidence or proof, just a clear explanation that you can chat about to someone to help explain the physics behind it in as simple terms as possible. Like if your mate down the pub says, OK, tell me how this works then. 

I think this is it: ppm(mol)=ppm(v) x (density CO2/density total atmos) x (Molecular Weight total atmos/Molecular Weight CO2)​​​​. Try some number crunching to see if that makes sense. 

Jeffrey Ralh of Yale and coauthors published Combined single-grain (U-Th)/He and U/Pb dating of detrital zircons from the Navajo Sandstone, Utah, which concludes that Navajo sandstone originated from the Appalachian Mountains. A review of the article is found here: $URL$ Rahl et al. propsed that a large river system transported the sediment. However, Ralh's research concerned only Navajo sandstone, not Coconino sandstone as far as I know. U–Pb ages of detrital zircons from Permian and Jurassic eolian sandstones of the Colorado Plateau, USA: paleogeographic implications does investigate Coconino Sandstone and other sandstones from the region and discusses what fraction are of Appalachian origin and transport mechanisms. 34% of Coconino Sandstone zircon grains are reported to be of Appalachian origin in table 4. 

According to this University of Wisconsin reference $URL$ 12.5% of oil and gas is from organisms that lived 5 to 34 million years ago. So if we take an estimate for the total oil in place before human extraction of 4 trillion barrels, this would be 500 billon barrels. So a crude estimate might be 500 billion barrels per 30 million years or 17,000 barrels per year.