There is a very useful analysis of a selection of multiple studies to be found here: $URL$ I'll start out by assuming that you adjust your feet angle to your stance width (or vice-versa) to keep the femurs and tibias in the same plane as the line from mid-heel to mid-toe. I know this isn't exactly what you're asking — I'll get back to that later — but let's do so for a moment for the sake of discussion. Here's the effects of hip angle on various aspects according to the studies. 

Also, statistically, most lifters who are serious about their workouts and don't give up after a couple months or a year will be intermediates. The novice phase is usually over after 6 to 18 months, but the majority of recreational lifters won't get to the advanced stage, which is usually the domain of competitive athletes. So if you scour forums and other online resources, you're bound to run into a lot of folks who've gone on a PPL routine. I'm currently doing an upper/lower split where the first two days I do an intense lower and intense upper workout, and the last two days to a lower and upper workout with some more volume and assistance. Sometimes a workout ends up taking more time than I'd like, particularly the upper ones. When thinking about a way to maybe spread it out more, the most natural idea that came to me was something that essentially is PPL (although I'd prefer an LPP order). As your workouts get more complex and some cycling starts to become necessary, it is desirable to spread them out over more days. PPL almost comes naturally then. So the way I see it, it's a pretty natural and logical progression for people who've left the novice phase and exhausted their progress on a transition program, rather than something inherently beneficial to the routine itself. The ones you mention, Madcow and Ice Cream Fitness, seem better for a novice or to transition from a novice routine into intermediate. ICF is absolutely a novice program. Madcow shares some superficial similarities with the Texas Method and is more an intermediate program. On the Powerliftingtowin review, it is stated that it seems better suited to a late intermediate lifter and I tend to believe the judgement on that site. Most people out there who aren't after big powerlifter totals want muscle hypertrophy, and PPL just seems like a much better fit than, say, Madcow. If folks have actual scientific insights into the efficiency of PPL routines, that'd be pretty great. But I'm afraid a lot of studies out there will be too limited in length, or focused on novice lifters, to really provide insights. 

Diet is a huge part of this, of course. When I first started my weight training routine and 6 meal-per-day diet in 2005 I was 6'5" and 140 pounds @ 7% bodyfat. Yeah, pretty skinny. I was a real gym rat for years before this but had very limited success. I simply hadn't figured out my diet, and I was working out way too much and not allowing sufficient recovery time. So anyway in 2005 I began my new approach. Now, I have a ridiculously fast metabolism. This I know. But I hadn't really counted calories to determine what it would actually take to gain weight. Well I found that I needed around 3,500 to 4,000 calories a day to gain weight while working out 3 days a week. So as it turned out, a big part of my training was simply building my appetite to handle that much food. I was consistent and managed to put on 20 pounds of muscle and 10 pounds of fat in the first 10 months. I gained a bit more fat than I would've liked since I ate a little too much fast food, but nevertheless those results were by far the best I ever had. 

The RunAmocs from Soft Star Shoes are nice. I have a pair which I've reviewed here. Actually my review talks more about the transition to minimalist shoe running than the shoes themselves, but you can get the idea. They are very lightweight shoes with a Vibram 2mm rubber sole. When I first put them on they didn't seem to fit very snug like I'm used to. But because they are so extremely light and flexible, they actually stay on the feet very well. My reasons for getting these instead of the Vibram Five Fingers are twofold: 

A day without running after consecutive days with running would be a break in the habit loop. Even if your habit is stated in your mind as "go running 5 times a week", that's what you believe the habit to be on a cognitive level, but subconsciously you've been conditioned to do this daily. So as a day passes without running the loop is broken and the impulse towards activity is lessened. The longer you wait, the further you are on the drop-off of the habit formation curve towards automaticity and it will once again take an act of willpower to start again. But upon successfully doing so you'll quickly move towards the previous level again; if you didn't wait too long you'll still be way better off than starting from scratch, and the downtime will in retrospect seem like a little hickup in what is otherwise a well-established habit. I think this might have some effect on that "wake-up" feeling you get when you go for a run when the lethargy is setting in. The positive effect on mood from re-establishing the habit loop would definitely have an uplifting effect. I know for one that if I spend a whole day lazing about inside watching YouTube, or spend the day going to the park, sitting in the sun and reading, the latter will leave me in a better mood and feeling more fullfilled and awake, despite both arguably having been "unproductive" leisure time. In your case that doesn't seem to cover the whole story, though, since you mention this is specific to running and in other activities like cycling the time off actually contributes to recovery and a new-found readiness to take up the activity again. So we'd need to dig into the physiological aspects. One possibility is that it is in fact a function of recovery. Namely, with the cycling you might be accumulating fatigue to the point where rest is needed after five consecutive days or you'll start seeing a negative return on investment (overtraining). Whereas with the running perhaps the applied volume and intensity is of a level you are already accustomed to, so without increasing these parameters recovery isn't as big a factor anymore and the habit formation becomes much more important. This article on Wikipedia investigates the neurobiological effects of exercise: $URL$ Of particular interest is the section "Psychological stress and cortisol". 

If you find the right mix of diet, exercise, rest (and post-workout nutrition) you should actually start seeing improvements in your work capacity as well as your energy levels. 

You can extend your range of motion, which in turn puts even more focus on the chest. You avoid unnecessary strain on the wrists. 

As asked in the comments, "how do I know that I've overtrained"? There are some indicators of this, such as a rise in your resting heart rate. But perhaps the most reliable thing would be to pay close attention to how you feel on the day of any given workout. If, for example, you still feel sore and fatigued from the previous workout, and you decide to workout anyway then make a note of your work capacity for the day. If you're not able to lift as much weight, or simply run out of steam faster then there's a good chance that's due to overtraining. 

Make sure you're getting enough potassium. Sodium and potassium are both critical to fuel your muscles. The typical diet is rarely deficient in sodium. But it is common to have low potassium levels. In fact, an increase in physical activity will increase your body's demand for potassium. That could explain the prolonged soreness you're experiencing. 

Eat 6 times a day, with protein in every meal. By eating smaller meals more frequently this will allow you to absorb more nutrients from your food. More than that, as you get used to it, this may even allow you to eat more calories throughout the day because each meal doesn't have to be so big. Aim for a 30% protein / 40% carbohydrate / 30% fat split with your diet. This is actually a lot of protein, but your body needs lots of protein when you're weight training. I'd suggest using this simple calorie calculator. Lift weights 3 days a week. It doesn't sound like much. And in fact modern bodybuilders will workout more often than this. But then again they also take steroids which reduces recovery time. Before the days of steroids, Steve Reeves was one of the more impressive bodybuilders around. He wrote a book called, "Building the Classic Physique," and in the book even he suggested a 3 day-a-week routine. In fact, the book is a good training guide even today. 

I've done the ketogenic diet for some months last year. Some of this is thus anecdotal and highly personal, your mileage may vary. First I'll go with some actual objective stuff. The ketogenic diet, before becoming a health fad (not necessarily a bad thing) had been used to treat epilepsy. This means you can find some medical literature about it and there's clinical info out there. There are possible side-effects, including: 

Unfortunately glycolysis is impossible without glucose. I'm afraid I'm running into the limits of my knowledge on the subject now, but here's some things you can try. 

No. There are formulas for estimating basal metabolic rate (BMR) and total daily energy expenditure (TDEE). For exercises like walking or running you could estimate the calories burned based on measured performance data. Say, you have height, weight, sex, distance traveled and the time for this, as well as a measurement of burned calories, then those first parameters could be used as a prediction of the last one. These are the sort of methods used in machine learning, where inputs are used to "train" an algorithm for finding predicted output. Even so, there's simply too many unknown parameters left that will have a large impact. If you're running on an incline or decline, the "distance" as would be measured on a map would be different from that actual traveled, yet the intensity of the walk or run would be influenced. Height and weight don't tell you anything about body composition. You could have two people for which these parameters are identical yet one has a large body fat percentage, the other a very low one with a lot of muscle mass. Fitness level and adaptation to exercise is going to affect efficiency and heart rate, further making estimates inaccurate. The easiest thing to do is to use a heart rate monitor that takes said input and then uses the heart rate measured at short intervals to constantly calculate energy expenditure. But even that won't be entirely accurate. Possibly, if you have a monitor that allows you to export the heart rate data for a workout, it could be plugged into program that takes body composition into account as well. I wouldn't know about the existence of something like that. (If it doesn't exit, making something like it sure sounds like a very interesting project. It would take only a basic knowledge of machine learning and a technique like gradient descent.) A simple formula, however, is at best going to be very inaccurate. 

I agree with BenWillkommen's suggestions. I have two more which don't require a gym with a squat rack... 

Drink a post-workout recovery drink immediately after your workout. There are a lot to choose from but I typically buy Accelerade because the price is reasonable and it tastes pretty good too. Although, technically Endurox should be more effective because it has a better protein/carb ratio. Anyway, the idea with these drinks is that they'll halt the rise in cortisol levels and help promote protein synthesis. As Lauren already suggested, you could try splitting up your routine. Perhaps 2 or 3 days per week of weight training, alternating with a couple days of cardio. Each training session would be a little shorter in effect, and just might allow you to recover more easily from day to day. Try analyzing your diet for a few days, and determine how much protein, carbs, and fat you're taking in each day. With a routine like yours you might want to shoot for something around 30% protein / 40% carbs / 30% fat. 

First thing's first -- you mentioned that you haven't gained any weight. As simple as it sounds, you need more calories. Once you're eating enough calories you will gain weight. As for whether it's fat or muscle depends on a lot of things. You asked about protein shakes. I'll just say that there's nothing wrong with drinking them. Their biggest advantage is the convenience. That, and whey protein is a high quality protein. Then again, so are eggs. But if you're having trouble getting enough protein with regular food then a protein drink/shake is a good convenient way to supplement your diet. A few more tips... 

DEXA stands for dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry. Apparently it is often abbreviated as "DXA" these days, for reasons I'm not sure about. The technique consists of taking an X-ray image of the body at two different energy levels of radiation. When taking an X-ray image of someone's body, some portion of the rays is going to be absorbed by the body, while the remainder gets through and is captured on a photosensitive film or a detector. The absorption rate is different for various tissues. Bones contain much calcium, which has a high absorption rate. Taking an X-ray image to examine bones is basically taking a picture of the bones' "shadow". The higher the bone density, the less of the radiation reaches the recipient (film/detector). How that is visualized depends on the used film or detector. However, bone mass isn't the only tissue absorbing some of the radiation. This means that trying to establish exact bone density based on a single exposure will have limited accuracy because of factors such as lean body mass, fat mass, water retention and more. Now, above I mentioned that different tissues will have different absorption rates. This also depends on the energy of the radiation. Taking an image at a different energy level will result in less or more of that energy being absorbed by body mass other than bone mass. This allows us to refine the result. It is basically an example of more data points increasing accuracy. Think of it like this. Suppose I have two sheets of different colored glass, each of which will filter certain light frequencies. I know how much of each frequency is going to be filtered out per centimeter of glass thickness for each color. If I put these two panes together and shine a beam of white light through it, the light that gets through, and its color, can tell me something about the two sheets of glass combined. But I might not be able to figure out the exact thickness of both. Maybe it could be 2 cm of sheet A and 1 cm of sheet B, but maybe 1.5 cm of both A and B would give the same result. But, if I shine two beams of light through the composite, with each beam having different frequencies (say, one beam blue light and one beam red light), then knowing how much of each frequency is filtered out by each sheet of glass and putting it all together lets me figure out the exact thickness for A and B. In our first situation, we have two variables but one equation. That situation could have infinite solutions. In the second situation, we have two variables and two equations, which will typically have one exact solution. While a DXA scan is typically a technique for measuring bone density, it can also yield information about lean body mass and fat mass by combining the measurements of the two exposures. For fat measurement it's possible that different energies are used rather than those for bone density, but I don't know that for sure. That's simplifying things a bit, though. A DXA scan won't be 100% accurate. First of all, because there are many tissues in the body with different absorption rates, and second because you're still only taking the two images in one plane (front to back of body, or the reverse). A thicker bone with lower density could still yield the same result as a thinner bone with higher density. The results would have to be combined with something like a CT-scan or MRI, or multiple DXA's from different angles, to get the complete picture. After all, we're 3-dimensional creatures, we don't live in Flatland. For its purposes, however, a DXA could well be accurate enough. Finally, and this paragraph is purely opinion on my part, I'm not sure a DXA scan is worth it. Like any other measurement technique for body composition, it has its limitations. On top of that, you'd receive a dose of radiation. Perhaps not a dramatic one, but the stance on radiation is commonly that exposure should be kept as low as possible over an entire lifetime. For anything other than critical medical examination, I'd go with a different method. Hydrostatic weighing, while not cheap either and being a hassle, can also provide good results. Body fat calipers can be very inaccurate, both the calipers themselves (if they're cheap plastic things) and their use (method, location) but if you're consistent in where you're measuring, they provide excellent feedback regarding relative fat loss. That is, you can find out how subcutaneous fat is being reduced from week to week and month to month if you always use the same calipers in the same spot. I don't think most people really have any need for a body fat measurement at the accuracy of hydrostatic weighing or a DXA. 

Are you forefoot striking? Forefoot striking places more load on your calves than a heel strike would, and could explain the soreness in your calves. And forefoot striking is a good thing as it tends to prevent more serious injuries. In addition to this, one might think that eventually your calf muscles would catch up. But this depends on the distance you're running and of course nutrition. It'd be easier to build muscle in the areas that are lagging behind with shorter/faster running sessions. This is apparent when you look at long distance runners vs sprinters. The sport shapes the athlete, so to speak. I remember when I first started sprinting a few times a week. I was amazed at how every single muscle in my legs were sore the day after. And all I did was sprint about 100 meters three times with a little rest in between. Running hills as Sarge suggested would be another high intensity workout which would be great for the thighs. 

You can't really spot reduce. In other words, you don't have any control of where you'll lose fat. Chances are you have lost some fat all over, even if you haven't noticed visible changes. In fact, it's not a bad idea to make weekly measurements for this exact reason. You can actually measure your bodyfat pretty easily with a simple set of bodyfat calipers (instructions come with the calipers) along with a bathroom scale. Not only is it encouraging to know you're making progress, but you can even adjust your diet and exercise regimen accordingly if you determine that you're losing muscle, for example. If you're interested in changing your body composition, building muscle, and losing fat then I'd look into high-intensity interval training (HIIT) as demonstrated here. Some exercises done with HIIT may be more anaerobic than others and you can pick and choose your routine based on your goals. But whatever you do, be smart and track your progress with bodyfat measurements. It literally takes 2 minutes and you only have to do it once a week. 

There might be a difference between the cortisol release for running and cycling, possibly specific to your case. Are you more accustomed to running than cycling? Perhaps cycling causes a cumulative overload whereas running no longer does this for you. Then there is the famous "runner's high". A prolonged bout of exercise (and I'd say running 8 miles might fit the bill) can result in feelings of elation due to the release of what is known as "euphoriants", which are in fact addictive drugs. Getting these on multiple consecutive days and then denying yourself them for a few days would very much lead into withdrawal symptoms. An example of such a substance playing a role in runner's high is beta-endorphin, an analgesic which has a (substantially) higher potency than morphine. Is this specific to running, or some sports but not including cycling? A search around online yields some anecdotal evidence from cyclists that they too can experience this same feeling of euphoria and get "in the zone". But I'd hazard a guess that given the nature of cycling versus running (relative intensity, distance, possibility of letting momentum carry you for a while or downhill) you might need longer cycling workouts compared to running to produce the same effects. My best guesses would be that you are perhaps more accustomed to running and training specificity can have a profound effect on the produced results, or perhaps being our natural means of displacement (as opposed to cycling), running is more effective at resulting in the release of the euphoriants. But both are pure conjecture on my part. If anyone would find some specific studies regarding this it'd be very interesting. I'm coming up empty-handed without taking more time to dig through archives with the right keywords.