The staffing agency is your employer. That's what you should list everywhere (including on your resume). If the background check company contacts the large company's HR department, they're going to have no record of you working for them (since you don't work for them). If the background check company contacts the staffing agency's HR department, they'll confirm that you are an employee. That's what you want. 

That's totally normal and appropriate and shouldn't freak you out. Good managers frequently have weekly one-on-one's with all their direct reports. It's a way of ensuring that you have time with the manager every week to talk about what you're doing, get advice, bring up any issues that the manager can help with, etc. Everyone has things they could be doing better so there will be some coaching. But it's much better to have small conversations every week than to find out after a review that your manager has been wishing for a year that you'd do something better. If it makes you feel better, you can ask other folks that have been around a bit longer what to expect in your organization's one-on-one meetings. There may be a standard(ish) format. But I'd wager that everyone on the team has a meeting. 

The business model is entirely reasonable (the company I work for does it this way). Particularly for higher end skill sets, it can easily be less expensive to pay someone their salary for a few weeks or even a few months between contracts than to replace people that get a different job if they sit on the bench unpaid for a while. The company expects to get a certain amount of work in the door and they staff for that level of work. They expect that people will spend some time on the bench and that those that spend a bit more time between contracts will end up subsidizing those that go directly from one contract to another. One thing to be aware of is how the company handles overtime. One thing that contractors generally like is that they get paid overtime if they work more than 40 hours. If you are salaried, on the other hand, the company can bill the client for, say, 45 hours while you just get your regular salary. It's possible that you end up working extra hours without extra compensation (alternately, you can look at it as deferring your compensation to a point in the future where you're between contracts). Particularly when you're working on projects for multiple clients, you may find that you're being encouraged to work extra hours to keep everyone happy. Obviously, whether this particular company is reputable is not something we can answer. You'd need to talk with former employees, look at glassdoor, etc. just as you would with any other company. It is possible that the company intends to lay people off rather than paying their salary while they are on the bench but that should be a rather self-destructuve thing to do since they'd quickly get a bad reputation. 

Your resume (and your LinkedIn profile) should be designed to give employers reasons to hire you. Donating to earthquake relief and hosting tourists are fine things to do but it's not going to cause anyone to want to hire you so it's not something that you should list. You list volunteer experience on your resume when it is substantial enough to let you develop skills that potential employers want. If you're trying to transition into a development role so you build a mobile app for the local soup kitchen, that's something that you'd want to list. If you developed leadership skills by overseeing a team distributing hurricane relief, that's something that you'd want to list. Sending in cash is admirable but it doesn't develop any skills. 

I'm not sure that I understand the confusion. If Joe referred you to Company B, extend your thanks to Joe for the referral. Joe did you a favor, thanking him for doing you a favor is a good thing to do. This should be a person-to-person thanks. I'm not sure who the "them" in "will remind them that Joe" refers to. The suggestion was not to, say, email the hiring manager you've turned down and extend your thanks to Joe in that email. No one other than Joe needs to see your thanks. 

If and when the company contacts you to schedule another interview, simply thank them for their time and explain that you've been offered an opportunity to attend graduate school on a full scholarship that you can't pass up. It would be basically the same thing that you'd do if you had accepted a job offer from another company between the time of your last interview and the time that they try to schedule the next interview. If you haven't even met someone yet, I wouldn't proactively inform the employer of anything. Most people that are interviewed over the phone aren't going to be called in for a face to face interview even if the candidate thought the phone interview went well. It would likely be seen as a bit presumptuous to assume that the company was planning on calling you in for an interview before they've communicated that fact to you. Proactive communication is probably not going to save them any time-- whatever time they invested would have been invested immediately after the phone interview to decide whether to invite you for a face-to-face interview. Since there is no face-to-face interview scheduled, if you're invited and you bow out, the company will likely just schedule a different candidate in whatever slot you would have used. From a purely selfish standpoint, it's probably slightly better for you if you want to work for this company in the future to wait and decline the interview if it is offered rather than pulling yourself out early. Best case, the interviewer likes you, asks you to interview, and then is a little disappointed that you're "the one that got away" when you decline and remembers you positively when you apply again in a few years. If you're a borderline candidate, or if they ended up phone screening a number of excellent candidates and weren't planning on interviewing you, the proactive notification makes them think "that's OK, we weren't going to interview him anyway" and that's what they remember when you interview again in a few years. Of course, in reality, it's unlikely that when you interview again in a few years anything you say or do now is really going to follow you-- you're likely going to be dealing with different people, people don't remember early stage candidates from years ago, HR files get discarded regularly, etc. 

First, it is unlikely that a company of any size would bother to maintain a blacklist (other than people that had been previously employed by the company that didn't work out). An individual manager or group might recall that a particular candidate did poorly in a prior interview and decline to interview that person for a new position but that isn't particularly common given both the turnover in organizations, the number of groups that would have open positions, and the interviewer's tendency to forget all but the most awful interviews. If you were, by chance, blacklisted, there wouldn't be any signs. You simply wouldn't be called for an interview. But since the vast majority of applicants for any particular position aren't called for an interview, you would never realistically know if you weren't called because of some deficiency in your resume or because of some blacklist. 

You've survived for at least 3 months in this job under these conditions. You've got less than 2 weeks to go. Unless you are saying that going in is endangering your health, your future self will be grateful to your current self if you stick it out these last few days. Particularly when you have a clear end in sight. If you stop coming in to work, you're effectively turning 2 weeks notice into an immediate resignation. That might make you happy now but it probably won't be great for you in the future. If you finish out your 2 weeks notice, it's much more likely that your current boss will give a positive reference (or at least won't give a negative one) if asked. If you finish out your 2 weeks notice, you can honestly tell future interviewers that you worked through a successful deploy and acted professionally even under duress. On the other hand, if you leave abruptly just before the go-live, you're inevitably going to get the lion's share of the blame for anything that goes wrong and it is unlikely that you'll be getting positive or even neutral references. You may not want to work with these people again but the world tends to be rather small and someone that you do want to work with in the future may well know one of the people you work for now. Making enemies of them now after everything you've gone through seems counterproductive.