No, no, no. Just no. Two kilometers is only a half-hour walk. That's hardly a big deal. Why risk injuring or even killing yourself to save what can't be more than 15 minutes by the time you've called your friend and they've come to get you. Alternatively, fixing a puncture "in the wild" just needs a spare inner tube, tyre levers and a pump. That takes up very little space – you can get very small pumps, such as this one (random product link; not an endorsement). If you have a locker at school, you could leave the things there, rather than carrying them back and forth. This is what I carry around with me in case I puncture, with a ruler for scale. Total weight is 205g and that's with an aluminium pump instead of a weight-weenie carbon one. If your wheels aren't quick-release, you'll need a spanner/wrench, too. 

An obvious disadvantage is shown clearly in the photograph in the question: locks get dirty. I'd rather not have oil, brake dust and general road dirt rubbed all over my clothes. 

Rather than trying to balance the bag on top of a rear carrier, you'd want to attach it to the side. However, I'd recommend against this. You have a nice bag and it will get scuffed up from rubbing against the carrier and also will get dirty from general road muck being thrown at it, especially after rain. Instead, I recommend leaving your nice bag in the office and using either standard panniers or a rucksack to take your stuff into work. Unless you put your bag inside some other bag, it will, frankly, be wrecked by cycling with it. 

The system you suggest has no benefit. The effectiveness of the rear brake is limited by the fact that braking moves your weight forwards and off the rear wheel. The brake you already have should already be capable of skidding your rear wheel. This tells you that the limiting factor isn't the power of the rear brake, but the grip of the rear tyre. Making the rear brake more powerful won't make you stop faster: it just makes you skid sooner. And bear in mind that skidding is not the fastest way to stop – that (and keeping control) is why cars have anti-lock brakes. Instead, you need to practise using the brakes properly. If pulling the front brake sends you over the handlebars, you're pulling it too hard. Brakes are not binary: they're not just "on" or "off". Learn how much front brake you can use without endangering yourself (practise on a quiet street at gradually increasing speeds) and remember to brace against the handlebars as you brake so your weight doesn't flop forwards. 

Yes, but not really. The standard crank lengths are 170, 172.5 and 175mm. Those are so close together (2.5mm is a tenth of an inch) that I'm pretty sure it would be about the last thing you noticed, if you jumped onto a new bike and it had different cranks to what you were used to. From what I can see, SRAM make cranks between 165 and 177.5mm; Shimano and Campagnolo make at least 165–175mm but, basically, any bike you buy will have one of the three standard lengths. 

Since you mention "extreme cheapskates", I assume you're asking if it would save any money. In the long term, it saves nothing. It might help to think in terms of an analogy. Suppose you have two machines that fill soda bottles (imagine that putting soda into a bottle is putting wear onto a brake rotor). You have a machine that pours two litres per second and a machine that pours one litre per second. Assuming that you move bottles instantaneously between machines, you don't get to fill more (or fewer) bottles per minute by moving part-filled bottles from one machine to another, because your machines still only pour three litres per second between them. So, in any given minute, you fill 90 2-litre bottles, regardless of whether you fill each bottle entirely on one machine or if you part-fill a bottle one one machine and top it off on the other, or transfer them back and forth even more times. Note, though, that this argument relies on long-term averaging. Since brake rotors last a long time, I guess you're not going to have many replacement rotors over the lifetime of any particular bike. For example (completely making up the numbers, here), suppose that a front rotor lasts five years and a back rotor lasts seven years. If you swap the rotors at the right point, you won't need to replace either rotor in the first six years. Suppose you were going to replace the whole bike anyway after six years: swapping rotors at the right time means you didn't need to buy any replacement rotors; not swapping them means you needed to buy one new rotor. But Criggie's comment suggests that you're unlikely to need to replace rotors at all, so all of this becomes moot. 

The badge was used by Raleigh on their Rampar (Ralpar in the UK) range from 1972 until at least the early 1980s. 

That's a lot of problems for a bicycle that's used for such short distances. It's possible that you're being hard on the bike. One thing you should always try to do is to lift your weight off the saddle when you go over bumps: especially potholes and speed bumps. This is doubly important if you're heavy but you should still do it even if you aren't. You don't need to stand up; just take your weight off the saddle so that your legs and arms can act as suspension for your bodyweight. It's also possible that your bike shop is incompetent. I'm particularly worried by the rear wheel coming loose. My suggestion would be that you take it to a different bike shop, either for a service at your convenience or wait for the next thing to go wrong and take it for repair. Mention that you've had a lot of problems with the bike. A couple of the things you mention. 

The derailleur itself appears to be bent (in fact, twisted). Since you say it's new, I suggest you return it for a refund or replacement. Perhaps it was damaged in shipping or perhaps it was defective from day one. 

As a one-off, that should be completely doable. Your fitness from running and the gym should be plenty enough, especially as the route is pretty flat. Bear in mind that it will be tiring, since cycling uses different muscles to running, and the saddle may get a bit uncomfortable if you're not used to it. Make sure you have plenty of water and something like a cereal bar or a banana to eat half-way would be good, too. (You want something that will release energy over time, rather than a big sugar hit.) Riding in traffic can be mentally tiring when you're not used to it so definitely consider a route using quieter roads and cycle paths, even if that adds a few miles. The thing you want to avoid most is narrow roads with lots of traffic: if cars can overtake you easily, everybody's much happier. And there's lots of public transport available so, if you get to Slough and can't bear the thought of cycling home again, you can always get on a train, though don't try to do that at rush-hour. 

I'd strongly advise against buying used helmets because you just don't know how well they've been looked after. If it's been dropped, it might be structurally compromised without your being able to see any damage. And, if you think about it, why would anybody sell a cycling helmet? I guess maybe if they've upgraded to something lighter and/or more aero but, in most cases, people will wear a helmet until they think it's worn enough that it needs to be replaced. If it's worn enough that the original owner doesn't want to wear it, you don't want to wear it either. In any case, this one is too big for you. A circle with circumference 62cm has radius 9.9 cm and a circle with circumference 57cm has radius 9.1 cm. So, with the helmet centred on your head, you'd be able to move it roughly a centimetre in any direction. 

* In this context, snacks are not evil and you should eat them. Or, if your username indicates that you are the snack, consider eating yourself. However, this probably isn't a long-term strategy. 

You don't know. It's as simple as that. The amount of material you're talking about removing is a tiny fraction of the helmet's overall volume but you simply don't know what effect that will have. You have no way of knowing if the material you're removing had some structural purpose. You have no way of knowing how badly you're damaging material around it. You have no way of knowing how the helmet will behave after alteration. Some analogous examples. 

Are your cleats "a few centimetres" thick? It seems unlikely! It's hard to imagine that your cleats put your foot more than a centimetre farther from the axis of the pedal than was the case with your old pedals, so the simple conclusion is that you moved your saddle way too far. 

I found this with a Google image searches for something like "vintage bicycle R head tube badge". I struck lucky just as I was about to give up and post a comment suggesting you do the search. 

Any problem such as this isn't really going to be related to the type of bike as much as the quality of the bike and the type of the accident. You'd probably have had the same problem after that accident on any bike of comparable quality. 

Wide tyres are designed to be pumped to a relatively low pressure so that they bend around objects they roll over, to give grip and a smoother ride. They also often have lots of bumps and lumps on them: again, these dig into the ground and bend around things for more grip. However, bending and deforming all this rubber hundreds of times a minute takes a lot of energy. The only source of energy on a bike is you, so this means that a lot of your energy is going into the tyres, rather than driving the bike forwards. Sometimes, you hear a mountain bike with really knobbly tyres being ridden on the road and it sounds like a swarm of bees: that's a lot of wasted energy. Suspension (front and rear) is, by design, flexible. This means that, when you press on the pedals, some of your energy goes into driving the bike forwards, but some of your energy goes into flexing the suspension. Roads are relatively smooth, which means that fat tyres and suspension aren't giving you any advantages. But they're still there, using your muscle power for useless things. They're also heavy, which makes it harder to accelerate your bike and harder to go up hills. These are significant disadvantages to using this kind of bike on the road. Another disadvantage of mountain bikes is that they often have very low gearing, which means you can't go very fast, even spinning your pedals as fast as you can. Some bikes with suspension have a control that lets you stop the suspension moving. That would be a good thing to use when riding on the road, but you'll still be carrying around all that excess weight and your squishy, fat tyres. And, in fact, you might not be allowed to ride a road race on your particular mountain bike. The international regulations of the UCI require something fairly close to a traditional diamond frame. The intent was to exclude some of the extreme aerodynamic designs that people were experimenting with, but a mountain bike with rear suspension would also probably be forbidden under these rules. Although any race you'd be likely to enter wouldn't be run by the UCI, local cycling federations usually use rules very similar to the international ones, so that the rules don't suddenly change when people turn pro. 

I'm assuming you have rim brakes. Lift each wheel in turn off the ground and spin it. Does it appear to snake from side to side as it spins? If so, your wheel is out of true (it's no longer a disk but a sort of round Pringle) and it's catching against the brake pads at some part of its wobble. If the wheels look OK when they're spinning, place the bike back on the ground and try to push the bike sideways by putting your foot against the axle. Does the wheel wobble against its mounting? If so, its bearings are bust. Both of these are things that only an experienced bike mechanic would have the tools and skills to fix, so unless I've missed something, you're going to have to take it to a bike shop. 

Your speed on any kind of bike is limited by the power you can put through the pedals to overcome air resistance. Air resistance increases with speed so, if you pedal with a level of effort that's comfortable for you, you'll eventually reach a speed where your power balances air resistance. Unless you're going down a long or fairly steep hill (or you're fairly powerful), the speed you end up at shouldn't be excessive. So, if you'll pardon the statement of the obvious, all you need to do to avoid coasting is to keep pedalling. Select a gear that means your comfortable level of effort gives an appropriate speed and doesn't have you spinning the pedals like a whirlwind. Yes, you'll probably end up coasting down hills but remember that you had to put extra effort into getting up the hill in the first place and coasting back down again can be a useful time to recover from that. Greg Lemond said, about training, "It doesn't get any easier, you just get faster" and that's basically what's going on, here. Instead of letting it get easier by coasting, keep putting power through the pedals so that you go faster, instead. That doesn't mean you have to go full our or put pro levels of power through the pedals, of course – just that you should keep up whatever level of effort you find appropriate, instead of coasting. If you want to get fitter, pedal slightly harder than is comfortable; if you just want to get from A to B, pedal at a comfortable intensity. 

On a mountain bike, you typically want to be able to go up steep hills, which requires some very low gears, and to go down hills fast, which requires some reasonably high gears. That means you either need quite a lot of gears in between, or big jumps between adjacent gears. The advantage of having plenty of gears in between is that it allows you to pedal in a fairly narrow RPM range where you're most efficient, neither whirling your legs like crazy nor having to press really hard on the pedals. That cadence range will vary from person to person but it's typically some part of the 75 100RPM range. Note that, even if you used that whole range, it's only a 33% increase in cadence from the bottom to the top of the range, but your range of possible speeds is much greater, because of the gears. However, there aren't really 21 different gears, since various combinations of front and back will be so close together that they may as well be the same. However, the overlaps allow more options for changing gears. For example, you can use the big chainring for "going fast", the small chainring for "going up steep hills" and the middle chainring for stuff in between. In each case, you have a choice of roughly seven gears at the back for finer-grained adjustments. (I say "roughly" because big-at-the-front, big-at-the-back and small-small combinations put the chain at quite an angle, which is noisy and causes wear; that's known as "cross-chaining". It's best not to do that too much, but do it if you need to.) The number of gears doesn't have to be a multiple of seven. For derailleur systems, you'll have one, two or three gears on the front (I think I've even seen four) and between five and eleven on the back. 3x7 seems to be a common place for the engineering and marketing teams to meet for lower end commuter and mountain bikes. If you spend a bit more money, 3x8 becomes more common. Road bikes tend to be 2x9/10/11.