(Ideally your boss has known for years that the XYZ part was coming, and is in general in favour of your MBA.) Another is: 

Don't summarize your skill level with a poorly defined word such as expert or "super expert". Instead list your skills in a way that will let people correctly conclude that you are an expert, or better than expert. This solves two problems: the ambiguity of the word "expert" - it means different things to different people - and the desire to be humble. So if you're a chef, you don't say "expert in French cuisine" you say "awarded a total of 4 Michelin stars for my French cuisine restaurants over the years x to y" and "invited to judge the Whatever Competition National Finals", and whatever other achievements make it obvious to everyone that you are beyond expert. If you're a farmer, you list the awards your farm or animals or produce have won. You list your inclusion on various honour rolls. You list the books you've written and the awards they have won. And all of this leaves the reader knowing you're a super-expert. A note: if in fact you have won no honours, no awards, no laurels; if you have written no books, judged no competitions, been included on no special lists: consider the possibility that you aren't a super expert after all. 

We log the full text of all the mail that is sent and received through our server. In the past I have looked through the logs for the names of specific employees. They sign a piece of paper on their first day titled Company Email Is Not Private and Personal that encourages them to use hotmail or gmail or whatever for their personal stuff and tells them that we might read the logs for whatever reason we want. It's been probably a decade since I've done so, but that's about who works for me now, not about the practice. Signing the paper and knowing we might be reading doesn't stop people from putting stuff in their business email that they don't want anyone to read. (Not all of it new-job related: some of it I would rather not have read but you don't realize you've stumbled into certain things until after you've read them.) On more than one occasion I have been made aware that someone is looking for a new job. I've just used that opportunity to get my house in order in terms of replacing them. Small companies don't hire very often so stuff like writing a job description, looking for places to advertise and so on can take a few days or weeks. Then when they quit, I'm ready. Only once was it a surprise to learn a new job was being sought. I mean, why do you think I'm searching the logs for that name, anyway? I would be far more worried about what made someone look through the logs and check on you than about what they will do now that they know. If you've already decided to go, at least you won't feel guilty that they'll be left in the lurch. If you were just wondering "is this the best I can do?" be prepared for the fact they already noticed you weren't happy, or perhaps weren't contributing all that you were expected to. 

I think the first situation is more likely. In this case all you need to do is get through to him that you have an unusual situation. Call (be sneaky and call after hours to leave a voice mail if you like), email, or stop by, and say "My apologies but I have a family emergency that may delay my start date. Will the 15th be ok?" You don't need a whole pile of "points" to "convince him" - either they will be ok with a delayed date for this reason or they will not, it's a short conversation. By the way you should decide in your heart before the conversation: if they say no, will you decline the job in order to deal with the family situation? Decide in advance so that if they say no you can immediately free them to find a replacement for you. If you are in the second situation it may be harder to reach this person or to ask him anything. In that case it is even more important to get to the point right away. Do not summarize to him when you were supposed to start, do not tell him the details of the emergency or why this person is important to you or why you are the only one who can deal with it. Just say "I need to change my start date to the 15th to handle a family emergency. Is that ok?" The quicker you get your question out the better chance you will finish it before he interrupts and takes over. As a general habit I find it serves me well, when talking to superiors, to lead with the headline, not the background. "I need two weeks off starting now." Pause. "I have to [whatever.]" Pause. Then wait to be asked for details. This is more efficient than paragraphs of background before the request. An irritated boss may say no to a reasonable request. A calm boss may save you a ton of time may just say yes right away, or will ask for the information they need. And when asked for information, again provide the most important part first. 

Remember when you were a pastry chef? Did you start with the parts of it that you really wanted? Or were there parts of the job you didn't really like, but had to do because you were the junior? I know a savoury chef who spent day after day prepping vegetables. I saw the internship diary: "sliced the beets for the tasting menu" it said every day, along with some other things that weren't very much more exciting. You've told people you prefer front end to back end. They've said they will take that into account. This is all going well until you say "it's been two weeks" as though somehow you expected that you would be immediately pulled off your project and given front end work to do. What made you think that? Your project needs to get finished, and if you don't finish it, who will? The best way to be sure you get the kind of work you want when this project is finished is to finish this project, and finish it well. I am puzzled by all this talking of "waiting" and of "doing nothing". You have a project to finish. Your reward for finishing it will be that you don't have to work on it any more, and will have a chance to move to what you want. So think of it as the kind of junior cooking work that just has to get done, and do it. Work hard. People will notice that you got yourself through this motivation slump. As they told you, it's normal. But that doesn't mean you get to stop working. 

I would freak out as a boss if I got this letter as the first I heard of this plan. It's stiff and formal, like someone is trying to make sure they can force something on me, and all the details are in place. It demands I answer within 21 days when our normal relationship is to talk several times a week. It would really make me wonder what was happening and feel "off". What would work for me is to request a quick meeting. At the meeting, tell me you have this great opportunity, and want to work out how to "have it all" by taking the opportunity while still working for me. "I think I'd have to reduce my hours" and "I would be in another time zone but could make sure we had overlap times every day" are both good things to say. Let your boss ask you things like "when do you need to make this change?" and "what about the blahblah project?" and "how long will this go on for?". Come to the decisions together. Maybe your boss has a "pinch point" about a certain number of hours a week in order to keep "head count" or maybe there's something else you didn't think of. When you both have negotiated something that works for everyone, and you're both smiling, wrap it up by saying "I will send you all this in writing to make it official; thanks for helping me work this out. I'm really excited!" Then send the letter but not saying "I think I should" and "this will be good because" and "please reply" but instead thanking the boss for agreeing to all this and summarizing it. And enjoy your course! 

Presuming you're paid after the fact, the first right you have is that they owe you your salary. So if on Feb 1st they pay for January , you worked January, that is a debt they owe you. The bad news is that you may be in line with a whole lot of other creditors. So your second right is that you can demand they issue you an ROE (Record of Employment) to enable you to claim EI. If you want to stop coming to work since they aren't paying you, they would stop increasing their debt to you, and the EI payments may help you stay solvent. You could tell them you will come back when they have work for you and money to pay for it. That's about it, really. And the problem is that depending on the reason for the cash flow crunch, withdrawing your services could make it worse. If you want to ask someone for an explanation so that you can decide whether to support them through this rough spot or not, go ahead and ask, but you may not get a useful answer. 

Don't invent an issue for this purpose; I just chose "auditory processing issue" based on some cues in the question. Be clear and precise (but succinct) when stating your reason for being unable to attend the sporting event, and optionally connecting it to similar working events like conferences. Three sentences should be enough. Stay firm and polite and there should be no consequence. Your boss may suggest you attend part of the activity, such as a get together before and after. If you can, you should, even if it will be difficult for you. You got out of the part that would be impossible, so make an effort and do the difficult. People will appreciate it. 

It seems quite likely to me that these are not meetings, but pairing. He is trying to teach you some of what he knows. You were presumably hired for a reason, perhaps to reduce his workload, perhaps to improve the software beyond its current level. I suspect he believes that if he continues to "show" you how to do it, and to "pair" with you, that you will magically be able to take over soon. I am not sure this is salvageable, but assume you want to try, I would suggest attempting to achieve the following: 

If they mentioned something to you earlier, such as a job they were applying to, it's always nice to remember and ask about it.