The diagram is perhaps a little mis-leading. Think of the ground/rock between the electrodes as a big resistor. The surrounding rock can be modeled as a set of parallel resistors. Most of the electrons will take a direct straight line route between the electrodes, but some of them flow through this surrounding rock, so increasing the current and reducing the measured resistance. In theory this parallel resistor model could go off to infinity (or the other side of the Earth), however if the probes are close together, then the resistance for the electrons to go down and then back up counteract any reduction in overall resistance. Yes there's a contribution but it is vanishingly small. Move the probes further apart and rock of varying depths (and widths) can add effective current carrying capacity - as per the diagram. Just remember that for the outer probes, the electrons are also moving horizontally, as well as in the deeper tracks. So what you measure is a composite effect of many depths. By moving the electrodes further apart, you can sample deeper, but you are still measuring a composite resistance. This makes interpretation difficult! In fact, the only time I've seen or known a Schlumberger or Wiener array being used, was in a student demo that I participated in. Resistance is much more practical in the archaeological domain. Here, two electrodes are left at a base station, and two are moved around in a sampling frame (rather like a zimmer frame or walker). Then you are sampling shallow variations localized to the frame-mounted electrodes. Eg. shallow stones, charcoal, etc. The resulting images are much easier to interpret and often appear on TV shows like Time Team, Discovery Channel, etc. 

Well, the really earliest continents, the answer is we don't. As you go further back the uncertainties get larger and larger. It has been speculated that there have been around 4-5 super continents like Pangaea. Before Pangaea there was Rodinia, but before that it gets more and more sketchy. The oldest ocean floor is only Jurassic. So ocean palaeomagnetism is only good back to the Jurassic, but can be extrapolated a bit beyond that. You have continental magnetism and this helps place the palaeo-latitude - for example, we know the UK was just south of the Equator in the early Palaeozoic. That doesn't give you relative location but is an important piece of the jigsaw. The other is stratigraphy. Yes that includes palaeontology, but before the Palaeozoic, palaeontology is limited (eg. do Ediacaran species have global or regional distribution? what about earlier single celled organisms?). It can also include rock correlations, isotope signatures, etc. For example, the Lewisian Gneiss is a piece of Archaeon craton in NW Scotland that has some well studied dyke sequences. If you find similar gneisses elsewhere with the same dates and dykes with the same chemical signatures, then you can hypothesise they were a part of the same unit and they split after the dyke intrusion. 

In simple big picture terms, Sediments were deposited first from the bottom upwards (as you understand). Then the area was uplifted and the river eroded from the top down. Most erosion is from the top down (there are scenarios such as dissolution and caves which are relatively rare exceptions). So here in Texas we find a large amount of the center of the state was covered with Cretaceous sediments which have since eroded away. We see signs of this from "outliers" - basically remnant caps of Cretaceous on the tops of hills. As I say this is big picture viewpoint. The very bottom of the Grand Canyon has metamorphic rocks. And sedimentation will not have been continuous. There are gaps from erosion, uplift, etc. But yes the bottom is about 2 billion years old, and erosion of the canyon itself is "relatively" recent. 

Cavendish may have used a more direct approach, but Neville Maskelyn did it earlier in the Schiehallion Experiment - publishing in 1778. Very much an Enlightenment story involving money left over from Cook's expedition to observe the Transit of Venus; Mason & Dixon; and even Benjamin Franklin was involved in the early planning. Schiehallion is symmetrical and relatively isolated mountain in Scotland. By measuring the shape (and inventing contour lines in the process!) it is possible to calculate the volume. From rock sampling, you can then calculate the mass of the mountain. Looking at pendulum deflection, you can calculate the ratio of the mass of the Earth to the mass of Schiehallion. Using a modern Digital Terrain Model and geological models, Maskelyn's pendulum measurements give a result that agrees with the current accepted value of G (or M - they're two sides of the same coin). As an aside, I've hiked up the mountain about 18 months ago. If the weather is clear, you get some marvellous views as there aren't any mountains that close (which would also interfere with the measurements). 

This makes sense - serpentinization is the alteration process of olivine -> serpentine in the presence of water. And, as we know, subduction slabs release fluids (primarily water) into the overlying mantle wedge. These fluids usually promote partial melting leading to andesite arc volcanism. However, Cyprus has this big serpentinite diapir instead of volcanism. Why? What causes the fluids from the subducting slab to occasionally result in serpentinization of the mantle wedge instead of partial melting? 

The two stones will accelerate at the same rate due to gravity. This is usually attributed to Galileo although it was known before that - eg. John Dee was aware of it and didn't think it a new revelation. So if the two stones have the same shape and size - ie. so aerodynamic effects are identical, they will fall at the same acceleration and speed. There are plenty of experiments to demonstrate this, but perhaps one of the most well known was by one of the Apollo astronauts (the Moon being essentially airless has no aerodynamic effects). The result can also be derived from Newton's Inverse Square Law of Gravity and his Second Law of Motion. If I were you, I would forget about Aristotle when it comes to trying to understand the world around us. He didn't have any concept of forces, inertia, and momentum as we would understand it today. His concept of forces was provably wrong with knowledge available to him at the time. 

All unit cells are parallel-sided hexahedra. These are six sided shapes with parallel opposite sides. Their three principle angles may or may not be 90 degrees. And the three side lengths may or may not be equal. All of these unit cells can be uniformly stacked. Using these building blocks it is only possible to produce planes of reflection, diads (axis of rotational symmetry order 2), triads, tetrads, and hexads. For example, a cube (all sides the same length, all angles 90 degrees) has diads, triads, and tetrads; plus planes of reflection. A hexagonal symmetry can be used with 60 / 120 degree angles. Note that it is impossible to produce a regular arrangement of unit cells to produce a pentad (order 5 symmetry). As @Nathaniel says, this can be almost achieved using Penrose Tiles (2d mathematical constructions), and quasicrystals (real 3d materials). Quasicrystals will produce an x-ray diffraction pattern with a pentad, but the actual atoms do not follow a true 5-fold symmetry. I suspect your confusion is over the final (macroscopic) crystal shape and the unit cell shape. These are rarely the same. (Salt being an example where they are; but diamonds, garnets, do not) 

A fault is a crack in the rock that shows movement over time. The movement may have stopped (eg. small faults seen in the field in the UK) or be essentially dead even though the crack still represents a weakness that occasionally shows a small amount of movement (e.g. the Great Glen Fault in Scotland). Yes it is often possible to map a fault in 3d by plotting the hypocentres in 3d. For example, a good estimate of the fault area that slipped can be found by plotting aftershocks of a large earthquake (although beware of adjoining faults that might see shocks as their stress regime has changed). 

The Caledonian mountains and Appalachian mountains are recognised to be the roots of the same Palaeozoic orogenic belt. This has since been split in two with the opening of the Atlantic. On the European side, two orogenies are recognised: the Caledonian and Variscan (or Hercynian). On the American side the Appalachians are also recognised to be made up of multiple orogenies, eg. the Taconic and Allegheny. A parallel could be drawn with the present day Tethyan Belt - especially the Mediterranean length. Here we don't see one big mountain building episode but many as each sub-continent or large island is accreted onto Europe. Similarly, Pangaea was not formed in one big orogeny but multiple as sub-continents such as Avalonia were accreted on to what is now North America. Can each orogenic episode on the European side be correlated with an orogenic episode on the North American side? I.e. having two names for the same orogeny? Are correlations possible at a finer scale? For example the Caledonides in Scotland are marked by some very prominent ancient faults (Great Glen, Moine, and Highland Boundary Faults). The Appalachians also have some large fault systems. Can any of these be correlated across the Atlantic? Can specific sedimentary sequences be correlated? (I realise that big picture sequences in the late Palaeozoic are broadly similar, e.g. Permian Aeolian Sandstones, Carboniferous Deltaics & Coal, etc) 

For all intents and purposes, the Earth represents one frame of reference, as @kwinkunks states. Therefore no effect. Yes the gravitational field on top of a mountain is slightly less than at sea level. This is very small though. Variations in gravity over the Earth's surface typically vary at most by a few hundred milligals (ie. "one part in 10,000" order of magnitude). I doubt you would be able to measure General Relativistic effects due to such small field changes (even integrated over 10,000 years) - and even if you could, they are much smaller than other sources of error (e.g. the atmospheric C14 curve, and sampling errors). 

What supports the Rocky Mountains in North America? Or put another way, Why are they there? and Why are they still there? It might be tempting to think of compression, especially in an east-west direction. However at the south end, New Mexico is experiencing east-west extension (grabens including Rio Grande Rift Valley, plus associated volcanism). Hot spot and/or mantle plume uplift doesn't appear to explain them either. Yes there's the Yellowstone Hotspot under NW Wyoming. Regardless of whether this is really caused by a mantle plume or not, the related volcanism does not correlate with the mountains. 

There isn't a concentration of tectonic plates - rather the opposite! The "Ring of Fire" is a pattern really. It is marked by subduction zones. So the question becomes, "Why is the Pacific Ocean surrounded by subduction zones?". Think back to Pangaea. This was a supercontinent that formed in the late Palaeozoic. Virtually all of the Earth's land masses were concentrated in one large supercontinent. When this broke up, the new continents moved away from each other. Fast forward 200Ma or so, and you find that the continents have moved so far apart that they are now converging on a point on the other side of the planet - the continents are moving towards each other! Hence the remains of the super ocean (which was actually multiple ocean plates - today's Pacific & Nazca plates, plus the Farrallon plate (RIP),etc ) is shrinking as the continental plates move towards it. This destruction of the ocean plate(s) occurs at subduction zones. This is a big picture generalisation. Not all of the Pacific's boundaries are marked with subduction zones (e.g. North America has two large strike slip systems + a new spreading ridge). Also, not all of the continents are converging on each other. Africa is doing a pirouette, India is moving northwards, etc. 

Do you mean Ground Penetrating Radar? This is typically limited to very shallow depths though - eg. archaeological investigations, police forensics (finding graves), and civil engineering site investigations. The latter can go to tens of meters and would be used for planning foundations, excavations, etc (I know of an example where it was used for site characterization for a planned rowing lake). The depth limit is typically due to attenuation in brackish groundwaters. Ice applications can typically go further due to the lack of conducting liquid water. Or are you thinking of Reflection ('Active') Seismic Surveys, which work on a similar principle but using sound waves. Sound waves can travel to the far side of the Earth (cf. large earthquake 'P' waves), but reflection surveys are typically looking at the upper crust (few km) and rarely go beyond the base of the crust (aka the 'Moho') which is a strong seismic reflector. Reflection seismic surveys are widely used in the oil business. 

A small scale seismic survey as well. I remember as students we found the water table using a 100m refraction line and a sledge hammer sound source. Scale that up from ~5m to 100m you're going to need a longer line and a larger sound source. Reflection might also become more convenient. Still a lot smaller than a typical 2d survey line though! 

Oolites are limestones that are usually considered as in-organic, although they may have bits of shell/etc in them. These form by the precipitation of calcium carbonate around particles (sand, broken shell, etc) with a process comparable to that of an oyster. Some oolite references: $URL$ $URL$ Recently I saw a reference that limestones do not deposit when Fe2+ is present. Unfortunately I can't find the reference now. If this is the case, then for the Earth, limestones require the indirect presence of life. The evolution of cyanobacteria created free oxygen in the atmosphere and the dissolved in the oceans. Hence all dissolved iron was oxidised from Fe2+ (a green colour) to Fe3+ (orange colour). 

In answer to the title question, "yes"! Here are some videos from Montserrat Soufriere Hills where the phenomenon has been extensively studied (probably more than anywhere else): $URL$ As well as Krakatoa, Mt Pelee's (Martinique) 1902 eruption managed to ignite ships in the harbour when the main town was destroyed - which suggests the pyroclastic flows crossed the harbour. Also my u/g mapping area in North Wales included the Snowdon Volcanic Group. It and related tuffs appear to have been erupted over water and/or wet estuary type environments (there is open to debate). 

Ocean lithosphere (geophysical definition of crust + upper mantle that acts as a 'plate') is primarily of basaltic composition - the upper levels are basalt and the lower levels are gabbro. The top levels have been proven with boreholes, whilst the lower levels have been inferred from transform fault sampling and comparisons with ophiolites. This sequence is produced by partial melting of mantle peridotite at a fairly controlled rate. So much so that basalts formed in this way even have a specific composition "MORB" (Mid Ocean Ridge Basalt). In contrast, continent lithosphere is more complex and tends to be of a 'granitic' composition. This includes granites but can also include a lot of metamorphic rocks (eg. gneiss) and sediments. Sediments are lower density anyway (high pore space), but so are quartz-rich rocks such as granites. The various processes that build continents tend to favour silica rich compositions, resulting in this bulk "granitic" composition. For example, limited partial melting will initially produce high silica, high alkali melts. Erosion will tend to break down most common minerals before quartz - leaving quartz-rich sediments (hence sandstone is primarily quartz). Metamorphism of pelites (rocks rich in Al and Si) will tend from the initial mudstones & basalts through to gneisses & migmatites (which have a lot of quartz and feldspar). Migmatites are partially melted - and the melted bits are essentially granite. Basalt is denser than granite. On gravity surveys, basalts and gabbros will appear as positive anomalies, whilst granites and sedimentary basins will appear as negative anomalies.