I notice you've already got plenty of answers about capacitors and batteries. But since we're in space, what about speed? Speed matters, and in space, speed differences can be astronomical. In the mid-60s during the ramp-up of NASA's Apollo program, there was a lot of research being done on the Moon. And a lot was still unknown: what was the surface really like? Was it rocky and hard, or was it so soft & dusty that a lander's legs would sink right in? Geologists at the time were arguing about the origin of the Moon's craters. There were two competing theories, that they were formed by meteor impacts, or that they were formed by volcanic eruptions blasting holes in the surface. Volcanists argued that when you look closely at the Moon's surface, nearly every single crater is perfectly round. In fact, it's hard to find one that's not. 

Many, if not most faiths will claim that peace is a core tenet of their theology, though in practice of course that doesn't always pan out. This is true of Judaism, Christianity and Islam. Less centralized faiths may or may not espouse peace/non-violence but these are tougher to gauge. Many have a clause in their non-violence teachings that can be boiled down to: Violence is bad, except when in defense of the faith or the weak (or faithful). Even Buddhism which specifically mentions non-violence and thanks to Gandhi is well known for non-violence can be oppressive and violent. So, there are a couple ways to look at this. 

As part of Fortnightly topic challenge #3: Creature Design I am looking for a realistic way to create a particularly nasty creature. What I would like: 

As in the title I am particularly concerned with how this would impact the development of firearms. For the sake of this question assume all other aspects of using a firearm are functionally the same as a human. (aiming for example) Firearm Requirements: 

The fauna in a world with no carnivores will not look like that of earth with the carnivores removed. Disease and both intra- and inter- specific aggression will likely be the major causes of mortality (popular science link re. disease: $URL$ Predation pressure is a major factor driving the grouping behaviour of animals, so without predators, many species may never evolve group living (whether that be organised sociality such as seen in many primates, for example, or the passive aggregations of savannah-dwelling herbivores.). Add to this the issues of disease - social transmission, decaying corpses of dead members of multiple species - and the likely outcome will be small groups or solitary individuals, possibly highly mobile (to avoid the rotting bodies). If the rotting corpse issue is explained away (perhaps the abundance of this resource has selected for bacteria that decompose corpses on an accelerated time scale), then the biology and behaviour of the herbivores will be shaped largely by whether their resources are defensible. Population sizes are likely to be large - given no predation - so territoriality will not be feasible as time/energy costs will be too high. Instead, individual resource patches would be defended, and this will favour large groups, which in turn require access to multiple resource patches to meet their collective nutritional needs. So intense inter-group competition, selecting for large-bodied, aggressive, 'weaponed' animals. With that in mind, and addressing the question: 

So how could it be that in the chaos of space, with meteors being flung about at all different angles, that all the craters are perfectly round? There's not a single elliptical or elongated crater shape to be found. To learn more we had to study impact craters, and meteors sometimes hit Earth too. Like Meteor Crater in Arizona. Originally this was also thought to be caused by a volcanic explosion, a fair point since the San Francisco volcanic field is only about 40 miles away. However, meteorite fragments had been found around the rim and basin of the crater, and the theory was proposed that this was a real meteor impact site. This led Daniel Barringer on a business venture: a crater this size (>1km across) must be caused by an equally huge meteor filled with precious metals, right? 

So in 1903 Barringer's mining company, the Standard Iron Company, purchased the land with the idea that due to ~30 tons of iron meteorite fragments laying about the basin, the meteor itself must be buried somewhere under the crater floor. Barringer spent 27 years searching, but no significant iron deposits were ever found. Where was the giant meteor? It would take several decades before science matured enough to answer. $E=mc^2$ or, the equivalence of mass and energy Einstein to the rescue! This equation may be so familiar to most people by now that it's jaw-dropping, awe-inspiring everyday significance must be lost on you. But take another moment right now to really let it soak in. This mind-bogglingly simple equation is telling us that energy and mass are equivalent. To put it another way, mass is energy. (And energy has mass. If you stretched out a rubber band, and somehow were able to weigh it like that, the rubber band would weigh more while stretched out than it would at rest.) Speed is also energy And in space with nothing to slow you down, objects can get thrown around at scary-fast speeds, right? Speeds so fast we usually measure them in km/s, or kilometers per second. So what happens when a meteor already traveling at several dozen km/s gets pulled in even faster by the Moon's gravity? It literally explodes. To put it in technical terms, the impact force is so great it breaks apart the bonds of the atoms holding the meteor together, and all that mass gets converted to energy. Take a look at the Moon's craters again. Yes, they're all perfectly round, but that's because each time an impactor hit, it exploded like TNT. The Moon is showing scars of literal bombardment. Why did Daniel Barringer never find his giant meteorite? Because we wouldn't discover until later that when a meteor hits at high speed, it hits with so much force that most of its mass vaporizes into energy. Kinetic kill weapons The irony of weapons in space is that in space everything is a weapon. If you have the capability to get up to orbital speed, or even faster, your vehicle itself is a weapon. If you could for example, approach the speed of light, your vehicle could easily destroy an entire planet. You don't need bombs or warheads, any regular matter like debris or asteroids will do. It's worth mentioning that the Chinese have already done tests like this on their own satellites. No warhead required, just a big, pointy steel rod, AKA a "kinetic kill vehicle". (Also worth noting that this test in particular did not vaporize everything, it actually scattered large pieces of debris everywhere much to the dislike of every nation with a space agency.) The rule of cool To answer your question, it doesn't really matter if capacitors explode when being shot at, because everything explodes if it's going fast enough! (As long as it has mass, i.e. a projectile, not a laser weapon) Use this to your advantage when designing, or ignore it if it's not. If this is for a game most people won't notice anyways. The reality is even tiny micro-meteorites can turn into bombs if you're traveling fast through space, leaving Moon-like craters in the hull of your ship. (You'd need auto-targeting lasers or something to handle micro-meteorites and debris while traveling fast through interstellar space.) I hope this answer was helpful and added some things you haven't considered yet. Cheers! 

Cigar-shaped. Space is a 3D environment, and attacks can come from any direction. This suggests that a sphere might be the best shape, with weapons mounted across its surface, but that would both be inefficient (most weapons could not come to bear upon a single target), and present a large target. A cigar-shaped object would allow weapons to target in all directions, particularly if turret-mounted, while vasty increasing the number that could bear on a single target and presenting a minimal cross section. Of course, this assumes direct line-of-sight style weapons. If space combat is based on missiles, and these are fired at extreme distances, the most effective shape will probably be the one that can hold the most missiles, so we're back to a sphere again (missiles could be fired from any 'side' of a sphere, and be guided to the target). Space combat might also be based on passive engagement - laying of 'mines' of some kind along desired (e.g. economical, efficient) routes. In this case, either technology - mine detectors/eliminators - will render the shape of the spacecraft moot, or, if we assume that these mines are difficult to detect/remove, then a cigar-shaped ship, propelled lengthways, would present a very limited cross section and so miss most mines (at least relative to other shapes). The 'nose' of such a ship might even be purely armour / disposable, to negate the impacts with mines that it doesn't miss. 

Entropy can be a very abstract idea, so my answer will involve more abstraction than hard-science, forewarning. You're asking about anti-entropy, or reverse entropy, which is a huge conceptual issue because entropy itself states that things in high-energy states will naturally degrade into lower energy states, and you want the opposite. (if only very slightly) Essentially we're asking entropy to stop being entropy anymore. Entropy is broad. Technically, heavy radioactive particles decaying into lighter, more stable elements is entropy, and so is erosion. It applies to heat transfer and electrical systems. It's well defined as the freakin' Second Law of Thermodynamics. You're asking to break physics, and you know that the scientists never appreciate it very much when you do that. Without it, we're saying that instead of a rock breaking down into lower energy states, it could spontaneously assemble itself into higher energy forms. But we have examples of things that flow against entropy, don't we? This is a question I've debated with friends many times, and I always land on "Yes, life itself seems to organize energy," although I haven't been able to convince most of my friends of that yet. In fact, I would go as far as to say that Entropy is the natural selection that Evolution is fighting against, or, er working with. I'll even go out on a limb with the most radical example I can think of, take Virtual Reality theory. Everyone is still toying out the details, but I believe the one thing we can all agree on is a larger reality would be of the same fundamentals this derived reality contains. Namely: evolution, and entropy. The theory is, with unlimited time and too broad of possibilities, evolution might become stale, and the rate it could reduce its entropy would slow. So create a variety of VR's, all with slightly different (much more strict) laws of physics and all with a time limit, so that evolution might explore the specifics of reducing its entropy in certain areas. Doesn't matter if that's too far off the deep end for you, the point is: Entropy may be so fundamental it may span dimensions / realities. And to try to actually answer your question in the most elegant way I can think of: What is anti-entropy? = evolution. Er, or Life itself. Or let's just create a VR with the parameters you specified and run the simulation. :) 

Could an empire like this survive? No. With no external threat, and the only uniting sense being that they can communicate with one another (and are governed by 1 - essentially remote - leader), this 'empire' will not last. Resources are finite, and individuals will compete for these. Individuals who can get an edge over another individual will - on average - take that, and if not for themselves, then for their family, clan, social group etc. At some point, your different peoples will come into conflict, and the 'empire' will collapse. Your setup also relies on beneficent emperors, and both history and modern politics show that this is unreasonable. The longer an individual remains in power, the more power they draw to themselves and the more likely they are to become - well - less beneficent. Even if you have a single life-long altruist as emperor, what is to ensure that the successor is similarly minded. I doubt this 'empire' would exist for the lifetime of a single emperor, and would certainly collapse over the reign of multiple emperors. To hold a group of disparate peoples together requires a strong within-group identify ("We are all citizens of Rome"), together with some strong laws, and the ability to enforce them, particularly with regard to those who are dissidents. Look at the 'life-cyle' of historical Empires - Rome, British Empire. The only hope for your empire would be either existential threat from outside (commonly in sci-fi this is an alien race/invasion) to counteract the natural tendency of internal factions to favour their own, or a state of utopia, where all individuals are satisfied with their lot in life, which would not be particularly realistic (in that it doesn't match with what we know about the behaviour of humans or other known species). 

Religion. In this scenario lets say there are only a handful of religious folks on board the first generation of the mission. Over time, as education thins out there is a major resurgence of one religion. Religion can have a major supportive role when it comes to cementing a caste system. What better way to convince a person its okay for them to be shit on their entire life if they have divine rewards waiting for them in the next. Power hungry leadership. Arguably this mission would start off democratic or at least with some balance of power between the people on board. Having a charismatic leader (could be religious, or police or anything else really). This person believes they can run things better than anyone else...and they have the support to pull it off. Over time they limit people's access to information and thus make them dependent on the system. 

Simple answer, yes. Population numbers will adjust to the available resources through the mechanism of competition. Intense foraging pressure might lead to localised ecological changes - grass, for example, is much more resistant to consumption than arboreal leaves - and there may also be selective changes on the plants to resist high levels of consumption by high numbers of herbivores. So thornier, tougher, higher levels of tannins and other 'anti-feedants', which in turn will decrease available resources, and increase the intensity of the competition between the herbivores. 

You'd need a pearl the equivalent size to a 13g lead ball for a standard flint-lock pistol. However, lead has a specific density of around 4-5 time that of pearl (~11 vs ~ 2-3), so a pearl of that weight would be too large for the pistol, while one of the right size (for the calibre of weapon) would - I assume - be too light to deliver the same impact. Pearls themselves are fairly tough, so propelled at sufficient velocity would be damaging. You might just need a custom weapon to do so. The biggest problem of, course, would be finding sufficient pearls to use as ammunition, and addressing the question of why you wouldn't exchange each pearl for a wagon-load of lead-shot ammunition for your flint-lock musket or pistol? EDIT: Expanding on this a little, in a constructed world it might be that pearls are more readily available, and/or deliberately harvested (and marketed by a particular culture or population. @ohwilleke (in comments) suggested particular vulnerability akin to werewolves and silver bullets - if this existed it could create a market for 'pearl bullets'. Taking this further, if pearls are somewhat toxic to a particular target - and given that small pearls will be more common than large pearls, perhaps they could be used as 'shot' (i.e. multiple small projectiles per discharge) rather than as a straight replacement for musket balls - this would increase the likelihood of hitting the vulnerable target (given that pre-rifling, accuracy was poor), which might be important if its something as dangerous as a werewolf. While I've not been able to find any reference to use of shot in flintlock muskets or pistols, there is a passing reference to this for the arquebus, so it has some plausibility: 

An idea came to me while thinking about the "how do you make the blade stop where you want it" problem. If you were to create a localized magnetic field (it would have to be quite strong). If you slightly modify the saber to include a cap of sorts... 

are not compatible. You cannot be both completely open minded and rational AND feel hatred, love, and fear as we currently understand them. Third Humans as we know ourselves today lack the capacity to be completely open minded. That isn't to say people don't WANT to be open minded but to do that you need to consider all possibilities and angles. Humans, out of necessity, lump things into categories, that includes other people, actions, animals, ideas...the list goes on. The point is that lumping things into categories means we may not truly understand many things and you cannot be open minded about something you are also mostly ignorant of. This in our world leads to bias, dehumanizing others, and stereotype. TL;DR Humans as we know them are not capable of being truly open-minded and rational. The sentient humanoids capable of this would have to differ significantly from humans. And to address your questions: 

Based on this information, 1/5 of Earth's gravity would not be much more than is seen on the moon (i.e. Earth's moon), so a little larger than that seems reasonable: 

although I agree that dogs are a pretty good fit for the description, and can be trained to respond to various complex commands (think sheep-dogs, who typically work without a leash and at some distance from the shepherd). In principle I see no reason for a dog not to be able to conduct a variety of tasks, and to travel with its master/mistress without a leash (avoiding modern traffic is one reason to keep otherwise well-trained dogs on leads). 

Evolutionary game theory explains why different behavioural strategies can co-exist in a population. Initially developed by John Maynard-Smith & George Price, it was used to address the existence of non-lethal aggression: why should an animal display but not fight over desired resources? This is the 'hawk-dove' model, with two strategies: "hawk", which means fight until the opponent withdraws, and "dove", display, but run away if attacked. Bypassing all the analysis of this model, the outcome is that both hawks and doves can exist in a population if the cost of fighting is higher than than the value of the resource, and the particular values for cost and value determine the stable proportion of hawks and doves in the population. $URL$ Note that at the stable proportion, both strategies do equally well. (for a recent treatment of hawk/dove models: $URL$ Applying this to the question, we can consider "Mage" and "Magician" as two genetically-encoded (inherited) strategies (making the reasonable assumption that "bright and willing" intelligence/personality has a genetic component). By analogy with the hawk/dove model, Magicians can only exist if the costs of 'fighting' are greater than the value of the resource over which two individuals might 'fight'. The question suggests that status is the resource, and Mages can be extremely lethal if it comes to a contest (whether this is toe-to-toe fighting, attacking from the shadows, or something more subtle). Mages always win against Magicians, so Magicians should always beat a hasty retreat if they come across a Mage (or at least conceal the fact they are Magicians). So the evolutionary game theory answer to the question is that Magicians exist because this is an equally successful strategy to being a Mage. The only issue that needs to be determined is what proportion of Mage vs Magician is stable! Of course, things are slightly more complicated, because the population actually consists of three genetically-inherited strategies: Mage, Magician, and 'Normal' - 'Normal' loses out to both strategies - but the basic conclusions remain: at some proportion, being a Magician is just as successful (in terms of producing 'descendants', here, more Magicians) as being a Mage is at producing more Mages, and that is why there are Magicians despite the existence of Mages.