Yet for a while I trying to install and run MySql on FreeBSD rooter that We using at office. I am totally beginner in Linux OS and I do not know what could go wrong on My installation, So please have a patient whit me, Here is some copy and paste text from Putty if someone had similar problems please help 

Maybe you can take a look of BzgTracker.NET open source project for handling a Bugs. But it easily can be fit in many types of environment. Some of features are: 

Open SOURCE (Free) Easy to set up and run Email integration for opening NEW Bugs and Reporting (with also open source client) Nice and easy to understand API for opening new bugs Built in Query tools for advanced reporting SVN integration Attachment in the posts, prepared BUGS for printing, export to EXCEL and many others 

I am new to zabbix but Ill try to help. How do you copy files from one server to another? If you can access to those procedures which do copy files you can try call zabbix_sender to deliver message to Zabbix server of fail copying in case that you have exception during copy of files $URL$ 

Mostly of days I wake up before sun goes up an do a morning pray after that drinking tea while checking online weather to make decide what device should I use to came at work (motorbike or car). Usually when came earlier then 7 o'clock I need explain myself to boys at security why I came first and how I can maintenance servers only while nobody is online (re index tables on SQL and do some custom DATAMINING tasks). After that I drink coffee staring at my paper notebook marking with pen impormatn tasks. and said to my self "Where Do You Wont Go Today". I really miss that sentence since in today IE. 

I am little lost in touch whit few SQL servers regarding to their updates. Now I want to update these serves and I see that now is actual SP4 for SQL2005 databases. My question is: If I skip SQL Service pack 2 or 3 and just install Service pack 4 do I have latests updates for all sql components , also do I need to install and others service packs beside of SP4 ? 

When You receive .dbx file You can do a trick, Firs Make Folder in application with same name as it was at your freind and as is name of file After that exit from outlook and overwrite file created by outlook with file from your firend To find location of existing dbx files go to tools/options tab maintenance and button "store folder" Then copy the given path to address bar into windows explorer 

Ill answer to my questions just to broaden horizons for those with similar problems. I am contacted my ISP and asked them to try solving my problems. What they had offered me is another public IP address just for server, Now I have local traffic on the WAN side of FreeBSD and We made specific pipes for faster throughput fol local traffic to public IP of Server 

I do not know will PF Sense fit to yours needs, but a lot of people talking a best about this distribution of FreeBSD. Anyway you can try it on Vrital Box and without chance to lose anything beside few hours and some of bandwidth of internet connection for downloading it 

Considering this scenario, At coffee bar you order the drink and get bill for that, On bill there is key for Wi-Fi network which is going to be valid for next X hours. I want to try realize something like that. Where to start looking, Does PfSense have that in box ? Should I left wireless network open and do authorization on internal site for allowing go users to go out ? I am confused How I can pull or generate KEY pragmatically by C# (.NET) (that is language I know). 

Which VOIP system are You using ? I had similar problem with Elastix/Asterisk/FreePBX BOX. After edditing NAT settings at: UnembedFreePBX / Tools / Asterisk SIP Settings i get worked Try playing with this $URL$ 

I recently found that TS got problems with connecting when Advantage Validation Tool is not installed properly, Just guesting You may check that part of software on yours WIN2K ore they get automatic updates which is locked system because problems with WGAs 

What is the easiest way to block changing the Time and Date settings on desktop workstations running Windows XP? 

You can go to "Computer Managment" and under to system tools you have Shared Folder, Tere You can see some basic information. To open Compute Managment on icon MY Computer right click and chose Manage 

This scenario working OK for us when main link goes down clients established new connection over alternative WAN. What we do not know is: How to push clients to switch back (reconnect) to main WAN after main WAN connection get up again ? (Our workaround is now to restart Openvpn client or sometimes to restart whole pfSense to push vpn clients to connect again to main WAN, or to "kill" alternative WAN to push VPN clients to reconnect to main. All of them seems for me is bad way to do that). We will also love to see which of clients is connected to alternate WAN. Now workaround is to go on each vpn client pfsense and to read remote host address on vpn status of client. We are using Zabbix to monitor our network infrastructure, and we will love to try figure which wan is used for connection in some API way so we can at least trigger error on Zabbix and tell admins to reconnect client to main WAN. 

I am using pfSense as router with LightSquid transparent proxy. Reports that LightSquid offers me are great, I can see amount of data transfered trought router, grouped by hours,months,weeks, Also I can compare local addresses one with others in tabular report, So I can see which user is taking most of bandwidth. Thats all works great but unfortunately only for traffic trough port 80. My question is there other way to collect and display data in nice way as it does LightSquid of traffic for all ports. I know that transparent proxy only catch WEB (80) , but I do not want to know structure of traffic, all I want to display traffic at all, If it can be spared by ports it will be great, if not does never-mind. 

We are planning to switch our environment from workgroup to domain (active Directory services). We are planning to register our top domain at some public register. That domain is going to be used just for ActiveDirectory and internals. We are planing to use simple domain name as possibile My DNS is going to be at private subnets and private IP addresses. When I do register my domain, registrar is going to ask me for DNS servers. Shodu I give them my local DNS servers for public registers ? Or is better to by some www reachibile DNS like AWS route 66 and point my domain to that DNS after that on that DNS server do redirect to local DNS servers. Or it is OK to do public register domain whit private DNS servers. 

You can give a try by installing asterisk on Virtual machine. I have good experience with combination of Sun VM and Elastix BOX, It is easy to start system and begin research of Asterisk goodies. I am bit a skeptic about detection of answer (human or answering system) Later today when I get more free time Ill try your scenario and try to offer more useful answer. 

Maybe you can just try to Shrink them. MS Sql allows to Shirnk Files and Databases also. In SQLMGM studio right click on database and inside tasks you should have option Shirnk. Choice Database and see will it fit your needs for Free space. alt text $URL$ 

Ill try to give a point, Maybe I am a wrong let others say if this is not regular way Can You set up transactional replication to NEW server and publish and subscribe databases, so you get both databases running constantly in lag of smaller then few seconds. After that you close connection to your old database from clients and wait few seconds. Disable replication and start use new datbase 

As You mentioned in your post public IP address (which is not good practice). Are those client inside LAN or outside WAN side. Is your machine behind NAT or this public IP is set on your debian. If so check are you have forwarded 5060 and 5061 ports throughout router to asterisk 

We are planing to invest in new software for our factory. Targeting application is standard users application for handling data of goods (bills, finances, accounting management, goods, simple manufacturing with human inputs of data). One of our partner whit the highest chance for getting job, have pretty good application, most of things are looks good. One disadvantage of their system is, that they supporting their application for distance users only to use over Remote Deskotp Connection. Our factory (storehouse, production and few operates) and We (administration, head office) are separated by 1mb DSL line. Data handling is about 40 vs 60 % widespread between these two offices. Should I get away from appl like that? Should I accept RDC as way of communicating distance clients with Main server? Should I insist to they change that? I have experience with Remote Desktop Server with more than 3 years but for me that era is over. I know a lot of pros an cons of using RDS, but I do not know is that way for connecting is obsolete. When now is Client - Server applications is something that all We accepting when buying something new 

How to configure FreeBSD to redirect all DNS requests to other DNS. We have set up FreeBSD as router for our company. We have two cards, one for lan and second for WAN whic is configured as Public static IP adress. What I want to do is: When some client inside our network 192.168.0.1/32 call DNS request to our old DNS server, FreeBSD is going to forward that request to other one DNS server. Is that possible ? Where I need to put that rule ? 

We have installed and ruining MS SQL Report Server on WINSERV2003 and users access reports thought IE, recently I have more and more troubles making them able to print. I know it is problem with one of MS updates (KB956803 KB956931), But lately and method for uninstalling this two update does not help to IE start printing. Probably one of thees are integrated to service pack three. My question is: What I do need to do on server side to update server and avoid problem with installing ActiveX control on users IEs ? Will after that those users which now able to print is going to have trouble? Thank you in advance Admir 

You can try open shared folder using ip address instead of computer name, \\IP_Aadres\SherdFolder Where is Ip_adress of inforamt like 192.186.0.1 

It is standard story, there is fight between developers and administrators. One denunciation that database design and queries are bad while others says It is lack of hardware and amount of data. So I am asking You is my IBM x3400 with 2 xenons 2GHz and SCSI raid 5 and 4GB of RAM adequately shaped for MSSQL database of 53 GB with tables main details is around 6,5 million of records in details and 2 million in headers of documents while others is around 100K (such as items). We are constantly suffering with lack of performance while getting data from SQL, this server is only dedicated to be only SQL server and act as subscriber of Replicated data from other SQL server. Other question is How does database administrators planing size of hardware for DataBase servers ? Is there some standard approach or it is just experience and sense ? 

Here is very fast (lessTested) version of C# code, You mentioned a python, this is not that unfortunately You can try convert to python. Or if someone can explain how this can be run in powershell. 

There is great implementation of PuttY for Symbian S60 devices, and last versions of Nokia phones with full QWERTY keyboard offers comfort for using Putty and SSH goodies. I start wondering is there a way to access MSSQL over SSH and send T-SQL commands. I am able to connect my router which running on FreeBSD OS, also other CentOS server with MYSQL are able to me over SSH. I want to try access MS-SQL-2005 from my mobile phone, Probably this is not going to have daily use, it is just for geeky and justification to myself: why I had to buy so expensive a toy 

Another one very nice FTP client is WinSPC , Maybe it will fit your needs, Another one solution is to build your own FTP client according to your requests, I do not think that will rocket science with todays goodies of .NET controls.