Do you have access to an elevation map of the area? I believe on that type of map, the closer together the lines are, the steeper the grade. 

Since the headtube is at an angle, it will not raise the bike as much as if it was perpendicular to the ground. How much height that would add will depend on what angle your headtube is at, probably something around 70d. Now, adding travel will cause your bike to have slower handling. It will make it more stable in a straight line, but more effort will be needed to change direction. It will also move you farther back in the cockpit with may make it lift the front wheel more on steep climbs. Also, by adding this travel, it will probably void the warranty on your frame because it is putting stresses on the frame that are outside what it was designed for. There is also a possibility that you could stress the headtube to where it breaks, but 20mm probably wouldn't do it. 

Pushing pins out and then jamming them back in are bound to cause a certain amount of strain on the links. Buy a connector link and replace one of your links with it, creating a "quick release" chain. Make sure that you get a link that is the same width as your chain. Even better, buy a few of them. I actually keep one with me, that way if I break a chain it makes repairs so much easier. 

Aiming to build a shaft driven bicycle for efficiency is the wrong direction. Efficiency improvements of shaft over chain driven in bicycle is negligible. Not to mention, shaft driven is overshadowed by an (un)established market regarding gearing on bicycle. Advantages of shaft driven: 

24mm refers to the diameter of your spindle (the rod connecting the two cranks) You can look for more details on this chart: $URL$ Hope this works for you :-) 

I suspect that the abrasion from road/chainring/cogs is negligible, especially when comparing with other causes. The silica grains (SiO2, present almost everywhere) would be more of a worrying issue than the aluminium oxide, regarding chain wear. The grains are often visible (in sub millimetre size) and easily stick on the chain after a ride on any road surface. These grains create grindings (between chain and cogs/chainrings) and accelerate chain wear. The applied force also plays important roles in chain wear. An incorrect gear would create a large force between chain pins and cog/chainring. A worn chain would create a large (localized) force between (certain) chain pins and cog/chainring. A chain would wear much faster if the applied force to its pins increase. In short, aluminium+stainless combination is almost identical to stainless+stainless combination in gearing (i.e. creating the same amount of debris) . I used to make electric motor with high RPM and the best combination is nylon+metal. The clearance/applied force does have great importance over many other causes of wear. 

The climbing that kills me when mtbing are the explosive short climbs, not the long grinds. If that is the case with you, I would suggest some sort of interval training. This sort of training should help your recovery speed. Also, make sure that you are taking nutrients in while exercising. Low to moderate exertions can be fueled by body fat, but high intensity needs to tap into your carbo reserves, and I find that mine get depleted quickly without having some sort of replacement ready. 

First, in the front they are called chainrings, god knows why they need to have a different name, but they do. The fronts can be sold as a set, but can just as easily be gotten individually. I actually purchased a 26T chainring in the front for something like $10. For chainrings you will need to know the diameter (in millimeters) of an imaginary circle that would pass through all the bolts that hold the ring on and also the number of bolts that hold it on. Often there is one diameter that holds that smallest ring and another that holds the two larger ones. In the rear, you don't need to know the diameter, just the number of gears. Cassettes are often sold as a group and the two big names are SRAM and Shimano and for 9 speeds they are compatible with each other. At the small end of the cassette, your current setup is about as small as you will find (11T), but if you are wanting more climbing ability they make big cogs up to 36T (or bigger if you want custom). There is currently an option to go with 10 speeds but that will require replacing your entire drivetrain, not a cheap option. Before you go replacing the chainrings, try the cassette first and see if that resolves you skipping issue. 

1) As in Scotland, I would recommend you to look for a second-hand bike (possibly gumtree is a good place to start with, bear in mind that you need to check and make sure the bike is not stolen). The reason is that in the winter, all the salt on the roads will corrode your bike badly.So go cheap, then keep it as winter bike, then upgrade gradually. Cyclocross would be your choice if you are planning to cycling offroad and over glens. If you are just going to stick along the coast, a road bike would be enough (and pretty fast too, so you can go to Stonehaven, Montrose, even up to Inverness). 2) A road bike as for starter (second hand) is around £100-150 (Carrera Virtuoso for example, I got one for £110, model 2012) A cyclocross for starter (second hand) is around £150-200. The higher price reflects that not many people in Scotland buy/own cyclocross (I have yet to see one cyclocross bike in Dundee). A little search around Aberdeen shows Carrera Crixus selling at around £200. 3) 700c wheel of course :-) 26" will be like a toddler-bike for you Your height is not telling much, but if you are an average guy, 1.82 m would need a 22" (L or 54-56cm), between 21" and 22" also ok-ish. Having said, I'm 1.73 but I need a slightly larger one comparing to my height (20.5" or 52-54 cm), because my back is quiet short, relatively to my legs. 

I mostly mountain bike (or maybe mountain crash) and one thing I always try and remember is to NOT stick my arm out to break my fall. Many a friend has snapped a collar bone doing that. I often end up almost balling up, and while it is more out of fear of impending doom than any thought of protection I have been pretty lucky so far. She can also wear long sleeve wicking shirts and tights, would give some protection from road rash and also help with sunburns. 

Make sure the tension is low at first (should be a little screwn on face of pedal). Generally you will get to a point of looseness where you are popping out unintentionally, go just tigher than that. Cleat placement also can be a factor. The closer to the toe it is, the easier it tends to be to get out. Be careful about moving too far from the balls of your feet, it could end up with achy toes! Lastly, see if the sole of your shoe is interferring with the pedal. If it is dragging, you can get little spacers that go between sole and cleat. Don't worry about damaging the cleat, you will do more walking around on concrete. Also, you will probably fall at least once while getting used to them. It is almost a rite of passage. 

Upstairs: as Criggie has suggested, carrying on your left (non-drive side to your body) would be cleaner (although my pants are usually black and my bike has a chain guard so I have no problem). I would like to note that if you choose this option, take care not to dirty your sleeve. Holding the seat tube is a little bit awkward, you could try to hold the crank and see if it fits your style. You can also use the other hand, holding the chainstay, to guide/stabilize the bike 

It is possible. For 250W motor, without any limit, I can go 20 kph on a 8% grade hill. But that will burn your battery and motor, so please be careful about the discharging current limit if you are planning to DIY deep into the software/hardware. Most Chinese brand can be reprogrammed easily with a usb cable to the controller. On flat, I can go 36kph, which is 8 kph less than the rated speed of the unloaded motor. Most 250W motor can withstand 350W for a short time, but mind you, while going uphill in warm weather (~24oC), it can burn your motor easily if you do not assist the motor and let it run at ridiculously low RPM (less than 10 kph is bad for motor). Battery: DO NOT go backwards to Lead-Acid Battery. It has ridiculously long charging time, shorter cycle life, and 4xheavier than LiPO4 (2.5 kg as opposed to 10kg, and you do not want 10kg of Lead and Acid with you around). So again, NEVER think about using LeadAcid battery for your sake. The money you save does not worth the hassle you have to go through, even if you are broke and homeless... Motor: consider gear Hub motor, as they are lighter. You have cantilever brake and that's another reason to get your bike as light as possible. You can get a good Geared hub motor for £250 which weighs 2.1-2.4 kg. Controller and Wiring: get some waterproof wiring/plugs and controller so that you do not have to worry about cycling in the rain P.S In all honesty, I would sell the carbon fork to get better components for e-bike, then buy a cheap alloy fork (maybe 300g heavier, but with better e-bike components, you can save 2-3 kg of weight in the end)