Historically, there were western European settlements only accessible from the sea. You had a wilderness trek to get there by land, and medievals mostly hated wilderness. The forest will get pushed back as it is used for lumber (boatyards), firewood, and fields to grow food. 

If there isn't a lot of water, you will not have a city. You will have a fortified caravanserai with wells inside the walls, mostly empty space for the travelers with the necessary number of guards and a director. They may use the roofs to grow feed for the animals. You will need these spaced about one day's travel apart. The animals you describe are implausible for deserts. Desert animals are lean and lanky to lose excess heat easily, with enough hair to stave off sunburn but not so much as to make them hot. Consider the difference between the Arctic fox and the desert fox, or between the Bactrian (cold weather) and dromedary (hot desert) camel. Also, anything very gigantic is going to find it impossible to traverse ergs (sand dune areas): it will sink right in when it tries to climb. It would be restricted to rocky desert areas. Look at the oasis cities of the Garamantes as your models: they were a culture in the middle of the Sahara. But each one needed the springs of an oasis to exist. Large predators are normally very rare in desert conditions. There isn't enough large prey to support them. "Desert wolves" are normally semi-desert wolves that live on antelope and wild asses that live on the scrub. They would have no reason to risk their lives going into the true desert unless they got the timetable on when caravans were coming through and knew they could probably score a meal. If they normally go after migrating herds, you have an excuse for them being there. Now, about city layout. Most people have a funny idea that a medieval walled city is like a neolithic walled village: houses packed cheek to jowl and the tiniest possible wall around it. Not so. The problem is that most people are thinking of the 19th C remains of 12th C cities. Land was so valuable that everything was overbuilt. Back in the day, city walls were built as large as possible, and buildings clustered along the streets leading from the gates to the city center. Back from there, houses had gardens, and there was wasteland along the walls for riding academies, dairy farms, and stonecutters. There were orchards inside cities. Under these circumstances, there will have to be enough land allotted per person to support them with a garden (yes, rich people buy land and get bigger, but maybe allocation isn't capitalistic)(in which case, rich people pay the poor ones to do the weeding). Meat sources are likely to be birds with clipped wings (chickens, pigeons), small mammals (guinea pigs, rabbits), and omnivores that can eat the trash (pigs). Pigs may be branded then let loose to be the street cleaners. This was normal in Colonial America. People may brand their date palms. Simply, you have to make living here a paying proposition for the inhabitants, or they will move somewhere else. Plausibly, they don't stay somewhere because an author tells them to. You have to give them a means to scrabble through and a reason to put up with the hardship. 

Humans, animals and various devices only have 2D vision: that is, we see a 2D projection of light reflected from various 3D objects in the direction of our eyes (and processed by our brains). I would like to describe a 3D vision, but without being fancy 5+ dimensional beings. Questions are both: how can it be realized and how would it feel to have such a vision? I want to keep all the limitations of our usual vision: finite resolution (amount of pixels), finite field of vision (area and distance), finite time resolution, finite spectrum and spectral resolution, etc. Of course I don't want to keep is to rely on electromagnetic spectrum alone. Better have a combination of scanning instruments, including various elementary particles. 1) One way is to have a million nanorobots (or organic analogue) with sensors floating in space and communicating with each other / some external processing device. If they are tiny enough they can even 'see' inside living tissue or some porous materials. The processing needed to 'comprehend' such image in real time is enormous though. And also, it will not be a higher-dimensional analogue to our vision, because we won't be able to 'turn our head' and see another 3D projection of a 4D object, we'd be more like a right hand circle in this 2D space: 

Question: In a modern setting with total population about the same size and the same level of technology/medicine, how would the three groups coexist realistically? We assume that around Middle Ages everyone knew about magic, or at least suspected. 

Specifics: the magical ability is genetic, very rare (about one in ten thousand people will be born with it), and no mage can be too strong (no destroying mountains, drying lakes etc.). Also, the nature of magical spells is fundamentally different from any technology or natural phenomena (i.e. laser beams or lightning), even if the effects can be similar. In other words, think Harry Potter kind of magic (not literally, but close enough). But there is a third group of people, who have a genetic ability to resist any magical effect (be it physical or mental). Their numbers are approximately the same as for people with magic. In other aspects, they are normal, with no special abilities. Let's call the groups mundanes, mages and insulars (the third group). Some of the effects: 

3) Satellites: easy to fool with an image perpetuated from just before the attack. Project it above the site so the satellites perceive it as the actual surface. Only has to last 24-48 hours. They may want to spend 24 hours hovering to take a full noon-to-noon cycle to cover the night changes in artificial lighting. 2) Choice of country can make all the difference. The more wired the country, the more mobile the population, the more outsiders will notice the lack of Facebook updates or be more likely to drive to through. It has to be off regular rail or air service, only a weekly or biweekly at best. Of course, villages are easier. But I think you want the largest place they can get away with, right? Otherwise they could avoid destructions and set up in the middle of uninhabited nowhere at leisure. So what are the human facilities they need out of the village/town that they can't get at some deserted lake in northern Canada? How is a rural village in Nigeria or a small town in the Philippines any better? 1) Timing is critical. If it's a ski resort, don't hit on a February weekend. Look for when it is most deserted, with the fewest outsiders coming in. Not on a convention weekend. Major cities and capitals are off the list. I'm seeing a seaside resort in off season, still cold if not snowy, and a major storm (blizzard, sleet, rain) may have knocked out communications normally in the area. This question is going to take people from all over piling on with their suggestions of a good town in their area that suits the shopping list. This could probably be best as a separate question: this is my set-up; what towns in your knowledge would you suggest? Otherwise, you get to invent a place. Some small towns get most of their traffic on weekends, with the weeks isolated. Some act as bedroom communities, with lots of commuting on the weekdays but people stay home and mow the lawns on the weekend. Do you have a positive or negative preference in continents or countries for the setting? Like, you just don't think you can handle the cultural differences of setting this in the USA or Mongolia or wherever? Obviously, this target must be within fleeing distance of the second town where the survivor goes. On foot, maybe thirty miles in two days (assuming he isn't an ultra-marathoner). On horse, maybe seventy miles if he got a good one. On bicycle? Moped? Motorcycle? What will he find to use? 

2) On the other hand a complete analogue the vision I want would be a usual 3D being seeing in 2D space: 

In the end, I would like some help in fleshing out both options 1) and 2), possible ways to desribe them, and related problems and maybe some references to similar ideas? There's a similar question here Would a 4-dimensional being be able to see inside other people? and one of the answers describes something similar to what I want $URL$ but all of it is not science based. 

(!) Important! The only thing I'm handwaiving is the tracks construction. Let's say we somehow managed to do it, despite the mountains, bodies of water, etc. Maybe under the surface, but I won't elaborate further. 

As a way to travel fast, my Earth-like planet is going to have a special train, circling it (the axis of the 'tracks' is aligned with the planet's axis of rotation). The thing about this train - it never stops and it doesn't end - there is no first or last car, they are all joined in a circle. Moreover, it's actually several trains, going parallel to each other. The first one travels at the speed of 5 km/h, such that any healthy person can get on it. Then the second train travels at 10 km/h, and they are close enough so it's no trouble to step from one to another. The next travels at 15 km/h, the next at 20 km/h, etc. I think about 200 trains should be enough to provide the means of fast travel around the planet. Of course, there is the matter of travelling to and from the tracks. As for the 'other side of tracks, we just need a second set of slower and slower trains. The problems with this concept: 

In this image purple lines is what the blue ball sees: projection of a 2D space at different moments in time. Since I don't want extra dimensional beings, let's say we are all 4D (including time) and go from there. Now it's much more complicated to realise, since 'turning our head' we'd be able to see a projection of 3D space existing at several moments of time simultaneously in the past and in the future. I can't even begin to imagine how it would feel and how it could be processed.