Weapons Also, just to make this answer complete, I agree with the other answers about using aluminum as a weapon material. That would not work well because being soft makes it not hold an edge, and bending on impact is bad for a weapon for the same reason it is good for a set of armor, it spreads out the force of the impact. Additionally, if you are trying to cut someone else wearing iron or steel armor, your aluminum weapon won't be able to penetrate it at all. 

Large Jumps? A person of normal bodily strength on mars should be able to jump a lot higher than on earth, lift heavier things, leap further. If you design the base without stairs or use some other design that forces them to do these things regularly then your people could maintain normal fitness by leaping around and hanging to the ceiling. Alternatively you can make a parabolic floor and rotate it so that real and centrifugal gravity combine. 

I've been playing a lot of Deserts of Kharak lately, and I am wondering if landships depicted in game, which are essentially seagoing ships on tracks, would work in a Snowball Earth scenario. By Snowball Earth, I am using the classic Snowball Earth scenario, where all of the oceans are frozen, and the equatorial regions have temperatures of around modern-day Antarctica. So would landships be a preferred method of transporting bulk cargo from one place to another in a snowball earth, say, compared to airlift? What challenges might a landship that runs on tracks or wheels might face on the glaciers other than structural issues of building such a titanic vehicle in the first place? 

How Long? There have been many questions about how long humans can survive under various conditions. These range from the atmosphere being removed to an increase in gravity. However this question is asking how long humans can survive from now as the world is. Some definitions. Humanity is granted a bit of luck in surviving as long as possible without any implausible or contrived coincidences. At least one creature that is biologically human must exist. (Closer to humans than Neanderthals are) Consider Evolution, Genetic upgrading and Apocalyptic events. Humans are not expected to instantly see the error of their ways and unite in common harmony. EDIT Current earth is the starting condition. Humans are still evolving and progress towards genetic modification and artificial intelligence is very fast. 

One point that hasn't yet been covered by the other answers is that it is quite possible to show someone that you have complex speech capabilities without actually sharing a language. I don't speak Chinese, but when I hear Chinese spoken, I can tell that there is meaning and structure there compared to when a dog barks or an ape using various grunting noises to communicate. Similarly, we can tell that there is some meaning and syntax among the "languages" of other intelligent animals like dolphins, and we have put quite a lot of work into establishing communication with these species even though we don't expect them to ever learn English. The advanced ape species may not realize that your speech is as advanced as theirs, but I suspect that just by speaking to them in your native language you could convince them that you are intelligent. If you coupled that with writing things in the dirt or on the wall, you may really pique their interest. That would get you past the issue of them thinking you are just imitating their speech like a parrot. If you could catch the interest of one of their zoologists, then you could work more closely with them to teach each other your languages, which would greatly increase the speed at which you learned. 

NO The Alien race starts out as a planetary civilization, with tech similar to ours, they expand and develop better tech all round, build space elevators, orbital habitats, mine asteroids. With a population in the trillions, and vast swaths of space solar panels to produce antimatter, the aliens launch their first interstellar probe, its a small flyby mission. Populations expand further, tech booms, artificial intelligences controlling robots produce almost everything, nanotech lets most things be created atom by atom. Probes reveal intelligence on earth. To get any humans, the aliens would need to build a spaceship capable of supporting humans for many years, and making a return journey at relativistic speeds. They would have to work out what humans eat and breathe, enough biology and medicine to keep the humans alive over the many year journey, decode human language,build a huge spaceship, stop the earth being fried from the exhaust, (actual problem) and stop the human from going mad with boredom, killing themselves or damaging something important. And in just 60 years from the start of the project they have a human, after a huge civilization wide effort. Now you have to train the human to do the vitally important task while not giving them the tools to rebel or damage anything important, given that they have no understanding of your tech or culture and probably wish you dead. Even if you managed to abduct much of humanity, what use would they be? Your toddlers have a far better understanding of your world and culture, they need to be kept in a different atmosphere than you, and your advanced robots do all the work anyway. The aliens outnumber humans nearly 1,000,000 to 1 at this point so humans aren't abundant enough to be cheap labor. 

We, the Hrimfaxi, an extensive interstellar empire, are invading the Earth! However, these pesky humans have proved themselves to be extremely good at pouring out dakka and making things go kaboom. Despite the technological advantages the we had during the first days of the invasion, they seemed to be adapting and dragging the ground war on and on. So why shouldn't I, the commander of the invasion just claim Earth a lost cause and declare Exterminatus? After all, Earth is just one small planet in the entire galaxy. Invading Forces: My space forces consists of a rather small flotilla of space ships armed with weapons on the equivalent of Earth's strategic nuclear weapons, enough to make Reagan and Gorbachev blush. I have a small shipyard in the solar system so I can procure more as I needed. My soldiers, on the other hand, are cloned, mindless drones, controlled by me through a psychic chain of command. Commanders like me have free will, while sub-commanders further down the chain have decreasing levels of free will. They are organized fairly conventionally: infantry, armor, artillery, air force, etc. I have cloning tanks at my disposal to replenish losses. Operational Objectives Standard expansion of Hrimfaxi sphere of influence and adding humans to the collective psychic network of Hrimfaxi systems. Secondary objectives include cataloging the genetic properties of life on earth, with is largely complete through abductions. The reasons are so buried underneath bureaucracy, ancient history, and indoctrination that most Hrimfaxi don't even know why they are invading other worlds other than they must or their superiors will have them executed. In fact, it is highly debatable if the higher spheres of the bureaucracy psychic network can be even fathomed under the mindset of an individual being. 

No this evil would not work The reason is quite simple. There is no clear way to kill off that many people in a controllable, unavoidable manner. Nukes kill those in the city that was nuked and damage everything. Poison gases have much the same effect of random death and environmental destruction but damage machinery less. Super diseases are indiscriminate, beyond our current technology, and can be avoided with hygiene precautions. ( and some people will be immune) Billions of drones can be shot down and will run out of power. The weapons will be stopped by thick concrete or rock. They are ineffective in caves and forests. None of these options and no others I can think of remotely fit your specifications. Nor could they be planned without people noticing. The plan can't be kept secrete until it is too late. Therefore there will exist security agencies that know about this. The result is an all out war against the planners in which both sides suffer and the planners are outnumbered 9 to 1. ( If the planners are that organized and hard to stop. They sound like a bunch of nutters with no hope of doing any damage. ) 

In a world where torch ships sometimes will accelerate over 10Gs for hours, maybe sometimes days on end. Is there any way to keep the crew alive and preferably fully functional in during such harsh maneuvering, or do we have to result to handwaves such as "inertial dampening" or human augmentation? 

I am making the assumption that the AI allied with the defenders is a "strong" AI, and does not have any qualms about killing humans. A machine shop may very well churn out firearms, but you will need ammunition to feed them. Making a lot of AKs or Sten Guns definitely would be possible, assuming somehow they can get ammunition for them. Even if they lack ready ammunition, other weapons can be built to rapidly arm people. Because of the machine shop is in the town, machine out a very good spring and mount it to a stock and you have a cross bow, and other close-combat weapons can also be easily fabricated. Since this is a infrastructure development project, there is bound to be a lot of petrochemicals laying around. Hook a tank of combustible liquid or gas to a pressurized gas tank and you have yourself a flame thrower. Even better, if the AI has the proper formulae stored, explosives definitely would be a good option. A well-planted field of various mines and booby traps can hold up the attackers for quite some time. If the situation becomes desperate enough, you may consider synthesizing chemical weapons from the available raw stocks. Quite a few lethal and weaponizable chemicals can be produced from relatively simple ingredients, although this is not a recommended option, because of political backslash and the need to limit fratricide and collateral damage. Because the locals are untrained, I would rather not trust the battles to them. You have an AI, after all. If it is possible to manufacture electronics, I would recommend building and programming combat drones, slaved to the AI, to take out the attackers and gather intelligence. They can be as simple as quadcopters with a bomb strapped to it, or can be scaled up to remotely-piloted tankettes or AI-directed gun turrets. They can serve a further psychological blow to the sub-Saharan warlord, who may not be used to fighting unmanned combat systems. Even outside the battlefield, the AI could shine. Assuming the AI has sufficiently powerful backers, the AI can simply phone home to request things like satellite footage, or rally political sentiments to the defender's favor, which may allow further aid from outside. All and all, since the defenders have an AI on their side, they might as well as put it to good use. It is the age of information warfare, after all, and the AI is probably much more suited to modern war than the army of the warlord.