(Full disclosure - I am a very senior data analyst.) Data analysts are developers too. Start treating them with the same respect you would give another developer working on an application related to yours. That is what they are. Of course they should make suggestions. Of course you should be free to do your own fix. You know things they don't about the application, but they know things you don't about how the data is used outside your application. Work together for solutions that fit the needs of both groups. If they are frequently making suggestions, it means that your solutions have probably frequently been causing problems for them. You need to hear more about why the solutions you have don't work for them and listen to their suggestions seriously and try for a middle ground solution that gives both groups what they need. If the suggestions has something to with the structure of the database (including things like constraints, Foriegn keys, table structures) then they are the experts and you should listen very carefully. Sometimes things that make life more inconvenient for you will drastically improve the quality of the data which is very important to the people who have to write reports and data exports for the clients. It's pretty embarrasing to explain to the client why you have duplicate records for instance because the application developers didn't put any controls on data entry. When the data is used for regulatory reasons, it can go beyond embarrassing into the realm of serious legal trouble for the organization. I have often seen developers design for the short term considering only what will be fastest and easiest for me. When accessing data, that is a losing strategy because bad data or bad database performance is far more critical. Often application developers don't see the real performance and data problems because they don't have to pull reports with thousands of records. They don't have to explain poor data to the client. What seems a good solution when only looking at entering one record at a time or pulling the 15 records you want to show on a screen is not a good solution to the people who have to consume the who data set later on. So listen to the suggestions and treat them seriously. If an application developer on a another project made a suggestion because your product affects his, wouldn't you take it seriously? Would you resent having a conversation with him to explain why that won't work or to expore other possibilities. Data analysts deserve the same treatment. 

The reason why it is important to be proactive is to stay employed and to not end up being treated like a child. If you are not proactive, it would be a rare company that considered you for a promotion as well. People who are not proactive rarely get the best assignments either, they get the work no one else wants to do. Managers don't want to waste their time treating someone like a recalcitrant 5-year old. Far better to let that person go and hire someone who is not going to make your life as a manager more difficult. It is always part of your job to make your manager look good. When you are reactive instead of proactive, you make him or her look bad or you consume more of his or her time than necessary and thus do not allow him the time to do more important tasks. This tends to make managers cranky and, well, why keep someone who is causing you to have to do more work? You can get away with this when you are trainee or if you work a minimum wage jobs where you aren't expected to think, but if you have more than 2 years experience in a professional field then you need to start being proactive or you will be stuck in an endless series of bad jobs. The interesting and challenging professional jobs require a person to be proactive. The boring ones where you work for a micro-manager do not. Perhaps you don't want to do anything at work other than obey a manager. If so, you are likely in the wrong profession. I had a subordinate who used to drive everyone crazy because she would follow instructions to the letter. That meant if you didn't actually say to her to let someone know when she finished a task, she would not. Everyone in the organization hated working with her. She hated working for me because I wouldn't let her get away with that behavior and I specified to the tiniest detail what I needed. I got four times as much work out of her as anybody else, but we both hated every minute and I was happy to pass her along to someone else as soon as humanly possible. No decent manager I have ever worked for or with wanted an employee who is passive. So when they find out that you are they take steps to move the problem to another manager or company. It was a shame because she was a bright capable person capable of doing so much more (the work she actually did was excellent in quality) and she did herself in with her attitude. She was never considered for any good assignments, she was never promoted, she was frequently called into the big boss's office for performance discussions. She managed to stay exactly on the line of the performance that would not allow us to fire her (there are more rules for this in most government agencies) but she would have been fired from most corporate jobs. This is basically the path you are on. Your job is much more than technical. Technical skill accounts for only around 30-40% of your success at work. All jobs require some level of interaction with your boss and coworkers and most professional jobs require some level of personal initiative. If you are quiet and reserved, too bad so sad, but that is irrelevant. You still need to gain these skills to be successful at work. Every quiet and reserved person I know has managed to get those skills and you can too if you try. If you don't want to try, then you will have a very unfulfilling career and probably get let go multiple times until it becomes harder and harder to find a new job. 

If things are already at the point where they are considering firing you, it is very unlikely that you can salvage the situation. Companies need to protect their own reputations and if they feel that association with you is damaging to them, they will fire you. The best you can do is apologize publicly to the person or group who were innsulted and if possible remove the offensive content. And not a non-apology either (I am sorry if you were offended) but a real one that acknowledges that what you said was wrong. There is nothing new about this although the opportunities to do something publicly offensive have certainly increased. But people have bee fired in the past for offensive letters to the Editor of the newspaper or for participating in certain types of protests, etc. If you embarass your employer, you are likely to be fired. It really is as simple as that.