There are so many options for this I can't list them all, here are a few good ones. Mission Workshop has very refined and expensive bags, very full featured multi purpose bags. Rickshaw Bagworks has several commuter bags you may want to check out. Chrome Bags has lots of laptop bags in addition to their standard messenger bags. 

Ride with GPS app is one of my favorites. $URL$ You can use the website to create routes, and the app to follow them. It's the best route creation and editing solution I've found. It also integrates with Wahoo Elemnt and Wahoo RFLKT+ computers. It also allows you to record a ride whether you are following a route or not. It will try to add photos to your ride record if you take them with your phone during the ride. The website will also let you export as .gpx or .tcx with turn-by-turn prompts and cues. 

Look on your tire for the proper size. Different tire sizes change the overall diameter of the wheel and amount of distance traveled per revolution of your wheel. 

There is a lot of advice out there to use chamois cream on long rides to prevent sores and chafing. How are you supposed to apply it? In particular I'm curious about the following: 

Google Maps for iPhone now has bike layer support and bike-specific navigation starting with update on July 16, 2013, version 2.0 

You can find 27x1 1/8 tires pretty readily. You may want to try that smaller size. The height of the tires can vary a bit by the manufacturer. 

Can I use friction shifters with a clutch style rear derailleur like the 2014 Shimano Deore M615 Shadow Plus? Or does this put extra tension on the shift cable that will cause slips with a friction setup? 

There are generally two big specialties for pumps. High Pressure (HP) or High Volume (HV). I ride Fat bikes, mountain bikes and road bikes, so I'm confused about buying a new pump to carry while on rides and whether I could find one pump to rule them all? I know there are good pumps that do high pressure and others that do high volume. However, there are several that claim to be switchable between HP or HV. How effective is this? Will it be as effective as a dedicated HV pump on my fat bike tires? Will it also be able to put 110 lbs of pressure in my road bike tires as efficiently as a HP pump? Or are these a compromise that kind of works, but less than a purpose made HV or HP pump? Examples of switchable pumps: Giant Control Mini Combo Pump Blackburn Mammoth Mini Pump Raleigh RMJ604 2 Stage Switchable Pump 

Most of the noise comes from pawls on the freewheel hitting against the splines on the engagment surfaces which makes up the racheting unit. Some reasons for the noise between freewheels? Tension on pawls could be higher causing more noise as they glide over the engagment surfaces High end freewheels have more pawls and engagement points than lower end freewheels, so there are more ridges in the engagement surface and more pawls hitting the splines on the engagement surface. The reason this is desirable is that more pawls and engagement points means faster engagement when you start pedaling. Different grease (or less grease) could also be used inside higher end freewheels that is less viscous and provides less resistance, allowing the spring action of the pawls to cause more noise as they float over the the splines on the engagement surface since they are less restricted by the grease. Of course there are exceptions to these. Some hubs don't use your standard racheting mechanism and use a 'roller clutch' instead. The roller clutches tend to be very quiet, but are more prone to failure.Here's a good description of how those work. $URL$ 

I have an older velocity wheelset with their standard 9-speed road hubs. Can I convert these hubs (particularly the rear hub) to bolt on? 

Play bike polo, you'll get really good at using one hand after a while. You can also hold yourself up with your mallet while you figure it out. 

If I replaced the fork on my cyclocross bike, surly cross check, with a track fork, what would be the effect on the bike geometry? What would be the effect of the modified geometry on bike handling. I'm assuming the track fork will be a bit shorter and with less offset than the current fork. The crosscheck typically has a 400mm long fork with 44mm offset. I considered swapping it with a surly steamroller fork which has a 375mm axle to crown measurement and 38mm offset Or a Milwalkee bruiser fork, which is the same length 400mm with 32mm offset, which would give me a trail at about 75mm on 32mm tires. 

So, I tend to run 700x23c or 700x25c tires on my commuter bike. Sometimes I'm lazy and forget to check the air pressure and inevitably get a pinch flat when I hit some stationary object, pothole, or big curb. When I get a snakebike type of pinch flat (2 holes somewhat separated, usually on opposite sides of a ridge in the tube, I find it hard to patch. Either I use a small patch without having the small patch only extend past the holes 1mm or 2mm and usually placed over the ridge/seam in the tube, or I use a large patch which is really hard to apply since it is wider than the tube (making it hard to apply glue and appropriate pressure to patch when gluing) but provides coverage for both holes at once. Park tool GP-2 glueless patches seem to work ok for this situation since they can easily be overlapped without issue. However, I hear anecdotal evidence that they are not as durable as patches used with vulcanizing fluid. What is the preferred way to patch these type of tricky flats? 

It's been fluctating in temperature between 0F and 20F in my area. I've been riding my 1x9 geared mountain bike to and from work. However, due to the cold weather, I'm having issues shifting. It seems that I can typically shift in to an larger cog, but my derailleur is unresponsive when I shift to a smaller cog. I think this is because when shifting to a larger cog, the cable is pulled by the shifter, however for the smaller cog, the derailleur would be moved back by spring pressure and due to the cold conditions, it's not strong enough to fight the frozen gunk. What can I do to keep my bike shifting in the cold? 

Extended battery life is very neccesary for using the device on long brevets and multi-day endurance racing. Can Garmin Edge cycling GPS units 500/510 and 800/810 be charged while riding via external battery pack like or USB dynamo charger? Can you plug in while riding? Are only certain devices able to charge the unit while it's recording / navigating? 

Zip tie + Binder Clip on Stem clamping to a 1 Gallon Ziplock Plastic bag with properly folded map inside. Alternatively, if that's not secure enough, use 2 binder clips + zip ties on the handlebars. I found a similar DIY setup using velcro wire ties $URL$ via Oaklahoma bicycle Society 

I want to use my front derailleur which is a tiagra on a 3x10 speed setup with a compact double crankset making it a 2x10 setup. What is the proper procedure for setting up the triple chainring front derailleur as a 2x10 setup compared to setting up a standard double chainring setup? Will I be able to use limit screws to set limits properly for top and bottom ranges? 

I'm planning to purchase a supernova infinity-8 dynamo hub and wanted to use this during daylight hours to charge my Phone and GPS during bike tours. What products are available that will work with hub dynamos to charge iphone and Garmin GPS units? 

I have a pair of shimano m520 pedals which were damaged in an accident. The springs rotated past the tension bolt and now the back section, usually under tension, now hangs free. How can I re-assemble the pedal and get the springs back under the tension screw? It seems very difficult since the springs need to be held under tension to get the plate back on top of the springs. Is this possible with home tools? Here's a link to an assembly diagram: $URL$ 

Before you consider replacing your chain, make sure you actually need to. If it's not rusty, feeling stiff, or making noise then use a tool to check the wear of your chain like this park tool one. If it's not worn past the .5% mark then I would keep using it, if it's past the .75% mark then definitely replace it, but you can use your own judgement if it is somewhere between. You can probably have them do a quick check for free if you stop by any LBS (and then you can buy a new chain if you need one). Keep your chain clean and your drivetrain lubricated and you should get quite a lot of life out of a single chain. 

Here are a few apps that should be able to use open street map and record GPS tracks: Simple OSM $URL$ GPX Travel Map $URL$ Navi Computer $URL$ Try searching the app store for 'OpenStreetMap' and there are many other options. 

I use Oury Mountain Grips on my mountain bike and my city bike. They have a cheaper slide on version (about $10-12 USD) and a lock on version ($ about $30 USD) which I prefer. The lock on version avoids the 'slippy grip' issues you sometimes have when water eeks under the edge of the grip and it slips on the bars. These grips are smooth and cushy enough to wear without gloves and are good and sticky when used with gloves. 

I'm not a pro, just a CAT 4 racer with a USA Cycling License. Can I be suspended and fined by UCI / USAC if I participate in non-sanctioned races? I've heard they are cracking down on licensed pros racing in non-sanctioned races, but does this apply to everyone? What is the likelyhood of that actually happening? UCI 1.2.019 rule states “No license holder may participate in an event that has not been included on a national, continental or world calendar or that has not been recognized by a national federation, a continental confederation or the UCI. Breaches of articles 1.2.019 or 1.2.020 shall render the license holder liable to one month’s suspension and a fine of 50 to 100 Swiss francs.”