The route travels from Anchorage to Nome. It stops in Ophir, a true “ghost town” with a population of zero. Then it splits off into the Northern Route and the Southern Route, meeting back up together at Kaltag. The current route, after Anchorage, travels through checkpoints in Campbell Airstrip, Willow, Knik, Yentna Station, Skwentna, Finger Lake, Rainy Pass (Puntilla), Rohn Roadhouse, Nikolai, McGrath, and Takotna, after which it arrives in Ophir. After Ophir, the Northern Route stops at checkpoints in Cripple, Ruby, Galena and Nulato before getting to Kaltag. The Southern Route, after Ophir, stops in Iditarod, Shageluk, Anvik, Grayling and Eagle Island, and then gets to Kaltag. After Kaltag the mushers and their sled dogs stop at Unalakleet, Shaktoolik, Koyuk, Elim, Golovin, White Mountain, Safety, and, finally, Nome. This is the official route map. A list of checkpoints and distances between them can be found here. 

I've read that there are up to 200 species of owls, encompassing many sizes, shapes and colors. What's the smallest of all the owls? I'd like the name and some information about its characteristics, behavior, and habitat location. 

Clothing: Alpaca is more expensive than wool, but if you're going to choose a wool, merino seems to be the best of the bunch. If you can afford cashmere, mohair, or Alpaca wool long johns, go for it. Otherwise, Merino wool is the best of the sheep wools. Next to our skin, it is soft, stretchy, supple, and comfy. Source Pretty much all of the major sites sell alpaca socks (often a blend with merino), hats, scarves, mittens, and things of that nature, and some sell sweaters. One of the many I liked (no affiliation) is Alpacas of Montana. 

A few different types of seals (Pinnipeds) are common in Cape Cod, Massachusetts. Some live and breed there year-round. Others migrate through on their way elsewhere. We're planning a trip to the Cape specifically for the purpose of seal watching. We'd probably be in the area for about two days. What location or locations, and what time of year, should we choose, in order to get the most sightings? 

I hope you check one out! Similar birdbaths are sold by many retailers, but we purchased ours here. We have no affiliation with them. We've just used them before and have been very happy with their service. I apologize for the blurry pictures. They were taken with a small phone while the birds were moving! 

I know a family, one of whom is blind. Another uses a wheelchair, though not all the time. They all love nature and spending time outdoors with trees and animals. They're thinking about doing some traveling around the northeast region of the United States, including coming to see me in Massachusetts. While many areas are available to people in wheelchairs, they haven't really found anything for the blind woman. I'd like to be able to offer them some options that would be fun for the whole family, and some for my blind friend to walk alone. What are some ideas of excursions that would meet their needs? 

That vocalization is called a perch call, or perch coo. It's only made by a male mourning dove, and the only time he uses it is when he's looking for a mate. As @cr0 and @That Idiot have seen, the dove will make that plaintive sound where you can see him, although it's not that common. Even if he's visible, you usually don't know he's the one calling out. His mouth opens just a tiny bit and very quickly. The lungs fill and puff up, and the chest pumps out the rest of the sound. The bird waits between 10 and 15 seconds and does it again. 

I recently heard that Eastern grey squirrels sometimes dig holes, pretend to bury nuts, or other food, and then cover the empty holes. I was told that they use all the same motions and effort as they would if actually burying a nut for future consumption. Sometimes they even have a nut in their mouth, and at some point during the process, they store it deep into their cheek, so squirrels watching them assume their mouth is empty. The purpose is to deceive those onlooking squirrels, or to lead squirrels who arrive later on a wild goose chase, searching for stashed food to steal where there isn't any. This sounds like either sophisticated behavior, or a fun story. Do squirrels actually pretend to bury food? If so, is there any scientific evidence that it works? 

A naturalist site run by the California Academy of Science, describes the Paraconcavus pacificus, pretty much the same way. The following section underscores its propensity for sand dollars. 

According to that same source, they can tolerate heat as high as 108°F (42°C), using other mechanisms, including certain tail movements, to cool down when necessary. Even when they're old enough to live on their own, for a period of weeks the mother still spends some time with them and shares her body heat. If they become separated from her, or are still acclimating, they may actively seek out a source to raise their body temperature. That's what we were told when we brought ours to the Wildlife Clinic of the Cummings Veterinary Medical Center, a world-renowned leader in the field of wildlife research and care. Because we, and they, were concerned for his safety, we left him overnight so they could run tests, but they said he was totally healthy. They told us to bring him back to the area where we had found him. Either his mom would find him, or, if he was in the process of figuring out how to live outside the nest, he'd probably be fine. We followed the instructions and he stayed in our yard for two years, after which we moved away. 

The most common mistakes made by people in hippopotamus, Hippopotamus amphibius, territory in Africa include: 

Your hiking range of about 11,000 feet makes sense. Its altitudinal range is 1,220–3,660 m (4,000–12,010 ft) above sea level. Source Another thing that makes me feel fairly confident in this identification is the outside temperature of 40°. Also, that you saw it at night, as it's generally nocturnal. 

My husband frequently walks at the Wachusett Reservoir, which spans a few towns in central Massachusetts. This past Sunday he was on his usual path, and saw something floating in the water which he hadn't seen before. It's a square (or perhaps a rectangle, it was hard to tell) structure built on logs which are notched a foot or so in from the edges. From his guess, it's at least three feet per side, if not more. The floor appears to be a plastic or rubber fencing with small square holes, wrapped tightly around the area of the logs inside their junction. He couldn't tell if stretches or not. Layered over that is a very thin mesh, the material of which he couldn't identify from his vantage point. There's an arch of what looks like chicken wire rounded over the structure from one side to the opposite. It's open on both ends. About three quarters of the rounded part of the arch is covered in a dark green material. From the shore it looks like plastic, but he couldn't tell with certainty. A large section of the floor, though not the entire area, is covered with small brown twigs and piles of what look like old nesting materials. It's anchored a few feet away from the reedy-shore, but is tethered loosely so it rises and falls as the water moves. What is this called, and what's its purpose? The pictures were taken with an inexpensive camera using the zoom feature, so they may not be completely clear. He was actually on a path up a hill at least ten feet away. 

I'm curious as to the difference between an oar and a paddle. Does it have to do with shape, material, or size? Is it solely related to the type of vessel for which it's used? In other words, can you use a paddle to propel a rowboat, or an oar to propel a kayak? Is it just a matter of terminology, or something more specific? 

I have a friend who lives in Orlando, Florida. She and her husband are avid sailors and travelers. They also hunt lighthouses, and have seen over 100 different ones. They're currently on a trip from Florida up the Eastern Seaboard all the way to Nova Scotia. She's been seeing signs on some beaches in Florida and North Carolina prohibiting the use of artificial lights after 9:00 pm. This includes beach boardwalk lights, headlights, streetlights, and even house lights for people who live on the waterfront. These are mainly in areas where turtles breed. Why would these rules be in effect? 

There's a pond located at a restaurant near where we live in Massachusetts. It's always very busy because the restaurant gives out food for the ducks, geese and swans. We've been there often and recently saw some magnificent creatures for the first time. Although they resemble the other waterfowl, they're different in a number of ways. These guys are shiny, almost slick-looking. They're bigger than most of the ducks and geese. They have large chest and belly areas, and layers of wings, some very long. The larger one has a black and white spotted chest, almost like a dalmation dog, and the wings are also black and white. There's a small ring of red around the eyes, and the bill is mostly black with a red stripe. The white one is a little bit smaller, and has only a few black areas, primarily on the top of the head. It has red around the eyes, and also part of the face, and a pale pink bill. My guess is that it's a mated pair, and the more colorful one is the male, but I'm only assuming that because in many bird species the male is more colorful. They appeared to be communicating, but with body position rather than sound. In the fifteen minutes we were there, we saw them walking together, both with chests puffed out; watching each other; and mimicking behaviors, such as preening and resting. At one point, the larger one lifted itself high and spread its wings to their fullest extent. It could have been stretching, but I suspect it was something else, again perhaps a form of communication. They were never more than a few inches apart. I doubt they're native, though I can't say that for sure. It's a well-known stop along the migration route of the Canadian Snow Goose, so I imagine other things pass through which can be easily missed. We were blessed to have arrived at that auspicious moment so we could spend some time observing them. I'd appreciate an identification, along with some general information about these unique and gorgeous beasts! Unfortunately, my cell phone camera didn't really do them justice, so the pictures aren't great. Click on each one to see a larger view.