Yes! I use one and would estimate that about 50% of the long distance riders I've met also use Brooks saddles. They're not for everyone, but the custom fit (after the break-in period) can be very comfortable on long rides. They're also slightly wider than most saddles sold in bike shops, which I needed to accomodate my sit bones. 

The air we breathe is made up of 78% nitrogen (N2) and 21% oxygen (O2), with trace gases making up the rest. So the easiest comparison is between N2 and CO2. N2 is less dense than CO2 but otherwise they're very similar (to your tires) unless you somehow find yourself riding in temperatures near their liquidation points -- in which case you have bigger things to worry about. As far as pressure changes go, they should both follow the ideal gas law which states that the pressure in your tire has a direct relationship to the temperature of the gas inside it. The density of the air molecules doesn't matter, just how many there are. Whether its N2 or CO2, that relationship remains the same. So to answer your question, a 10degF change should affect the pressure of a CO2-filled tire about the same as an N2-filled tire. I'm curious about the higher density though, that would mean that a CO2-filled tire will have more rotating mass... 

The two straps that attach the Carradice bag to the saddle will need to be re-threaded and buckled up each time you remove and re-attach the bag, so it's probably not the most convenient choice for your usage. I remember seeing quick-release systems for these bags, but you'll have to check if they work for the massive Camper version. There is no actual handle either, but I suppose you could rig one up between the two straps. 

Fit is the most important thing I look for. A cycling top should fit snugly, without being skin-tight. Having less extra fabric will mean less air resistance, which makes a surprising difference at higher speeds. Also, too much excess fabric will flap in the wind, which can be annoying too. Make sure that the length in back is long enough to cover your lower back when you're riding in an aggressive position. If a long-sleeve, the sleeves need to be long enough to cover your wrists with your arms extended out front. (some normal clothing fails these two checks) One last caveat about jersey style: make sure the zipper opens far enough for you to be able to take it off after a long sweaty ride. I have one with a short zipper and it's a real struggle. For materials, there's lots of nice synthetics to choose from that are lightweight, wick away moisture and are very comfortable in hot weather. But for cool or wet conditions, nothing beats wool. 

I did this on my previous bike, and while it was a lot of fun (and I enjoyed riding the resulting bike) it was also quite expensive, almost half the cost of the bike. You should also be prepared to put in a fair amount of research to determine if all the parts will work together. Here's what's involved: 

Did you change the chain after the first derailleur broke? If the same chain was on and you're positive the derailleur didn't connect with the spokes, then the chain is a likely culprit. Another thing to watch out for is loose pannier straps (or anything else that could get caught in the chain and take out the derailleur). 

The idea is to use the torque of the saddle to break the bond between the post and the frame. You don't need to move the post much. If the post moves, then you should be able to work it loose without the hammer. If it doesn't, then worst case you've destroyed an old saddle. 

If you're using 8-speed bar end shifters with a 7-speed casette, I have an alternate solution for you. Many bar end shifters (for the rear derailleur only) can be switched from indexed mode to friction mode. That would allow you to shift smoothly without any peculiar cable routings. If your shifter does this, it will have a screw (typically with a handle) just on the left side. Unscrew it a few turns and you will notice the shifter indexing gets "softer". After about 3-5 full turns the indexing should disappear completely and the lever action becomes smooth. Instant friction shifter! (should work with any number of rear cogs) 

Carbon fiber is a very strong material, but like any material it does some things better than others. From Wikipedia: 

I've completed a handful of 400km brevets and organized one myself, but I can only speak to my experience in British Columbia (Canada) which is quite different riding than in the UK. I find the 400km to be the hardest in the basic series and have heard other randonneurs (but not all) echo this feeling, so you're wise to choose this one carefully. The biggest difference vs. the 300km is that most riders will spend a significant time of riding in the dark. This depends on rider speed and time of year but it's not unusual to spend at least 100km in darkness. Riding at night adds many additional challenges, including colder temperatures, sleep deprivation, difficulty navigating (signs are very easy to miss, landmarks disappear) and trouble finding fueling stops open at such a late hour. That last point is important because calorie intake is critical on a 400km -- you can skimp on a 200km and even a 300km and still finish, but when you're cold and tired and sleep deprived after 20 hours on the bike, bonking comes very easily. So as a new rider, I'd suggest looking for a few things: 

You can guard somewhat against "out of nowhere" motorists entering from your side of the road (ie. from left in Aus) by scanning ahead and keeping a keen eye on possible entry points (streets, driveways, alleys). But traffic coming from the other side of the road -- like those hook turns -- is much harder to scan for. They fall outside of your peripheral vision and actively scanning oncoming traffic for turning cars takes attention away from closer traffic when riding on busy roads. In the end, being highly visible and in a place where traffic is expected is really your best defense. (I would keep that in mind when coming up for a solution to your 2nd & 3rd points) 

Another option is a handlebar bag. Most models have a quick-release and shoulder strap so they're easier to take with you than a pannier. Mine is large enough to carry an iPad/netbook plus lunch, sunglasses and other small items. As long as your load isn't too heavy the effect on your steering is minimal. Otherwise I'd go with panniers or a rack-top bag. Keeps the weight off your back so your bike can do the carrying rather than your muscles. Standing climbs are also easier without having to balance a swaying load on your shoulder(s). 

I used to have an beater bike for the same purpose. It was old (80's era), pretty beat up and a road bike -- all qualities that it made it less desirable. Still fun to ride though. But lock it up at any bike rack and it was guaranteed to be the last bike to be stolen. Go for a used bike and try to pick something unpopular (i.e. not a fixie). There are lots of non-profits out there which salvage old bikes, fix them up and sell them at a low cost. You can keep the bike well maintained, just don't bother keeping it clean. 

The answer to your main question is cadence, i.e. the rate at which you rotate the pedals. Most cyclists naturally tend towards a narrow range of cadences where we feel most comfortable. We also have different comfort levels / capabilities for power output. To spin comfortably up a hill (at your preferred cadence and effort level) you'll need to find a gear that's low enough to match. For me, that's going to be a pretty small gear; for a pro racer (who can put out lots of power over long time periods) it would be substantially bigger. The same thing happens on a flat or downhill: if the gearing is too low you'll start to "spin out" (too high a cadence with not enough effort). Again a racer is likely to need a bigger gear to keep this from happening. So that explains the overall gearing range. The steps between gears can matter too: if they're too big you may have trouble dialing in the perfect gear that matches your desired cadence and power output. On racing bikes you'll notice that despite having many gears, the overall range is still fairly small. The difference is that the step between each gear is more subtle. (My bike has a fairly wide gear range, so these steps can become quite noticeable as I get tired.) As for your related question, Murph has nailed it: high end racing bikes tend towards two chainrings because of need, weight, complexity and fashion. 

(Looks like this is a road bike with cantilever brakes?) The problem with interrupter brake levers is that there isn't a way to adjust them independently of the main brake levers. Normally to make your brakes more sensitive you would shorten the brake cable, but this will affect both levers -- so if your interrupters are snappy already, they'll become even more so to fix the STIs. You may want to look at switching to interrupters with less "pull" -- it sounds like the ones you have pull more cable than your STI levers. Also consider your riding style and dial in the brakes that you use most often. If you're mostly on the flats then it's fine as-is. If you ride mostly in the drops or on the hoods, tighten up the brake cable until the STI lever feels right and go easy when using the interrupter. That's the position you'd most likely be in when going fast anyway and you'll want the extra braking power. 

Road frames come in a wide variety of styles, so it's impossible to give an exact answer without knowing more about your bike. Also keep in mind that wider tires also have a larger diameter, so your bike has to have enough clearance for both. A typical modern road bike with caliper brakes is going to have very tight tolerances: many will max out at a 28mm tire, some at only 25mm. When mine was built, I had the frame customized and used long reach brakes just to allow 28mm tires plus fenders -- even then it's a tight fit. Another problem with calipers and wide tires is that you may not have enough brake cable slack to remove the wheel easily (I have to deflate mine slightly to get the tire past the brake shoes). Touring and cyclocross frames tend to be built with much more generous proportions and have room for bigger tires. Using cantilever brakes also helps give much more tire clearance vs. calipers. My last touring frame used 32mm tires and could have easily gone up to at least 35mm, if not bigger. If you're putting on much larger tires, you should also consider larger rims (see Sheldon Brown's tire/rim sizing chart). Using a big tire on too small a rim is a recipe for trouble. Plus a wider rim adds more strength. So you may need a wheel rebuild to make this happen. 

I think Shimano integrated shifters ("brifters") for the front derailleur on a triple normally have 5 indexed positions: 1-3-5 are the main positions that match the chainrings and 2-4 are intermediate spots to avoid chain rub for some chainring+sprocket combinations. If you give the front shift lever a short pull it will click once and the front derailleur moves one position. Give it a full pull and it should click twice, moving two positions. Normally going up to a bigger ring requires a 2-click upshift; sometimes you need to give it a one-click downshift afterwards to eliminate chain rub if you're in a larger rear cog. Going down a ring may only take a 1-click downshift, depending on what position the derailleur is in. All of this is based on my experience with a triple, but should work the same for a double. If shifting problems are more noticable going up to a bigger ring (needs more clicks than before) then this is probably due to cable stretch. If you have a barrel adjuster on the front derailleur cable, try turning it counterclockwise (looking at it from the side where the cable housing enters it) to tension the cable a bit. If the problem is when dropping down to a smaller ring, then either the cables are sticking somewhere (worn cables/housing) or the front derailleur is sticking (needs lubrication or has a worn spring). 

I do have a torque wrench with me but not my copy of Zinn, so how tight should I clamp the two stem bolts? (they are labelled 10Nm but I think that's the rating for the stem, which is probably aluminum) 

The short answer is "marathon cycling". Others have called it "touring with time limits". As a sport, randonneuring is based on rules laid out by Audax Club Parisien (ACP). Rides are known as "brevets" and are organized by local clubs. They may have slightly different interpretations, but you can count on brevets being basically the same around the world. I won't go into all of the gory details, but here are some of the highlights: