The decline of wagon trains in the United States started in 1869, with the completion of the first transcontinental railroad, and wagon trains as a way of migrating essentially ended in the 1890s. Covered wagons, on the other hand, stuck around for a long time. The covered wagon of the migrations evolved from freight wagons such as the Conestoga, and horse-drawn freight wagons remained in use for deliveries to places without train service. It's likely that the final demise of the horse-drawn freight wagon was in the aftermath of World War II, as cheap military-surplus trucks flooded the market. 

Find an event recorded in more than one calendar. For example, if a treaty was signed on "a.d. VIII Kal. Oct, Julius et Caesar consulibus" and "7.14.19.11.14", you can establish an equivalence between the two and convert dates back and forth; a sufficient chain of conversions will let you figure out what the date would be in a modern system. In practice, you'll want multiple dual-dated events, because of errors in the historical record. Find an astronomical event that was recorded with a date. Total solar eclipses are especially good for this, since they're rare and only visible from a small area. If you've got even a "within a century or two" idea of how the calendar you're working with aligns to the modern dating system, there's usually only one eclipse that's a candidate. Again, you want multiple events to deal with possible error (eg. an annular eclipse that was recorded as total, or a "great comet" that was on a hyperbolic orbit rather than the short-period comet you thought it was). 

Divide and conquer: the Japanese obligingly divided their forces, and the Americans proceeded to conquer. If you look at the overall numbers for the Pacific fleets, the Japanese certainly had the advantage at the start of the war, at least in terms of large ships. However, if you look at individual engagements, the numbers are far closer: 

The advantages of a steel blade are 1) it's possible to make the blade arbitrarily large, 2) it's easy to sharpen the edge, and 3) steel holds that edge longer during use. For something like a sword or an axe, these advantages are hard to beat. For small-scale cutting, however, obsidian and flint both hold sharper edges than steel. If you're making a scalpel or a razor blade, stone works just fine. 

In regards to the first question: There were two main bombing techniques used in World War II: area bombing and precision bombing. Area bombing was carried out by large numbers of high-altitude bombers at a time (typically tens to hundreds of bombers). This could certainly destroy a rail line, but accuracy was abysmal: the Eighth Air Force considered any bomb that landed within a thousand feet of the aiming point to be a hit, and even with that low standard, they only managed an accuracy of 20%. Precision bombing was typically done by ground-attack aircraft or light bombers such as the Mosquito. These aircraft had the accuracy to hit a small target such as a locomotive or a tank, so hitting a rail line would be no problem. However, they couldn't carry much of a bomb load: German forces could repair the damage in a matter of hours. Your choice: accuracy, or effectiveness. You can't get both. 

It was about preventing "free" states from gaining a majority in the Senate. When the United States was formed, slave states outnumbered free states 8 to 5, giving them a majority in both the Senate and the House of Representatives. Over the course of the next twenty or so years, states were admitted or outlawed slavery such that an even balance (9 slave states, 9 free states) existed in the Senate, while the population shifted to give free states a majority in the House. At this point, admitting a free state without admitting a slave state to balance it would give free states a majority in the Senate, leading to the eventual abolition of slavery (or, and this is what all the compromises were intended to prevent, civil war). Since seats in the House are determined by population, it was impossible to balance the House (new states tended to be low-population, having only one Representative). Instead, between 1816 and 1850, states were admitted in slave/free pairs to keep the balance in the Senate: Mississippi/Indiana, Alabama/Illinois, Missouri/Maine (the Missouri Compromise), Arkansas/Michigan, Florida/Iowa, Texas/Wisconsin. In 1849, California passed a constitution that outlawed slavery and applied for admission to the United States. There was no possibility of adding a balancing slave state (the territories of the Mexican Cession were judged unsuitable for slavery, and adding a slave state north of the Missouri Compromise line would have been politically unacceptable). Instead, the Compromise of 1850 was passed, which admitted California as a free state, granted some concessions to the slave states (in particular, a strengthened Fugitive Slave Act), and staved off civil war for a decade (in 1850, the flashpoint would have been Texas rather than South Carolina). 

He didn't, and didn't plan to. The minefield at the entrance to Mobile Bay was well-known and clearly marked. Its purpose wasn't to sink attacking ships, but to force them close to the guns of Fort Morgan, where they could easily be sunk by artillery fire. Farragut's initial plan for the battle was for two columns of ships to enter the bay through the passage between the minefield and Fort Morgan. The first column, of ironclads, would engage the fort and screen the other ships from gunfire. However, Tecumseh, the leader of the ironclad column, strayed too far from the fort, struck a mine, and quickly sank. This threw the column of wooden ships into confusion, as they had clearly impossible orders (stay to port of the ironclads, but to starboard of the minefield). Farragut's response was to send his flagship to the head of the column and lead a charge through the minefield, which worked: his fourteen wooden ships and three remaining ironclads made it into the bay without further losses. (Source: the Wikipedia article on the Battle of Mobile Bay) 

The Napoleonic Wars are perhaps best thought of as a single continuous conflict between Britain and France, extending for twelve and a half years from the breakdown of the Treaty of Amiens through Napoleon's defeat at Waterloo. Now, Britain at the time didn't have much of a standing army to fight with. Rather, British strategy was to use their superior navy to control the seas and cut off their opponent's access to overseas colonies, while relying on Continental allies to engage in land combat. Diplomatically, their goal was "balance of power": arranging alliances to keep any single Continental country or group of countries from becoming too powerful. You can see how this plays out in the Napoleonic Wars: the "War of the Whichevereth Coalition" is simply Britain's latest group of allies in an ongoing conflict. 

Non-carrier surface actions generally involved cruisers and destroyers, which the American Pacific fleet had in abundance. 

Kantai Kessen, the Japanese naval strategy for a Pacific war, amounted to (simplified) "The American fleet will cross the Pacific to attack Japan. At that time, we will engage and defeat them." Creating a battle plan that depends on the enemy's cooperation is a beginner's mistake, not something you'd expect from a senior naval strategist. The Japanese must have had some reason to believe that an attack was the only viable option for the Americans. What was that reason? 

From the thesis linked by CGCampbell, American anti-tank doctrine was based around dealing with concentrated groups of German tanks on the offense, ie. a repeat of the invasion of France. To deal with this, dedicated anti-tank battalions were formed of tank destroyers: heavy anti-tank guns mounted on lightly-armored mobile platforms. The thesis cites Field Manual 18-5 of 1942, Tactical Employment, Tank Destroyer Unit for doctrine. According to it, the basic procedure was that most tank destroyers should be held in reserve, to be committed in battalion strength when a concentrated group of enemy tanks was identified. Combat tactics were hit-and-run or ambush-based: since the tank destroyers were fragile, mobility, visibility, and superior intelligence were to be used to attack while not being attacked in turn. In general, this doctrine was ignored. German tanks were rarely found in the massive concentrations envisioned, and as a result, tank destroyers were deployed in small groups and treated as "fragile tanks" to directly support infantry. In general, German tanks were deployed in platoon-scale or smaller units, and were dealt with by ground-attack aircraft (#1 cause of combat losses) or towed anti-tank guns (#2), with other methods (tanks, tank destroyers, infantry anti-tank weapons) seeing use only when those were unavailable. 

Sulfur is a critical industrial and military substance, and as such, "frivolous" uses such as coloring beer bottles would have been restricted during World War II. Iron(II) oxide, on the other hand, has few uses other than as a pigment. Sure, you can smelt it to produce steel, but the steel industry mostly used hematite and magnetite. 

(original image by Wikimedia Commons user San Jose) If you look at a topographic map of Europe, the reason should be self-evident: the easiest land route from northern/western Europe passes through the gap between the Alps and the Carpathians. Hungary sits in the middle of that gap; historic Hungary occupied effectively all of it. This same geography remains an important factor in modern times: there are far more roads and railroads passing through that gap, typically by way of Budapest, than go over the Carpathians. 

Note what that list doesn't mention? Two dozen destroyers. Minelayers. Torpedo boats. Coastal artillery. Antiaircraft guns. The 40,000-strong Army garrison. Four battalions of Marines. The attack on Pearl Harbor didn't wipe out America's defenses, it wiped out the offensive force. A paratrooper drop, or even an all-out amphibious assault, would have been defeated almost immediately. 

Modern vs. medieval: it's a matter of cover. If you're facing someone with a sword or a pike, cover gains you little in the way of protection: an attacker can simply approach, reach around the cover, and stab you. In contrast, height gains you a great deal of protection: it's hard for an attacker standing below to reach you, but you can drop things on them, or reach over a low barrier you're standing behind while the attacker can't reach up and over. The city walls provide you with a great deal of height, but once they're breached, the cover provided by an urban environment gains you little. In contrast, if you're using a gun or a grenade launcher, cover provides you with a great deal of protection by stopping bullets, while an attacker without similar cover is an easy target. Height, on the other hand, just makes you a bigger target. City walls function mainly as a mechanical barrier to advancing troops which can easily be countered by heavy artillery or combat engineers, but the city itself provides a seemingly endless supply of cover. Stalingrad vs. Kharkov: it's a matter of objectives. During the Battle of Kharkov, the Soviets were fighting a delaying action while they evacuated the city (including its industrial facilities). Once they'd finished that, the city itself was a strategically untenable position, so the Soviets retreated. Holding Stalingrad, on the other hand, was a matter of vast pride to the leaders of both side. Thus, they kept throwing men and materiel into the fight long past the point of diminishing returns. 

The target had to be of strategic importance: things like naval yards, large industrial works, army depots, and similar large facilities. The goal here was to use the new weapon in a way that would inflict significant damage on Japan's warfighting capabilities regardless of any psychological effects. Contrast with Germany's use of the V-2, which had essentially no impact on the Allied military. The target had to be in an urban area at least three miles across. Nobody really knew what sort of effect a nuclear weapon would have, so by targeting a large city, they would be able to analyze the damage to a range of target types, while at the same time being able to measure the area of effect. The target had to be somewhere that wouldn't be attacked by August 1945. This ties in with the above criteria, making measurement of damage easier. It also meant the target couldn't be somewhere too important. The target area had to be highly visible, with psychological value. There's no point in using a new, highly-devastating weapon if the military can cover up the damage done (see: the suppression of news about the loss at Midway).