Usually in a case like this, the best way to get a raise is to ask that you be reclassifed to a new position and title. You are a manager not a dev and you should have the payscale that managers have. This is a promotion and you need to have that acknowledged and paid for. The last time I did this type of thing, I went to my boss and said now that I am doing the tasks of a _______, I would like to offically be given the postion. It is often easier to justify a larger raise when you change job titles. HR generally has a payscale for each job that they try to stay within. The manager ones are generally (but not always) higher, so shoot for getting a promotion not a payraise. 

People have already mentioned most of the sources for references, but I want to add one more. Client references are good if you do any kind of direct client support. These can be either internal or external people. So you say you are on call and work nights. Who are you being called by and how happy are they with the support you give them? Some of them might be willing to be a reference. 

It is of course going to vary from manager to manager, but personally iwourld rank these things interms of how I look at a resume to hire 

You can ask (although as others have said you should have brought it up much sooner), but I think the likeliest thing is that you will not get switched. So you need to understand some of what you can get out of this project. First everyone has to work on things they don't want to at times. So you are learning about that part of the workplace. You have also learned, I think, that you need to speak up sooner rather than later or you have to live with your choice not to bring up the subject. That can be hard lesson to learn, but the fact that you are continuing to work in area of less interest to you is mostly your own fault. No one else is going to manage your career, you have to be proactive. Something useful you can get out of this is the ability to pick up something your don't know and do something useful with it. In software developement, this is a critical skill and you have a golden opportunity here to work on it. This is also a lesson on not being attached to a particular language. If they won't move you, spend the next two months really digging in and getting something accomplished. You will be proud of yourself for that. A good deal of success in the workplace is more about persistence than technical chops. Not giving up because it is hard or not what you personally want is something that will only help you in the future. If you are intersted in furthering your own skills on the software stack you prefer, consider if the project can be redone in that language as a personal project. You would learn alot about how differnt tools approach problems differently by doing that and you would get some practical exerience in your preferrred stack. You might even learn why it is that the particular tool was chosen over your particular favorites for this task. Of course, don't take anything work related home to work on in a different language without your boss's knowlwedge. You may be too junior right now to really know what is proprietary and must be protected and what is not. You are also learning skills in how to devlop some domain knowledge in order to complete the project. Again this is something useful no matter what partiicular techinical stack you pursue. You may also be learning such things as how to use source control and how to communicate progress and issues to your boss. I bring allthis up so that you can change your perspective and realize that you are getting things out of the internship. Things that are valuable to your career. You worry this will make you less marketable. But if you present yourself correctly, it will not. No one expects an entry level person to have expert skills in the technology stack, that is why they are entry level. But someone who can dig in to something unfamilar and deliver a project in five months, that is something valuable and will set you apart from many of your peers. If you supplement that with pesonal projects in your preferred stack, then you become a strong candidate indeed. 

I have to say that the stay-leave decision will be based on several factors. First how long have you been there? And how long have you stayed at other jobs. No one wants to hire a job hopper who is never happy anywhere, so if you have a history of short-term jobs, I would consider staying longer at this one. Second - how valuable really is the experience you are getting and is it something you can get somewhere else relatively easily right now? For instance I took a job specifically to get some experience with SQL Server when I did not have large database experience; I stayed until I had the experience to not be a beginner elsewhere because it was in my best interests to get that experience in what I wanted to specialize in because it is not easy to find a job when you are changing career paths. Another case might be your first management position. If you want to stay in management, you don't want to leave this one early because you need some management success to show to a new employer to get to the next level of management, but if you want to go back to technical it might not be a problem. Just because a company is large doesn't automatically mean you are getting the right experience for you. If you have a plan for particular steps you need to take along the way, then you can put up with less than optimum conditions to get to the point where you are experienced enough that you can pick and choose. But don't stay just because the company is well-known or large. Stay because there is something specific that you need from that job before you move on. Another consideration is that the grass is often not greener elsewhere. You think you are underpaid and overworked. Well honestly, so do most people. There are probably better places than the one you are in, but I assure you that there are much worse places, too. Take the time to really consider what you want in a workplace and how you would figure out if that is what a company is offering before you jump from the frying pan into the fire. Be much pickier about your next position. Of course in order to be really picky and get the postion at the best companies you have to have something extraordinary to offer. If you want to work for the best, you are in competition with the best as well. Think about whether it might be a better use of your time to stay where you are and get those qualifications than a string of jobs you hate. Short-term unhappiness is sometimes a good trade-off for long-term success. 

Only the last two have a probability of success and the third one only if you survive the low ranking layoff that may occur in the near future. 

Your request got turned down? In that case I would ask when it could be scheduled. He has to approve the request for some time off or you need to discuss that with HR. (I am presuming that you actually have the time available to take.) Your vacation is part of your compensation, you are entitled to it, but the manager has some say in the scheduling of the time. If he refuses to schedule the time, then HR will need to deal with it. If you get a scheduled time, that can relieve some of the pressure and anxiety. It is easier to hold on til Sept 5 than it is to hold on forever. Since you have depression, if you see a therapist, I would strongly suggest that you discuss short-term ideas for how to hang on until the scheduled vacation. Some things I can think of involve making sure you get enough sleep, taking some time for yourself outside of work to do fun things, and meditation. I have found that a five minute meditation where I first relax through deep breathing and then tell myself to release any anxiety stored in my body really helps. Exercise is often helpful for depression. Remember when things that stressful at work, a five minute break in the rest room can help. If you go to HR, take medical documentation that you need the vacation in case their response dictates that you need to up the ante. Go with a plan for who could cover your job while you are out. If you need to provide medical details to HR, specifically request that they not share any medical details with your supervisor since he has used such against you in the past. Give them details and dates of those incidents. Be prepared with all this before you go to HR. When you approach HR about this, you want to appear as the professional who is making a request that was unreasonably turned down and show that you tried multiple times to get a vacation approved and that he would not approve one for any dates. You want to appear as the reasonable one in the conversation. It can help if you talk to your state Labor department and see if there is any labor law surrounding vacation time. The more organized, knowledgeable, and professional you appear, the more they will take you seriously as someone who might sue the organization if they don't do the right thing. I would also ask that you see if HR can arrange for you to be transferred to another boss since this one is hostile depending on if there is somewhere else you could be working. Note that going to HR can be a career limiting move at that particular employer. Do it if you must to get the vacation, but consider that you need to continue working there and the supervisor will not be happy (of course he already is not happy so that is less risky). It might be time to start a job search for something else. It might even be a better choice in your circumstances if you can apply for a transfer without bring up the whole vacation thing. Just getting away from this boss will likely reduce your anxiety and you can tell your new boss a few weeks after you start that you have x amount of days to take before the end of the year and when would be a good time to take them. 

People who are planning to be out generally have the reponsibility to set up their phone to go straight to voice mail and generally to leave a message saying who to contact and how long they are out. IF they are not doing this, then ask your boss to remind everyone that ringing phones are distracting others and that they should be doing this when they are out. It also will help whoever is calling to know who to call in the person's absence which is a business critical usually. Won't help with the "just left the desk for a couple of minutes" stuff but should reduce the number of rings significantly. And learn to ignore the phone. Don't get worked up or upset, just notice it is ringing and go back to what you are doing. It is more your own reaction to the noise than the noise which is causing you to be distracted. 

The problem is not what happened in the past, the problem is her unprofessional behavior of refusing to talk to you. I presume you both have a manger, go to your manager and explain the context and the results of her no longer talking to you. And have him or her deal with the behavior. This is something that should not be acceptable behavior in any workplace. At some point she needs to be told that how she manages her team is her business, but she does not get to try to manage your team and reprimanding your team members in public is way out of bounds for her. It is best if her manager has this discussion with her.