another reason beside safety issues: suppose a torpedo misses. Then it keeps floating, sinks in shallow water, or reaches land and is beached. If it does not go BOOM the enemy might recover it! Even if there are no tech secrets, the enemy might learn about the state of your industry by checking the quality of components and assembly. Or deduce something about your logistics chain or unit positions by examining part numbers or markings. It is interesting e.g., how the allies deduced the number of Panther tanks produced by analyzing sequential part numbers. Or how today South Koreans analyse the wreckage of North Korean missiles and subs. Deny information to the enemy: if it is ours, and the enemy might get it, them GO BOOM! It will make harder for them to deduce information (albeit not impossible, as in the Korean example above) For the same reason, if a damaged plane was forced to land where the enemy could get it, friendly planes would attack it (after making sure the pilot was not there) 

Jews had their quota of martyrs and persecutors too, it is even recorded in the bible. They have an exclusive and identity-defining religion too. You are asking about persecutions, or to any situation where people are willing to kill or die due to religion? Aztecs and their human sacrifices of enemies and the eternal wars required to supply victims; Huron x Iroquois have some similarity, although many prisoners were kept as slaves. Phoenicians killing their own babies as human sacrifices; Canibalism in general, in many cases is quite religious; Pagans in most of Europe, Central Asia, (or Hindus in India even in recent times) killing slaves/wives at the funeral of their masters/husband to follow them in afterlife, or as a offering to the gods for the soul of the master; Oh, Vikings would gang rape the slave girl first. The last one strangled the girl still in bed. The famous roman case of the oracle which requested "an offering of the best thing belonging to Roma". Then the leader got his best armor and weapons and jumped down a cliff because the best thing in Rome was "Men and Arms", and he himself was the most badass of them all. Chinese emperor building great tombs and them killing all the workers so that the tomb remains hidden and his soul rest is not disturbed in the afterworld. (similar with Gengis Khan). Alas, when the Chinese Emperor can get away with killing whole groups of people, it is not partially because he has the "mandate of heaven"? Most European kings would be considered total tyrants and risk deposition... Japanese commiting seppuku at command from the emperor, or just due to honor issues, which is partly religious. Vestal Virgins which were killed if found to be not virgins anymore. Aztecs also had a special offering of a young man from one of their ruling families. He had one year of 'paradise' with the best food and luxury and four ladies of his choosing (a coveted position). After that, he goes up the pyramid to have his heart taken... [A Cortes biography] Some Brazilian native americans, had a kind of zodiac related to their gods, where people were assigned 'signs' related to the period when they were born. Some 'signs' were incompatible, and if a couple of incompatible signs would have sex or try to marry, both would be killed. [Gilberto Freire] Caste violence in Hindu society is serious too. Killings and lesser attacks (like acid in the face of the low cast girl dating a high cast boy) still happens today. [see the news] This without even start looking at muslim history, as you want BC stuff and not AD years, or at least civilizations not in close contact with christianity. I wont also list many offenses not as serious as death, just some: Greek/Roman oracles and taboos which changed their actions in strange ways, e.g. the Athenian generals which were punished (not sure if killed) after a great victory because they could not stop to fetch their dead floating in the water (big taboo letting corpses with no burial). Some brazilian Tupi Indians, divided in tribes, they did not have much inter-tribe exchanges, but when they had a visitor from a related tribe, they would send their young girls to sleep with him as part of a religious welcome. Probably it was not so nice for the girl when the old fat Great-Uncle come to visit. [Freire or Sergio de Holanda] So many people willing to be eunuchs in china. Some of the examples above mix religion with political or societal issues, but is this not true also on any European religions conflict? The point is that I do not think westerns are the only ones who take religion seriously enough. And most of the examples above are serious violations of justice that were abolished with Christianity... Don't believe in Rousseau's "good savage" But if you are asking why people are willing to die: you would do anything at gun point? Someone points a gun at your head, commands you, then you give money or information to a killer thug who will immediately harm other people; you help them to harm other people; you rape and kill your own family? No limits? We may understand and forgive whoever folds and do whatever the thug wants, but the ones who did not fold were not the ones who did better, even heroically better? If some people are willing to die before committing serious sin, aren't they right? If it is better (or heroic), not to betray your family even if you know they would forgive you anyway, then why it is ok to betray god? 

it is too long and complex to comment in detail without reading it all again. But St Augustine in City of God quotes at length Varro. Varro, a pagan itself, reputed as a leading authority on the pagan religion. But as far as I know his works survived only in quotations, nothing in full. We should not apply our concept of revealed religion to them. For Christians, God come and revealed what we need to know for our salvation, besides supplying the means. Even if some details are confuse in the mist of time and cultural translation, we may be sure that what we need to know to go to heaven is safe. For Catholics, it is not just the letter, is it the Bible+Tradition+Magisterium which support each other so that we do not need an intellectual miracle everyday in the mind of each interpreter, besides all the other miracles of life. What we need to know is there available to know when the responsible people do not screw it too much, and we always can go to other people or reliable authors. But pagans mostly do not believe in this way, with this certitude. The pagan mythology that we know is a mix of ancient legends, theatrical plays, histories intended to be read aloud. It does not have an official interpreter or a cannon. The pagan religion also mixes worship to the pantheon gods with worship to familiar gods and ancestors spirits. Their definition of family was not 'bloodline', was 'the ones who worship my ancestors'. (the famous Foustel de Coulanges book is another good reference) A learned pagan could see that the plays and bard stories were man-made, and intended to entertain. He would known that some variations of the plays were newer than others. He also would see the contradiction about praying for justice to a god which transforms itself into animals to seduce women around. Varro distinguishes various ways and reasons to believe, and he gives some nice names to them. Yes, people could believe in the gods, even if they knew that some histories were man-made, entertainment, or just BS. They still could believe in the cosmology, or that they could pray to the gods, and believe in part of the mythology. But even a more skeptical man, one who knew better the development of the mythology, one who really did not believe in any detail in any story, still could see other reasons to believe: What else are they going to tell the people? What will keep the loyalty of the people if they do not pray to the city gods? How are you going to cool the head of your crazed teenage son if you can not appeal to the spirits of the ancestors, the tribal gods, and the honor of the family name? so Varro points out that there are a 'keep-order religion' (I dont remember the category names), and that a wise man should not mess with it if he wants some order in his city and his family. What Varro says is more or less: "Do you have some better idea? No? Then shut up" Besides that, familiar gods and ancestors worship is a much more natural belief than stories about a pantheon of gods. It just requires a basic belief in immortality of soul and that there is someone above us. The point is that both sides, pantheon and familiar are linked. It is hard to expect of them to believe only in one side. First,a common theory for pantheon development: the main family god become the gens god when the family grew into a gens; then the main gens god become the tribe god; then the tribes gods were put together into a pantheon of city-state gods. Even if the romans could not see the beginning of this process, they still could see that allied or conquered states would integrate their pantheons. They could see that roman gods were variations of greek gods, the roman themselves adopted gods from other peoples, etc. It is an extension of the concept of the family. 'allied states worship our gods, we worship their gods, then they are really allies' So they did not really need to believe in every theatrical play about Zeus screwing another poor girl to be a pagan. Even because there were no authority to determine which play was 'canon' and the more learned could see new plays and new gods taken for somewhere else all the time. They could have a general belief in ancestor worship and family honor which extends to tribe and city, in some kinds of god-entities above us which hear us, and that their worship binds us together, a humane sense of virtue and justice, and still be a pagan. Probably, he could accept that some of the mythology might be true, he could see the wisdom in some of them, and at least he would not know anything better. He also has to answer his children when they come with 'were we come from?' 'who created the world', etc. What would you say to your children? Roman/greek paganism is not much different that any other paganism, like africans or native americans, it is just that their mythologies are better recorded and quite extensive after centuries of theatrical plays and books in written form. They might have better philosophy than an African tribe, but this do not make a revealed religion. It would be probably wrong to assume many of them were totally atheist-materialist, as hard as to assume a totally atheist-materialist Apache. At the end, what you propose is not contradictory and they knew it themselves. It is not a modern idea and Varro wrote about it. They could be pagans in a very general sense, and still believe that the religion is needed to keep order. If you are asking you probably know that one of the main arguments of the Christians against the persecutions is that they still would obey the state even if they did not worship the state gods. (see St Justinian) This would be totally strange for the pagan mind. But this appears strange to them just because they did not take their gods as seriously as we (or the Jews) do. Why cant these guys mix their tribe god with ours? So I recommend you to read The City of God and Foustel de Coulanges (La Cite Antique). Actually after reading them, it was not so fun to me to read greek plays, because when you understand their mind you already know what they will do and there is no weird surprises anymore. Specially because most often we already know the big end and the surprises were in smaller attitudes and deeds. 

This is not a proper answer but it comments on various aspects (including "the why"), brings some anecdotes, and it is too long for a comment. in English, there is even the word 'churchyard'. it means that the usual place to be buried was the yard of a church, even for the poor. Separate large cemeteries are a more recent development, when the population was larger and it become not wise to bury everyone on the churchyard due to sanitary reasons (and also land cost: churches are usually in urban areas; cemeteries may be build on the outskirts of cities on cheaper land). Brazil, in XIX century, still had a lot of churchyard burials. About burying inside the church, It does not stink if it is done properly, and even in the middle ages they knew how to do it properly. The problem is that not everybody does it properly, and then it was necessary to disallow it as usual practice. It is obviously more expensive to do it properly, so it is another reason why richer people could be buried inside while the poor went to the churchyard. Even today, modern saints are buried inside churches, and bishops are still buried in cathedrals, and I have never seen complaints about foul smelling. Fatima has the remains of the 3 shepherds (and Lucia got there not long after death) and bishops are buried in the wall around the presbytery. It makes a lot of sense for small communities to pray where your older relatives are buried, or to want to be buried where you know your descendants will habitually pray. Why to be buried in a large cemetery where people will go only on the day of the dead (November 2 feast as of today calendar), when you could have your loved ones seeing your tomb and perhaps remembering to pray for you often? How will I get out of purgatory if nobody prays for me? It is amazing to me that people do not get that. when I die I really want less stupid eulogies and more praying. Also note that only saints can be buried below the altar or in the presbytery floor. Moreover, every catholic altar has a saint relic under it, (today too, it is a requirement to consecrate an altar), even if it is a physically small one, such as a bone fragment. So, people wanted to be buried closer to saints, and tombs closer to the altar were more prestigious, even if really it is quite superstitious and being buried closer to a saint it is not different than being buried anywhere. Moreover, even if one is not superstitious, the altar is the focal point of the building. What is cooler to tell your neighbor: "grandpa is buried close to the altar" or "grandpa is buried in this shadowed corner behind the last collumn"? It is also interesting that many European monasteries were confiscated by the state and are museums or administrative buildings today. It is hard to know if old bodies were removed or not, it is a case-by-case issue. In University of Coimbra, I used to go to the administrative office for my academic register and pay tuition every semester, and it was in a former cloister, where monk-professors from the XVIII century were buried. I have no idea if the bones are still there, but we waited in line over the tombs of old professors.. A final anecdote: Bernini, the sculptor, after having built the tombs of many cardinals, was given the option to build his own tomb, in whatever side chapel he would choose, or any legally allowed place inside the church, and his cardinal friends would pay for it. Instead of building an elaborate tomb at a side chapel, he chose to be buried right outside of the presbytery (only saints in the floor of the presbytery), on the stairs, and right on the path that the priest must walk from the sacristy to the altar. So, to this day, every time a priest says mass at the basilica, the priest walks over his tomb and see his name. If the priest wants to pray for him... Here is pic: $URL$ 

Just to complete kubanczyk's answer, at the last years of the war larger russian formations were allowed in the german side. Many recruited from POVs. There were even small White Cossack units from the civil war that reemerged from their villages after 20 years hidden. [not sure, a book. Solzhenitsyn?] It is estimated that nearly one million former Soviet citizens took up arms against the Red Army in the Wehrmacht, Waffen SS, and various Axis sponsored units (this includes other national groups such as the Ukrainians, Belarusians, Latvians, Lithuanians, Estonians, Chechens, Kazakhs, Georgians, Armenians, and other non Russian groups). from wiki1 Just imagine if the Nazis, from the beginning, were 'less Nazis', or at least more pragmatic, and treated the Slavs better. If the Nazis were authoritarian but not racist, or if they did not had the Lebensraum concept. How many millions more of soviet soldiers they would get, besides suffering less partisans? I guess that if you look for sources about the process of acceptance of these larger units in the wehrmacht, you will find more complete answers. Some of the smaller units might involve only decisions from local commanders, so part of the answer may be more pragmatic and less political.