Firstly I think you should beware of doctrines which sound similar but for different purposes. For example, you know Newton's law of gravitation? That force is proportional to the inverse square of the distance between two objects? I once read an SF story in which characters, who had "lapsed into a pre-technological culture marked by superstition"), when they read this law, assumed that it was talking about "love" -- i.e. that people are more attracted to each other when they're closer together! I think that's an example of one law (or doctrine) sounding the same as another, but actually being very different. Without trying to read about and understand "Spread mind" I can't assess whether it's in any way, nor whether it's fundamentally, similar to Buddhism. Now, looking only at the surface meaning of the words you quoted ... Consciousness is the object one is conscious of I think that one of the Buddhist doctrines suggests there is ... 

... which suggests the theory comes from the Abhidhamma; however the footnotes to those paragraphs are referencing The Tibetan Book of the Dead (which isn't Theravada). 

Also maybe Thiago meant SN 48.10 rather than SN 48.11. The definition there is the same as in SN 47.35, i.e., 

In the translation of DN 1 that I'm reading, after the description of the 7 types of annihilation-belief, the Tathagata says (I paraphrase), 

... but not 'only' in the mind But even if "hell" does exist in (or is perceived or experienced by) one's present mind (as illustrated above), it might be a mistake to assume that it only exists in the mind. The suttas do describe hell realms -- for example Devaduta Sutta (MN 130) was referenced in the Wikipedia article. I see nothing in that text which shows that the Buddha must have been talking metaphorically. Theoretically I see three possibilities: 

Since the norms of society has changed greatly since the Buddha's time, is the definition of sexual misconduct now obsolete? Not entirely obsolete. My personal experience is that my wife and I started dating each other when we were teenagers. At that age we were each "under our parents' protection" (i.e. living with our parents), and our parents had (it seemed to us) control over that: e.g. who we were allowed to "go out" with (or even go on holiday with), where, when, to do what, using whose car, whose driving, what time home, and all that. Sometimes they'd allow a date, sometimes they wouldn't. And our families (parents) knew each other. Sorry if this is too personal an answer; it's my experience. This tradition would have provided little scope for sex outside of marriage I guess you're making some assumptions based on some view of historical society. Even so I think that norms you quoted are still normal at least to some extent: parents do (or should) take an interest in who their children are dating -- whether they seem to be "suitable" partners etc. Maybe not "arranged marriages", in the sense of marrying someone who you've never met before, but even so. I'm not sure how much this advice was adapted to the modern world (where potential partners evaluate each other, and the decision isn't only made by parents and match-makers), but that suggests that some getting-to-know-each-other before marriage maybe wasn't entirely wrong even when the suttas were written. I do recall a reference in a sutta to partners "being given" to each other -- FWIW that's a conceit of contemporary traditional (Christian/Western) marriage too (e.g. the bride being "given away"). 

The more famous DN 31 is a little more wide-ranging -- it warns against frequenting "theatrical shows": 

I'm not sure what "how to relate" means as a question, but FYI some of my thoughts during class have been like: 

There's also the Buddhavamsa and the Cariyapitaka -- I'm not sure whether you count these as "suttas": i.e. they're in the Khuddaka Nikaya (in the Sutta Pitaka), as are the Jataka tales. 

... except that it also introduces two other concepts at the beginning, i.e. "carefulness" and "remembering and recalling". Bikkhu Bodhi said, 

There's something (a concept) called 'attachment' in Buddhism, which is sometimes also translated into English as 'clinging' or 'grasping'. The Sanskrit and Pali word is Upādāna, and (according to Wikipedia) the Tibetan is len.pa (lenpa). Wikipedia articles about it include: 

I read earlier that monasteries have a 6-hour-per-night sleep time scheduled (which is slightly less than the current lay tradition of "8 hours"). 

A Google search for Petavatthu returns other references and sources and translations on this subject. Beware that S. Dhammika writes, 

One of the things I'm concentrating on when practicing a form is a physical awareness than something is mis-aligned and needs to be moved. Given that there's constant motion over the whole body there's always something (multiple things) that need to be moved. So I might have a thought like, "My kua (pelvis) feels like it's pointing towards the right and needs to be more centered." Having formed the thought (that the kua is out of alignment) I correct that. The practice is to get better integrated. I can read text faster than people talk. Similarly it seems to me that when practicing Tai Chi I'm aware of sensations faster than I can label them. It also seems to me that labelling sensations isn't the point of the exercise, that the point is to correct sensations associated with doing it wrong (also to keep the body comfortable, nourished with breath and lubricated by exercising the joints, and to keep the mind as clear as possible). 

I think that a Buddhist answer is "There's nothing that should be viewed as self". For example I experience (or "there is a perception/recognition of") "looking at the computer screen", however "looking at the computer screen" shouldn't be viewed as "self" ... it's not permanent. The "Anatta-lakkhana Sutta: The Discourse on the Not-self Characteristic (SN 22.59)" is maybe the most famous sutta about "anatta", but my favourite is the "Alagaddupama Sutta -- The Discourse on the Snake Simile (MN 22)" which I mentioned in this answer, i.e.: 

I don't remember that the Buddha made efforts to keep people (or animals) from dying, i.e. to preserve (alive) their physical forms. I think he was more focused on teaching dhamma. The (Buddha's) Vinaya however does include a lot of rules intended to avoid accidental harm (e.g. "don't dig the soil", e.g. "filter water before drinking it") so if you/they are not going to help, at least be careful not to hurt. Perhaps you feel some responsibility (for the bug's welfare) if you may have accidentally brought the bug in with the firewood -- perhaps that's something to be more careful about, next time you pick up wood. The Jataka tales include a lot of examples of the Boddhisattva caring for beings' physical well-being (including e.g. feeding the tigress), so although "saving" the stink bug might seem out of character for the Buddha, perhaps it is not out of character for the Boddhisattva. The notion that the bug will die eventually anyway may be true but perhaps a little odd: because isn't that true for everyone, yet not a great reason to do nothing for anyone? I too use a kind of "barrier" thinking about the house: inside the house is insect-free; outside the house, insects live their own lives without my interfering. It can be considered "compassionate" to keep or put insects outside, because inside is a hostile (e.g. foodless) environment for them. Your outdoor climate is probably more hostile (cold, icy) than mine is now, though. I think I expect a bit of intelligence in an animal, even an insect. I might hope (though mistakenly) that it would feel the increasing heat and of its own accord avoid getting too close to the fire. If not, the doctrine of equanimity suggests it's heir to its own karma. Far be it from me to tell you how and when to practice (meditation) but your reluctance to help may have root in some attachment ("You have achieved a nice level of concentration ... You have about five minutes left on the timer, so you can either finish your meditation properly..."). Some stories (e.g. Tetsugen Doko publishing the sutras) suggest some "masters" are willing to interrupt or postpone their (spiritual) ambition[s] in the midst of a mundane emergency which they can alleviate. Sometimes you can find an answer by putting yourself in someone else's shoes (or by putting someone else in your shoes). "What would Jesus do?" became a popular question or catchphrase among American Christians, for example. Similarly perhaps you might ask, "What would my teacher do? What would my spiritual friend do?". Maybe you mentioned something like that, once, in your answer describing the simplest case of tantrayana.