This is a tricky proof, but given as your goal is a disjunction, a proof by contradiction is typically a good bet. Here is a proof following that strategy one done using the Fitch software: 

It's Ought-from-Is ... or in this case, rather, Ought-Not-from-Can-Not I see this kind of confusion between what we can and cannot do and what is right or wrong (or good or bad) in discussions about the possible dangers of Artificial Intelligence, when people say "Well, it's going to happen anyway, you can't stop it!" No, maybe we can't stop it, but that does not mean that it is a good thing. ... or that it's a bad thing ... because what we can and cannot do is not the same as what is good or bad. 

First: we don't really say that arguments are true or false. Statements are true or false, but arguments have different kinds of properties. One of those properties is, as you are obviously aware of, validity. However, another important property is well-foundedness, which means that the premises are true (or, for more practical everyday purposes, plausible or acceptable). Well-foundedness is important, because if I am allowed to just assume anything as my premise, I can (validly!) argue for anything. For example: "All dogs are purple. Foofy is a dog. Therefore, Foofy is purple" This argument is logically valid, but not well-founded. And indeed, as such it is a bad argument. ... which is probably just what you were looking for when you said you wanted a valid but 'false' argument. Indeed, instead of saying that arguments are true or false, you can say they are good or bad (and of course anything in between: pretty good, pretty bad, ho-hum, excellent, terrible, etc.) A special kind of 'bad' argument is something like this: "Bananas are yellow. Therefore, bananas are yellow" Interestingly, this argument is logically valid, and its premises are true (well, not in my local supermarket, which for some reason thinks that I would like to purchase their still green bananas, but you get the point). However, it is what you will recognize as a circular argument ... which is bad. OK, but why exactly is it bad? Well, think about it: why would someone be looking for an argument as to whether bananas are yellow or not? Presumably it is exactly because such a person doesn't know whether bananas are yellow or not. And we really shouldn't be assuming something that, to this person, is not acceptable ... which is another reason why for real life purposes, it may be more useful to define well-foundedness as 'the premises are acceptable' rather than 'the premises are true'. 

No. 'P provided Q' translates to Q -> P, so you need Small(c) -> Rightof(c,a) Yes Your first attempt is correct. The punctuation gives it away Correct Also good! 

Here are a selected few physicalist theories of consciousness, from the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy entry on Consciousness: Bernard Baars' Global Workspace Theory describes consciousness in terms of a competition among processors and outputs for a limited capacity resource that “broadcasts” information for widespread access and use. According to Jesse Prinz's Attended Intermediate level Representation theory (AIR), a conscious perception be a Representation of a perceptually Intermediate property (such as colors, shapes, tones, and feels) that is Attended to with gamma (40–80hz) vector activity in sensory cortex. Tononi's Integrated Information Theory (IIT) identifies consciousness with integrated information of the relevant sort. A sampling of recent neural theories might include models that appeal to global integrated fields (Kinsbourne), binding through synchronous oscillation (Singer 1999, Crick and Koch 1990), NMDA-mediated transient neural assemblies (Flohr 1995), thalamically modulated patterns of cortical activation (Llinas 2001), reentrant cortical loops (Edelman 1989), comparator mechanisms that engage in continuous action-prediction-assessment loops between frontal and midbrain areas (Gray 1995), left hemisphere based interpretative processes (Gazzaniga 1988), and emotive somatosensory hemostatic processes based in the frontal-limbic nexus (Damasio 1999) or in the periaqueductal gray (Panksepp 1998). The physicist Roger Penrose (1989, 1994) and the anesthesiologist Stuart Hameroff (1998) have championed a model according to which consciousness arises through quantum effects occurring within subcellular structures internal to neurons known as microtubules. Well! No shortage of physicalist theories I would say. Too bad there's not even a hint of consensus in sight. Maybe next year! 

Now, we do not diagram this information into the diagram, but rather inspect the diagram (which visually expresseses the information contained within the premises) to see if the diagram will force the conclusion to be true .... and indeed it does! That is, we used the 'X' to represent 'something that is both a Recording Artists and a Siongwriter, but since it was forced to be in the region that is also inside the Musicians are, the 'X' therefore became something that is all three. And thus, in particular, we know that there has to be something that is both a songwriter and a musicians, making the conclusion true. So, since the conclusion was forced to be true if we assumed the premises to be true, we know the argument is valid. 

Both stories are examples of Supertasks. The Scrooge McDuck story in particular is better known as the Ross-Littlewood Paradox or tennis-ball problem or ping-pong conundrum: if you start with no tennis balls, and every day you add 10 but remove 1, you can argue that you end up with none, since if you number the balls, and if you remove 1 after adding 1 through 10, remove 2 after adding 11 through 20, etc., then 'in the end' every tennis ball will get removed. Then again, if you remove 2 after adding 1 through 10, remove 3 after adding 11 through 20, etc., then 'in the end' you will end up with 1 tennis ball. And if you always remove the lowest even numbered tennis ball, you end up with an infinite tennis balls (all the odd numbered ones) after all. Which is what makes this a paradox. One big problem (and possible resolution to the paradox) of course is that there seems to be no such thing as 'in the end', since we're talking about an infinite number of sequential actions. Some people will therefore say that such supertasks are logically impossible: Tristan's biography will never get completed, and Scrooge will never go bankrupt. Others, however, maintain that a supertask can be completed by taking the first action in 1 second, and each successive action in half the time it takes to do the previous action - after 2 seconds, you will then have done an infinite number of actions. Of course, this latter argument seems to be problematic as well: first of all it assumes that between now and 2 seconds from now there are an infinite number of points of time ... and as such it assumes that the flow of time itself is performing a supertask, and thus it effectively begs the question as to whether supertasks are possible. Indeed, arguments like Zeno's paradox argue against the infinite divisibility of space and time. And finally, Benacerraf argued that these kinds of descriptions of supertasks only describe what happens while the task is being performed ... but the descriptions are silent on what should be the case when the task is done. Thus, even if supertasks are possible, it is still not clear what facts would hold when it is 'completed'. Needless to say, the possibility of supertasks, and what we can conclude when supertasks would in fact be performed, is still hotly debated. 

I would call it a Hasty Refutation: rejecting a general claim on the basis of a single or a few cases that seem to go against that claim. It is the refutation counterpart to the Hasty Generalization, where you point to just one or a handful of cases to justify a general claim. We would be making the fallacy of Hasty Generalization when we say: "Look at the warm weather we've been having over the past 3 days: must be global warming!" 

Maybe your premise that everything is physical (i.e. that everything is a "consequence of consequence of motion and interaction of particles and energy transformation" as you put it) is false. Dualism is the view that human consciousness is not physical, and most dualists believe that human consciousness can causally effect things. Of course, how exactly non-physical things effect physical things is not clear. And even more pressingly, if we have determinism, whether it is physical determinism or non-physical determinism (i.e. whether our decision are determined by out physical and/or non-physical constitution), the "we can't do otherwise" argument against free will still stands. It is also possible that not everything is causally determined by the current state of things. This view is called Indeterminism. Many people point to quantum physics as supporting a kind of indeterminism. Of course, how quantum indeterminism saves the notion of free will is not clear either. For one, even if we have indeterminism at the micro-quantum, we may still have, what is for all intents and purposes, determinism at, say, the neuronal macro-level And again, even more pressingly, while determinism seems to rule out the 'free' part of free will, with indeterminism we seem to lose the 'will' part of free will, as this would seem to imply that we can no longer 'control' our actions. Finally, we can think of 'free will' as 'voluntary' or 'not being forced to do something'. For example, if someone forces me to give you $100, then that action is not out out of my free will, but if no one forces me, then I can give that $100 out of my 'own volition', or 'free will'. Psychologists certainly make a difference between compulsive behavior and voluntary behavior, and this difference is also used in court cases to determine how 'responsible' someone is, and whether someone needs punishment or treatment. This kind of 'free will' is compatible with determinism. For example, a chess computer makes its moves on the basis of contemplating possible moves and deciding which of those seems to have the best prospect. The moves are, as such, the result of the computer's own doing or volition; no one is reaching in and swapping bit strings while the program is running. And if the computer comes equipped with grippers to move the actual pieces, no one is forcefully grabbing those grippers and making them move a piece. So, we can say the chess computer has its own 'free will' ... even as its moves are fully determined by its program; were we to put the computer in the same state, it will make the exact same move. And if physical determinism is true, then the same would be true for humans and their minds and brains: put in the exact same situation, and with the exact same brain state, we will go through the exact same neural and cognitive processes, and make the exact same decisions. And yet, because it is exactly because it is our mind that lead to that decision, rather than someone else grabbing our arms to make us do something, we can say that we have 'free will'. This position is called compatibilism.