The terms tend to be reasonably well-defined within a field of study, but there's essentially no coordination between fields, at least not in the Anglosphere. For example, in historical linguistics, Early Modern English is the period of the language from the start of the Tudor dynasty to the Restoration, when the transition to the modern form of the language began. Middle English, before the Tudors, is fairly difficult for speakers of Modern English to read. Early Modern English, such as the original language of the King James Bible and of Shakespeare, is quite comprehensible, although the spelling is often modernised nowadays. True Modern English was written from the mid-eighteenth century onwards and presents no problem, although it's often possible to tell approximately when something was written via changing fashions in word use and idioms. So Modern English was formed before the end of the OP's Early Modern period, and there's no "post-modern" period in linguistics; as others have said, that's a cultural term, rather than a historical one. 

Nest ferch Rhys was the only legitimate daughter of Rhys ap Tewdwr, the last king of Deheubarth in Wales, so she was certainly a princess. She was raped and abducted in 1109 by Owain ap Cadwgan, but was eventually returned to her husband. 

The question, as asked, has no simple answer. The concept of monarchy evolved gradually from the pre-historic leadership of clans and tribes, and all of its trappings evolved along with it. There was no single invention of the modern version of monarchy, only a series of changes and re-inventions, stretching back before recorded history. 

Knowing he was with the 44th Division tells us something and gives clues for getting more information. Wikipedia has a page for the 44th Infantry Division, which was originally known simply as the "44th Division" and was made up of East Coast National Guard units. Hopefully that's consistent with the area he came from? The Wikipedia page reckons that the division landed at Cherbourg in September 1944, spent a month training, fought in the Vosges Mountains and took part in the liberation of Strasbourg. It then moved on to Ratzwiller and Fort Simserhof, repelled German counter-attacks, crossed the Rhine on 26th March, took Mannheim, and then came out of the line for three weeks for training. Returning to combat in late April, it crossed the Danube and headed for Austria, taking the surrender of Wernher Von Braun and his group of V-2 rocket scientists along the way. It reached Imst, Austria, before the end of the war in Europe, did a brief period of occupation duty and then returned to the US for re-training. The sudden end of the war in the Pacific meant that the 44th never deployed there. The commanders in Europe were Robert L. Spragins and William F. Dean and their Wikipedia pages give more detail, and add inconsistencies to the story. Wikipedia also gives us links to a site specifically about the 44th, and to a site at the US Army Centre for Military History, which has quite a lot of administrative detail. 

Defection rather implies changing sides in a conflict. None of the senior Nazis seem to have done that: 

The UK has a constitution, but it was not constructed systematically in the way of most modern written constitutions, and it can be extended when necessary. The abdication of Edward VIII caused some significant precedents to be set. There were no established procedures, because nothing like this had ever happened before. His ministers and other influential people convinced him that he could not marry Wallis Simpson and retain public support. Modern standards of behaviour are rather different, so it may seem strange. 

To add to MAGolding's answer, Murad II may have been willing to arbitrate because it gave him influence over the internal politics of the shrunken and weakened Byzantine Empire. Constantine XI Palaiologos and The Empress Helena favoured union between the Eastern Orthodox Church and the Roman Catholic Church. They hoped that this would bring them support from Catholic Europe, which had demonstrated it was stronger than the Byzantine Empire, by taking Constantinople in 1204. However, the Byzantine population steadfastly opposed the union of the churches. Demetrios Palaiologos, Constantine's rival for the throne, was opposed to that union, which gave him popular support. Murad II decided the dispute in favour of the candidate with less popular support, improving his empire's chances of conquering Constantinople, which happened only four years later. The expression "Byzantine Politics" describes this kind of behaviour. 

The title appears to be Yertle the Turtle. It's about authoritarianism and its failures, not Marxism. It might have been banned in some places in the USA, because it used the word "burp," considered somewhat rude in 1958, but it sold well. There's a reasonably well-known turtle called Myrtle at the New England Aquarium, but she's only been there since 1970. Mind you, it's a pretty obvious name for any female turtle. 

I very much doubt that the original name of the "Centrocaspian Dictatorship" had the implications of modern English "dictatorship." Given that the title must be a translation, I'm suspicious that "dictatorship" is translating some word that was meant to imply government in an emergency, and that the English translation originated with someone with an excessively classical education, who assumed everyone would apply the ancient Roman meaning. I'm still doubtful that "dictatorship" had all of the implications of the modern English term. 

It was a matter of production volumes. As of mid-1945, the Manhattan Project was still dependent on the very slow electromagnetic process at the Y-12 plant at Oak Ridge for producing highly enriched uranium (HEU). When Little Boy was detonated, it expended at least 90% of the HEU that was available. However, plutonium was being produced much faster, at the rate of several bombs-worth of material per month, at the Hanford Site. The Fat Man implosion-based design also required less material for the same explosive yield, so it simply made sense to concentrate on it. Nowadays, there is far better technology for uranium enrichment, which also produces far less nuclear waste than plutonium production, but that wasn't the case in 1945. 

It is possible to kill a ridiculous number of birds in a day, if you do driven game shooting. The Wikipedia article specifically describes grouse shooting, but pheasant and partridge can be shot in the same way. This doesn't resemble what most people would call "hunting", it's an activity of wealthy Europeans, especially the British nobility. Birds are raised on large estates, looked after by a gamekeeper, or more than one. You need to be extremely rich to afford this, but that was no trouble for the heir of the Austro-Hungarian empire. On the day of the shoot, the gamekeeper and other supporting cast acting as "beaters" drive the birds towards the shooters. It's kind of like clay pigeon shooting, except that the birds fly on much more varied trajectories. Using several shotguns, with servants to reload them and pass them to you, getting a shot off every 10 seconds or so is easily possible. You have more servants to collect and count the birds. Shooting 2,140 birds in a day would be a long afternoon for a good shot (the British record seems to be 1000 in a day, out of nearly 4000 shot by that shooting party) but there's nothing impossible about it. 

A few more hours work, and help from commenters has convinced me that if Operation Bogart existed, it was quite small and not terribly significant. 4th Commando Brigade (formerly 4th Special Service Brigade) consisted of No. 4 Commando (a British Army unit) and Nos. 41, 47 and 48 (Royal Marine) Commandos. No. 46 (Royal Marine) Commando had been part of the brigade, but was replaced by No. 4 Commando. A Commando, in this usage, was a battalion-sized unit. The whole brigade took part in Operation Infatuate, the seizure of the island of Walcheren, starting on 1st November 1944 and finishing on 8th November. 

It appears that Churchill was not at first aware of the meaning of the offensive version of the gesture. While he had no title, he was very much an aristocrat, and his insight into the behaviour of the British lower classes was fairly limited. This is plausible: the UK was far more stratified by social class than it is today, which is still quite a lot compared to many other countries. Once his aides pointed out the meaning of the palm-inwards version of the gesture, he was careful to use the palm-outwards version. The nearness of the gesture to "up yours, Hitler" may well have contributed to its popularity. There is an earlier incident that shows Churchill being naïve about the British lower classes. When Churchill was First Sea Lord before WWI, he needed to consult King George V over the names of new battleships. One of his proposals was HMS Pitt, after one of both of the Prime Ministers of that name. George V rejected that. He had been a naval officer for many years. He knew that sailors use affectionate or mocking nicknames for their ships, the nickname for "Pitt" was just obvious and he didn't want it used. Churchill complained about that, but nobody who actually knew sailors agreed with him.