Here is the full text of the Walsh Commission in html: $URL$ here is the text on Google Books: $URL$ here is a pdf of the text from Cornell Library: $URL$ here are multiple links to the text via the Internet Archive: $URL$ 

Almost all of the information that I can find with regards to the Moorish invasion of the Iberian Peninsula simply states when the Moors invaded. There seems to be very little on what the motivation of the Moors was to invade the Iberian Peninsula. Is this just a little studied area of history? I'm hoping someone can provide some academic sources supporting a reason why they invaded, and not just stating that they did invade. 

I know this question is old, but the previous answers did not touch on truly intercontinental trade. The first example of intercontinental trade has to be during the Age of Discovery. From the 15th-17th century the European nations explored beyond their borders in search of trade, and subsequently subjugation. The interaction between them and other cultures is the world's first example of intercontinental trade. The Vikings may have traded with people far beyond their borders, and even the Carthaginians may have reached the New World, but in terms of sustained trade the Age of Discovery has to be paramount. The exploration missions of the "discoverers" from Europe were all prefaced upon finding a quicker route to the silk trade routes of Asia that Marco Polo originally discovered with his overland route. This was the impetus for European exploration and would lead to the wide spread European colonization and the development of intercontinental trade in goods previously non-existent in mainland Europe such as spices, and chocolates. These trade routes, and the driving force behind them have to be the first examples of intercontinental trade because they actually endured and influenced history. The previous routes were short lived. 

The Voluntary Human Extinction Movement would answer your question in the affirmative, however, it is not a society per se, and it doesn't advocate against sex, but rather it advocates against procreation. I think that ultimately sex is viewed by nearly all human groups as being a necessary part of existence. 

Short Answer: Pragmatism. Long Answer: Looking at the history, there does not appear to have been much resistance to the US "running the show." This is probably due to the fact that the US, UK, and Canada were the initial parties pushing for something like NATO. This desire was intensified by the Berlin Blockade. Not to mention the fact that at the time of formation, and up to today, the US had, and has, the most powerful military. One last preliminary point, there is no formal selection process codified by NATO for selecting SACEUR or DSACEUR. When NATO was originally formed was there any resistance to the setting of the precedent that the President of the United States nominated SACEUR, and that SACEUR would always be American? Looking through NATO's explanation of the formation of NATO nothing indicates that there was resistance to the US nominating SACEUR. In the context of post-WWII Europe this makes sense for a couple of reasons. The first is that President Eisenhower, then General Eisenhower, was extremely popular in Europe after WWII, and had extensive experience organizing a large military in Europe from his time as Supreme Allied Commander. The second reason is that most of Europe was still completely devastated from the effects of WWII. They simply did not have the resources to contribute on the same scale as the US, and accordingly probably did not think it would have been proper to insist that SACEUR wasn't an American. Indeed, when the Soviet Union and Finland signed their treaty the Norweigian Foreign Minister, Halvard Lange, asked the US and UK what they would do if the Soviet Union attacked Norway. The third reason seems to be that during the initial years of NATO, from planning to its formation, high ranking military members of the member states were heavily involved in structuring the organization. These people were likely less driven by politics than elected officials, and more driven by the stark reality that if the US was not heavily involved in NATO the organization would fail. Where there any political reasons for SACEUR being American beyond the Americans wanting to retain control of a force that heavily comprised of their troops and wanting to retain tactical control of their nuclear weaponry? The reasons you mention definitely played a part, but as mentioned already, the US was contributing the bulk of the military force, had been one of the original parties pushing for NATO, and the other member countries wanted the US to be in charge. Why is it that only British and German officers have served as his Deputy? and who chooses the Deputy SACEUR? Again, this seems to be a function of custom. I could not find anything on a formal selection process for DSACEUR, let alone SACEUR, so I'm inclined to believe that the countries agree on a name. It has probably traditionally been someone from the UK, and then later on the occasional German, because those countries were the biggest contributors after the US. It is worth noting that the Secretary General of NATO has always been a European. So, you have a bit of balancing going on. The US runs the military. The Europeans run the diplomacy. 

I don't really have any sources for this because I can't seem to find any. My answer is what I think makes logical sense given the situation in these countries. Territorial expansion is often driven by a need for more resources, or by competition between neighboring peoples, etc. If you do not have enough food, or access to water then you as a people have to take it by force. However, the climates of Indonesia, Papa New Guinea, and Polynesia are tropical. They provide ample flora and fauna to support a people. They also contain lots of coconut trees which are sometimes referred to as the Tree of Life. To expand into Australia you would need sea worthy ships which wasn't really a part of the needs of the people at the time. The point is that the peoples that came from this society thrived in their environment. The land provided them literally everything they needed to survive. There wasn't a need to go off and try to discover other lands because they had everything they needed right there. Not to mention when you have perfect weather almost every day of the year why would you want to go find some place else? 

Hawks Robert S. McNamara Secretary of Defense during the Kennedy, and Johnson administrations. Henry Kissinger for his work prior to becoming National Security Advisor. Lyndon B. Johnson for his escalation of the war. John F. Kennedy for his involvement prior to the declaration of war. Doves John Lennon for his activism. Ron Dellums for his election as an anti-war activist, not to mention his war crimes exhibit. Tim L. Carter, Republican congressman from Kentucky who implored the US to withdraw troops, in 1967. Martin Luther King, Jr. for his opposition. Jane Fonda for her activism. 

The French system of laws is a civil law system that is based upon the Napoleonic Code, and further back the Justinian Code. The legal system in Louisiana is now bijuridicial retaining some of the elements of the Napoleonic Code. But, why did the rest of the land that was purchased as part of the Louisiana Purchase not adopt a civil law system, like Louisiana did? All of the other states that were originally part of the Louisiana Purchase now have common law systems. 

The quick answer is the Cold War. The context surrounding the assassination of Ngo Dinh Diem provides the long answer. After WWII the US and the USSR were engaged in the Cold War. The time period from 1949-1963 saw China, North Korea, and Cuba become outright communist countries, and a short lived regime sympathetic to Moscow appeared in Guatemala. This created great fear in the US foreign policy apparatus that the Cold War was being lost one proxy state at a time. This fear is a large contributing factor to why the US had a strong commitment to Ngo Dinh Diem. In 1963, Ngo Dinh Diem was viewed by many in the US foreign policy apparatus as having lost control of the population, and unable to defeat the communists he was at war with. The famous image of the Buddhist monk lighting himself on fire had just been published in the New York Times, and Kennedy's advisors lost faith in Ngo Dinh Diem. In this context (fear of the spread of communism) Kennedy gave implicit approval of the assassination operation. According to Stephen Kinzer's book Overthrow Kennedy never gave explicit approval, and regretted the death of Ngo Dinh Diem. For further reading: For the Common Defense @ pp. 573-576 Overthrow @ pp. 149, 152-169 

The wording of these responsibilities is very vague, and arguably purposefully so. Dealing with intelligence gathering in foreign nations is highly unpredictable, and substantial wiggle room seems to be worked into the package. At least that is what the language related to responsibilities reads like to me. The point is the budget for the CIA is secret, and their day to day activities are largely self-regulated. This is both good, and bad. 

There have been no studies that I am aware of and history seems to indicate that there is not a correlation between longevity and frequency of wars. Whether or not a nation goes to war is dependent on many factors that have nothing to do with a given ruler's age. A decision to go to war can be based upon being attacked by another nation, desiring natural resources, desiring territory in dispute, an overabundance of resources in the home country, a lack of political stability, etc. The point is that the external, and internal, factors that work against a ruler/nation exist regardless of the ruler's age. I suppose you could find examples that a young ruler would invite an attack from a neighboring country, and conversely a weak and sick ruler. However, these instances are probably the exception to the rule. The society's rules of succession, or existing legal framework, are a much better indicator of its proclivity for war. If there are not clear rules for succession you are more likely to have civil war. Likewise, if the elections of a country are a source of controversy you are more likely to have a civil war. Looking at resources, if a country has all the resources it needs it will probably not go to war. If that country has an economic boom and needs new markets for its wares it is more likely to engage in war to seek out colonies to peddle its wares, etc.