You're stuck in this situation now Now that the disparity of salary levels are in the open within your team, it's natural for your lower paid colleagues to feel aggrieved. Whatever you do to try and force a softer view of yourself isn't likely to work. This situation will most probably remain until the team splits up or there's a salary review that levels the pay grade, or you're promoted sideways into another team. I don't see any easy way out of this dynamic, and this is why pay levels are largely confidential in nature. 

Sing back, slightly off-key And hope they get the message. Or just come right out with it and say that it's a little distracting. But either way, don't press it too much, there's worse things in life to cope with. 

Email should be fine for this. The team should be aware (through their training) of the need and reasons for discretion, but just need reminding to keep their mouths shut. 

Just talk to them. If they're a good employer, they'll respect the fact that you're reaching the end of your degree and should allow you to complete that successfully. If their need to fill that role isn't urgent, then I don't see why they can't wait a while. Bear in mind that if they find someone else suitable, then you may lose that slot. But you won't know without talking with them (assuming that for some reason this didn't come up in conversation during your first interview). 

You have time on your side to find a job that fits your skill-set and personality. So swap your focus from finding any job, and take your time to find the job. In the meantime, find something outside work that you really enjoy doing - being happier in your home life often brings more of a sense of fulfilment into your working life. Many people are depressed at work because they're stuck in a rut that that feel they can't get out of. Guess what? You're in a better situation than them because you're finding ways out of that rut. You have no idea how good you have things. 

I'm guessing the hiring manager wanted to shake up the interview process (possibly as an experiment to see how it fared). Questions and tasks like these don't necessarily reward levels of "rightness", but serve to illustrate to the interviewer how you think and how you approach problem solving (and how you react to the unknown). It might be an idea for you to take a look at How would you move Mount Fuji: 

I don't know whether this is applicable to your workflow or not, but you could get team members to pair up in some way. Player 1 - Has a first crack at a case and documents findings Player 2 - Has an independent view on the same case and also documents findings. Players 1 & 2 - compare notes and learn from each other. The added benefit is that the findings from both players are combined into a greater total. Case accuracy increases, employee ability increases. Swap the teamings around so that sometimes experiences people effectively mentor less experienced team members, and equally skilled teamsters compete with each other. You could explore gamification as well. 

If you're new, take some time to observe and do what other people do, it's generally a good indicator of what's acceptable and what isn't. Of course, long-timers get away with more... It's not likely that your colleagues will feel awkward if you snack at your desk, and it's not all that likely that they'll ask for some of your snacks every time. You don't really need to ask, but there may be a company policy or unwritten agreement that people don't snack where they work. 

Consult a lawyer. No one here can offer you legal advice. Two years is a bit long to come up with that, so there's clearly something else at play here. 

They're managing things, obviously. Specifically, dealing with all of the crap that comes from higher up in the business and stopping most of it before it hits you. They're also sugar-coating your results and feeding them upwards. And they take calls from endless recruiters offering them losers with inappropriate skillsets to work for them. They also sort their emails into folders and ensure that most of them have a high number of "unread" messages, so that it looks as though they're far too busy to read their emails in lots of different ways. 

Unless they've been upfront with offering to reimburse you, I'd say that they won't. Most of the time, interviewees have to fund their own way to interviews unless there's special circumstances (i.e. a flight/overnight stay is required). Here in the UK, it would cost me about the same to travel into London for an interview - I wouldn't even think to ask for that cost to be paid back; I'd assume it might be taken as a negative if I demanded travel costs. If anything, you could say something in the interview if they ask how the journey was - don't mention the cost, just the length of the journey and see if anything is offered. I wouldn't outright ask, but that might just be me. 

Just give change normally (largest denominations you have in the till). Generally speaking, people want less stuff to carry around, so a $20 bill is preferable to carrying around four $5 bills. I'm not sure how you assume that people will give you tips either, they might not appreciate being told "I'm giving you smaller bills so you can tip me". 

So someone scattered a few spare badges around... Ignore it and carry on eating. People have probably have had enough of the election, have made their minds up, so these will probably be ignored by everyone. Once the election has finished, just clear away the trash (if whoever put it there doesn't remove it the day after). It's just noise, and complaining/doing something about it will probably cause more problems than is necessary. 

You'll then be able to serve your notice without having to suffer the toxicity in the office (at the rest of your team can start whining at each other, if that's what they want to do). 

You don't have an infinite amount of managers. Just write to them all and let them know that you prefer to work more day shifts than night shifts (and let them know what ration you prefer). See what the responses are and work with that. 

It's just recruiter spam. They search profiles for the necessary skill-set they want to target and send out emails. You've not been accepting all LinkedIn contact requests, have you? If anyone sends me a contact request that says "I'd like to add you to my LinkedIn network", I simply delete it (even if it's someone I know). If people can't be bothered to construct a targeted invitation, I can't be bothered to network with them. 

The general manager will invariably delete your email. Managers typically get a large amount of unsolicited emails, so you shouldn't expect a direct email to be read or acted upon. Stay with the HR route. 

Source We don't have visibility of the previous 27 emails passed between you and the artist, so we can't judge what's happened. It seems fairly clear that there's a break-down in communication and expectations here which has resulted in the artist submitting something/anything. We can't see both sides of the story here, but we're now getting up to the requisite 28 comments without really understanding the purpose of this observation area or how you see it happening, or how you communicated your requirements to the artist. Sorry if this comes across as being somewhat sarcastic. This isn't my aim, but this graphic does seem remarkably apt. 

Yes, you should be honest and upfront about it, but make it clear that you're using this experience to move yourself forwards in a positive way. There's a good article about this on Monster.com (and probably other job advice sites too): 

Basically, it's because the use of contractions implies an informal tone in the writing. For professional/technical documentation, I've always avoided contractions; it just looks more professional that way. 

Organize something good enough so that that people would actually want to travel to participate in. I used to work for a company where the majority of the team spent their time working remotely on customers sites or at home. Every so often, we'd get an invitation to an event at HQ where we'd all get together and do something. Of course this somewhat depends on the geographical spread of your employees (if there's a wide enough spread, local events might suffice). Remote workers attending a virtual event might not be so attractive. 

Ask your manager what proportion of your working day should be dedicated to the lower priority tasks. From this he should understand that diverting you away from the high priority jobs will result in them being delayed by x hours and reinforce the fact that you can only work a set amount of hours per day. If he wants you to do everything at once, point out that this can't happen and ask for additional resources to help work through the workload. 

It's time to dust off your resume and look for another job. It looks very much as though your manager is helping you decide to leave by placing obstacles in the path of your productivity. You've proved that you're competent enough, so look for another job where your competency can be valued. You could try and do things his way, but you already know that it's the wrong approach and you'll only end up in a downward spiral of servitude and despondency. Cut your losses and leave. 

Assume that they know, or they'll find out. If you tell them something that turns out not to be the case, they'll cut you loose without a backward glance. You cannot lie, or bluff, or downplay your part in your firing. If they ask, tell them what happened. Take ownership of your problem and demonstrate that you've learned from this experience. Be humble and be clear about how you're not going to let yourself fall into the same trap as before. Be polite, be professional. Do not bad-mouth your previous employers - however tempting this is, it'll be taken as you trying to distract the problem from yourself (plus, it's a bad thing to do anyway). 

I'd say this comes under the remit of discussing your working hours and how flexible they are. It's entirely reasonable to discuss this during the interview process as it is pretty important to you. Many businesses are flexible when it comes to accommodating parents needs, some aren't so much. 

Job Titles aren't just labels Job titles (typically in larger companies) form part of the staff hierarchy. These roles are linked to your pay grade, benefits, head-count reporting, IT profile setup, task assignment routing, etc. On top of this is all of the internal systems that have drop-downs/filters for employee lookups based on job title. As noted in different answers, you'll also get some friction from team-mates when you've got a different title (and they'll assume you're on a different pay grade as a result). What happens if you join the company and someone else joins afterwards who has chosen an even cooler name? It makes sense for a company to only use as many job titles as is necessary for the company to use. The fewer job-titles, the easier things get. So, asking for a different job title has larger implications, which are likely to just get turned down. Also, you're applying for a web developer role, so you'll be doing web development. You can't change that role simply to make your resume look better (that's basically lying). How is a future employer going to think if they call up for a reference to find out that you've been doing web development and not software engineering? 

I'm not sure it matters so much. If your current job take precedence, then place the fellowship alongside your education details, it's where people would expect a fellowship to be detailed anyway. Don't forget that you can always change things around according to the needs of the role you're applying for. 

In the salary band for the role isn't included in the job advert, then you can ask what the salary range is for this role. Of course, you won't get anything specific because that's based on what end of the scale they'll put you on. At least getting a range will give you an idea.