Make sure people understand that you don't like to be called by that nickname. Ignore that nickname. If someone says something like: "Stretch, can you come over here." just ignore it. Edit to clarify this: I think the OP should ignore it in a way that he does not go over there. The same way as if someone would say: "Peter, can you come over here.". He is not Peter and he is not Stretch so why should he react? I am sure if he does that a couple of times then people will use his real name again. 

If you think there is a chance you can find the documents then search for them now. If you are pretty sure you wont be able to find them then report it to your boss ASAP. Don't try to hide it. Tell them it's your fault and show them you are willing to do whatever has to be done to rectify the problem. 

I think a big issue here is what it means "you know" the language. I.e. if you studied a book about the syntax of the language you can claim you know it. But do you know it in theory or do you know how to use it efficiently. And how much experience do you have using it efficiently? Lots of people (not directed at you) claim they know a language but in reality they know just a little about it. Maybe for certain jobs that little is good enough, it depends. I suggest you get a job with a real project as soon as possible and learn on the job. There is a lot more than just "knowing the language". It seems you know enough to start working. Do it and then continue to learn all the new things you need to know - and never stop learning. 

Learn to concentrate on one job. Be honest about your past but tell your future boss that you learned to improve yourself. You did this and that (see 1). 

I suggest you talk to your boss and tell him that in the past he did involve you more in decisions but recently not so much anymore (be ready to come up with an example if he asks). Tell him that you are wondering why he does this. Try to keep the conversation neutral like an enquiry and not an accusation. Maybe you will hear an unexpected answer, maybe he will tell you that the other people are more qualified, there might be many reasons. I think at this stage you should keep an open mind and just ask why and that's it. If he tells you that your past answers were no good and this is why he does not ask anymore then I suggest just hear him out in that moment and don't do anything else. Then think about it maybe at home or over a weekend and maybe then do further steps. But first just collect information about the why. 

I think this is the important part here: "accusation [...] that I believe to be unfounded" You can avoid some accusations by thinking twice about what you say. And maybe don't say certain things even if you think they are harmless. If you are in doubt then don't say it. But some people can feel accused about almost anything. I remember some time ago in a company I talked to a woman (A) and I don't think I said anything "bad". In fact I don't remember anymore what we talked about (over a year ago). But then another woman (B) in that office talked to me and told me that A is upset and I should apologize. It was difficult for me to understand why she was upset but I understood she was upset. So I walked over to her (A) and told her something along the line: Sorry if I upset you, it was not my intention. It seems that was good enough for her. 

I guess basically you have to include your current job. Because if you leave it out and for whatever reason someone finds out that you had that job then this will raise questions like: Why didn't he mention it? What else did he not tell us? And in some cases it might give them a reason to fire you because you didn't tell the whole truth. If you want to avoid it then maybe you get away with that for a few weeks because your sent out your "old" resume which you "forgot" to update with your latest position. But that won't work for long and is clearly not a good thing to do. 

Talk to the guy and ask him why he does what he does and listen to him. Maybe this person is (a lot) more qualified then you and maybe he has important messages to you what you should do and how you should do it. The fact that he is well regarded by the management and other developers is a sign that maybe he is not the problem here. 

Don't be shy to report it. I am sure HR wants to know about it also because you are not the only person who reads this. No company wants to have a connection to a person who behaves like that. 

I have a boss who is often not in the office, sometimes for weeks. But I and my colleagues still do our jobs. We all know it's his company and he provides the work and he pays our salaries. As long as he provides enough work for us and pay our money we don't really have to see him. And if we have some questions we email him or call him and we get answers. So we can do our work without him being present. Sometimes the boss is at home (and works?) and sometimes he is traveling to see customers. How much of his day he really sees customers is another question. But nobody really cares as long as he gets his work done. And his work is providing us with work and making sure we get paid. I don't know if this will work for you. It obviously depends a lot on your work. If your employees could do the same without you and make double the money then probably you should not leave them alone - otherwise they will do it without you. But if you do your job of making sure they have work and get paid and you are available when necessary then it shouldn't be a problem if you are not so much in the office. 

I do freelance computer work (hardware, network, database development) for a small company since years. Until about a year ago I worked for the owner. The owner does not know much about computer and he knows that. He trusts me, I made suggestions, the owner approved them, and everything worked fine for years. Now the company is growing and the owner employed a friend to manage part of the company. He seems to be competent in some areas but he has no idea about computer. That wouldn't be a problem if he would acknowledge that fact and ask for advise. But he is not asking. He just makes bad decisions and he treats me like a "worker". Do this, do that, but don't make any smart suggestions. I get paid for my time and if he makes a bad decision and I have to work double the time that shouldn't be my concern. But it's no fun to work like that. I prefer to work with competent people or at least with people who listen. I guess the manager will stay in that job for the foreseeable future because the busy boss needs someone he can trust. So likely I will be stuck to follow the orders of that guy. What I would like is that the manager asks and listens to make better decisions. Then we would pull in the same direction to get things done. But in the moment he makes a bad decisions (i.e. he buy unsuitable hardware) and then I make the best out of the situation. He would have saved money and time if he would have asked me first. But he didn't ask. And after I told him that his decision was not really good (in a nice way) he still ignores my advice. And this happened a couple of times. I tried to talk to him in private a few time but he does not change. He tells me something like: "I understand but this is what I decided and that's it". I talked to the boss and explained the situation. And the boss understands it and does not like it. But I guess the boss does not want to reprimand the friend who does a good job in other areas. This situation is still in development and maybe the boss will do something. My question here is: How can I convince the manager to make better decisions so that we pull in the same direction together? Just for clarification: There is no doubt that the manager makes bad decisions. I know the difference between different opinions and bad decisions. I am not in competition with him about his job. I don't want his job and he should know that. It is also unlikely that the manager wants to get rid of me. Because I developed the main database for the company and if I would stop working with them they would have a major problem (maybe not right away but in the long run). Edit - This questions is different to other questions in at least two ways: 

Pick up the phone and call the person and ask for any details you need to know. Or, if your offices are near to each other, call and ask to see the user and device. Lots of ordinary users have strange ideas and terminology about IT. They want to say A but they are saying B. You could exchange a couple of emails and get more (mis)information or you get right to the point and ask the user directly (on the phone or in person). That saves both of you time and headache. Edit: After some comments I like to add: Obviously call that person only at work on a work phone and don't do that if this is against your company's policy. I work with IT and sometimes I get strange requests per email. If the email was sent just minutes ago and I know this can't be easily solved with one more email then I call that person. At that time the called person knows right away what this is about. And because they have a problem to solve they are normally happy to talk about it. 

If you want the job why would you delay that interview? With 19h time difference you should be able to find a time which is convenient for everybody. I would call them to arrange a day and time. That is pro-active and it's a lot easier to find a good day/time instead of maybe a few emails back and forth. Maybe tell them that you are on a vacation so that they know your situation. 

Honesty is good. Because people don't like dishonest answers. But make sure it sounds not all negative. I.e. you can tell the person who interviews you that it's not easy for you to remember the names of all the data structures. But you know the differences and if you have to use a data structure you are able to recognize the best one. Be careful that you tell the truth in case there is a follow up question. Another thing to keep in mind is that maybe the person who asks the question is more interested in how you react and not what you answer. I.e. you could say your teacher didn't like you or something like that. But nobody wants to hear that you blame someone else. The interviewer might just want to test how you answer a question for which he knows there is no good answer. Do you try to complain or blame others or how do you react? That's the test, not the actual question. 

How about you create a list with pros and cons of the different frameworks together with everyone. It should include technical aspects what can be done or can't be done with the frameworks, how fast things can be done, stability issues, history (one framework is maybe stable, the other one is brand new and maybe still has some bugs) etc. I think it's best to create this together with the team in more or less random order. Maybe the developers want to talk first about the good things about the new framework and later you ask them about stability issues, etc. At that stage it's just about collecting information. And after that is done then you can look at priorities. I.e. for one project or one part of the project maybe the interface should look trendy and maybe that is easier done with the new framework. And for another part it is maybe more important that everything is 100% stable even if it takes longer, etc. If you do this together with the team you should all come to the same conclusion which framework should be used for what. But at the end of the day you are the manager and responsible for this. So it's your head if something goes wrong. You have to decide, best with the team but if necessary against their advise (after you all know the pros and cons).