Athletes carbo load in order to avoid going into glycogen debt during their performance ( essentially avoiding doing your diet ;) The body is designed to use glycogen for energy. Ketogenesis is an emergency backup when that fuel is not available. Its meant to keep your body going which it does but not as efficiently as glycogenisis so you end up depleting your fuel faster than you can make it. 

This is not how I like to organize a 3 day split workout but it works with what you've done so far. There are still a lot of variables like weight, # of reps, # of sets, rest time, machine vs dumbell vs barbell that are going to be dependent on a lot of factors like your current size, strength and ability. You really should call your trainer because a training plan should be a lot more than just a grouping of exercises. I find it strange that he's done two sessions with you and told you that you have to do a third session but hasn't scheduled it or prepared you for it. I don't want to judge with so little information but you and him need to get on the same page and you may want to shop around a little for a new trainer. 

Apart from the Monday, Wednesday, and Friday sessions, the routines shouldn't impose any special difficulty for your body. 

I haven't been in a program in which I haven't seen the results within this timeframe; however, if I do find myself in one, I'll follow the above list to determine what I might have missed. If I couldn't find any reason, I'll have tweak the program a little (as well as ask/research to determine what could have gone wrong) to determine if there's a difference. If there's no progression in 2 months, the program isn't for me. 

There isn't any significant difference between both options. That being said, cold water hydrates more effectively than room temperature. According to this source, During intense physical activity, the body's core temperature rises above the normal 98.6째F (37째C). Drinking cool water lowers the body's temperature and helps it settle back to its normal range. Studies have also shown that cold water 41째F (5째C) is absorbed more quickly from the stomach than warm, abating dehydration and allowing you to play harder and enjoy your game of soccer even more. 

Cycling is a good way to burn fat but it's not going to be as efficient as running. Alesplin is right that it's all about the amount of calories burned (burning fat is going to depend on you burning more calories than you take in). You can Google "calorie burning chart for exercise" or something similar and see a lot of different results that say a lot of different things (so I take them with a grain of salt) but ultimately I think you'll notice that in all of them they rate running as a better calorie burner than cycling. Also I can tell you from experience that I have to go out for 1+ hr bike ride to feel the equivalent fatigue that I'd get from a 20 minute run. 

It depends on what kind of running you are doing. If you are doing a low intensity distance run, no need to do any stretching or warmup. If you are doing a more intense aerobic run you should start with a low intensity warmup run (1/2 mile should be sufficient but ultimately it'll be dictated by your fitness level and the workout you are warning up for). If you are doing high intensity running like max effort sprints you should do an ascending warmup with some dynamic stretching. You should be sweating after this warmup. Save the static stretches for after your run. 

I understand that these are anecdotal, but they work for me. And I know one person that it's working for as well. And these aren't hard to follow. Once I see them as normal daily activities or some new adventure, they just fit into my life. Hope this broscience tips help. 

Think about it for a second: once the movement starts, the weight of the body is being balanced by the leg on the floor; to maintain a good posture for the exercise, the body's weight shifts backwards. If the force generated by the leg on the floor can counteract the body's weight, the hands can be placed anywhere. However, for most people (or beginners), the leg isn't strong enough to balance the whole body; therefore, the arms are needed in front to tilt the weight forward and thus, help the foot balance the overall weight. So basically, Weight by arms (in front) + force generated by the standing leg = total body weight (in the back) Again, if the leg is strong enough to generate enough force to counteract the body's weight, the arms can be placed anywhere. Thanks. 

Stretch, ice, heat, massage, ibuprofen & light activity There is no real cure for Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness (DOMS) and some of these suggestions are unproven (while some have been proven not to work) there is some science and lots of anecdotal evidence that these things will help. Stretching after your workout is a common practice which has many benefits. Some people report that it helps reduce DOMS but unfortunately the science says that it doesn't really. Heating and icing help facilitate bringing blood into and pushing blood out of the sore area which help recovery. Ice/heat can have a soothing affect too but that depends on the person (personally I hate the feeling of icing). Lightly massaging the sore muscles has also been report to help reduce DOMS but again there is no proof to back it up. I think it feels good though so it may just be psychological. ibuprofen is an anti-inflammatory and pain reliever. I think this benefits of this are obvious, but I will say to be careful to understand the health risks as you should do when ingesting any kind of chemical. Doing an Active Recovery (light activity) immediately after your workout will help reduce muscle lactate levels. Continuing to do active recovery activity in the days after your workout is a good way to keep the blood flow going to the sore muscles and prevent the muscles from tightening. 

Keep the article at the back of your mind as a caution to not to under-feed yourself; besides that, there's little reason to think about it. If you exercise your body to a fatigue level, your body'll alert you before reaching this stage. If you pay attention to your body, you can easily identify when you've overworked it. If you do happen to fall into this state (very unlikely if you pay attention), it certainly wouldn't take 3 months for your body to return to its natural state. With enough nutrition, rest, and lower exercise, your equilibrium should return in about 2 weeks. Continue your routine (be more concerned about the safety of your exercises), have enough nutrition, and take plenty of rest. Your lean, mean self is around the corner :). 

I haven't done any of those exercises; however, based on the design of the canes, it seems very plausible that balancing will be easier. From observation, the base of the cane is much wider than the height ( or human palms); as a result, it provides a solid balancing base for the user. Equally important is the width of the cane's top; the design is flat and as wide as a human palm, which makes it easy to balance onto. The only two concerns are 

Yes. Obviously any environmental hazards like glass and debris could cause a problem but I'm assuming you are asking about the impact on your foot and leg and lack of cushioning. Many barefoot runners run on concrete and asphalt, including during road races. All of the benefits of barefoot running hold true on hard surfaces. This articles points out that barefoot running (as opposed to wearing shoes) in fact reduces the risk of injury when running on hard surfaces. Edit: The "Yes" answer is dependent on using proper running technique. I thought this went without saying because the same goes for shoe'd running. When you have poor form you are more likely to get injured. "What is proper technique?" is a whole new question of it's own but generally speaking barefoot running with fore-foot strikes are going to transmit less impact into the joints and lower leg than heel-strike running with shoes on. Another important note is that if you are a new barefoot runner, you need to ease into it, just like you would any other new activity. 

Thirdly, when you initially start sitting straight, your back will become sore very quickly. This is normal; the soreness will gradually wear off the more you keep sitting properly. 

Conclusion Forget about DOMS for your abs. Focus on actively engaging them with high intensity and you'll feel and see the effects. 

Again, the purpose of this challenge isn't to prove that my answer is valid (although it might be a byproduct), it's to determine how practical both routines are in various work disciplines. Also, to satisfy scientific curiosity. Another equally important reason is this: A lot of people follow exercise routines with flawed designs (without their knowledge). And if/when they end up quitting, they blamed themselves for failing, without realizing that the fault lies with the program itself. When we advise users on routines, our goal is to ensure they are well designed so that the users would be helped on the long run. I don't see a point in giving users routines that they'll abandon after 2 weeks. So please, if you participate in this challenge, share your experiences so we can all benefit from them. Thank you. 

Day 3 is likely to be a Shoulders & Arms day. Your trainer told you that his plan is going to focus on distinct parts of your body on each day. Day 1 was Legs & Core, Day 2 was Back & Chest so that leaves Shoulders & Arms for Day 3. For exercises you can do: 

This all depends on how you are performing the exercises (how much weight, how many reps, how much rest between sets, how much rest between sessions...). Based on your comments, my answer is no, they are not going to negatively affect your running. If you were executing those exercises to train max strength or power (eg. higher weight, low-mid reps, moderate to full recovery) they are only going to have marginally positive affects on your distance running ability but that could be offset by adding more muscle weight that will make you a less efficient runner. Doing them with less intensity (lower weight, higher reps) and less recovery will be more beneficial to your running by improving the strength and strength endurance of your legs and your core. On another note swimming isn't the most efficient way to improve your running endurance. It helps improve cardiovascular endurance, but it does not train the strength or aerobic capacity of the muscles that are used in running. Ultimately your training plan is going to depend on your goals. If you are training to be a competitive distance runner this is not the most efficient approach. If your goal is overall fitness then this may work for you. 

If you've watched track competitions, you would have noticed that the athletes jump around, run a few steps forth and back before their actual races. 

Hi Memor-X, If you squat like the video you mentioned, you'll develop knee problems pretty fast. So please, don't perform it like that As others have mentioned, squat is an awesome body-weight exercise that mainly works the legs. However, there are variations of squats that can work the entire body. For example, it can be used as a form of cardio exercise by increasing the speed of the repetition. That will increase your heart and lungs' endurance. You can also include jumping to it. Instead of standing up from the squat position, you jump into the air as high as you can. That increases the intensity and works your heart and lungs as well (P90X participants should already be aware of that modification). Of course, it can also be modified into a burpee by including planking and jumping to the routine. Lastly, you can include barbell and weights with it; that works your entire body as well. Hope this helps. 

If you are having a problem with pacing I'd break your splits down to 1K if possible. Your exact strategy from there is going to depend on what your limiting factor is. Lactic acid build-up? Winded? Psychological... I'd recommend that you start out aiming for even splits to your goal and just give the last 1K all you have. From there you will probably get a better idea what a realistic goal time is and you can play around with loading different parts of the race for optimal physiological and psychological results. 

Creatine supplements can improve your ability to perform brief, intermittant, high intensity exercises. This is specifically useful in weight training and sprint training. By taking creatine supplements you increase your muscles stores of Phosphocreatine (PCr), which is used in the ATP/PC energy pathway (utilized for short bursts of intense activity < 10s). By increasing the stores of PCr you can extend the performance of the ATP/PC system and shorten it's recovery time. While you may see some better performances from the supplementation, it's primarily suited for allowing you to train longer and harder, so the specific training you do is going to be important. If you are talking about repeated sprints that are in excess of 100m you are going to see diminishing returns from supplementation the longer you go. To make improvements in this area you are going to need to do some training that targets the Glycolytic Pathway. If you answer the questions in my comment I can provide a more specific answer about how to train to achieve the outcome. Update: From the sounds of it you need to build your cardio base some more. Without knowing a time frame I can't really make any suggestions. You can continue on with the workouts as you are doing them and why they aren't intended to be cardio workouts they will serve this function until you are able to maintain the effort and stress the anaerobic lactic system. If you have a lot of time it would be much more efficient to follow a periodized training plan that builds a cardio base before moving into phases that focus on lactic and alactic speed.