Today in the middle of my ride it started raining and I could barely see due to the amount of rain on my glasses. This is basically what I could see 

Whenever I use my CycleOps magnetic trainer (like the one pictured below) my knees always end up hurting. 

What is the difference between brake cables and derailleur/shift cables? When I look online for replacement cables I see "brake cables" and "shift cables." 

I have a Felt Z80 road bike like the one pictured below. Would it be possible to add disc brakes instead of the caliper brakes it came with? I don't plan on getting a new bike for awhile so I thought this would be a beneficial upgrade because I ride in the rain from time to time. 

Philips Saferide came with a ball and socket mount. The light has been discontinued though. Possibly you can get replacement mounts and adapt them: Philips page for holder. 

You could try hammering your wrench, see photo 4b of $URL$ (or search for "Cheat 3:") Or, as it also says, a longer cheater bar if your tool allows (see the photo above the "Cheat"s, though that's the tool for internal cartridge brackets). Either way, try and make sure that the tool can't slip off the bracket (e.g. use a bolt though the bracket holding large washers overlapping the tool), and that even if it does, your knuckles won't hit anything. (When you say "wrench", you are using a tool designed for the bracket cup, not a pipe wrench or similar, yes?) But yes, there's a good chance LBS will have stronger tools if you can't shift it. 

I have jokingly talked about using Rain-X on my glasses, but now it's starting to seem like a good idea. Is there a way to keep this from happening or at least to a minimum? 

I don't have this problem when riding out on the road. My cadence is the same for the most part. I usually keep it on a medium resistance and the bike is level. The trainer itself rides really smooth and feels pretty similar to riding on flat ground. Is there a reason why the trainer would cause pain in my knees? 

You can but there are a couple things you will have to do first. Like @FreeMan was saying, to do it properly you would need to thoroughly clean and I would also use a degreaser before you paint it. Something you could try before using the clear coat would and adhesion promoter like this. Even after doing all of that, there is no telling how well it will work and/or how long it will last. Without a proper paint booth or ideal conditions it can be really easy to screw up a paint job. If there is any underlying rust that hasn't presented itself, it will eventually even with a new coat. Your best bet if you really want to do a proper job, is to sand, prime, paint again, and then use a clear coat. If you want preserve the paint then you may be out of luck. If you want to simply restore/reuse the frame then I would just go back and do a proper job. It all depends on if it's worth the time, money, and energy to you. 

While you probably could cold set it, the Sturmey-Archer XRF-8 is available in a version with 120mm OLN dimension. (And you almost certainly can fit a modern bottom bracket. Worst case, have the existing threads removed and fit a threadless bracket. Bottom bracket size guide.) 

Another option would be to very carefully cut off the piece of metal that crimps the existing hose onto the threaded part, and then reuse the threaded part by crimping the new hose onto it. The downside is that if it doesn't work, you can no longer even go on as you are, because you will no longer have any of the old hose left at all to join to. If you can find another hose that fits first, like maybe a one from a similar age frame pump (which would be too short to just use as is), that would be safer. Yet another option (which could also be used if you try the option above and it fails) - pick one of the adapters that came with the new hose, and make the pump fit it, either by tapping it out to a larger thread that fits a larger adapter thread, or tapping it out to a larger thread and fitting a helicoil. Downside - if the new thread is too much larger, the base of the pump will break. (And if it's not larger enough, it won't hold the new adapter securely. You could cross thread it and then use epoxy, but that's getting pretty desperate.) 

Why is it angled like that? Does it have a purpose? I lowered my handlebars and with that angle it looks hideous. The stem sticks out over the spacers now. When it was at the top with no spacers below it looked fine. 

From what I was told, steel frames show their degradation with rust while aluminium alloy may not show any signs at all even though it is still degrading. How can you tell if an aluminum alloy frame is starting to degrade before catastrophic failure? How long can I expect an aluminum alloy frame to last? 

I came across this article that somewhat explains why it is angled. Basically what it does is provide a slight angle without having to use a stem that is adjustable. What it fails to mention is that you can't place spacer rings above the stem meaning your handlebars must be at the top of steerer tube. Too add to all of that nonsense you have to use a top cap that has a hole that is off center to accommodate the angle. It seems really stupid to me but if those extra few degrees of angle are what you need to dial in your fit then I suppose having an angled shim would be useful. 

Even where there is considerable evidence of dangerous driving, it can be ignored: $URL$ The Crown Prosecution Service guidance often appears to be flagrantly ignored. Some police forces have a policy of ignoring all reports where the driver was merely endangering a cyclist and didn't actually cause injury this time. For much more on the subject, see $URL$ 

It's not unusual for tandems to have three brakes, with a rim brake and disc or hub brake on the same wheel. Traditionally they had a drum drag brake on the rear wheel for long descents, operated by the stoker, to avoid overheating the rims. Some modern disc brakes are up to the same job, but many aren't, though this is a subject where opinions are varied. 

Other effects: the front tyre can disturb something lying flat on the ground, flicking it up ready to cause a puncture on the rear; and taking a rear wheel off to fix a flat is more hassle because of the gears and so even if you have equal numbers of flats, the extra time spent on rear ones makes it feel like you have more rear ones :-) 

This is probably a stupid question and the answer is more or less subjective, but when should you join a team or club? I've just started to take road cycling seriously and noticed on my rides there are many teams/clubs out riding where I live. Is there normally a criteria for joining? Right now I go on 30 mile rides and average around 13-14mph. That's somewhat pushing my limits. How far and fast should I be able to go to keep up with and consider joining one of these teams? I will have to wait around 30 years to join the 50 and over club, but truth be told I probably couldn't keep up with them anyway lol. They are no joke where I live. 

I learned for the first time that aluminum alloy frames are said to have a "life expectancy". This is the bike in question, my 2007 Felt Z80. It has an aluminum alloy frame. I really like it and don't want to buy another road bike for a while. But it is almost 10 years old. My specific frame is a 7005 series alloy. 

I assume you mean 700c (622mm), not the obsolete 27" (630mm) size. You could try the "WHEEL V BRAKE EXTENDER" from $URL$ or a similar idea from Lite_pro $URL$ Personally, I'm not very convinced by them, but I haven't tried them. The Paul Moto BMX are probably a safer idea. (These $URL$ also look as if they allow more adjustment than standard V brakes, but it might not be enough.) If you do use something like the Paul Moto, you might want levers designed for old-style cantilevers, because the mechanical advantage will be very different from a standard V-brake setup. (Edit: scratch that, Paul's instructions say use brakes designed for direct-pull (i.e. V-brakes).) Edit: A couple more adapters that look a bit better designed to me: $URL$ $URL$ 

Personally I'd look for something that uses a rubber strap to hold it onto the handlebar, loose enough that you can move it to point up and down, but tight enough to stay stable when moved. Adjusting the Philips ball and socket to work that way, instead of setting aim once and then tightening to lock, could be tricky. 

Thanks to @R.Chung I was able to do some research and figure out what my problem might be. This article, Climbing vs time-trialling: same effort, different power output, explains in great detail the differences in inertial load. To sum it up in relation to my problem: When on the road where the elevation changes often I use slow twitch muscles and exert force longer during the pedal stroke and occasionally fast twitch muscles for stretches of flat ground. On the trainer I use fast twitch muscles a lot more, because I only exert force for a very short period of time on only a small portion of my pedal stroke. The muscles in my legs/knees are not used to having to fire that rapidly for such a sustained and extended period of time which is what I believe is causing me pain. 

Another way to do this is to use a vacuum cleaner and feed a piece of cotton or light thread through, with the vacuum sucking it out the other hole. Once you've got that through, you can pull the wire through, or possibly a stronger thread/cord/line first. 

Answers so far seem to concentrate on floor pumps, but what I haven't seen recently is a full length frame pump that uses a hose connector. But 20+ years ago, that was fairly standard. I'd recommend getting a floor pump for regularly keeping tyres topped up, but you still need a pump to take on the bike in case of a flat. If you want an old style pump, Google finds me the Zefal Lapize, but a couple of reviews are unenthusiastic, and suggest that the retro style is the only real reason to consider it. In a more compact style, the Topeak RaceRocket has a hose connection that fits both main valve types. Topeak also make some "mini-floor" style compact pumps with hoses, the Morph range. For pumps without a hose : 

In my experience the best way to fix/prevent that issue is before you install the pedals make sure to apply a water proof grease like this to the threads. 

From the images they all look the same. Furthermore, what is the difference between mountain bike specific cables and road bike specific cables? 

If I understand your question correctly, what you could do is add a thin piece of rubber underneath the rail clamp before you tighten it down. That should have the same effect as using a rubberband to help remove a stripped screw. The rubber will fill between the cracks that have been worn down, previously causing your saddle to slide back. It's worth a shot considering it will cost you nothing or next to nothing. 

I'm relatively new to cycling so this question may be obvious to some of you. When I get into certain gears my chain or drive train makes a noise that I can only to compare to the noise a rollercoaster makes when it starts going up the first hill. (That analogy will either make perfect sense to you or you won't get it at all) It happens specifically when I get into higher gears on the rear rear cassette. What could be causing it to make this ungodly noise?