Actually they can probably be fixed. For the cap there are two options with JB Weld that I have used. 

Assuming I am not allergic, or showing signs of allergic reaction, what's the best way to treat multiple yellow jacket (a type of wasp) stings in the outdoors while hiking/backpacking? My key concern is pain reduction, since (barring and allergic reaction) I am not returning to town for a sting. I've tried cortisone cream and it's placebo level pain reduction at best. 

Again, it's theory, but this is how I actually clean up vomit anyways, just applied to gear. There are a lot of variables that could matter here, such as location, weather, etc. Lastly, please do NOT use a stream or water source. It should go without saying, but contaminating the water for everyone else is bad. 

In theory you could hunt Mule Deer with .223. I had friends who hunt boar with .223 and mule dear aren't really any tougher than a boar. That being said, smaller caliber equals less expansion and kinetic force. That means you have to be more precise. If you are new to hunting, I would go with the classic .30-06. Good range, good ballistics, great range of available rounds/loads. You can hunt just about any large game in North America with one. It's a great first rifle for someone getting into large game hunting. 

A big risk is falling into a stump hole. They can be hard to get out of on dry land, much less while submerged. Carry a stout stick and feel the ground ahead very forcefully. Waders should protect you from hypothermia just fine. After those risks, I would consider critters. Mosquitos love bogs and carry all sorts of nasty illnesses. Water snakes will bite if surprised or cornered. Depending on the location you may also have to worry about snapping turtles, alligators, crocodiles, or caiman. You also have the good old fashioned risk of getting lost. Bogs can have wide tracts of land that all look pretty much the same. It is very easy to get turned around and no longer know which way is "home". 

Cheaper and easier solution. Attach your stove thingy (In my case, a pocket rocket). Open all the way and invert the can (away from flame sources obviously). Use a cheap and old fashioned church key to puncture the side. Total cost, approx. $0.50. 

I'm going to assume and interpret a little, and forgive me please if I put words in your mouth. What you really seem to be asking is: "Do I have to spend mad cash to stay warm?" I would say, in 50F (10C), certainly not! With each item, I give my "cheap", and "good but costly" options (I have no associations with any company) 

I was recently packing my own dehydrated meals for hiking using mylar bags and oxygen absorper packs. The oxygen absorbers come in packs of 10. Generally the process is to prep all your bags and move quickly once the absorbers are opened, but I want details on "how quick". How long do you have between exposing the oxygen absorper packs to air and sealing them in the mylar? 

Which natural (non-synthetic) fabrics are good for hiking winter weather? I know cotton will generally trap moisture and invite hypothermia, while wool is warm but heavy. What other natural fabrics will work well in winter conditions? 

Several people have talked about having single edge knife so that you can cut down small trees. What is the proper way to cut or carve wood with a knife? 

Stake the tent out. Any old stakes will do. With a semi-rigid pole (see below) push this pole through the loops/guides until it is taut. Mark and measure. Once you measure you can order poles from any of a number of sites that sell custom poles. 

When trimming weight there are a lot of options. Lighter gear, less gear, etc. One of those options is to take an existing pack and trim off "unnecessary" extras. For instance, I have (no kidding) 2ft. of extra strap on both of sides of my waist belt. When trimming a pack, what are the places, parts, areas that can be trimmed to reduce weight and what should you generally avoid trimming? Edit: This is about trimming the actual backpack itself, not the gear inside. 

Once you've pissed the bees off there is little to nothing you can do. Getting out of the area is the obvious answer, but that is difficult mid-climb. We have all sort of wasps, bees, etc. in my area of the Southeastern US and the advice is the same. Be alert and don't hit a nest. A swarm of hornet makes for an unpleasant hike VERY quickly. 

I researched this and there are a few factors Aperture - This is the diameter of the objective (or front) lens and affects the amount of light taken in. Aperture is very important for low light situations. If you plan on using your binoculars near dawn or dusk, or under canopy, then you want a larger aperture. This is the second number used to describe binoculars. So 4x30 binoculars would have a 30mm aperture. Aperture unfortunately tends to linearly correlate with weight. Magnification - Simple zoom. The first number and indicates the zoom factor. So 4 in our 4x30 example magnifies by 4 times. 9 should be more than sufficient for most hiking. Mountain hikes with long open lookouts may call for more. Lens Coating - Lens coatings will significantly reduce glare and improve quality. At a minimum you want "Full coated" which means that all lens-air surfaces are coated. Multi-Coating will generally improve glare reduction and is exactly as it sounds... multiple different coatings. Roof vs. Porro Prism - Roof prism will be smaller, lighter, and more durable, but will provide a smaller field of vision as compared to porro prism. For hiking you want the durability and lightness gained with roof prism. Water/Fog Proofing - These features are critical if you expect to be in wet or damp environments. I have purchased (and wasted money on) more than one pair of cheap binoculars that did not have this. Waterproofing is usually accomplished with O-Rings, but fog proofing requires that the internal air spaces be filled with inert gas. 

Previous FFL note was wrong. According to Sutton, a special license is required to possess these. They require a Explosive Pest Control Device (EPCD) License which must be obtained from the Federal ATF. Once you have a license Sutton will sell to US customers. Read carefully when looking online. Some vendors, such as Margo, only sell the government agencies (fine print, bottom of page).