Whatever the cause, the use of concrete was not as prominent in the Byzantine Empire as the earlier, Western Roman Empire. 

I would say the cattle of the middle ages were definitely smaller than modern varieties. (there is also a list of sources used at the bottom of the web page.) 

I think you are probably correct with your assessment of the purpose and age of the item. It does appear to be a Victorian era watch fob, worn on a chain to aid in retrieving the pocket watch. A similar item in Etsy shows the similarity in overall design and especially the tassel style. 

The same page also lists a couple of other encounters you may find of interest.(Russian encounters). By the way, to actually answer the direct question, it does not appear that they landed, but were rescued from a ruined ship offshore. 

So whatever unit was present in Camp Lee, it wasn't Company B, but it might still have been another Company within the same Regiment. The Wikipedia article on Engineer Combat Battalions, which I believe is the current terminology, also mentions multiple companies, 

The Kama isn't quite what you ask for, since it is much smaller then a scythe, but this peasant tool turned martial arts weapon is arranged as you indicated with the blade mounted at ninety degrees to the handle. 

This landmark measure was a major step in the disfranchising of the samurai estate and vastly strengthened the regime's authority by creating a force capable of dealing with countercoups and providing internal security. Quotes and references from: James L. McClain. Japan, a modern history W.W. Norton & Co, 2002 

I have looked through the German Propaganda Archive and haven't found any references to the British occupation of Iceland in 1940. So I would hesitantly guess that if the occupation was used by German propagandists, it was not used widely. 

It is easy to view the distance between Botany Bay and Port Jackson as small by today's standards, but it is actually a considerable 'trek'. Even with todays excellent roads, it takes two and a half hours to walk from Circular Quay (and the better soil around Port Jackson) to the northern edge of Botany Bay. Then consider you have to carry supplies over multiple trips and this short distance becomes a great deal longer. But the most important point is indicated in the Wikipedia article: 

Legends around Ninja, the category of men trained for espionage and assassination, begin around the late Heian period in the mountains around Kyoto. In the Kōga and Iga provinces, east of Lake Biwa, entire villages were established to develop this specific set of skills. Ninja were organised in three main classes: 

The status and definition of the Roman colonia varied greatly depending upon the timeframe involved. The simplest definitions were during the time of the Roman Republic. The two major forms of colony from 500 BC to 133 BC were the Roman Colony, and the Latin Colony. 

So, yes, there an organized effort, including rewards, to retrieve escaped slaves. An article from BBC, Resisting Slavery in Ancient Rome, also mentions this: 

Another history of the 44th Division can be read in the Congressional Record. Since his actual unit listing was Headquarters Battery, and his position of Supply NCO 821 indicates he was a non-commissioned officer,and a Quartermaster Supply Technician, he was probably not right on the lines, but keeping the artillery units attached to the 44th supplied with fuel and ammunition probably kept him fairly close to the front, perhaps trailing just behind the progression described above. 

Evidence presented seems scant, but does list a few occurrences of slaves using the baths. Again these instances that we have record of, were slaves of 'higher status'. There are also some good notations concerning special circumstances such as slaves in a mining region having certain hours set for their use of the local baths, indicating this use was allowed. From pg 204: 

The book Private and Official Correspondence of Gen. Benjamin F. Butler contains a copy of documents concerning the return, on sept 23 1862, of the material confiscated from the consul Amadie Conturie. 

The Charter Oath promulgated at the enthronement of Emperor Meiji of Japan on 7 April 1868 includes several parts that identify the reasons for the radical social restructure that followed the Meiji restoration and an indication of the motivations for the dissolution of the warrior class that had been a defining characteristic of Japanese society. 

The determination to remove the "base customs" of the past drove the new government to dismantle the old Confucian based social order. This included the removal of the restrictions and privileges that had defined the samurai, peasant, artisan and merchant classes. During the summer of 1869 Tokyo formally reclassified the population as nobles, former samurai and commoners. In 1871 the Tokyo government assumed the responsibility for paying stipends to the former samurai. This immediately accounted for almost one-third of the government's expenditure. This massive financial obligation created pressure to abolish the subsidies entirely. Despite less than universal support amongst the new leaders, in 1873 the Daijō-kan (department of state) offered interest-bearing goverment bonds to former samurai who surrendered their stipends. Three years later it made that exchange obligatory. In 1876 ex-warriors were deprived the right to carry swords. These steps to dissolve the military estate coincided with the establishment of a conscript army based on the Prussian and French models. Vice minister of military affairs Yamagata had seen the efficacy of these armies first hand in Europe and in 1873 enacted a Conscription Ordinance: 

I find the names of two individuals reported to have accompanied Fernandez and Sola on this trip: Gomez and Bolcof. From Bancroft (History of California pg 470): 

The above again from the entry on Qutuz So it appears the letter(or at least the second translation), though sent to Qutuz, was an insult aimed at the Mamluks in general as well, since Baibars and Qutuz had joined up to oppose the Mongols advance. The only thing he left out was a comment about someones Mother. I don't think he was really looking for a surrender. 

According to Mergers, Acquisitions and Global Empires: Tolerance, Diversity and the Success of M&A it was a Knight Templar named Robert, who had been kicked out of England: 

Part of this question still seems unaddressed; Is an attack on a hospital ship a war crime. Yes, attacking a Hospital ship is a war crime. 

Discussion of the conditions of the ships damaged or lost seems to vary among sources, the main agreement being that the ironsides the USS Mound City , and the USS Cincinnati both were rammed repeatedly and retreated to shallow water, and sunk: 

It wasn't an issue of disarming as much as disbanding. Unless the legion was under the control of the local (Rome) ruler, it wasn't allowed to enter the city as a unit: 

The goose was symbolic to the Romans, dating to a legend concerning geese from a temple of Juno warning the besieged Romans on Capitoline hill of an impending assault on their position during the Battle of Allia, 390 BC. It represents the quality of vigilence, and is mentioned at times as the "Saviour of the Roman Army".This is referenced by the author of books concerning the painter as the "Capitoline Goose": 

A deep, well protected harbor was incredibly valuable to a new colony that would rely on support and contact with Britain to survive and, in the long term, trade to prosper. I imagine that the proximity of such a harbor makes Phillip's decision even easier. 

The most striking example that immediately occurs to me is the development of the Bat Bomb by the United States during World War Two. It was conceived by dental surgeon Lytle S. Adams with the premise that bats carrying timed incendiary devices would be released over Japanese cities at high altitudes, disperse over a wide area during the night (secluding themselves in buildings across the city) and then explode the next day causing widespread damage and panic. The project was approved by President Roosevelt in 1942 but was eventually overtaken by Atomic bomb development and then cancelled in 1944. 

So assuming my premise that a land invasion would have been necessary to force a Japanese surrender I present the following argument that the bombings did indeed save lives. Taking the best case estimates (the worst case estimates are much higher) of civilian deaths during the invasion of Okinawa, one tenth of the population (42,000 people), and applying this to the Japanese population in 1945 (71,998,104 people) results in a staggering seven million civilian deaths. If this number seems out of proportion or unrealistic then consider that between six and seventeen million Chinese civilians died during the war. The potential for conventional weapons to kill civilians on a massive scale had already been well proven by the time the United States elected to use nuclear weapons in Japan. I believe the answer to your question is yes, the bombings were necessary to end the war. They gave the Japanese regime a powerful and politically viable reason to override the culturally ingrained "no surrender" ethos. 

Of course we know slaves that escaped often banded together, which leads eventually to stories like Spartacus and the Third Servile War, where it came to the military to deal with the escaped slaves. 

It seems that 1472 would be the oldest, and they appear to be a form of a charity/bank/fund for the poor. According to this site: 

No. You can read some on the Maryland Toleration Act in the wiki article, but it basically was for Christians, whether Protestant or Catholic, Anglican, Puritan or Quaker. 

One last note, an article I found of interest concerning Mosby, and his attitude towards slavery. From a letter Mosby wrote a letter to Samuel "Sam" Chapman In June 1907: 

where the 'powder' listing is grains of black powder. Since the firearm came out right at the time of the earliest smokeless powder production, which was originally used in military weapons, it is likely the first rounds fired through it were black powder rounds. ... 

The context, the time of 1862, is what caused the inclusion of the military training clause to gain support and overcome earlier rejections: 

This implies a (possible) resistance on the part of the Finns to fully participate in the war beyond what they deemed in their own interests (regaining losses from the Winter War). So bottom line is that there would be little or nothing militarily to gain by such a construction. 

According to my reference, starting in the 15th century (around the start of the Sengoku Jidai) Ninja were enlisted, mostly by Daimyo, to penetrate enemy fortifications and assassinate their enemies. So it appears that they were used less as an adjunct to conventional forces and more as a independent strike force. In an attempt to eradicate the Ninja, Oda Nobunga sent a force of 46,000 men against Iga in 1581. Louis Frédéric Japan Encyclopedia Harvard University Press, 2005 

The "Winged Pegasus" patch is the insignia for British Airborne Forces and was specifically the divisional patch for the 6th and 1st Airborne Divisions during WW2. The 1st Airborne Division adopted the patch in May 1942, the sixth on the 14th of May 1943. The 44th Indian Airborne Division also adopted a similar patch with the word 'INDIAN' underneath the design. 

So my assumptions about Yahara signing the surrender terms soon after the collapse were unsound. Reading the interrogation report included as an appendix of his book it is clear that instead Yahara managed to evade capture for several days before being picked up by local CIC agents. He remained a prisoner until January 1946 when he was repatriated to Japan and was not involved in surrender ceremonies on the 7th of September. 

The artwork for the patch was created by Edward Seago. The British Parachute regiment's mascot was a Shetland pony named Pegasus IV and the official magazine of the British Airborne forces is the "Pegasus": 

The China trade routes were already established by that time, so a merchant ship, typically one classed as an East Indiaman, which carried supplies enough to make the long voyage, would sail 'around the horn' or around the Cape of Good Hope, depending on the stops. They would often stop at at India , Australia or the Sandwich Islands (Hawaii) and then proceed to China. I found one ship, coincidentally named Canton, that has some recorded voyages from England to China, this one in 1810: 

We don't have to look as far as Constantinople for the inspiration of the Aachen Palace Cathedral, or theorize about unknown trips to the east for Charlemagne. A building we know was visited by Charlemagne is considered to be the source of much of the structural design style: 

There were actually two mosques built within the Parthenon, the first was mostly destroyed when the explosion took place in 1687. The second mosque, which you are referring to is discussed in The Parthenon: From Antiquity to the Present, by Jenifer Neils. On page 324 it is stated that the small mosque had been damaged in sieges in 1821, 1826, and was finally 

This information is sourced as coming from the Churchill County Museum,in Nevada. So this mountain range in Nevada may qualify, as it is named after a specific individual 'dead camel' found in 1891. Size is tough to estimate on mountain ranges, but a site here estimates the Dead Camels to cover about 265 sq mi or 686 sq km.