There are companies like Convergence Tech that sell kits for motors in the 1 horsepower range that are pretty easy to add to an existing bike if you are mechanically inclined. That range is probably more than sufficient for your needs. Be aware that some areas limit the top speed or the available power for electric or gas-assisted bicycles. I've seen speed limits of 25-30 mph and power limits as low as 500 watts. You will want to check with your local road or transportation department to make sure you comply with local regulations. 

Finally, you may want to use a small plumb bob to make sure that the nose is centered left to right over the top tube. Again, in a TT position small deviations can make a big difference. 

That said there are exceptions in almost every jurisdiction already, allowing use on paths and sidewalks, allowing passing on the right, etc. - these are the common arguments I hear in favor of different treatment, primarily as it relates to an Idaho style 'Stop as Yield' law: 

Not sure if this is an exact match, but it should get you pretty close: Park Tools: Coaster Brake Hub Overhaul 

VO2 Max refers to the maximum volume of oxygen that an individual can use at maximum levels of intense aerobic exercise. It is usually reported as as milliliters of oxygen used in one minute per kilogram of body weight, though sometimes you see liters of oxygen per minute with no adjustment for body weight. The former measurement is more useful in exercise and sports science since it allows the measurement to be compared among athletes of widely different weights. It is usually measured in a fitness lab setting using either an exercise bike or a treadmill. The test subject wears a mask and heart rate monitor. The mask is connected to a device that collects and measures of the volume and oxygen concentration of inhaled and exhaled air. At some point below maximum effort the body switches from aerobic to anerobic processes to generate energy. Exercise intensity is increased gradually until the subject is at a maximum aerobic effort - beyond which there is not or only negligible increase in oxygen uptake. That is the VO2 Max point. I don't know how much it can be increased in any individual, and there are both genetic and exercise components. This page lists that: 

I don't know if the clothing was cotton, cotton blend or what have you, but this has worked for me in the past: 

An option if you need to wear pants is to buy pants from the same kind of nylon material and wear standard or liner-specific bike shorts underneath them. Most major outdoor manufactures like North Face, Ex Oficio, Patagonia, Columbia, etc, make pants and short from quick drying nylon. There are many online bike clothing suppliers like REI, BikeNashbar and Performance Bike that have house brand baggy shorts that would work as well. A key thing to avoid if you are really worried about comfort and drying time is pants/shorts with the liner sewn in. With those, if the liner gets soaked you are stuck. If the shell or pants have a removable liner, you can always take the separate pieces off and wring them out to speed drying if they are really wet. Finally, if it's a short enough ride, or your backside is ok with it, just use regular nylon pants or shorts like above with your normal underwear. I usually only worry about using padded bike shorts if my ride is going to be longer than 6 mi / 10 km. or so. And make sure your bike has fenders. Those make a HUGE difference in how wet you get in the rain. 

Since it sounds like you have mechanical disc brakes (Avid BB5 or Tektro Novela not hydraulic) then any direct-pull or V-Brake lever should work fine with your cable. Searching for 'V-Brake levers' or 'mechanical disc brake levers' should provide plenty of responses. For example, if you look at the spec page for the Avid FR-5 lever, you will see that they are compatible with both "Mechanical disc brakes, Linear-pull brakes." V-Brakes are a type of linear-pull brakes. Note that most levers designed specifically for Cantilever Brakes will NOT be compatible. The key issue is that the levers must be direct or linear pull. Some brake levers (e.g. Shimano's ST-EF60 shifter+brake lever combo) are switchable between canti's and V-brakes. If you don't set them to V-brake, you're not going to pull enough cable for proper braking. 

You are right that it's 3 intervals of 12 minutes with 8 minutes recovery between them. The over and under refers to your SteadyState rate with is specific to the book, but based aerobic and lactate threshold rates - to get the heart rates right you should either take a MaxVO2 test or do the tests in the book In your example you within your three intervals you do 2 minutes at the upper end of your aerobic heart rate (the SteadyState intervals) and then one at or near your lactate threshold rate (the ClimbingRepeat rate in the book). Then repeat, so that in your 12 minute interval you get 4 'over' surges. In terms of perceived effort, that would be 2 minutes about a 7 on a scale of 1-10 and then 1 minute at a scale of 8-9. 

I've had a couple of frames stripped and powder coated, but I've not really done anything fancy with them. The cost was around $150 locally for a nice glossy red and a deep black. I assume that if you wanted fades or gradients that the cost could be significantly higher. I've never tried an out of state company, but there are several online like PowderCoat Studio that will have you ship your frame to them and they will coat it for you and ship it back in about 2-3 weeks. 

Anywhere there is a cone, there is also a "race" that the bearings sit in. The cone holds the bearings in place against the race. The picture you have posted shows the very definition of "pitted cone". As the wheel turns there will be increased friction when the bearings contact the pit. It will get larger and eventually the bearing will freeze in the pit. Even if it's just for a moment it will cause increased friction on the race. Cones are very inexpensive relative to the cost of a new hub and the wheel building labor it takes to replace it, or relative to the cost of a new wheel. I would absolutely replace it. 

The VeloRoutes mashup with google.maps allows you to set your routes there and will give you elevation profiles and net. This is a sample for one of your routes - $URL$ 

In general chains and cogs from Shimano and SRAM are interchangeable as long as they are designated for the proper number of cogs. You wouldn't want to run a chain designated as a "10-speed" chain on an 8 gear cassette as the teeth on the cassette are likely to large for the links of the chain. 

What you are looking at is called a "Cottered Crank". The shaped cotter pin holds the crank in place and they can be next to impossible to remove without significant effort or a cotter pin press. Sheldon Brown has an excellent article on removing cottered cranks using a hammer and pipe, which is a method I have used before, albeit multiple decades ago. When you get it off you may want to consider replacing the bottom bracket and cranks with a more modern design that is easier to maintain, unless this is a restoration job and you want to stay true to the original. 

After the chain is back together you break off the insertion portion of the pin with a pair of pliers. 

The main thing that would determine whether or not a particular brand or style of shoe cover will help would be the closure around your ankle, above the top of the shoe. A standard, non-cycling over-shoe or shoe cover like those made by Totes and other manufacturers will usually cover most of the shoe, but the opening is wide and water will run down your leg into the shoe. A cycling specific shoe cover will usually have some kind of opening in the back that zips closed. When you place your foot into the cover it zips partly up your leg and will stop most of the water from running into your shoe. I personally use neoprene covers, but covers of other materials may work just find as long as they close relatively tightly against your leg. If the closure is not quite tight enough, wearing an old-fashioned terry cloth sweat wrist band above your ankle and under the shoe cover would help absorb any water that leaks in. I have a set of 2" wide reflective bands with a terry cloth backing that I occasionally overlapping the top edge of mine if I think the rain will be torrential. Since you are wearing a shoe that is not cycling specific, you will likely want to visit your local bike shop or outdoor retailer to try the covers on. If you buy online based on the size of your shoe you will likely want to order a size up at least to account for the additional sole support and padding in a normal shoe.