If they aren't marked with a big L and R, you could just inspect the threads. Whichever one has reverse threads is the left pedal. You can tell reverse threads because they are oriented toward the north-west rather than the north-east. 

As technology improved and markets changed, manufacturers have taken to making wheels with fewer (and often heavier spokes). I've been told this comes at the expense of having a slightly heavier rim to maintain strength and stiffness. 

Yes. You should follow the normal guidelines for oiling your chain. If it is squeaking, you know you've left it too long. Do the following every two or three weeks: 

You'll probably have lots of room. Mountain bike frames generally have lots of room in the fork and stays for various sized tires. But it would be best to measure it. The supposed size difference in your tires is 5 mm, so hypothetically you would need more than 2.5 mm of clearance on either side between the tires and the forks on the front and back of the bike. However, you will absolutely want more than this amount of clearance for several reasons. 

Now that I've had some time to install the replacement, I'm noticing that either my derailleur or the hanger is bent. It looks like it's the hanger, but is there a way to tell? What else should I check? I've cleaned up the frame looking for cracks and it all looks good. It's a pretty robust aluminum frame, so I'm not surprised. Is there anything else that may be wrong? 

It's within the range where you can adjust the fit to work with things like longer stems and seatposts and have a comfortable ride, but it will handle differently. You should probably install a fork with longer rake than what you currently have to avoid overlap. 

This could be caused by a tube that was installed with the valve not perpendicular to the rim. It's quite a common problem, and I don't believe that a patch will work because they're designed to work on flat rubber. 

I know that for indexed systems, mixing campy and shimano parts is a no-no. Does the same hold for friction drive trains? The reason I ask is that I've never worked on campy parts before and I'm thinking of picking of an old Italian frame with a mix of campy and ofmega components with no wheels and I need to know what kind of wheels I will need. 

I have a frame that I've built up and I'm having trouble getting the tension perfect on the headset, which is not usually something I have trouble with. A friend of mine who is much more knowledgeable than I about these things suggested that I should look into facing the head tube. I've read that it's not always necessary. Is there much truth to this? edit: Nothing is damaged or chipped. The frame has its factory paint. 

A single hex key tightens a clamp that hold the saddle rails. Two bolts tighten a clamp that hold the saddle rails. 

with the cable disconnected, put the shift in the lowest gear. screw the barrel adjuster all the way in. the derailleur jockey wheel should be sitting parallel to the smallest cog. If not, adjust the limit screw appropriately. pull the cable "finger tight" under the bolt and tighten it fairly hard with the appropriate wrench. Shift all the way to the largest cog. Be careful with the last shift as it may push the chain into the spokes. Adjust the limit screw so that the largest cog is parallel with the jockey wheel. shift all the way down again. shift consecutively up through the gears; if you miss a shift, look at the jockey wheel. It will not be parallel with the appropriate gear, being too close to the frame. Unscrew the barrel adjuster until the jockey wheel is parallel again. Continue doing this until you've shifted all the way to the largest cog. Repeat step 6, but shifting down. 

You probably require some hub service. It's likely that your bearings are worn and / or your cones are loose. 

I figured out what was wrong and managed to fix it. It was a minor enough issue that I'm not going to return the pump. 

While there are definitely a lot of ugly bikes in there, I can't pick out any that are "uglified." It's not great evidence either way because I couldn't even hazard a guess about what percentage of bikes are uglified for comparison. I don't think you can draw much of a conclusion from it. Image sources: $URL$ $URL$ 

Maybe you'd be interested in a moederfiets (dutch for "mother's bike). This page appears to be selling them: $URL$ 

I resorted to digging it out with the small blade on my Swiss army knife. I know this is stupid for several reasons; that's why I'm asking if there's a better way. Is there some kind of weird pliers or something that's designed to make snapring removal a snap? Or is there a better way? 

I've seen a couple other configurations, but the intent of the mechanism is always that the saddle is mounted firmly to the seat post. 

The hook style. Supposedly provides an indication of how worn the chain is. I've used these and the idea makes sense: 

You'll be fine with one of each kind of valve. Supposedly there's some increased risk of valve damage to the presta because it doesn't fit the schreader hole, but I've never seen it happen. Just keep your lockring on. 

You should be able to lock up your back wheel without jamming your leg against part of the bike. It's especially easy if you skip the back wheel a little. You'll stop faster if you don't force a skid, just move your weight back and resist as hard as you can. Install a brake, damn it. 

I've seen videos showing people stealing bikes amidst a crowd of onlookers while no one intervenes. Locking in a crowded place isn't necessarily going to save your bike. On the other hand, lots of bikes are stolen from locked garages. I'm not aware of any statistics about what storage method is safer. I've never had a bike stolen, but from what I've heard in my social circles, most people's bikes have been stolen while they had locked it up during an outing in the evening, or overnight. It's always "when I left the bar it was gone," or "in the morning it was gone." For this reason, I think it's safest to bring your bike into your home overnight. 

I've seen people make a distinction between a derailleur being for friction or indexed. Is this distinction somehow functional? I can't see how it could be, because every derailleur I've ever seen just takes a movement in the cable and translates it into a movement in the cage. 

When your derailleur hanger needs replacing, is there a good resource for matching frames to hangers? Mine was recently bent, so I had to dig through some websites and compare pictures of the hangers to my bent unit. Surely there's a better way. Any ideas? 

I've only ever ridden bikes with shimano road bike parts. Shimano's road lines are, in terms of decreasing value: 

Have you looked after the chain properly? A two month old bike, ridden in adverse conditions, could easily have developed a creaky chain. 

Lubricating threads or metal parts that are clamped together. For these applications, any reasonably thick grease should suffice. Lubricating bearings. When the grease next to a bearing in under a load, it no longer acts like a liquid, but like a solid. It's important to have a grease that is thin enough not to hinder the movement of the bearings, and thick enough to prevent contact between the bearing and the cup / cone. This is where bicycle specific greases are appropriate. 

They say that this year's Tiagra is generally last year's 105, which is true to an extent. You'll see things like 10 speed cassettes move down the product line at a rate of one series per year or so. It's not entirely true though. Features creep down, but quality stays about the same. The different series will maintain their relative build qualities year after year. I.e. a higher priced series will have better materials used throughout. Having said that, I don't believe that build quality is really a deciding factor in most groups. I've put 20000km into a Sora group that is still running just fine. You just need to keep up the proper maintenance. 

Ask around at bike shops and community bike shops for empty lube bottles. They're sure to find one or two in the recycling bin. 

Your best bet is to use mechanical advantage to your benefit. What you want to do is line the wrench up with the opposite crank, so that your hands are as close together as possible, now straddle the frame and force the two apart. Here's an image from Park's description of how to remove a pedal that illustrates it well: 

I've never gone wrong cleaning wraps using a soapy rag and elbow grease. I use an old bit of towel and dish soap. This has done a great job cleaning up thoroughly bike-greased and sweat-upon wraps. 

The worst position for the wrench is 180 degrees opposite, so that the crank and the pedal are still parallel, but opposite. It will be almost impossible to remove a pedal in this orientation. You are correct that the drive side pedal will have a normal thread, and needs to be turned counterclockwise for removal. It generally takes a lot of force to remove pedals, because they tighten themselves as you ride due to precession. If you find this method still isn't working, refer to Scott's answer about lengthening your tool to gain leverage. 

I figured out what was causing the problem. I had used the compression ring in the place of the crown race. I did this because I lost the crown race and the compression ring looks similar. FYI crown races for threadless headsets aren't standard, if you need to replace one you have to get one that matches your make and model. 

More expensive brake pads will have a wear line. Replace these when you hit the line. Not so expensive ones should be replaced when the protrusions from the main block have been worn away. Another decent way to tell is by how far you're rolled out your barrel adjuster. If it's out more than 5mm or so, it's probably time to replace the pad. More importantly than any of these indicators, if you see any metal showing through the pad, it's time to replace. 

With old road bikes (e.g. pre-brifter) it's often as simple as looking at the shifters. If they're on the stem, it's a department store bike. If the shifters are on the downtube, it was probably from a bike shop. The only exception is that some touring bikes supposedly came with stem shifters. Another great indicator with older bikes, if it's a butted frame, is to look at the lugs. The more ornate a lug is, generally speaking the higher quality the frame will be.