Not something that any manager should so, regardless of what justification they could have. Does it happen? Sure, but that doesn't mean it's the right thing. This should happen behind closed doors, and it's part of the manager's job to stay calm and professional about it. 

Again, what good can come from this? Maybe it's a good play politically for the manager, but it's not something that a good manager would do. My opinion, obviously. 

It's pretty clear to me that your manager is most certainly gathering evidence and working toward getting rid of the other person. Explaining that "we have to let her own mistakes" is not-so-subtle language for "if you continue to help her, I'll never be able to argue that she can't perform her job and get rid of her". Any manager worth their salt would expect the team to give extra help to the 'weak link' if you will, bringing them up to the level of the other team members. The best thing in these cases is almost always communication. I would first talk with HR and ask how they recommend handling the situation. They are already aware of the problem that exists between your manager and the other person, and should be able to tell you if what your manager told you to do is acceptable or not. You should be able to work out with a representative from that department how you can meet with them privately, maybe even on your own time, if you're concerned about how your manager would take knowing about the meeting. Developers frequently make changes that more senior staff are not aware of: it's only an issue when those changes don't go well. I would guess that your manager probably had a similar, painful conversation with their boss, and simply let the 'sh*t roll downhill' if you will. Part of your job as a developer is fixing bugs when you find them, and I doubt that your manager wants to be aware of every small change you make: they've likely got a lot more to worry about. Bugs happen; if they didn't, there would be a lot less need for developers. IMHO, your manager handled this poorly and now has a grudge against your co-worker. Even if you did continue to help your co-worker, it can be difficult or impossible to change someone's mind about another person who they feel has slighted them, as your boss seems to feel after having management talk to them about their 'outburst'. Once you talk to HR you'll know how this is going to play out. Either they will counsel him to tell the rest of your team to disregard his earlier instructions, or they will counsel you to do what your manager said. Either way, as long as you can talk to them confidentially, your manager won't have anything to hold against you. 

A couple of suggestions based on the fact that you want to move on; Find out your notice period (if applicable). Agree a fixed day to provide your answer, sooner the better. Reasoning - secure where you are before considering moving on somewhere else. Ultimately there is no reason why you cannot find another contract when in employment, simply have phone interviews, interviews at the end of the day or beginning instead. This is a commonly done thing nowadays and can in fact impress the future employer knowing that you seem to take your commitment to your current role seriously. The sooner you get a new role the sooner you are out of where you don't want to be. 

Yes it does depend on a couple of things (follow up correspondence); Whether you applied for the job either; 

I wouldn't stand; it probably would seem intimidating, or at least odd. I've been that manager stopping by and would not expect someone to stand. Definitely offering them a chair if they're sticking around is a good thing to do. One other thing I feel I should point out, since you mention a 'beginner' and 'entry level job': make sure to give your boss (or anyone, really) your full attention if they stop by. This is a no brainer for some people but I've known plenty of others who will continue to work, look at their phone, or whatever during a conversation (and I catch myself doing it now and then). When someone stops by, push your chair away from your desk and turn to face them. Focus on the conversation until it's concluded. 

If it was via an agent then it's the agent you have to chase, not the company itself. In the case of an agent then you can follow up with him the moment the interview is over - once you have left the interview premises - with your feedback, which of course encourages communication. The agent is more willing to fight for you when you build a rapport with them. If it was direct with the company, then 5 days is normally a good time to wait until you contact them. NOTE TO SELF FOR FUTURE; At the end your interview with the following questions; Do you have any reservations about me at this stage? When can I expect to hear from you? This closes the loop and creates the expectation that you are not there for fun, but there with a purpose (the job of course!). I've been in several jobs over my career and I can tell you, each time I ask these questions, the employers ALWAYS follow through so it works. Much of what I've said is past tense yes, but hopefully it will help you moving forward, not just with your issue now. 

Apparently the developer in question (let's call her 'Sally') made a mistake. Was it something that was quietly added to the codebase and actively hidden from testers, management, etc., or was it a 'fix' that simply didn't get mentioned? Who knows, and it doesn't really matter, because it's not the OP's business to decide or act on that, other than possibly notifying the manager if she suspects it's the former. My original answer below is to illustrate that the answer to 

Make sure they know how this manager is 'managing' the team. Ask them how you should deal with the situation. 

Absolutely I would include it. If you look at your 'Edit Profile' page, there is a section called 'Add A Section'. Under this, I would put them under the 'Honors and Awards' section if there are specific awards you obtained. There is also an 'Interests' section where you could put something about your love of music. 

You have a few options; Get proof, then report him, if it breaks any company policy. In most typical companies this probably would break some form of Code of Conduct (if your company has one). Think of it as if you are in court, the two lawyers could talk a great game to the jury, but it's the evidence that create a guilty verdict or reasonable doubt. Get your ducks in order (evidence) first. Some may think of you whistleblower and that would be the case yes. However if your company does have a CoC handbook, refer to it as most comprehensives CoC's have a whistleblowing section - how to do it properly. Another suggestion could be talking to a HR representative for anonymous advice. As long as you follow things by the book you 'should' be OK. However since you said you have no evidence, then you cannot do anything about that instance. Don't turn into a Columbo and attempt to catch him in the act, concentrate on your own role, but be aware. Thanks @Chad for your thoughts. 

Despite whatever happened with 'Sally', the OP should not be expected to lie to a coworker (even a slight lie as 'tell her you're busy') at the instruction from a manager. This does not address disciplinary action that should / should not be implemented against Sally due to her own actions. It's entirely plausible that she was totally at fault and should be fired, suspended, demoted, or whatever for violating company policy/protocol; hard to tell from where I'm sitting. Regardless, I don't believe the reaction from management was appropriate. end of edit 

Edit: Let me be clear: There are some vague details here. There is probably more going on in this situation, and obviously the story from OP is only from their point of view, so we cannot know the manager's point of view. I have a problem with how this and other things was handled by the manager because of the following statements.