I remember watching a documentary about Aloha Airlines Flight 243 where a large part of forward portion of the airplane was ripped from the plane, and the cockpit lost communication with the rest of the plane (but was still able to fly and land the airplane). The only casualty could probably have survived if she was buckled in at the time. From Wikipedia: 

Someone I know was powdering her face and decided to do me the favor of applying some to my face as well. She then laughed and said I will get pimples because I don't have something to remove the makeup with later. She thought that the powder will block my pores, they'll get infected and I'll get pimples. What basis is there for that claim? 

I ran into an unsourced claim form one of the commenters of the Economist where the user makes a claim about the frequency of women wearing burqas and veil two generations ago (how much time spans a generation? 20 years?). 

The Swedish Media Council released a report reviewing the state of the research in Swedish, I've summarized and translated below. There is also an article published in English over on the local. From the summarized version of the report: The Swedish Media Council has gone through research databases and gathered studies on violent videogames effects on aggression that has been published in international research journals in the period 2000-2011. Literature searches resulted in 161 papers that contained 106 unique empirical studies. The remaining 55 studies contained of metastusdies, research overviews, scientifical debate [not sure what the correct translation of vetenskapliga debattartiklar is], methodological critiques or comments to other papers. Some key findings: 

This seem to suggest that our perception of taste signals degrade with age, but that our taste buds don't lose sensitivity (unless I'm misinterpreting the meaning of "somatic") we do however lose the amount of them we have with time. So the answer to your question is no our taste buds don't become less sensitive (as far as I can tell), but they might as well have from the perspective of the elderly. 

One of the things claimed by several adults when I was little is that coffee would stop me from growing so I wasn't allowed to drink it, is there any truth to that claim? It doesn't seem completely out of order that it could have some negative effects on us considering that it's a natural pesticide, and that it reduces the life expectancy of fruit flies. 

I was reluctantly dragged along to do clothes shopping in Singapore today and all over the place they advertised clothing that has supposedly been coated with some form of UV protection. As far as I'm aware Singapore doesn't have the European-style of consumer protection laws where you can only claim what you can prove, which disallows statements like "Volvo is the safest car in the world." I had my camera with me so I snapped a picture of the sign that claims the clothes UPF factor is the equivalent of SPF. I've never seen clothes like this before in my life, so I'm wondering if there's any research that show if this really is a feasible alternative to sun protection. 

I was trying to lookup the source of that quote, it's sourced from Our Precarious Habitat from 1973 on wikiquote, but that in turn is just an unreferenced quote. That's where the trail ends for me. Is there any evidence that the quote is from her? 

Mallard ducks are reported to both attempt to rape ducks of the same sex, as well as practice necrophilia. Either of those should qualify on some level as non-reproductive sex, even if not consensual for the one in a pickle. This discovery earned Kees Moeliker the Ig Nobel prize in 2003. The guardian reports: 

My friend cited a study by Rupert Sheldrake which ran an experiment over several years that video taped dogs, showing that dogs knew when their owner was coming home due to some psychic link. He published a paper called: A Dog That Seems to Know When His Owner Is Coming Home: Videotaped Experiments and Observations. He seem to be a frequently well references researcher, looking over Google scholar. He even published a book about the results. Has this been independently verified, do animals have telepathic links with their owners? 

This one seem to be all over trivia lists, but I'm having trouble finding a reference to anything credible. The claim goes something like this: 

This one is making the rounds on the Internet currently and I'm having trouble finding any reliable source. Most people seem to be citing the following unsourced tumblr post: $URL$ 

Associations Between Online Pornography and Sexual Behavior Among Adolescents: Myth or Reality? also noted that the only change in behavior was men who watch porn were less likely to use a condom: 

Self-Perceived Effects of Pornography Consumption reports on self-perceived influences from hardcore pornography among the Danish consumers (Denmark was supposedly the first country to legalize pornography in 1969): 

If anything (although I'm not exactly familiar with aid organizations or micro-finance) Kiva seem to be doing a really good job at being transparent by providing all of this information so readily accessible on their website. It is as far as I'm concerned the donors fault if they give money to an organization that uses it in ways they do not approve of, when the donor hasn't done at least basic research first. Unless there's strong evidence to suggest Kiva is actively misleading people, and/or exploiting poor people for the purpose of economic gain, I don't see how they could be called a scam. 

Starflowers Borago officinalis is sometimes eaten fresh and apparently has a cucumber-like taste. It grows in Asia and the middle east. 

Bl책b채r (Common Bilberry) I come from a berry obsessed culture that every year consume a wide array of different berries. One of the most common ones that are native to my country is Vaccinium myrtillus more commonly called bl책b채r in Swedish which literally means blue berry. They aren't the same as the American blue berry (Vaccinium cyanococcus) that George Carlin most likely made fun of. 

The results in Influences of Aging on Taste Perception and Oral Somatic Sensation goes on to investigate what it is that has changed: 

The Local (Swedish news in English) reported in 2009 on a study that has gone over 30 years of brain tumor history in Scandinavia offering the following summary (in a more readable format than the actual papers abstract). 

It does say that there is a statistical correlation between violent video games and agression, but that it's not a causal one explaining, in reviewing the conclusions: 

It's not a scam unless they are blatantly lying about something. Kiva itself doesn't charge interest rate instead their "field partners" do, which seem to be independent organizations that Kiva is partnering with. Here's information directly from their website: 

France is commonly made fun of for not having won a war, for instance when they rejoined NATO and the daily mail made fun of them: 

My boss was arguing that this is true and that it's a well known fact amongst culinary professionals that you should never put hot food in the refridgirator (he used to be a baker and had restaurants and such.) A quick Google seem to suggest this is a widely held belief that I've never heard of before: Snopes Thread: 

However I recall some feminist on TV claiming that it's not possible to check if a girl is a virgin that way. Is a hymen check or some other method reliable for determining if a girl is still a virgin? In this case only vaginal penetration by the male reproductive organ counts as losing ones virginity. 

So there's at least one incident where one country was performing organ harvesting that they've since admitted too. Now since Israel didn't sell the organs on the black market, this answer doesn't cover your entire question, but it seemed to me that the important part of this question was on non-consensual organ harvesting. 

Having scoured over a pile of research I think the only conclusion we can draw is that we don't know where the idea of vampires come from. It seem like something many different cultures around the world have believed in, in one way or another, since ancient times. It is - much like the ancient history of my home country - obscured by folk lore and myth. 

Blue Crawdads Crawdads are sometimes blue, but they turn red on cooking. I'm not sure if that would count under your criteria, but people certainly find them appetizing enough to try to cook them. 

Substance and tongue-region specific loss in basic taste-quality identification in elderly adults from 2007 has nice summary in the introduction, but I don't have access to the journal so I can't add or look at the references for the claims: 

I think it's important to compare with what you'd expect in the general population against what you'd expect in prisons. According to the Twelfth United Nations Survey of Crime Trends and Operations of Criminal Justice Systems the incidents of rape in the US is 28.6 per 1000 in 2008 (on a steady decline from 31.6 in 2003). I came upon an article in reason.com reporting that the DOJ (U.S. Departement of Justice) has recently attempted to estimate the amount of sexual abuse in prisons in America. I've emailed the reporter asking for directions to the actual report, but the reason.com give these statistics that I found interesting: 

I don't know what would constitute as an exorbitant interest rate in this case, but I'm going to assume they are keeping that promise as they also have open books by providing a list of all their partners with the interest rates charged. If you click the various partners you will get to see statistics for how much has been invested through that partner, how good they are at collecting money and so on. Kiva also outlines exactly how high the interest rate is with the partner you are viewing, how it compares to other partners in the same country and how it compares to the average across all Kiva partners. Here's one example: 

However according to the interviewer that discovered this, the organs weren't sold on the black market, instead they were taken to public hospitals as well as was sent to be used by the Israeli military, as reported by Al Jazeera: 

Not exactly something to worry about considering how safe it is to fly, and I don't know if it's considered as real purpose of the belt. However if something like that were to happen, the belt should save you. 

Another Danish study Gender Differences in Pornography Consumption among Young Heterosexual Danish Adults comments on correlations with pornographic consumption from a sample of 688 Danes: 

Another article in the Guardian goes on to explain that the incidents happened in the 90's, and that the doctor responsible was removed from his post in 2004. As opposed to what was reported in Aftonbladet the organ-harvesting program wasn't targeting Palestinians. 

In summary there's lots of differences in behavior between those that consume porn and those that don't, though they seem to be largely positive (although I didn't bother reading the papers related to crime.) What I don't understand with the claim you quotes is why she is singling out men, when no small portion of women are exposed to porn (voluntarily and involuntarily) as well. I also don't understand why she is singling out porn when we are all ugly hobos compared to movie stars. Moreso if we can't detach fiction from reality, wouldn't we all walk around in life constantly disappointed at how the actual world is uglier than on TV? I might revisit this later, because the volume of research available on this is to much to go through in one sitting. 

Are there any examples with clear French victories of war? A good example would be where conquered another nation, a large area of land without immediately losing it or gained a ceasefire/surrender through skill or force. War of alliances are fine as long as France is the main contributor and the military leader similar to how America is sometimes joined by much smaller contributions by other nations. The French derived their name from the Franks which existed around 700AD, so that seem like a good starting point unless anyone feel like arguing that point. 

The first thing I did was look up just how old and widespread the disease of Rabies is, to figure out if it's even reasonable for the myth to originate from it. According to a paper titled Rabies in Byzantine Medicine it's a terribly old disease that has been around for thousands of years: 

21th of December 2009 the Local ran another article when this whole mess unraveled (to my surprise) titled Israeli military admits to organ harvesting: 

Amnesty International wants the Egyptian military to stop the practice of rounding up all the female protesters to investigate if their hymens are unbroken as a virginity check: 

In conclusion they comment that 8 other meta studies has been published by (non-Swedish) government agencies and independent research organizations in the 21th-century and that this one is in line with the previous ones. They also state that while the research doesn't show that this effect is not proof that it's not there at all. However if there is an effect then it would be a really small one. 

The abstract in Taste Perception with Age: Generic or Specific Losses in Threshold Sensitivity to the Five Basic Tastes? from 2001: 

It's more common for the research to show that violent video games cause agression, but there are severe methodological problems with this research, and therefore it has not been proven. That violent video games would cause agression in people that have this tendency already hasn't been explored deep enough to be conclusive in any way. The studies that show this can be interpreted this way as well as 3, 4. The inverted causality that agressive people play violent video games has been shown thoroughly in the research. Other factors like family conditions cause both agression and playing violent video games has been shown in the research that explores this.