Well as far as the past - you should have waited for IT. You definitely overstepped here. It wasn't your fault that your business e-mail wasn't working right, but it wasn't your place to decide you should use a personal facility as a workaround. Others here have detailed the reasons why - both logistic and legal. I'm sure that waiting a little longer probably would have only created slight interruption to business, as opposed to the longer term problem created by your approach. As far as the present is concerned, you don't have many options. 

You're not an employee of the production company. You're an extra coming in through an agency. There is no employer-employee relationship between you and the production company. As far as your time is concerned and whether you get paid for it under perfect conditions or any less-than-perfect conditions, that's totally dependent on what the contract (you signed one, right?) between you and your agent. You're probably not an employee of your agent. If you didn't fill out a W-4 and I-9, you're not an employee, so you don't have the same protections (under state laws) as would others. 

If it turns out bad, you don't need to be working for the guy anyhow if he reacts this way to someone new to the field. Either way you can't control what he does. Focus on what YOU do and if you are doing the right thing, you can feel good about that no matter what. 

Maybe instead of getting into a tug of war over values, you find a compromise. Shorts on Fridays. With proper notice before meetings with the execs, you could wear business-casual on those days. Do explain the issue with the thermostat to your boss- that's important because if your boss doesn't know, she'll assume the temperature in the office is not a concern. 

You're going to have to show him the downside of not keeping you informed. The emphasis on respectful would be the scenario based on an emotional response, but you will have to keep your feelings out of it, or save them as the last thing that you mention. Instead, you need business justifications. Is the current situation hurting productivity, morale, mission-readiness? In what ways? Can you quantify things into hours or dollars lost? These are the things that get people listening. If you can't get into a dialog without a very strong set of evidence to back it up, he's not going to "bite". On the other hand, if you have a strong case and he doesn't listen, maybe someone above him will. 

I'm going to presume that all the arrangements for travel will be covered so that economic harm is not a factor. You really, really, really don't want to designate yourself as someone highly inflexible during your first month on your first development job. There is nothing unfair or abusive about two days out of town. You stand to learn some new things related not only to technical skills, but people skills as well. One thing you're going to have to get used to as a developer is the fact that in the long term, no one is going to give you the privilege of dragging your heels on the subjects of people you don't want to work with, and ESPECIALLY technologies you have no experience in using or desire to learn. In short, you're going to have to roll with the punches. You could go back to the manager, or wait to speak to the director. In both cases, you're going to have to explain why you don't want to go. What will you say? "I don't wanna"? You haven't mentioned any - but if you had children at home, or critical responsibilities outside of work, then maybe pushing back would make more sense. You can argue about not being informed before you started the job; if you were being asked to travel extensively for the rest of your time there, it'd be one thing, but this is a request for only two days. Two days!!! You will give the long-lasting impression that you're a bit unreasonable, stubborn, and "entitled", instead of mature, reasonable, open minded, and ready to take direction. Is that what you really want to do? 

Your best bet would be temp agencies. You can gain experience on temporary assignments and learn new stuff. Potentially, the agencies will have contract-to-hire positions available that offer a step between temp employment and perm positions that give an employer a chance to see how well you work before committing. 

I don't think it could hurt. Don't show up with a book, though!!! I wouldn't think it unreasonable for you to show up with a cheat-sheet of some sort -- just the highlights. It'd be far less obvious of you have it in PDF format on your smartphone rather than walking in with a stack of papers. (I'm specifying PDF because it's a format you can store on the phone, and access quickly, without having to have internet access). No reasonable manager would expect you to memorize everything about your skillset, verbatim. You may actually have access to the internet during your "trial". If you do, take advantage of it. 

I think that from your viewpoint, you're slowly watching things crumble. Unless you're in a position to execute an entire turnaround, including managing needs that you can't supply yourself, leave things alone. You'll become less interested over time as a result - this is normal. You'll probably become more frustrated as well. If it's dragging you down in morale, hand the client off. Make a convenient excuse and pick up some work where you can be and feel more effective. 

The point of an interview is to qualify yourself vs. other applicants. If there are no other applicants - do you know??? - then it seems that they've opened up a seat for you and that going the route of a full interview can only serve to disqualify you at this point. Why make stuff harder than it needs to be? 

You're going to have to learn to say "NO", and get yourself a life outside of work, and set better boundaries. Specifically, this is in relationship to working all that overtime. The stress levels in your body from excessive hours produce hormones that aren't designed to be present all the time, and this will catch up with you eventually in the worst way. Ultimately, it doesn't matter that you're the only person around who can do the work beside your boss. If there's that much work to do, the company needs to expand the staff accordingly. If you dropped dead today, the company would be in the same situation! Stop making and accepting excuses for the company being short staffed. You might use some counseling or coaching on how to be more assertive. You have to decide how much leverage you have in this situation if you're going to do as others have suggested and simply announce that you're going on vacation on such-and-such a date. Obviously, it's not in your boss's benefit to authorize a vacation explicitly, but if you take authority on this situation, you may come back to no job at all. So you need to know that either (a) you're that critical to the operation that replacing you within the span of your vacation would be extremely difficult, OR (b) you are sitting on five digits in the bank so you don't have to worry about it. Know your worth. Do an assessment of your skills and what the market would pay for them. STRONGLY consider finding yourself a better 9-to-5 home-away-from-home that offers a much healthier work-life balance. Do your homework so you don't end up in the same situation. 

I think, if the need makes itself apparent, that you provide your management with just enough information for anyone involved to make a reasonable assessment about your availability from week to week. Yes, there will be emergent issues. A manager needs to know what s/he can count on. But PLEASE, skip the gory details. 

Florida may be an at-will state, but that doesn't override OP's rights under federal law. However, I'm not sure how to resolve the presumption that the background check came into play here, because right now, it's just a presumption. OP may wish to contact an attorney, but note that the basic damages (not the punitive damages, which could be higher) for a FCRA violation only go up to $1,000. Decide if it's worth the effort. If this employer is ambiguous on policy, then it wasn't a great place to work anyhow! 

I'm not an attorney, and this is sounding like a matter for one. I'd be inclined to think it unwise that an employer would try to sue you over three weeks' time, AND if you were unavailable due to death or illness, they'd be in the same position. The one "out" would be the fact that the notice periods aren't the same for both you and the employer, and since the employer probably wrote the contract and didn't give you much room to balk at that condition, it could be looked at as an unfair bargain (and thrown out). Make sure you get paid for the week. 

Just decline by saying that you have some personal business to attend to. And don't you dare buy greeting cards, gift cards, or gifts for some kid you've probably never met. The "personal business" approach also works for bosses who ask you why you sometimes need to take off, with sick time or vacation time that you've earned. As for your co-worker, he may wish to get to know you more personally - but you can be the judge of that. If this is the case, the graduation is most certainly not a good way -- poor judgment. I'm not sure how relevant this last part is, but it's something to keep in mind. 

"I would like to send them an email but I was not given any email address. " <-- This isn't helping your situation any if you can't call, speak to the receptionist or customer service, and ASK for an e-mail address. Businesses are looking for problem solvers... and I'll leave it at that. If the company's operating hours are normally Monday to Friday, it's a little shady sounding that interviewing activity got pushed to the weekend. This, in itself, may be a red-flag. No call from the hiring manager, no follow up at all from HR. It seems that you, or at least your time, are expendable!!! This is a precedent, and it means you can't really expect better treatment if you're hired. 

I don't think there's anything unethical about asking for an extension cord (or power strip). I work in an IT department and we always have lots of these things, used, piled up in a box. It can't hurt to ask, and the worst response you can get is "NO". I'm sure that at some point, your boss or others at work call you on that phone - so it's a little grey, but pretty harmless. However, since it's really for your own use I do think it'd be unethical to ask the IT folks to crawl under your desk to get it plugged in! 

The background check is a waste of your time. Okay, so you do the background check, and what he's provided is valid. Then what? You've spent money, and now you're still in the same place. If you're going to spend any money to mitigate this situation, you need an objective, quantitative skills assessment that covers the skills area for whatever technology stack he's developing on. Anyone can list things on a resume, but it sounds like you missed doing something like this AS WELL as the background check. You can Google "developer skills assessment" and there is no shortage of results. Find a service tailored to your environment. It should be timed, and cover things both simple and complex; multiple choice is okay, but subjective problem-solving is better. Challenge him with the assessment at work - NOT as a take-home assignment. See what you get. Base any decision you make from the result.