In this instance, in this sentence: "That I know". "That" is just a direct object, the subject is unambiguously "I". Both the logical and syntactical subject. 

Comparative method, being a great accomplishment of historical linguistics, obviously has its flaws. Reconstructions of proto-languages provided by this method can only be perceived as mere abstract resultant of the material used in comparison. Have there been any efforts to authenticate these reconstructions in the cases where direct evidence of the mother-language is actually available? For example, have there been any attempts to reconstruct Proto-Romance disregarding all the evidence from Latin, an then comparing the results to it ? I am sure that there are more families where such a procedure could be applied. 

Having an accent while speaking a foreign language is just applying the phonetics of the native language to the new one. Having said that, I would assume that in a situation when a bilingual speaker is equally fluent in both his native languages, the phonetic system which is going to be applied depends on the language he uses more often. But that is just my personal guess, feel free to criticise it with some references. 

This is known as an ephelcystic s and is analogous to the ephelcystic t in "Parle-t-il français?". It's euphonic rather than etymological, used to avoid a hiatus between the imperative and the y/en. I believe that historically there would have been an elision instead ("retourn'y") but I don't have a source confirming this. When still considered incorrect, this type of speech error is called pataquès, from the example erroneous phrase "je ne sais pas-t-à qu'est-ce". By contrast, I believe that the -s in Class II and Class III imperatives are etymological. There's a reasonable summary of this on the French Wikipedia articles about French liason and ephelcystic phonemes. 

More generally, what factors determine which phoneme a non-phonemic foreign sound gets rounded to in a specific language when there are multiple possibilities available? Is the choice always consistent within a language or even per speaker? For example, I suspect that Hebrew roundings of French vowel sounds aren't always consistent: I've heard /y/ rounded to both /i/ (e.g. /brisel/ Bruxelles and for some speakers /ti/ tu) and /u/ (e.g. /fondu/ fondue and for other speakers /tu/ tu). 

Apart from Scots, the closest languages to English in terms of lexical difference are probably the various English-based creoles, such as Tok Pisin, Bislama or Jamaican Patois. These have a mostly English vocabulary base, even though much of their grammar derives from from non Indo-European languages. Unfortunately I've not found many numbers to back this up. The closest I found so far is the following diagram from A Grammar of Pichi by Kofi Yakpo, showing the lexical distance of Pichinglis (spoken in Equatorial Guinea) to a number of other languages including English. 

and it is clear that Alice is the recipient. But nowadays that would sound super old-fashioned. Another possibility is to use an article to mark the case: 

Here's an example where current and historic evolution of the language stands out quite prominently (and which is all about cases and extracting meaning and ambiguity): One point where the evolution to drop declination is mostly done are proper names which are not declinated any more: 

As a native German speaker (but no linguist) I'd also say that correct use of cases does not have too much to do with education. Kindergarden children will use e.g. the accusative correctly when asking for a toy. In fact, in a sentence like "Gib mir den Ball." incorrect use of cases would sound like a foreigner learning German but decidedly not like a child. But there is a (perceived) link between use of cases and education. But I think it is spurious (perceived only) in the sense that correlation is not causation. The first crucial point is: what defines correct use of a language? Language evolves, and the German language is possibly evolving towards fewer cases (English is ahead in that respect: currently only 1 1/2 or 2 cases left). German may also arrive at retaining only nominative and accusative*. The accusative example with the small child was not accidental in the sense that the "mistakes" with cases in everyday spoken German are typically avoidig genitive e.g. by a dative construction and accusative instead of dative. I put the mistake into quotation marks: is it a mistake if a large and growing proportion of the speakers use a new construction (or the relative frequencies of two constructions shift) or is it a very normal sign of an evolving language? Not to speak of dialects which may have used the "wrong" construction for hundreds of years. 

According to Wolfram Math World, Buchowski's paradox concerns the use of comparative adjectives in apparently paradoxical statements such as "My younger brother is older than me" (possible if the speaker has two older brothers). Who is Buchowski? Has the paradox been discussed in any depth in a publication, or was it just an offhand observation? 

Creoles are not usually viewed as members of the parent languages' family. Nor (obviously) are they viewed as isolates: typically they are simply grouped with other creoles that share a parent. For example see ethnologue's classification. This is even more true for highly mixed languages such as Michif. This is partly as despite the prevalence of phrases such as 'English-based creole', determining the 'dominant' parent is typically controversial or meaningless. Furthermore, since creole grammar is largely original, assigning the creole to a language family is of limited use. 

I've also seen measures of phonological distance used to cluster English dialects and creoles (see for example Clustering Dialects Automatically: A mutual information approach), but I've not seen a similar study for syntactic distance. For a description of approaches to quantifying syntactic distance between languages see for example A Vector Space Model for Syntactic Distances Between Dialects. 

Strictly speaking, it is not clear who writes to whom: either Bob writes to Alice (and it is emphasized that the letter is to Alice as opposed to Dave), or Alice writes a letter to Bob. The latter will be the default assumption as word order is considered to resolve the ambiguity. The alternative is to put the preposition to make it unambiguous: 

Here's another really fancy example: Many of my well-educated friends would cite "trotz dem (Dativ)" as one of those examples how the dative construction is killing the genitive, and say it should be "trotz des (Genitiv)" (so would I have said before googling about this questoin...). But this blog talks about the opposite shift from dative to genitive just occurring in the 20th century. 

(Artice with name sounds decidedy southern) Nevertheless, there are still some remainders in every day language of the cases for names: it still feels really weird not to flex an adjective that is part of the name. E.g. I'd send my complaint der Deutschen Bahn (dative). But when I had a scholarship of the Telekom foundation, they insisted I should thank der Deutsche [no n] Telekom Stiftung as it is their proper name and should therefore stay nominative. They are ahead of me (and most other German native speakers) in dropping the cases. And that's the point where I think literary education comes in: classics of literature are usually slightly dated and therefore written in a language that is now perceived as old-fashioned. And even if we don't go back as far as Goethe, between concurrent constructions the fashion (= which is considered correct) can shift considerably within, say, a hundred years. Written texts will lag behind the developments of spoken language. Because a large body of read texts is actually older and also because this slightly dated body of text defines what is considered correct written language which also makes written language evolve slower than spoken language. I think at least for German, many constructions whichare considered appropriate for (educated) written texts would be perceived as old-fashioned in spoken langusage. Taking these two points together, my guess is: The perception of educated = using cases more correctly may just come from education = knowing classic texts, which are written in an old-fashioned way (seen from nowadays spoken language). If this happens while the language drops or changes cases, the natural lag between written texts and spoken language may be responsible for the perception This essay (Nübling 2012) cites a book that says in the 18th century, accussative and dative versions of names started to be considered vulgar and the upper classes dropped this flexion. So here we have a (historic) counter-example: less use of cases being considered more educated. It also cites Goethes "Leiden des jungen Werthers" (1774) loosing the genitive to "Leiden des jungen Werther" for the 2nd edition (1887). Or, actually: not loosing the genitive but switching from a doubly marked version (genitive article + genitive name) to the modern version where marking the case once (genitive article) is enough.