Am I the only one that's tempted to point out the differences between a labyrinth and a maze? In a labyrinth, the whole point is simple to make you walk the entire length of the area, while mazes are meant for getting lost in. 

The question as posed is at best a slippery slope. Let me explain with examples. Rainforests are something we know a lot about, but if they formed there because of high rainfall, or they are the cause of the high rainfall is not something you're looking at closely enough. Desalinating water is something that is quite commonly done. In the Netherlands for example, the majority of drinkable water is purified (unsalted, if you will) via the dunes in Zuid-Holland, pumped up and further purified. I could offer sources, but the majority will come in Dutch that I can think of off the top of my head. As well, if you were to take a large chunk of the Sahara desert (for example, but pick any desert, really) and a large chunk of Antarica and introduce a lot of water to both, does this mean you'll 'create an environment fertile enough for future rainforests'? (hint: soil composition is also a key factor in this, in addition to temperature, and existing climate conditions) As is posed, I do not feel this is something you've really looked at the implications of your question. 

I'm not really sure I have a lot to add. Popular fantasy/mythological races have already been suggested, and I've seen quite a bit of real-life contenders to base it off of. So, let me try add my perspective. First off, why only one? Does this one race dominate any other contenders? You could, for example have a 'natural race' (i.e. highly evolved octopi) and their once upon a time predators? Sharks? Eels? Perhaps the mermaids or sirens you're tying not to give the edge to? It could create a natural and primal tension between the two, given the octopus's natural instincts would be screaming profanities in this age old predator's presence. Perhaps you could even go another route? Like two (or more) intelligent species coming together and creating a symbiotic civilization? However, let me point out that fire was vital to human civilization for evolutionary reasons. Meaning, that once we found a way to control fire and cook our food, it allowed us a more robust source of protein and calories. This does not have to be the case for other species. $URL$ $URL$ This doesn't have to be the case for other species. Especially aquatic ones, for obvious reason. HOWEVER! You could decide to go for something more interesting (if fire is that big a deal to you), like magics (if you want the fantasy route) or the underwater volcano that was already suggested (if you want sci-fi or a more naturalistic route). Yes, I will fully agree that tool usage does set humans apart. But if a species can do something naturally, they would not need it. Though, this does bring up the question of why they would evolve to 'need' intelligence on that level (meaning: why intelligence would become a desirable trait when selecting a mate, if you go with evolution and natural selection). 

That no one mentioned Uranus? Shame on you! (not including you, Blackknght) The fact is, we have just such an example in our solar neighbourhood. Unfortunately, a lot remains unknown about the icy giant. But there was a theory that early on the planet was hit by a protoplanet (a precursor to the planets we call neighbours today) near its magnetic north (I think, don't quote me on that) pole. 

Well, either they 'cull the infected', or the 'infected' spreads the 'disease' more and more. If at any point you notice that the spread is slowing, repeat above mentioned steps until either you are caught (which can be planned for and thwarted if you are creative) or until you get the result you are aiming for. And when things are at their darkest, you can come in as a knight in shining armour. Offer a sugar pill, using the placebo effect to stave off the worst of it. Just be sure to charge exorbant prices, and 'run out' often enough that they'll become even more desperate when you decide to sell. Things to bear in mind: 

Well, this is a somewhat problematic situation. You see, if you want it to be based on real-world royalty and the like... then you are in for a shock. Let's start with the trouble of royal lineage. To be considered a proper royal (and therefore a suitable partner), you had to be of royal blood--or at the very least of noble blood. That meant, either you marry your family, or you marry a foreigner. In fact, in Europe and Tsarist Russia, it was quite common for royalty to marry the cousins, nieces, daughters, or granddaughters of other royals. This is why queens were expected to have so many children in those days--more sons to lead their country, more daughters to bargain off to other countries. Note that it's far more common for a woman to be offered to another country. Some countries (England for example) would rather a reigning queen than a foreign king (Queen Elizabeth I is a prime example of this, though she'd refused to marry for a host of reasons, some of which were hinted at as being plausible sexual abuse. Check this video for background information on Elizabeth I and Mary, Queen of Scots, and this one for how hereditary diseases spread through royal blood, which also shows how marriage often worked for royalty) If this isn't enough information, you can always nose around in the BBC documentaries on the subject. There's always more going on behind the scenes, and two main players have always been the church and the politically snobbish. You may also wish to get into coming of age ceremonies of the time, and how this affects your two monarchs. I assure you, though, that a king marrying a queen is all but unheard of (unless I've missed something). They would be looking in the best interest of their kingdom, so unless the queen offers her hand in marriage to her would-be conqueror (Cleopatra to Marc-Anthony of Rome, for example, though I don't believe they'd wed), I don't see them joining quite in the way you imagine. Trade partners, perhaps. Allies against a common threat, oh yeah. Unifying two kingdoms via marriage... not historically accurate as far as I am aware. Mary, Queen of Scots does offer a sort of halfway between, her son became king of Scotland, and also inherited the crown of England on Elizabeth's death, given she never married and had no heir. Beyond that? Beats me. 

The pole-arm is hands down the better weapon to bring into battle when compared to an arming sword. But both YouTubers above have talked about this in quite some depth. Unless you plan on giving your 'swordsmen' two-handed swords, they are going to get brutally slaughtered almost without fail. The reasons? Reach and armour. Reach is is major factor here. If you cannot get to your opponent because they can lop off your head before you can reach them or inhibit them in some way? You're screwed. The other is armour. Proper plate armour, with chainmail under it and a gambeson under that? Swords stand no chance at piercing it. Period. So, as was historically the case, archers are always the first move. Can't do much if there's an arrow in your chest, now can you. Then is usually cavalry. Then pole-arms. And the last resort is a mace (if opponent is armoured). And if there's no option but hand to hand? Then the arming sword comes into play, and maybe not even then. I've seen more treatises with daggers than the arming sword as a battlefield weapon. EDIT: Unless you give them a proper shield. It's possible to fend off the attack and get in close where the pole-arm is ineffective. But that's about it. 

Funding. No rebellion/revolution can go unfunded. So you start off by acquiring the funds you need. Whether this the 'Robin Hood route' (rob the rich to feed the poor), the Salvation Army route (all donations are welcome, whether monetary, time, or materials -- we'll put it to good use) or lobbying like you're gearing up for an election. You need someone you can trust to handle this (it doesn't end well, if blackmarket weaponsdealers don't get paid as promised). Food. No one fights on an empty stomach. So make sure you keep yourself and your people (well) fed. And if they ever so much as catch wind that following you leads to a worse life than they currently lead, you'd best have one hell of a brainwashing scheme in play to keep them loyal to the cause. Arms. No war is fought without both pen and sword, you'll need both close at hand. 

If you look at the witch trials, both in Europe and the Americas, a common thread offers you a glimpse of the options: a secret society. What happens to any group--minority in most cases--that cannot be out in the open as to who they truly are? They go underground. They do their thing in their closets, where no one can see them. And if they happen across a like-minded soul, they test them to see if they can be trusted. Examples: Aleister Crowley and his ilk, Wiccan religion, and according to some Stonemasons, though this is more of a revolt against the church than actual occult learnings. How did they do it? Well, by learning to be sneaky. You have to learn to lie with a straight face, because they guards will need a legally acceptable excuse should the inquire. Your neighbours can never know that the woman that keeps coming to see you is learning to harness her magics--no, she is your 'lover' and your wife should not ever hope to find out. If you want a far better researched basis (seeing as we can't ask 15th century witches that were burnt at the stake how they survived so long without being caught), look at the LGBT community before the 1960's. Why? They were organized, they had their hideaways, the communed together, they learned to spot others like them, they learned to communicate in ways no one not of the community understood. And most of all, they understood that in most cases, to be caught could be a death sentence (and still is in too many countries today). There were bars where they could meet. There were private parties where they could be introduced to others like them. There were discotheques where they could go dancing together. There was a nightlife, and a thriving one in the right cities. How does this translate? Well, your mage is proud of his skill. He cannot flee, and dying isn't really an option either. So go underground. Start reaching out to those he knows are mages. Start keeping a subtle eye on the goings-on of the night, he'll be led to more and more mages--whether trained or not. This would in turn allow for an intelligence network to come about--mages are learned by definition, after all. Keep the numbers low, and it will be easy to go unnoticed--small things move beneath the notice of others. However, the numbers will swell sooner or later. That will require a charismatic leader, and a tactician to keep all noses facing the same direction--think Robin Hood and his merry men for this comparison. (and check Crowley's page for how he kept it hidden: he had other work, not tied to magic or the occult--his overt way of 'subjecting himself to the new laws'. The things you do to survive) 

Second up: The organized crime. Again, this wasn't exactly discussed, but there is no doubt going to be a chapter of some kind of organized crime in your city. No city is exempt. Look at my suggestion for 'They don't know any better', above. You'll need a dedicated group to continuously fight this, no matter what. Then came the weapons! Alright, if you followed the first two, then you should see the influx of criminals sloughing off. Now, you can start tackling the actual weapons problem. (not literally, you should be doing all this simultaneously). 

There are many different reasons why people would come to realise that weapons are still very much needed. 1: Now that they've etched out a home base, they want to explore the rest of this strange place they know so little about, therefore encounter creatures they didn't know anything about and need a new means to combat them. 2: Because their magic can 'run out', they need a means to continue fighting or risk dying anyway. 3: Now that survival isn't as pressing an issue --against the 'monsters' at least-- politics start back up. This leads to infighting, and they need a different (i.e. stealthy) means of 'dealing with' their competition. 4: New circumstances lead to new motif to adapting in order to survive. For example: A group of sentient (or at least smart enough) 'monsters' decides hunting them is a good idea. There are dozens of reasons why they'd need it. What makes the most sense to you? 

Plenty of ideas come to mind. To start, let's look at the thin line between robot and human. Armitage III immediately comes to mind. The protagonist, Naomi Armitage is a Third, a type of robot that feels and thinks like a human, if with some badassery tossed into the mix. It would allow her to 'hack' into robots and control them, though defeating them first isn't always a requirement. It would be a pretty badass sight to see this type of protagonist standing in front of an army of robots they control, daring all challengers to 'have at'. Another option is Pluto, also from Armitage. Though he is also a Third, he is very different. He's more the plotter, behind the scenes. He strikes me as the type to hack into the robots while someone else (another robot perhaps) is fighting them. It could also be there are simply hackers in your world, and that all robots are programmed to attack the one trying to hack them. It could be that there is a signal scrambler that disables any frequencies but one, and the only way to test that is to get in close and test them one by one. This might well tip off the robot, and cause its core programming (to remain faithful and subservient to its owner, for example) to kick in and attack the hacker. It would take someone with balls of steel to try their hand at it, and someone that is both a genius (to be a hacker in the first place) and a quick thinker (to hack while under attack), but it could make for an interesting character. It could also be that there are no wireless options, that there's only a hard port that the hacker has to access. In order to do so, you must disable to robot to begin with. This would take cunning and planning, given you want to capture the robot and not destroy it. It could also be that not every robot type has this port in the same location, or perhaps has 'dummy ports' to trap potential hackers and either self-destruct (military grade robots) or format its own harddrive to make it all but useless. 

The short answer is that we can't guarantee anything. The things we have, the knowns we can offer, we don't know if they have it or better. We don't know if they want anything to do with us. And we don't know if they are the type to try to conquer us and take what they want, should we have it. That doesn't mean to say we have nothing, or nothing to offer. We have our art, our music, our culinary arts, our poetry -- the good things in life. We also know that the galaxy is filled with much the same natural resources we have here on Earth, so we can assume they won't need to conquer us for that. After all, a predator only hunts what is worth the energy. So, if the goal is to open a channel with them, to start trade or what have you, then being as open as we dare is the wiser option. What we can offer is exactly what we need them to tell us, or at the very least let them show us what they appreciate. Hope this helps ^_^ 

This planet is fictional, but I want it to be credible all the same. It is the same size and composition of Earth, orbiting a sun-like star. But that's where the similarities end. The planet's orbit is far more elliptical, coming just into the 'too hot' section for a few days twice on its closest approach. With a 'spring time' like season between these two 'burns'. On the other side of its orbit, it is outside in the 'too cold' region for about short spell (I'd prefer no less than a month, but the math is more important than my preferences).