Ice age. The advancing ice would have forced the civilization to go nomadic or extinct. If they were located on Antartica, they might have gotten trapped there or died on the journey to other lands. A handful might have reached Australia, South America or various islands. 

Finally, pretty much all existing roads have been built in their location exactly because they offered the best travel time at still affordable prices. Curved roads and angled intersections are not problems for either manual or automated traffic, so there is no reason to change intersections either. Summary A rectangular grid is just not going to improve transport. Smart roads will, but they again remove the need for separated roads for different kinds of traffic. 

Intelligent Cephalopods will figure out how to make dry rooms under water before too long, solving many of the problems holding them back. Initially the rooms might be caves where the air is brought in manually (tentacually?), but the next step will be artificial structures just below the surface with transparent plastic sheet roofs and sea weed to produce oxygen bubbles. I would imagine the Octopi would drape themselves in kelp to keep their skin moist and oxygenated and use one tentacle to hold a plastic bag over their gill openings, allowing them to stay in the dry room for up to an hour or so. The same strategy would allow them limited exploration of the land. Plastic bags and sheets would be highly valuable and finding more of them a major driver to explore the land further. On land, they would eventually encounter handy deposits of gold, titanium and other long lasting metals left behind by humanity. While it's unlikely they would do more than hammer them into shape, it would still allow for new tools. As said in the other answers, they are much more likely to develop biotechnology than metallurgy, using bred sea creatures for food, construction, transport, war and more. 

Following these rules, the robots should "learn" that there is a strong correlation between being blue and safety, even though it is actually because of the other instruction: prevent accidents. The third goal initially involves relaying the goal and supporting data from the first two. Another robot integrating this knowledge should be forced by its own built-in goal of safety to also paint itself blue and instruct others it meets. Enough of this reinforcement being networked among the robots should make it so strongly reinforced that it that not being blue becomes equivalent to endangering humans. At this point, another built-in rule may activate: prevent other nearby robots from harming or endangering humans. The blue robots will paint other robots blue or decommission them if they resist. The fun part starts when they encounter a different group of robots that have been taught the same, only with red. All of this is a simplified example of course, but you could take some quasi-religious values that align with built-in goals or rules to achieve the same. 

Any heavy car should do. Then hack the software to disable/minimize power steering unless Alice presses a certain button with her foot, or sits in the driver's seat with a special remote key. 

FTL communications jamming Both sides have a device that can block all FTL communications within a certain range. No more remote control tech, the decisions need to be made right there on board the (main) ship of the fleet. A Moratorium on autonomous killing by machines Whether it was a Skynet or Geth rebellion, someone did make machines that could more or less think for themselves, and it went very very badly. A galaxy-wide convention has been adopted that forbids computers from deciding to activate a lethal weapon. This means living beings need to pull the trigger on all that awesome weaponry. These two factors together mean that a living crew needs to be in close proximity to the fight, preferably in the best defended ship in the fleet. Drones are fine for scouting and combat operations in the vicinity of a mothership (where they can be remote controlled with unjammable point-to-point communications), but outside that range any independent ship needs to have a commander/gunner if it wants to fire its weapons, because FTL comms are sure to go as the first sign of hostility. 

It sounds like you already have most of the answer. The missing part is that the illusionist needs to prime the victim's mind with the desired elements ahead of time and then once the hallucinations start "talk him through it". If you want a big demon, expose the victim to images of fire, giants and even a demon. Let a whiff of sulfur drift their way. Even exposing him to a casual conversation about demons while passing by will be enough. Drop some coins in his path for good measure. During the illusion, crack a rotten egg and the victim will think "demon" instead of "rotten egg" when he smells the sulfur. Between the illusionist's words and the victim's imagination, it will be controllable to some point, using the cues primed into the victim beforehand. To the question "what can you offer?" the reply will likely be coins. 

Killing "offenders" prevents them from learning from their mistakes. Responding instead with a painful or embarrassing curse/disease that lasts for a short time will cause humans to quickly figure out the cause/effect relation here. After a few short months, the only people still asking the Gods for help will be either desperate, drunk or teenagers. The first category may be worthwhile listening to, the second are due a month-long hangover and the third can be punished with acne, as usual. 

Truffle Exotic foods in general would probably be attractive to the badgers, as they are unlikely to travel very far from their homes. Truffles are rare, grow only in specific climates and would probably make a familiar (earthy, tuber-like) but much more delicate treat that the badgers just lovvveeee. Cat food (in modern setting) The badgers have no idea why humans are feeding this awesome fast-food to their cats, but if they can pay the humans in worthless shiny beads and mirrors for this highly valuable protein-rich superfood, they're not wasting any chances. 

So in 20 years it's about 30% taller: 730m. In 50 years it might be 60% more, about 900m. Round it to 1 km for a nice number, since this is extremely rough guessing anyway. 

Ritualized Warfare The situation you're describing could only endure if warfare is highly ritualized in your world, so that its culturally unacceptable to destroy an enemy by destroying their resources/ability to fight. If a victorious army could not claim anything from the losing side, it would amount to a very bloody sporting match, and probably turn into a less serious form before soon. (Football, maybe?) For warfare to continue, the stakes need to be high, most likely in the form of territory and subjects who will willingly obey whoever holds the title to the land/city at that moment. The stakes could be determined in many ways: 

Ash clouds from a supervolcano or many volcanoes This one has all the flexibility and trappings that you need: 

To have it predictably rain every night, you would want the air at cloud altitude to stay warmer and slowly cool during the night. This will allow more cloud buildup and a longer if lighter period of rain. If your planet has a layer of gas/particles at the top of the troposphere that not only can reflect radiated heat from the ground back down to the clouds, but also retain some of that heat, it might create the effect you want. This is not too dissimilar from the effects of some kinds of pollution we know on Earth, but I can't tell you which exactly. You might have this locally with specific geography. If your land is between a sea and mountains and has a steady wind blowing in moist air from the sea, it will always rain in front of the mountains, as the air again is pushed up into colder air and sheds its moisture in the form of rain. Again, the sun causes evaporation over the sea during the day, so rain will fall as many hours later as it takes the clouds to reach the mountains. 

Finally, the civilization might existed in a jungle or on floodplains and have died out because of disease or famine, after which nature would have covered it up fairly quickly by either one of the disasters above or gradual processes such as seasonal flooding or plant growth. 

Apocalypse cleanup gone wrong First, there is a thermonuclear war that destroys most of the planet and poisons the rest. The remaining scientists come up with a plan: They create a nanotech swarm to clean up all the pollution and robots to restore the ecosystem from seed banks. That's going to take several hundred years or more, so the remnants of humanity will wait that out in hibernation, using tech from space travel. Fast forward some 200 years and a large group of humans is rudely awoken by the failure of their hibernation system. It's being broken down by the nannite swarm. The pods housing the scientists failed in a more dramatic way: they were flooded when the nannites broke down the water pumps housed on the same level, drowning them all the moment they were defrosted. The humans make their way to the exit, to find that the great cleanup has gone for beyond its intended scope. The nannites have broken down all ferrous metals and most plastics in order to fertilize the land and especially the oceans. The deeply buried bunkers were among the last sources of metal, but everything on the surface is gone. Even the robots that replanted parts of the land are gone, recycled by the nannites. There simply isn't anything left but copper and tin to work with and even when a few of the smarter survivors try to mine for iron, the nannites detect it in short order and take it away. With all that knowledge now useless, it is not passed on to the next generations, whose lives are taken up by the struggle obtain enough food. Soon, only stories remain about beings that resided in the heavens, could create whatever they wanted, fly, cure diseases and even revive the dead. 

Surround the planet with anti-matter First, the planet should have a strong magnetic field of its own or have it artificially increased. Then an external net of magnetic field generators is put around the planet, so that together they contain a cloud of charged anti-particles That will annihilate any object launched from the planet. The field should be layered so that if a vehicle with its own strong magnetic fields is launched in an attempt to punch through, it will cause layers of matter and anti-matter to come into contact, causing a big enough explosion to destroy the ship or force it into the anti-matter. While this requires more than just changing the planet's parameters, its failure mode of vaporizing the planet should mean that even a very advanced civilization doesn't have a lot of options to escape, while still allowing somewhat normal conditions on the planet surface. It may be possible to increase gravity and atmospheric drag to the point where no known thrust system can overcome it, but you would not have anything recognizable left on the planet, defeating the purpose of the locking. 

They discover it by accident/providence. Something, somehow triggers the first magic effect. When attempting to repeat the magical effect, they discover that focusing on the magic doesn't work, and vitally, accept this. Whether they imagine it's God granting their requests or unknowable inspiration doesn't matter, as long as they stop consciously thinking about it. They learn to trigger their subconscious mind with trances, drugs, prayers, images, sounds, feelings and/or memories. The subconscious then activates the magic controlling part of the brain... maybe. 

Humans would have a very hard time surviving in this ecosystem (without their own balloons/flying devices). The first problem is that humans are heavy, with a density like water, about a thousand times more than air. They'd be limited to the biggest floating structures and risk tearing right through any spot that's too thin. Still, it is possible for a large enough bunch of balloons to support humans. The second problem is that humans need lots of water and food to power their metabolism and especially brains, while the entire ecosystem needs to make do with very little of either. Water would be available in small quantities from rain or clouds, but since collecting a pool of water would force a floating lifeform to sink, there are not likely to be any pools available. Food may or may not be a problem, depending on how edible the bigger floating lifeforms are for humans. But eating the float that keeps you up there is not a long term solution. Humans would be dependent on being able to reach different floats before their food and water run out, which pretty much requires some kind of flying device, unless the number of big floats is such that they keep bumping into each other. A more exotic way to support the flying ecosystem would be to have particles with some kind of anti-gravity effect. It might not be pure anti-gravity but some kind of magnetic interaction (like in the movie Avatar) that forces the particles or lumps of matter containing them to rise up from the ground. This would allow for heavier-than-air materials to get and stay up in the ecosystem and would generally make it more "normal", since you just insert the needed quantity of antigrav material into any object you want and it will stay afloat. You want an island with a lake and a castle? No problem. You want a floating mountain? Go ahead.