In the UK Unit Trusts are typically structured this way. Each has advantages and disadvantages, so there are mechanisms which try to combine features of each, such as Exchange Traded Funds which (as the name suggests) can easily be traded with third parties, but can also be created and cancelled easily by the manager as demand changes. 

None of these explicitly appear in the balance of payments statistics, especially as most public debt is owed to the domestic private sector. What does appear is in the international investment position, where all debts (public or private) owed to foreign residents or governments appear as liabilities. Payments of interest to foreigners count as debits in the primary income part of the current account, while borrowing or repayments of principal are flows in the financial account. 

To repeat EnergyNumbers's comment as an answer to this question, the following chart from the St Louis Federal Reserve shows the increase in the crude oil price in US Dollars in the first half of 2016. Other factors also affect local diesel and gasoline prices and timings, but this increase will have contributed to the local change. 

There are many ways of calculating public sector finances. One approach is similar to corporate accounting and the UK Treasury publishes Whole of Government Accounts. Those are different in construction to the Public Sector Finances statistics published by the Office for National Statistics, who follow international National Accounts methodology In respect of your question of what happens when these bonds mature and are in effect rolled over, does not lead to a difference in treatment: in both cases the repayment is not treated as government expenditure but of finance, and if the new bonds cover the same amount as the old bonds then in effect nothing changes and Government debt stays the same. The translation from expenditure and revenue to borrowing and changes in debt is not simple. The ONS produced an explanatory article. Separately the ONS published this diagram as part of a bulletin last year which illustrates some of the calculations they did for the 2015/16 financial year: 

so you have a downward-sloping demand curve (lower prices lead to higher demand), but if demand increases for a reason not related to price (a shift from the Demand 1 curve to the Demand 2 curve) then the new equilibrium on the upward-sloping supply curve will be at a higher price and quantity There are a lot of implicit assumptions here, especially 

The National Accounts treatment of the public sector, which is set out in international standards and controlled by the Office for National Statistics. This is what you might naturally look to if you wanted to compare the size of the UK's public sector with those of other countries, or its impact on GDP or other macroeconomic indicators. Examples of ONS data include $URL$ and $URL$ Her Majesty's Treasury's control of public expenditure for budget management purposes, which includes passing on money voted by Parliament. The Treasury has a natural tendency to try to minimise this, and so often encourages parts of government to obtain resources in other ways such as levies and fees, and sometimes allows these to be deducted from the control totals it applies in a way not deemed economically meaningful by the Office for National Statistics. Total Managed Expenditure is part of these control totals. Sources of information include $URL$ Individual parts of government managing their own budgets, primarily ensuring that money coming in balances money going out. This can include receiving money from or giving money to other parts of government, which as internal transfers would not count as public expenditure from an economic point of view, but do matter to an individual body 

Regional trends and other inequality measures are in Table 3 of the paper, while other people's estimates of a global Gini index are in the Appendix Table 1. 

Strictly speaking it was not a peg but a cap: the Swiss National Bank said it would sell unlimited Swiss Francs at the rate of 1.2 CHF : 1 EUR. You could have bet that the Euro would rise against the Swiss franc by borrowing some Swiss Francs and selling them for Euros, and then taking any profit or loss by unwinding the transaction. If for example you had bought Euros with Swiss Francs in May 2012 and sold back in May 2013, this might have been profitable (at least before transaction costs), but if you had held past 15 January 2015 you would have made a loss when the cap was withdrawn. 

Looking across countries, there is not much of a relationship. The following chart is taken from the latest IMF World Economic Outlook database, comparing General Government Gross Debt as a percentage of GDP (you could look at net debt) and General Government Revenue as a percentage of GDP (which includes more than taxation) both in 2014. 

Details may have changed since then but essentially the database is an detailed dataset of prices for a wide range of selected items charged by a large sample of individual retailers at different points in time It is not available to the public. In particular, it contains commercially sensitive information about individual retailers It is available to some academic researchers who reach an agreement with the Bureau of Labor Statistics putting restrictions on how they handle and how they use the database and on the locations where they access the data; BLS also charges a fee. BLS provides details on Restricted Data Access on its website 

US consumer prices fell slightly in the second half of 2008 ($URL$ while it was rising both before and after that period, so you might say money became slightly more valuable in terms of goods and services 

I would have thought the social planner might want the value of $x_i$ to be such that $f'(x_i)=k(n-1)$ at which point the marginal gain to each individual offsets the marginal total cost to the others while individual driver $i$ might want the value of $x_i$ to be such that $f'(x_i)=t$ at which point the marginal gain offsets the marginal tax To me that suggests the tax rate should be $t=k(n-1)$ 

Presumably if you are to assume 2014 is the base year, you should weight prices in 2016 and 2014 by 2014 quantities, giving $$\dfrac{10\times 8+4\times 15+18\times 6}{9\times 8+3\times 15+12\times 6} \approx 1.312$$ i.e. a percentage increase of about $31\%$ 

Chile joined the OECD in 2010 but does not have an official export credit agency listed by the OECD in its involved in the Export Credit Group The Inter-American Development Bank is lending US$27 million to the Chilean Finance Ministry to support export promotion and services, but this does not look like financing So I would assume that financing comes from private sources (in particular Chile has large private pension systems) and foreign export credit agencies, plus the usual market operations of the Chilean central bank to ensure monetary stability and liquidity in the context of a floating exchange rate significantly affected by the world price of copper 

This has not yet had a substantial effect on consumers, where for the Consumer Prices Index $URL$ the headline statement is: 

One way to do this is with a table like this (assuming the $1000 has to be paid at the beginning of the year) 

Exports of banking services means that banks in the UK charge companies and people abroad for banking services, which might include for money transfer, foreign exchange and other broking, wealth and asset management, merger and acquisition services, and other things that banks do. It may include their interest rate margins between taking deposits and making loans, as an implicit fee for financial intermediation It does not include actual foreign investment, such as direct investment, portfolio investment or financial investment: those do not count as exports of services in the Balance of Payments though income from them do count as primary income in the Balance of Payments current account Nor does it take into account that many of the banks in London are in fact predominately foreign owned or that many of their staff are foreign. If they operate from London then they are treated as British banks for these purposes, though their profits may then count as an outward flow to their owners in the Balance of Payments In 2017 UK exports of financial services (excluding insurance and pension services) were worth about £61 billion; imports of financial services were almost £11 billion 

The deposit-taking bank may go bankrupt during the lifetime of the bond and your deposit would be too large to be guaranteed, with the cost of default insurance being higher than the the negative interest The bank may start charging you for holding your deposit at some time during the lifetime of the bond, at a higher cost to you than the negative interest You may be legally obliged to hold bonds, for example as a pension or insurance company You run an Exchange Traded Fund or similar investment tracking a bond index and some of the bonds in the index have negative interest rates You are a foreign investor who only cares about the combination of the current exchange rate, future exchange rate and interest rate, not any individual component of this triangle, or you believe currency appreciation will more than compensate for negative interest You are a derivatives trader, and the market prices of derivatives lead to an arbitrage opportunity where you can only guarantee a profit by buying the bond You believe that at some time in the future you may be able to sell the bond for more than you paid for it (i.e. an even more negative yield), perhaps to a central bank's quantitative easing programme 

Persistent trade or balance of payments deficits generate debt and other liabilities, either in the currency of the importer or in some foreign currency. This may be sustainable so long as lenders expect to be repaid in something of value. The United States borrows in dollars, and the general expectation among its creditors is that its debts will be honoured (there was some doubt in 2011 and 2013) and that others will accept dollars in the future. For Argentina, this expectation is much weaker. In the past there have been defaults on borrowing in dollars (eight times since 1824, most recently in 2001 and 2014). Alternatively, Argentina could borrow in pesos, but there have been frequent bouts of hyperinflation, which makes foreign lenders reluctant to lend. So for the United States, its historical behaviour has created a degree of trust among its creditors which allows a sustained deficit. Argentina's history makes it harder to borrow, so any new suggestion of a persistent deficit means it soon finds financing imports more difficult, thus creating a crisis. 

The ONS Balance of Payments Pink Book gives the following figures for UK exports to Ireland (£million). The figures in Euros would be different, as would Irish reporting of the numbers, but there seems to have been a sharp drop in services exports from 2012 to 2013. 2016 data is due to be published in October 2017, though trade in goods numbers may already be available 

Presumably one bundle of goods and services which costs about USD 113 in the United States would cost about USD 29 in India so the bundle which costs about USD 113 in the United States would cost about INR 18546 in India at a market exchange rate of 64:1 suggesting a purchasing power parity of about INR 16.4 : USD 1 The OECD calculations of PPPs suggest about 17:1 recently for India so this is the correct order of magnitude 

Like @ssn, I would be happier if the balance sheet balanced, so let's suppose the original question said "the initial Acme bank balance sheet contains the following information: Assets – reserves 30, bonds 50, and loans 50; Liabilities – deposits 100 and equity 30", looking like: 

The main roles of banks are taking deposits, transmitting and changing money, making loans, and perhaps more generally providing liquidity for their customers. So if a customer wants to change yen for dollars, the bank does not consider whether its buying yen would be a good medium-term investment for the bank. Instead it considers whether it can sell the yen back to dollars in the short-term at a better price either to other customers or in the wholesale market. It sets the price (and any fees) to the original customer so that it can expect to make a margin on the overall transaction, at little or no risk to the bank. Similarly with taking deposits and making loans, the profit for the bank is in the margin between the two interest rates (allowing for credit defaults), and the bank earns this because it is cheaper and more convenient for the customers than trying to act without the bank as an intermediary. And if a customer wants to buy or sell bonds immediately, the bank acts as a dealer with the aim of re-selling those bonds to or buying them from somebody else at another time with a profit from the margin rather than from possible future changes in value. With derivatives, if say a customer wants to buy a call option, then the bank may write one, not with the aim of taking the full premium and hoping things turn out right but with the aim buying another or of other balancing transactions (e.g. a put and the underlying security) and taking a margin based on providing the customer with an immediate contract in what otherwise may be an illiquid market. The best case for the bank is that it profits from being an intermediary in these transactions, not as a speculator taking a view on how markets will move. If it gets into an unbalanced position overall, the bank will want to hedge its position to reduce risk, as this makes it more likely that the bank will survive to make profits in the future. 

To me the key words are "at current prices" and this looks like a quantity theory of money, especially as described by Milton Friedman. In this theory, if there is too much money then prices will rise, while if there is too little money then prices will fall. So only if there is enough money (and no more) can we buy at current prices all of the goods and services the economy is producing. Without enough money, we cannot buy everything, and with too much there would be excess demand at current prices. This makes various assumptions, for example about stability of the velocity of circulation and what of constitutes money which, like other assumptions about money, are unlikely to exactly true. 

Quasi-fixed labour costs are typically those associated with the number of workers rather than the number of hours they work, so things like 

As requested in comments: It is a matter of which other factors are being held constant. If the relative-inflation-adjusted exchange rate (i.e. the real rate) stays constant, there may be no supply or demand effect on export and import volumes. However exchange rates do not exactly follow relative inflation in different economies; other factors such as interest rates and investment returns, balance of payments differences, and sentiment can also have an effect. 

The trilemma or impossible trinity is said to be that it is impossible to have all three of the following at the same time: 

Take your second statement: $\dfrac{x}{r}$ is the present value of a perpetuity paying $x$ starting from now (first payment in year $1$) Now consider the present value of a perpetuity paying $x$ with first payment in year $n+1$. This is the value in year $n$ of $\dfrac{x}{r}$, discounted back to now so dividing by $(1+r)^n$ to give $\dfrac{x}{(1+r)^n r}$ So the present value of an annuity paying $x$ for the first $n$ years is the difference between these, namely $\dfrac{x}{r}-\dfrac{x}{(1+r)^n r}$ 

In reality the world is much more complicated than those two equations, but the simple theory is that 

A dollar is money which can be used in the United States to purchase goods and services and to repay debts. It can sometimes be used for these purposes in some other parts of the world. If a bank says it has an unlimited amount of dollars, then it will presumably be willing to lend them to customers, who will then want to spend them. The bank will then either have to give the customer dollar bills (Federal Reserve Notes which presumably it does not have in unlimited amounts) or be willing to transfer dollars to another bank on the instruction of its customer. The other bank may then expect this to be settled. Unless there are also flows into the first bank to offset the amount owed, it can only settle with dollar bills (but faces the same issue as before) or by instructing a third bank where it has an account to transfer dollars to the second bank. This can continue up the chain until an instruction to transfer funds reaches the U.S. Federal Reserve Banks, where the top commercial banks hold their reserve deposits. Other banks will not be impressed with the first bank simply saying it has unlimited dollars if it does not have accounts with other banks with dollars to support the transfers. Writing numbers in your own books does not change the numbers in other banks' books. The constraints that this causes is one of the constraints on lending and so on the creation of money.