I have looked at the descriptions of many of the battles, especially the 100 Years' War, and most of them were preceded by negotiations, leading us to believe that it may have been customary and was at the very least common. 

I know that even to this day disabled individuals are often discriminated against and are treated unfairly. At what point in time, were disabilities first understood at a broad societal level? What cultural changes facilitated this? 

I have recently been reading about a variety of body modifications ranging from a simple tattoo or ear ring. This led me to wondering about the history of body modification. I tried to ask this as a broad question, but it was too broad, so this led me to wondering when the first body modification involving electronics took place. When did the first electronic body modification take place? What was it? 

Why is it that the Titles of Nobility Amendment was proposed in congress? Were there instances of Americans accepting foreign noble titles? 

In the 2010 United States midterm elections, the Democrats lost a net of 680 seats, which were gained by the Republicans. This manifested itself in 21 chambers which the Democrats lost control of and 19 which the Republicans gained control of. Have there been any previous instances where such a large shift in state-level legislative power took place? As there used to be fewer states, this may manifest itself in smaller numbers, but equal or larger proportions. 

We think that both men and women wore a loincloth called a subligaculum or subligar. These were sometimes worn by men during manual labor and by upper-class men during exercise. Women often wore a leather or cloth band to support the breasts called a strophium or mamillare. For footwear as you mentioned, sandals were worn and for the most part the only distinction in status was in color, in which upper-class men often wore red sandals to denote their status as a patrician. The tunic was the primary upper-body garment for men of all classes. Like sandals, class distinctions were noted with various colors and thicknesses of said colors. The toga was a special upper-body clothing for Roman citizens, which like the Tunic and the sandals had many varieties that distinguished by both class and age. To quote from the VRoma Project, this list of differnent togae: 

I am of the opinion that your assertion is flawed. Merriam-Webster simple definition of Historian: a person who studies or writes about history Merriam-Webster simple definition of History: the study of past events. : events of the past. : past events that relate to a particular subject, place, organization, etc. MacMillan Dictionary definition of Historian: someone who studies or writes about events in history Oxford English Dictionary definition of Historian: An expert in or student of history, especially that of a particular period, geographical region, or social phenomenon Oxford English Dictionary definition of History: The study of past events, particularly in human affairs: "medieval European history" The Wikipedia Entry of Historian says: 

This was well shown in several movies, including Gladiator (2000). A familia would travel the countryside performing for the towns. This meant that there would need to be (in addition to the gladiators and the lanista) support staff as well, the owner, his slaves, perhaps his family, plus people to buy food and procure housing, etc. All of this added up to the best gladiators costing a minor fortune, and even the not so great ones being more expensive than a normal person, slave or not, to care for, train, feed, and tend to. 

There is a terrific site, Legends Of America. It goes into pretty good detail about the history of the Old West, including noted people and vices. In its discussion about the real Gem Saloon of Deadwood, South Dakota, owned and operated by Al Swearengen (made famous in HBO's Deadwood), it mentions that 

According to an American Anthropologist article written by A. L. Kroeger, one example of Stimulus Diffusion would be Chinese Porcelain. In the Sixteenth Century, Chinese Porcelain started coming into Europe. Porcelain had previously been unknown. Over the course of the next two centuries, as more and more people discovered the usefulness of porcelain, the demand was fairly universal throughout Europe. Unfortunately, due to demand and the high cost of importation from China, it was extremely expensive. European craftsman had to both find the materials and duplicate the processes. The kaolin deposits were found in Germany and the craftsmen invented and perfected the manufacturing processes, enabling relatively inexpensive European porcelain to be made. Bottom Line Chinese Porcelain was imported into Europe. -> European housewives wanted it. Chinese porcelain was prohibitively expensive. European craftsmen found the materials and invented new processes to manufacture equivalent porcelain. The materials used were not exactly the same and the manufacturing processes were completely new inventions. The output was of comparable quality. -> European Porcelain was now made available. 

or around 1.23 female per male. The actual figures would be somewhere in the middle, as at least some subcategories of war civilian deaths (for instance, deaths of forced laborers) would be predominantly male, and not proportional to the sex ratio of the population. [1] Data is from Wikipedia page on Demographics_of_the_Soviet_Union, where they are attributed to Andreev, E.M., et al., Naselenie Sovetskogo Soiuza, 1922-1991. Moscow, Nauka, 1993. ISBN 5-02-013479-1. Due to Wikipedia's basic unreliability, it would be necessary to check the source to see if the numbers match; unfortunately I don't read Russian. [2] Again I am quoting from Wikipedia. The study is Andreev, EM; Darski, LE; Kharkova, TL (11 September 2002). "Population dynamics: consequences of regular and irregular changes". In Lutz, Wolfgang; Scherbov, Sergei; Volkov, Andrei. Demographic Trends and Patterns in the Soviet Union Before 1991 Routledge. ISBN 978-1-134-85320-5. I couldn't find it online, so the same caveats apply, perhaps less sternly, as the source is in English. [3]Wikipedia attributes this information to Krivosheev, G. F. (1997). Soviet Casualties and Combat Losses in the Twentieth Century. Greenhill Books. ISBN 978-1-85367-280-4. 

For WWII at least, from bottom up, a Generalmajor wore an insignia without stars, a Generalleutnant wore an insignia with one star, a General (of Infantry, Cavalry, etc.) wore an insignia with two stars, a Generaloberst (literally, colonel-general) wore an insignia with three stars, and a Generalfeldmarschall wore an insignia with two diagonally crossed marshal batons. So their insignia had one star less than their American equivalents, the names of the ranks were not exact translantions of the American ones, and there were only four ranks, including that of Marshal. 

No. There is no "scientific knowledge" or "scientific discovery" measurable indicator that can be used to compare modern times with the Middle Ages or Antiquity (we have a quite imperfect indicator that can be, with exactly 3,436 caveats, used to measure "scientific advancement" from the Industrial Revolution onwards: patents). The graph and its article obviously have an ax to grind against "Christianism", and the graph is an ilustration of his ideas about the subject, not of the reality of scientific development. The graph is obviously problematic, and no article can save it. Here are the main problems: 

This is a question without anything possible but anecdotal answers. The first comprehensive sexual scientific study wasn't until 1948 when Alfred Kinsey produced Sexual Behavior in the Human Male. In 1966, Masters & Johnson produced Human Sexual Response. Unfortunately for your question, neither of these studies concentrated on Sexual Awareness of Children in Lower Class Families of the 19th Century. (First, thank you for allowing me to use the word sexual legitimately so many times and second, that sounds like a great title for a thesis... hmmmm) During the major industrial revolution, in the cities, families were actually down-sizing, but your description of family nighttime life is pretty spot on, in that there was often a single room, and if lucky a single bed. This was not only true for lower class first world countries, but second- and third-world ones as well. My own thoughts on the matter are that youngsters (pre-pubescent) wouldn't be likely to understand or comprehend the moans and groans and movements they may have witnessed, but the older teenagers certainly would. However, as the majority of older children worked, be it on the farm, or in the city, they'd be more likely to be sound asleep rather than spying on mom and dad's shenanigans. 

The first ship to successfully circumnavigate the world was the Nao Victoria. It was originally part of Magellan's fleet. All of the other ships (the Trinidad, the San Antonio, Concepción and the Santiago), Ferdinand Magellan himself, and most of the sailors of the Victoria had already either been killed, or turned back before this. When the Victoria finally returned to port, under the command of Captain Juan Sebastian de Elcano, they discovered, even though their logs were kept meticulously, that they found they were a day behind everyone else. This, eventually, led to the establishment of the International Date Line. Source: Laurence Bergreen, Over the Edge of the World: Magellan's Terrifying Circumnavigation of the Globe, Harper-Collins Publishers, 2003.