Just as in the topic. It seems unlikely to me, I could not find anything about this on wals.info but nonetheless it seems theoretically possible since articulating vowels without voicing is doable. Also, what are other features of vowels, beside POA, length, nasalisation, rounding and tone, are distinguished in the languages of the world ? 

This questions applies only to the languages which originally did not feature noun case systems and developed it over time through various sound, morphological and syntactical changes. By a case system here I mean more or less the Indo-European, flectional one, the categories of number, case have to be marked by just one morpheme. I assume that such development would occur through agglutination and/or grammaticalization of various postpositions, prepositions (this one morpheme could also be a prefix) and particles. As I understand, this excludes the agglutinative system of, for example, Finnish or Hungarian. What interest me here are specific examples of such processes, their individual ways of evolution and what can be possibly extracted from them as maybe some universal truth about that kind of language transformation. 

The syntax of predicative nominals and predicative adjectives in ancient IE languages and, as far as I know, almost every modern one : 

Sanskrit contrasted three sibilants, two of which most probably were [ɕ] and [ʂ] (or [ʃ]). The former was an outcome of an Proto-Indo-Iranian affricate that developed from PIE voiceless palatalised velar stop whilst the latter had its roots in PIE /*s/. Again here comes the matter of the exact phonetical nature of the second, non-palatal sound, retroflex [ʂ] or post-alveolar [ʃ]. In my view that doesn't matter so much, since Sanskrit didn't contrast all four places of articulation within sibilants (that is dental, post-alveolar, palatal and retroflex). The situation in Sanskrit would be similar to the one in Polish, described by Arsen before. Both [ʂ] and [ʃ] would be allophones of a phoneme that doesn't have to be specifically retroflex or specifically post-alveolar, it just has to contrast with the other two sibilants. In the light of that, it is safe to say that indeed ɕ contrast with ʃ. 

In Greek declensions there are a couple examples of metathesis quantitatis which is simply vowel length swapping. Within the second declension we have the Attic declension which consists of nouns like νεώς or λεώς. Originally these forms had long stem vowel and a typical short thematic vowel. Due to a regular sound change the lengths of the vowels changed places. νηός > νεώς ληός > λεώς This is seen throughout the whole paradigm. ($URL$ There is quantitative metathesis happening also in the third declension, in the genetive of nouns like βασιλεύς or πόλις. The standard Attic genetive is βασιλέως and πόλεως whilst the Homeric Greek yields βασιλῆος and πόληος. References: $URL$ A Greek Grammar for Colleges, Herbert Weir Smyth Gramatyka grecka, Marian Auerbach, Marian Golias 

Since Germanic languages descend from a single Proto-Germanic parent language, and sound change (neogrammarian, exceptionless) is responsible for a giant part of the language change, there will be regular and systematic sound correspondences between Germanic languages, albeit they can be often obscured by analogical changes and borrowings. However, as it was noticed in the comment, for these correspondeces to work, one have to compare words that are truly cognates, i.e. they developed from a single word. Examples of such cognates would be: English hound, German hund, Swedish hund, Icelandic hundur, Dutch hond Vowel correspondence set derived from this cognate set (written in each language's own ortography) might not be proper to all the ou, o and u 's in these languages. As I stated before, one still has to consider such things as analogy, borrowings and conditioned sound changes. To notice true and regular correspondences, whole language's systems have to be carefully examined and compared. It can be often slightly easier to notice when it comes to consonants. In early Medieval times a consonant chain sound change occured in the Old High German dialects, that ,among others, involved spirantization of stops. What it left is a nice image of some consonant correspondences that can be seen, especially between Modern High German and English. Examples: machen : make schlafen : sleep dass : that $URL$ 

Teachers of Ancient Greek at my university have always been emphasising the importance of being aware of the loss of the intervocalic sigma in the language's history, because it helped to understand some seemingly peculiar inflectional paradigms ( τὸ γένος etc.). Unfortunately they were mostly literature specialist, not linguists, so they only provided us with the most essential information. What about the dating of that sound change ?Was it during the Proto-Greek period ? Can we find that change in all the dialects ? Also, what the about the forms that actually have an intervocalic sigma? Such as φύσις, βάσις, στάσις etc. or the sigmatic aorist like ἐτιμήσα, ἐπαιδεύσα. While I can understand the nouns as a post-change creation, this aorist seems quite ancient to me, but I very likely might be wrong here. 

As for the last part of your question: Ancient Greek indeed had some rules of accentuation, despite the fact that the position and type of it was not always possible to be determined on phonetic basis (as in e.g. Vedic Sanskrit and contrary to Latin). Greek had some ground rules concerning accent placement, for example the stress was allowed to be placed only on one of the three last syllables, two syllables if the last vowel was long. There was a two-way accent contour constrast but only on long vowels.If the stressed vowel was long, an the following was short, then accent could be either rising or rising-falling. If the following vowel was also long, the the accent had to be rising. These are just some rules, and there some exceptions. The accentuation on finite verb forms was recessive, i.e. the stress went as far "left" as it could, so it was predictable. The accentuation of non finite verb forms and noun on the other hand was not predictable and lexically defined. 

Why is voicing considered lenition under phonological criteria? To me voiced consonants seem stronger in articulation, therefore voicing should be considered fortification. 

The sound is called retroflex approximant, which means that it produces a stream of air not narrow enough to be classified as a fricative consonant("sh","v") but also not wide enough to be classified as a vowel. The retroflexion means that the tongue is curling backwards while producing the sound. I am not sure what is the muscle you mean. 

As for the centum-satem distinction, nowadays indoeuropeanists usually don't think of it as a west-east dialect division but they rather view the satem palatalisation as an innovation which took place in central IE dialects in opposition to the peripheral or outside IE dialects which did not undergo that change. In such a scenario, following the principles of grouping dialects on the basis of common innovations and not common retentions, one could only posit an existence of a Central PIE dialect, leaving the outside ones out of the equation. A binary oppposition of centum-satem, in this shape, is well embraced by modern scholars. It turns out that the central-peripheral version is more flexible and allows to take into account such peculiarities as weird centum lexemes in Slavic, and the great distance between for example Tocharian and Celtic, which in the older view should have belonged to the same dialect. Unfortunately one can point multitude of other isoglosses, involving other language changes, which do not necessarilly overlap. This is a thing that proves a task to confidently divide PIE into two dialects very difficult if not impossible. Needless to say one also has to deal with time depth and a fact that division of PIE was not a instant event, that some groups of people left Common PIE speaking communities earlier and some later. 

There is a great book on that topic - Language : The Cultural Tool by Daniel Everett. He states, contrary to the Chomskyan notions, that languages' features are shaped almost exlusively by the culture of the language's users. He presents all this on a basis of the Piraha language, which he studied for quite a long time. The Piraha people are indigenous inhabitants of Amazonian rainforest, being isolated from influence of the "outside world". On that grounds their language has developed many features that are very peculiar ,not only compared to IE languages, but even the languages from its region and the whole world. To answer to your question directly: I think right now in linguistics there is no consensus on that topic, but this Everett's book would surely present you one of the approaches. It covers exactly the problem you stated : How strongly can the culture affect language and vice versa. 

About the second part of your question. The spelling very often represents pronunciation that was once used (although this is not a rule). The C in the spelling systems of modern Romance languages stands mostly for voiceless velar stop [k] or a variety of palatal or sibilant-like sounds, including [t͡ʃ], [t͡s] or [s]. The second group usually continues [k] which was later fronted and palatalised, for example because of the proximity of a front vowel. C letter is used for these sounds simply for historical reasons. 

This is a thing that I have been thinking about for a while. I know that PIE did not have gender distinction in verb forms, and its presence in modern Slavic languages must be an innovation. If I am correct this phenomenon occurs exclusively in the Slavic family (I still have in mind only IE languages). My questions are: 

You can try a Slavic language to go with highly inflectional morphology and complex phonology regarding consonants. Russian or Polish for instance, the former being more widely used. 

According to Fortson 2004, the probable origin of PIE ablaut is just sound change that later became grammaticalised and expanded to the whole verb system. I do not what is the situation like in Semitic. Does anybody have some information on the whole topic? I know that it requires going way back to the proto periods and probably its nothing else than pure speculation. Have there been any researches done in this field? Do you have some references ? 

Since I started to read about language typology and then got a hint about PIE ablaut system I have been wondering if there might be any prehistorical connection between these families at least concerning the apophony as a grammatical tool for distinguishing between tenses, aspects etc. To begin with, I am aware that these families are considered separate genetically by modern historical linguistics, I am also aware of the Nostratic theory, and I know that in this modern stage semitic vowel alternation does not work in the same way as in reconstructed PIE. What interests me is not the hypothetical common ancestor for pie and semitic but the question of the ablaut in these branches : 

I want to emphasize that I am only concerned about the verb. Of course any references to articles, books etc. will be very welcome. 

Well, it is a consonant. It is produced by stopping the airflow in the same way as in producing [p],[k] or [t], it is just made in different place. While the aforementioned obstruents are articulated by stopping the airflow respectively between lips (bilabial stop), root of the tongue and velum (velar stop) and tip of the tongue and alveolar ridge (alveolar stop), glottal stop is produced by stopping the airflow with glottis. In English glottal stop function merely as an allophone of /t/ word finally, and (in some dialects) intervocally. But there are languages where glottal stop is a distinct phoneme. The example would be the Semitic family where it is written with letter aleph. 

I don't know about Russian, but in Polish this applies only to predicative nominals. In the predicative adjectives the predicate stands in nominative like expected. Although this is not the case in the Polish literature from the first half of the XX century where the instrumental construction very often appears also in predicative adjectives. My question is : what is the origin of the instrumental case of the predicate in predicate nominals and adjectives in these languages? 

The German -stell- forms and Slavic -stav- are neither related nor borrowed in one way or another. The 'clearly corresponding prefixes' may very well be just a coincidence. Slavic root * stāw- is a continues Proto-Indo-European root * steh₂- 'to stand, to stand up, to make sth stand' which is seen in such Paradebeispiel as Gk. ἵστημι, Skt. tíṣṭhati or Lat. sistō. It also has continuants in the Germanic branch, namely: Ger. stehen, Dutch staan Sw. stå or Goth. stōjan. German -stell- forms ultimately come from Proto-Indo-European root * stel- 'to put, to locate'. This root was not as productive as the aforementioned one but still it shows it self (beside the German forms you mentioned) in Eng. stall, Gk. στέλλω, and maybe Lat. locus. 

In modern Polish and Russian (and on that basis I assume all Slavic although I do not have solid information on that) the same construction looks like this: 

Japanese has a particle /ka/ <か> added to the end of the sentence that marks it as a question. Declarative: Anata wa nihonjin desu Question: Anata wa nihonjin desu ka 

Recently I got into a discussion with my friend concerning sizes of lexicons of different languages. He stated something about Japanese having considerably more words than English. (The exact languages don't matter, my point is about assessing the size of a lexicon) My friend's opinion was based in a big part on the difference between sizes of dictionaries which seem inadequate to me as no dictionary provides the whole lexicon. (AFAIK) I am very sceptical about any specific assessments of the number of language's words, but I have only my common sense to support that. It appears to me that the difficulty behind that task is based on the impossibility in determining which lexemes to consider "alive", being actively a part of the language at a certain point in time, and which to consider archaic and no longer productive nor being part of the language at this certain point in time. The other difficulties, in my view, would appear in deciding whether a certain recently borrowed word is already a part of the lexicon as a proper loanword or merely a temporal influence that is very likely to fade in usage after a couple of years . One would also have to strictly determine which specific dialect of the language is to be analised. And then it overlaps with the perennial struggle in delimitation within languages and lects. All these problems seem to be mere manifestations of the most basic and obvious fact of language being in constant change. That inherent feature of natural languages, in my opinion, doesn't allow for any accurate estimations of the size of lexicon. Can you provide any literature on that topic ? Or maybe there are some loopholes in my thought process or a consensus in linguistics that I am simply not aware of ? Even if there was a method of producing a safe assessment, would the margin of error of these assessments allow to state that "Language X has more extensive vocabulary than Language Y" ? 

Just as in the title :) I wonder if there is a tool on the internet which would help in finding cognates of certain word in as much branches as possible. Say I want to find find all the cognates in other languages of the Latin facio, facere to compare the stem creation systems. Ideally with descriptions of changes that occurred and possible references to texts and sources. 

There are whole deserts covered with bazalt stones bearing incredible numbers of Semitic inscriptions, connected to the general idea of Pre-Islamic Old Arabic waiting to be deciphered, edited and published. And then comes the fun of inferring all kinds of linguistic Semitic data from them. 

As for the vowels. There are couple of approaches. The reductionist approach (embraced for example by the Leiden school) curtails the reconstruction to just 2 phonological vowels, /e/ and /o/, alternating in morphonological system called ablaut. The remaining vowels that can be reconstructed on the basis of daughter languages data, that is low central /a/, two high /i/ and /u/ and long variants of all these are assumed to develop by changes connected with syllabicity of glides /y/ and /w/ and loss of laryngeals. On the other hand the American tradition for example assumes a full system of /i, e, a, o, u/ with long /e,o/ variants. If one would have to derive a consensus concerning the IE vowel system: it is commonly accepted that /i/ and /u/ emerged from syllabic allophones of glides /y/ and /w/. Majority of scholars also accepts the notion of lengthened vowels developing from various compensatory lengthening-like changes. Reconstruction of true vowel /a/ remains the biggest point of dispute. Leiden tries to explain every evidence for it using laryngeal coloring of /e/ whilst the Americans accept it as it is. These debates however mostly regard to reconstruction of very early PIE system (especially the reductionist approach). The late PIE vowel system, after the laryngeal coloring and loss and the phonologization of syllabic high vowels would consist of approximately 7-9 vowels, depending on the number of lengthened vowels one would reconstruct. The view of consonant system is far more clear, with minor variations among scholars, usually concerning the phonetic character of certain phonemes, not the whole structure of phonological system. Five sets of stops are reconstructed, each with a voiceless, voiced and breathy voiced variant: labial, dental, palatovelar, velar and labiovelar. There is one dental sybilant /s/, three laryngeals, two glides /y,w/, two nasals /m,n/ and two resonants /r,l/. All in all it gives a total system of 25 consonant phonemes.