What are the fundamental principles of human pscyhology? What are the fundamental principles of human sociology? 

Upon reading about and later researching [1] Kant's famous Categorical Framework, which is included as a key part of his classic Critique of Pure Reason (1781), I am struck by aspects that are quite basic and intuitive, like his definition of "Quantity" (unity, plurality, totality) which contrasts with a more difficult frame for "Modality" (possibility, existence, necessity). It is said this work was intended by Kant to represent a framework for all knowledge, but Kant's writing style has been described by many (most?) scholars as a challenge to unravel. How much of his original intention has been, as they say, lost in translation? Is there anyone considered authoritative on what the C.F. truly means? [1] Tarnas (1991), The Passion of the Western Mind p. 341-347. 

A fundamental premise advanced by Kuhn is that established frameworks of scientific understanding (his paradigms) are subject to change. There are many examples, but the simplest and best is the Copernican revolution. Historians look at events and trends to distill meaning, and Kuhn actually uses a multitude of historical examples in Structure (Kuhn, 1962) to show that history may work against 'normal' scientific endeavors, because of the tendencies of scientists to work within and further advance accepted theories, rather working to challenge those theories where fundamental anomolies are encountered. He makes the case that what we think we know may in fact be wrong. A paradigm shift is thus very difficult to achieve, which, per Kuhn, is amply evidenced in the history of science. Philosophers share the historians' search for meaning. Both share the scientists' pursuit of understanding, and ultimate advancement of knowledge, though the methods may be quite different. When viewed as overlapping Venn diagrams, however, it is clear that Kuhn (and other philosophers of science) would be unable to work in a vaccuum. So, in the case of scientific evolution (or revolution), yes, philosophers and historians of sciance need to collaborate closely. Whether they would or do depends on whether they have an integrative view of humanities, or a siloed view. Politics and personal bias also tend to enter into it. What philosophy can provide are the cognitive tools and frameworks (call them epistemologies) that bring logic and consistency to scientific studies. The breakthroughs of Bacon/Newton that founded empirical science are grounded in such notions, though they pre-dated Kant's categorical framework. But Kant clearly established his C.F. as a way to "sketch the complete plan for the whole of a science" (CPR(A), Transcendental Logic Sec III, 11). If philosophy is defined nominally as how we come to understand things, then perhaps history is in fact deeply connected with philosophical principles. Both the means and the ends of these communities look fundamentally different at first blush. But I believe the seach for understanding has deep roots, providing a common basis for thinking that advances all academic branches in the search for knowledge. Suggested reading: Kuhn, TS. Structure of Scientific Revolutions (1962), U.of Chicago Press. 

seek survival seek procreation (perpetuate the species) seek eudaemonia, a fulfilled and perfected happiness 

Maybe. Can we agree on semantic substitution of 'principle' over 'law' ..? If we agree with Beatty (1995) .. that universal, necessary generalizations (ie., "laws") don't apply to adaptive organisms .. This let's us continue to pursue the query. To follow down this path a bit .. First, taking the human case, which we (hopefully!) understand a bit better, substituting 'principles' for 'laws' and looking within our social epistemologies for some grounding, we might reasonably say: 

As I continue my deep read of Kant's first critique, I'm struck by the fact that both space and time are a priori concepts, known to us prior to any experience, CPR(A) Transcendental Aesthetic, S.7 p.39-40. But so too are the 12 categories in his framework. To be pure concepts, he tells us, they must also be a priori. CPR(A), Transcendental Logic, S.10, p.78-79. What is the operative relationship among Kant's a priori elements? A skeptic may ask whether is matters. But it matters in my analysis because I am trying to understand whether the nature of the 12 categories are essentially equivalent to space and time, or somehow derived from them. In his first critique, space and time are "two totally distinct kinds of concepts" and specificially describes them as "forms of sensibility", whereas, in the same paragraph the categories themselves are "concepts of the understanding" CPR(A) S.13, p.85-86. This takes me down the path of separateness. And yet, as a priori concepts, there is a sameness that to me makes them function in a similar way, generalized abstractions with which we can categorize and frame our knowledge. What guidance is available on this? 

The Psychology/Sociology of Fear and Survival To me this question is less about physical reality (why is a line drawn here?), and more about human psychology and the sociology that emerges from day to day living, which creates a perceived necessity for lines. With foundations in Darwin and Maslow, there is broad consensus that human's worry innately about their survival and their membership in a group, and the fear of not surviving and/or not belonging has led, over time, to the creation of artificial boundaries. Inevitibly, these become physical ones: fences, walls, even fortified neutral zones (aka DMZ's). Less physical, but none the less real: cliques, classes, castes, nations, etc. You are right that the boundaries often lack a practical basis, other than creating virtual containers for a tribe or culture to develop an identity. The example by @labreur re: French/German differences reinforces this. But to me, it's not that the borders lack physical cause. That is true. Beneath your question is an important implication: that the human psyche, compounded by complex interaction with other humans, creates virtual boundaries that emerge into a variety of emotional, social, and (shall we confess?) political realities. I believe these are the forces that form the basis of culture, nationalism, and sociology more generally. 

Excellent question. The semantic function of 'meaning' .. assigning value or implication to a stated proposition .. can be the same in both abstract and concrete scenarios. But with abstract concepts (like 'life') it is far more difficult to establish clarity because there are so many valid possibilities. All language is essentially a mapping, words mapped to underlying definitions by convention. Useful results of that mapping grow more difficult as subject matter is further abstracted. That's why metaphor is often a powerful tool to make abstract notions more understandable. By its own definition (Lakoff, 1980) it maps the abstract to the concrete. Can't help but turn to Wittgenstein's classic quote: "The limits of my language mean the limits of my world" Tractatus, 5.6 (1921). This provides a famous example of the use of meaning in philosophy, while shedding light on both langage and it's role in mapping value among abstract concepts. It's hard to talk about meaning without using it in a sentence. Even for Wittgenstein. Also need to give Kant a nod on this one. His nominal definiton of 'truth' in Critique of Pure Reason "agreement of knowledge with its object" CPR(A) Part 2, Transcendental Logic III, is equally telling. Here Kant again demonstrates the importance of semantic mapping, in pursuit of understanding. In his framing, as I understand it, the predicate of an analytic proposition provides immediate elucidation of a subject, while a synthetic prosposition expands that meaning by relating the subject to other subjects. In either case, we are still mapping A to B, in order to establish meaning of the subject, or more specifically, to clarify knowledge. There is certainly more to the story from Kant, but since I am still deep reading CPR, I best stop here. I am just at the edge of my understanding of his Categories. In modern terms, I'd argue it's about creating context, a critical obligation for those who traffic in the understanding of abstract notions. Philosophers, for example. Hope this helps. 

I love a good puzzle and Descartes gave us one for the ages. The challenge is extracting meaning from "I" and "existence" from the thought experiencing it, without presuming either. So what if we define it within the problem context? With a definition, the presumption (and logic problem) could go away .. Let's try: 

For 2. amplifying the comment on "evolving organisms" with "contingencies" takes us deeper into an assessment of complex adaptive social systems, which are in a constant, emergent state of flux. That doesn't mean there can't be general principles (social expediencies?) at work, aka "simple rules" .. many of them derived from the individual case: 

Agree with @ChrisSunami in general. To expand the moral/ethics angle a bit .. Aristotle in his Nicomachean Ethics spoke of vices as opposite extremes, with the virtuous ideal in the middle. One example I recall are the opposite extremes/vices of "fear" vs. "overconfidence". The midpoint or golden mean in this framing would be the virtue, in this case, "courage". The opposing extremes, or vices, would both be undesirable, if in excess. So in Aristotle's ethics it seems there is more of a continuum in play, with opposite behaviors and/or attributes visible at the extremes. Are opposites easier to visualize this way, vs. the discrete black/white framing? 

Many of these are reflected in our cultures and legal systems .. aka "laws" (there's that word again). Here we are tapping some vernacular references that in this case seem quite to the point .. Since minds and societies are evolved and evolving, I'd argue that these laws/principles evolved out of the survival necessity of our species. They did not exist a priori. So they are not immutable, but perhaps they represent a "best practice" for the state of our species to date. Can we know them? Yes. How do we learn them? Via socialization (parents! peers!) though some of the above seem pretty deeply infused in our mental and emotional DNA, again a nod back to Maslow .. and of course Darwin .. Taking the non-human case (preferring animals and insects to aliens!), we can argue that many of the same behaviors can be seen to work in other species. So these proposals aren't exclusive to the human case. A religious view of course is that some of these principles/laws are in fact divinely inspired (along with quite a few others ..) .. but they remain laws of mind and culture all the same. My maybe has become a yes, it seems .. if we haven't run too far afield. The semantic intent of "law" and "to govern" (influence? guide?) are all important here .. 

As I dive deeper into understanding epistemology more broadly and Kant's first Critique more specifically, I have taken up advice from related posts to read his Prolegomena to Any Future Metaphysics as the ideal entry point, followed by Critique of Pure Reason itself. Of the latter, I am hopeful the F. Max Mueller translation into English will serve me well. There is further mention in the same and related posts to nearly infinite secondary literature sources, but I could not find specific citations. All introductions to Kant's work I've found to date have been general in nature, and I have found none that have unpacked epistemology to the level I'd like to go. Are there specific thinkers (scholars, philosophers, historians, even university programs) who have done deep dives on the foundations of epistemology as outlined by Kant in his CPR, to the degree such thinkers could be considered authoritative? I am anxious to learn more, but need to know where to start. 

Besides being a fan of Descartes, I am a fan of Wittgenstein. The latter made it clear how easily we trip on undefined terms. Descartes's Cartesian Circle makes it clear that he had no issues with the irony of ambiguity and circular reasoning. But if we define key terms to establish context, can't we remove Descartes circularity and provide weight to his original claim? 

maximize well-being of the whole minimize constraints on personal freedom protect community from outside threats seek survival of all community members nurture offspring 

Fascinating discussion here! But it may have had participants worn thin by slipage across epistemic boundaries. Each of several epistemologies might have been useful to assess the situation, but frustration might have crept in because we didn't agree to one. The operating paradigm, or frame of reference for solving the problem, was a bit fluid. In this conversation, I can think of 4 distinct epistemic frames that could have helped: Scientific Causality. No one picked up the empirical torch, and perhaps rightly so, because trying to reproduce numerous scenarios of low-level players and foul language and repeat suspensions would be tedious and unproductive. But causation appears in the question header. Could we produce a trend empirically? Perhaps. But could we prove cause and effect in this manner? Doubtful. As is the case in most soft sciences like psychology, there are too many variables at work (as mentioned, impact of repeat offenses, opinions and stress levels of game admins, behavioral quirks) to prove a result. More on behavior below. Philosophic Logic. Lukas weighed in heavy on this front, and while I am not a student of logic, it seems the conclusion or C1 of suspension could be caused by P1+P2+P3 or by P3 alone. P1 and P3 are observable. P2 is an unsupported opinion. While it is possible that P1+P2+P3 caused C1, P3 operating independently at any time could also cause C1. Would "probable cause" in a court of law say Coltonoscopy was guilty? Only if prosecutors could prove P2, and disprove the possibility of P3 in isolation. The defense rests. On an interesting side note, when Labreuer raised the stakes via the DUI parallel, the analogy of an errant accomplice might hold up: that is, a well-meaning friend who bought the suspect one too many drinks. Would an ensuing DUI be his fault? Again, the drink may have increased the likelihood (and in the eyes of our society introduced some ethical culpability) but it would be difficult to prove cause or assign full blame. As framed in the original question, such factors are circumstantial, not causal. Philosophic Ethics. Coltonoscopy, you were laser focused on the ethical question of whether the bad-mouthed friend had a right to blame you for actions that he himself had taken. This is an accountability question, which is difficult to counter. I for one would agree, the bad-mouthed friend was behaving inappropriately to both the gamers (foul language) and to you (projecting blame for his own actions). Perhaps time for a new friend? Your frustration, I think, may have been because you intuitively (and perhaps deeply) sensed that the blame wasn't fair. Wouldn't that be like Descartes, using rational thinking to get to the answer that seemed right to him, given the situation? Complexity. Another applicable frame (my favorite) was also not invoked, but its one that matters greatly in soft sciences (like psychology and sociology) and it applies here for the very reason called out by Mike early on: "dealing with an ego." In this case, we are dealing with complex behaviors that are not governed by strict linear causality. Humans typically adapt their behavior in social settings to get what they want. If we grant Lukas the veracity of P2 (not that I have, mind you!), we would say that Coltonoscopy may have created an initial condition that could potentially increase the chances of C1 (suspension), but in no way could we say that he caused it. A complexity frame would never assign such an outcome a cause, owing to the emergent and adaptive behaviors of the many interdependent agents in such systems. People are unpredictable. Especially dysfunctional ones, who blame their friends for their own misgivings. My understanding of causality follows a thread from Bacon/Newton to Hume to Kant and I can't say I have it completely figured out. Complexity perhaps could get us to an answer the fastest. But I think choosing any of the frames above would eventually release Coltonoscopy from blame. Great question! The takeaway? For me, it's that we can reduce churn in our critical thinking (arguments, discussions, philosophical debates) when we put thought to which epistemology best fits the situation at hand. We're effectively deciding which rule set is most likely to get us to a useful answer for that problem domain .. quickly. Perhaps most of all, we need to pick one, declare it, and stay with it. Is any one method right or wrong? That sounds like another metaphysical question .. for another day.