For anyone actually wanting to do that workout None of these answers are correct when applied to the workout linked above. The bodybuilding.com email response is also wrong when applied to this workout, I assume they have given a generic answer on what 5 x 3,2,1 means but it has nothing to do with the workout linked. The workout calls for five sets of 3,2,1 reps in a rest-pause style of training. This means you use a heavy weight that you could do for about 3-4 reps max, and crank out 3 difficult reps (you can just manage to do them). Then to get your breath back you rest for just a few seconds (10 seconds or so), then force 2 more reps. Then you rest a few more seconds, and do the final rep. It's a way of pushing you to do (3+2+1=6) reps with a weight that normally you can only do 3-4 reps with. That is one set. You repeat this process 5 times to do 5 sets. Note, this isn't the usual meaning of 5 sets of 3,2,1, but this is the meaning in this context and for this workout. 

Which would seriously boost your calories compared to just sitting down. Interestingly, the author of the study (dr. J. Levine) about Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis (NEAT) was interviewed by USA Today and they included the following picture: 

You should get yourself a decent heart-rate monitor and calibrate it yourself (as good as possible). What you do is you take a cycling home trainer and you follow the following protocol: 

So to conclude: no fidgeting is not enough. If you really want to burn some calories, you need to get off your ass and get some work done. With Fitness, there's no such thing as a free lunch! 

There are several ways to measure your body fat percentage. Sportsmedicine.About.com has a nice description of the most important ones, in order of their reliability 

I sincerely hope no-one reading these answers in the future get's the wrong idea here. Hence I feel the need, four years after the original asker was here, to add some context. What Starting Strength does Starting Strength is designed to add maximal strength as quickly as possible whilst not specifically building hypertrophy or work capacity. It does this very well and if that's what you want do it but stick precisely to the program, it works. FYI the program lasts no longer than a month or three for most people. What Starting Strength doesn't do What it doesn't do for the average person is build a nice physique, or prepare you for the best strength progress in your future lifting career. It's very much a one-trick pony. If you want to be better, be stronger, and look better than the average person who wants a bit of strength, you would be well advised to do a lot more work. Build yourself a base of work capacity, and focus on the one aspect of your training career that anyone aiming for maximal strength or maximal muscle should be focusing on: building muscle mass. How to understand the other answers here All these answers above about how the three day setup in starting strength is somehow better or more effective are correct ONLY if your goal is as much immediate strength as possible in the next few months, and you don't care about slowing down your long term strength and physique potential by having to backtrack and work on building a base later on once those beginner gains die and you are left stalling like a grounded whale. tl, dr; if you feel you can do more and you want to actually make long term progress, then please do what your brain is telling you and do more. If anyone wants further advice, how to build more work capacity, how to set up a routine to do more work etc, feel free to ask. Edit addition: So what else can I do? What program lets me do more? $URL$ Check the link in that article to download the complete package of programs, which has a well laid out beginners program that has you training 4 days a week and doing 4 main lifts (S/B/D/OHP) in each session plus accessories. If you want to do more, here you go. And through that link you'll find a powerlifting world record holder's informed take on how to master your training career to get as strong and as big as possible. Covers beginners, intermediates and advanced. To anyone confused by my views, this should be an interesting read. Hope it's enlightening. Do you have anything else? I don't jive with that program This one here is another awesome program and just so happens to be Mon - Fri: $URL$ 

Of these, freestyle is the fastest and most efficient swimming style. In my own experience the butterfly stroke is by far the hardest to maintain for long distances. How you fill in your workout depends on two factors, how well can you swim and how hard do you want to be working out. How well can you swim? If you have a poor technique or a poor condition, swimming will become quite heavy to sustain at a decent speed very quickly. The poor technique causes you to swim inefficient, because having a wrong posture creates a lot of unnecessary drag and inefficient breathing. The poor condition means fatigue will have a negative influence on both your speed and your technique. A combination of both will lead to a complete downward spiral. Why should you care? Well, the point is you want to be swimming for a long stretch off time, enough for some real cardio-exercise. You don't want to be 'wasting' energy and end up completely wasted half way through. You should only make it harder on yourself once yourself once you have a decent baseline condition. Pick the strokes that allow you to swim for as long as possible. How hard do you want to be working out? Like running, swimming is something you can make as hard as you want to. If you swim faster, it will cost you more energy. You can also add tougher strokes (like butterfly stroke) or add resistance (wear a t-shirt or use paddles) to increase the resistance. The other option is working out longer, though unless your serious about swimming long distances, I reckon this is the last option for everyone. Why should you care? This means that if you always swim for half an hour and you're swimming condition + technique start to improve, you can either do more in those 30 minutes or add some minutes to make it harder. 

You have only weighed yourself three times You weigh once a week You weigh in the evening at 6pm You may or may not weigh yourself wearing the same clothing etc. 

The number of sets you do increases what we call the total volume of work being done. The more volume of work you do, the stronger signal your body gets that it needs to grow. If you do only one set, you aren't giving your body a very strong signal to grow. If the set is heavier than last time (even if you push it to failure), you give a slightly stronger signal to grow, but at one point that just won't be enough. Your body will need a stronger stimulus. So what do we do? We add sets. That produces enough of a stimulus so you will continue to grow. Background Basically, every time you exercise you do a certain amount of work. Then you rest for a day or whatever, and meanwhile your body responds to the work and grows. Now, that amount of work you do has to meet a minimum requirement to be effective. There is a minimum threshold. If you do a little bit of work, but you fall short of that threshold, your body won't get stronger/bigger (much or at all). The interesting thing is, that minimal threshold constantly changes. As you get stronger the minimal threshold also increases. So you need to do more work to get even stronger. Think about it, you can't keep doing the same amount of work and expect to keep growing (otherwise everyone would be walking around jacked af). How do you meet that minimal threshold? How do you do more work? The basic methods are you either lift heavier weight, or you do more sets. If you're new, just adding weight will work for a short while, but at one point you'll find that it's no longer enough to get you stronger. That's when you'll need to add sets. There's a lot more to it, but you're better off doing some research yourself. What we've discussed here is volume. It's part of a few variables that determine how much and how well you grow. Look up volume, intensity and frequency. Do some googling. 

On average I burn about 1-1.1 kcal / minute, which is pretty low given that my 2hr run yesterday burned an average of 12 kcal/minute. So while your mileage may vary, I'd probably burn somewhere between 60 and 90 kcal/hour regardless on what I'm sitting. To get 45 kcal more, you'd probably need to be in some very unbalanced position. 

Disclaimer: I specialize in gait analysis, so obviously I'm heavily biased. What are your options for footwear? 

However, there's a delicate balance between increasing your activity levels and depleting your anaerobic energy stores and metabolite build up. In contrast, my MiCoach training program always has a 5 minute gentle jogging warm-up. So clearly, there's some disagreement about what I should be doing. As I'm doing a marathon training program it feels awkward to me to 'waste' so much energy at the start of my workout. But on my 30 minute workouts, a 5 minute intensive warm-up might ensure a more pleasant 20-25 minutes workout afterwards. My hypothesis would be that its mainly important before races or interval training, where higher activity levels from the start will mean you get a head start compared to still having to warm-up. So should I switch from a gentle warm-up to a more intensive warm-up? Will it make every workout more pleasant or is it better suited for higher performance/interval workouts? 

The problem is that weighing scales are often not entirely accurate, and your weight varies a lot throughout the day. To really get a handle on your weight, you may find the following guidelines helpful: 

As others have mentioned it increases IAP. An effect of it is that it may also allow your core muscles to fire harder by giving your CNS a reason to reduce limits on certain muscles. It probably isn't cheating I disagree with the apparently common belief that wearing a belt will reduce the opportunity for the lower back to get stronger. Numerous studies have found no significant decrease in spinal erector activity when training with a belt compared to without, in actuality one study found an increase in muscle activity. Sources at end. Add to that the anecdotal point that getting stronger with a belt also increases your beltless strength more or less directly, even if you don't train beltless during that time period. Wear it. Most of the time On the whole, wearing a belt increases your performance in the gym, which will help you achieve the goals of muscular size and strength. There are a few instances where it would be better to train beltless (if you train for a sport that doesn't depend on lifting maximal weights for example), but the bulk of your training should probably be done belted. It isn't cheating. For a more detailed and highly recommended write up, refer to: $URL$ Studies about spinal erector activity with and without a belt: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

I've recently gone from working out at home to working out at the gym. I weigh about 145lbs and I'm 6ft, so I'm aiming to pack on another 10-14lbs before the end of the year. Currently I do a full body workout mixed with interval training for cardio, and I do this 3 times a week in the gym (Monday, Thursday, Saturday). I've recently read that I should be giving my muscles about 5-7 days rest time before working them again, so if this is true that would mean I would only be having 1 workout per week (plus cardio in another couple of gym sessions). This strikes me as not being enough to meet my goal, is this correct? Would you recommend moving to an isolated training regimen, where I focus on one muscle group in each session? I've always wondered how you can rest isolated muscle groups whilst working others, for example... if I work my arms on Monday, then Wednesday I would need to work my shoulders without hitting my arms, but I don't see how this is possible? 

1. Doing something is better than doing nothing. The fact that you are working out regularly makes you already far ahead of someone who doesn't. Your plan is way better than no plan. So once that is understood, now we can look at how good this workout actually is. 2. What effect does your workout have? Assuming you are using bodyweight only, and your method of progression is number of reps you can get before failure (progression is vital, no progression = no gains). If the reps you can do is under 10, you'll build good size and strength. Once the reps you can do get over 15-20, you're building muscle endurance. Since you care about "toning", the effect of size and strength is good for you. But the effect of muscle endurance is not going to help you look much better. Conclusion: No matter how long you do this workout, if you only use unloaded squats/dips/pull ups, once you get above 15-20 reps you are not going to get appreciably bigger and stronger any more (depending on genetics). 3. Will I progress on this program? (Remember, no progression = no body improvements. This is always the case) Depends on you. If the number of reps you can do are increasing, you are progressing. But if you do the same workout every day, your body will adapt and you will stop progressing. You CANNOT do this workout for a few years and progress. Also remember, if that progression is with reps over 15-20, you won't gain much visible improvement. 4. What can I do to reach MY goals? Your goals are aesthetic, you want to progress in the 5-15 rep range (mostly 6-12). You want to use a heavy enough load that you reach failure in that rep range, and you want to increase the load you can use over time. What does this mean? It means you're going to have to use loaded movements. The best thing you can use is a barbell in a gym. Notes: You do NOT need a fully planned out 30 day workout where every workout is different, that's the most garbage thing I've ever seen. You want to get into a gym and learn to squat, deadlift, press and row. You can then incrementally add load to every workout. This will keep you progressing for size and strength, which combined with a good diet will get you that "toned" look you want. You won't get "too muscular", unless you take drugs or are gaining kgs of bodyweight every month. 5. Give me a plan!! Check out StrongLifts. Super simple workout, don't need to remember much, even has an app telling you exactly what to do. 

It cycled through the four workouts in the order they are scheduled. They were described by how many different Zones it had, it's color and total duration. Which probably gives problems with your C210k program, because they all have nearly the same amount of intervals, the same intensity, only the ratio between the length of the intervals is different. Sadly, that information isn't included! The best work around is to turn on the Pacer, click on the Select Workout button once and then start your Workout. That way it will always select the workout that's first on the schedule. Are you unsure if you clicked once, turn it off and back on to try again. Alternatively, pick one of the workouts from MiCoach itself that resembles C210k as much as possible. 

Firstly your body can adapt to a lot of crazy things within limits. Now lifting every day applies differently to different lifts. Doing the olympic lifts everyday is a different beast to doing squats/bench/deads every day. In addition squatting everyday (getting popular nowadays) is again a different animal to deadlifting every day (which you may have noticed you never tend to hear about), or even bench pressing every day (suspiciously absent from current trends too). Talking about ultra high frequency programs in general, remember that there are three major variables that have to be manipulated together: volume, intensity and frequency. If you up the frequency like on Bulgarian training methods, you have to lower the intensity and the volume. Now Bulgarian methods maintain a pretty high intensity, but it's not a true max - applying Bulgarian frequencies to regular weight training necessitates using an "easy max" to prevent you dying. This is also called a daily minimum. So frequency is very high, intensity is pretty high, and as a result volume is super low: you train mostly singles. This is all about mastery of fatigue management, but there's different kinds of fatigue. Without getting too hairy, lifting super frequently is mainly excellent for improving motor learning: technique and how good you are at using your existing musculature to apply strength. Thus you'll find that Bulgarian style training can work well for people who have good levels of muscle mass but are not very efficient in terms of strength. It just makes them very good at lifting singles, very quickly. It does not build mass well though. Also to be clear, a lot of people crash out or get injured when trying Bulgarian training, it's not for everyone.