The conclusion although true, appears to be irrelavnt to the premises under discussion. Now, Meyer in the 70s, looked at Peanos Axioms (PA) in Relevance Logic, and showed that contra Godel that it was provably consistent. If the proof of the consistency of PA is important and vital, could not one say that relevant PA is perhaps the correct PA? Or that at least first-order PA is not right PA to look at? Of course, not all of the theorems of traditional PA holds in relevant PA; but is anything essential lost, say to mainstream number theory or physics, rather that the exotic outer reaches of what is possible in traditional PA? (Another way to examine this result in the light of Godel, is to consider his theorem that a theory cannot be both complete and consistent; if one desires completeness, one must embrace inconsistency; and in fact relevant logic is paraconsistent). 

Its quite clear that individuals cannot be nurtured to adult-hood if separated from the state - that is left in the wilderness. (This is also an observation captured in one of the folk-tales collected by the brothers Grimm - Babes in the Wood); and also from rare reports about feral children. Its also the reason why the Ancient Greeks considered exile to be considered a great punishment. 

Sure: In the physical sciences; one aspect of truth( and a large part of it) is instrumental; we know a particle exists when it has an effect; and by depriving them of charges - electric or gravitational; so that they do not interact with anything; it can't be distinguished from a particle that is not there at all. 

In the Kantian sense, to have experience it's not enough for there to be a stream of raw sensations; there must be an I that provides the concepts to make intelligible this stream. It's also notably the conclusion of Descartes cogito; and the foundation of his epistemology; which was later subverted by the observation that there to be an I there must be We preceding it. It's also constitutive of the observation that there is something - me - rather than nothing. And also the first step in self-consciousness, when one is no longer merely an unreflective being; but a being that reflects on being: being here; and then later, not being here (mortality) and possibly never being here. When unpacked of its sense (Sinn) rather than its form and reference (Bedeutung), it's a sentence that leads in many usefully different directions. 

How does Black liberation theology differ from the more well-known liberation theology with their option for the poor? What are their main points of differences as well as their parallels? 

Liebniz was an early admirer of Epicurean atomism; but later devoted himself to the doctrine of substantial forms as outlined in his Monadology. On the face of it, atoms are substantial forms - they have substance and they have form; what are the major differences between these two theories? 

Given Platos antipathy to poetry its interesting to note that he began as a writer of tragedies which in part explains the dramatic structure of his philosophical 'plays'; its well-noted that he stated in his republic no poets would be allowed; and its interesting to speculate why - possibly the connection of speech-making, rhetoric and poetry; and its worth remembering that poetry was a much more valued art in Classical era than now - it being the art of eloquence. In short, it helps. 

(Interestingly, this sounds a lot like Kantians 'copernican revolution' where he wrote "hitherto it has been assumed that all our knowledge must conform to objects...[instead let us] suppose that objects must conform to our knowledge"). There is also a new field of social science called the sociology of science which 

ie 'a radical breakdown in any consistent moral and spiritual tradition'. This particular sentiment was prefigured by Arnold's Dover Beach (in 1867)! 

In our imagination we have constructed numbers larger than all the atoms in the universe, and larger than in any concievable universe. Words such as bliss, the ineffable & sublime reflect different aspects of transcendence. Though one can say that we may be mistaken in our intuitions and our intimations - the Descartian doubt - it is also our sensibility that at root makes sense of the world and of words. Doubt obstinately and analytically defiant leads to the realm of solipsism - a cul-de-sac of thought. Doubt of that kind is the intellect introspecting. Sensibility cannot doubt as its the ground of our being. Rather, with Heidegger one should have the world ready-at-hand; the world within and without. The sensual impact of the world without on our sensibility conditions our becoming as do the intimitations from the world within - they are at-hand. The Good & the Beautiful - in their proper sense - and not as kitsch - as Plato knew it - is a reflection of the ineffable divine order in us. In many religous traditions a correspondance is created between the divine realm and the human realm. Prometheus stole the fire of the gods - the divine spark - that illumines spirit. Tagore, the Bengali poet & intellectual wrote: 

The question of whether the universe is eternal, cyclical which is, in some sense, also saying that it is eternal, or created. Any of these positions are profound which is why thinkers have struggled with them. Kant uses this difficulty to rule the question out as being amenable to critical discussion. One might say he doesn't want to discuss it. I think it is a mistake to think that the Bible or Quran, or other originary myth, whether invented for that purpose say by Plato in the Timaeus or by the Hopi Indians should be understood empirically or scientifically. What one can do is discuss the positions that they take, even when one is committed to a certain position. Empirically, that is within the context of our universe right now, and without going into detailed scientific justifications, it seems that time must have had a beginning - otherwise how can eternity pass to reach now? This is at least good grounds for thinking that the universe had a beginning. For if time had a beginning, the so did space and matter. This is one-half of an Antinomy of Kant. If God created the universe, then God is Eternal, not in the sense of existing in a time that is infinite, but in being outside of time. In some sense, we've traded the eternal universe for the eternity of God. One could ask, if the universe is in fact eternal, can a God have created it? Of course, neither the Quran or the Bible endorses this position. As for the role of inspiration, prophecy - those are difficult questions, which have superficially easy answers. Al-Ghazali endorsed occasionalism for the universe to even occur, that is for causality to happen. Recall here that Hume had the same thought several centuries later. Spinoza, had both thought and extension, the two Descartian substances as two modes of God; further back Plotinus took the universe as an emanation from God, which is also the thought of school of Illumination in Islamic Philosophy. If Spinoza has thought in God, then can we say that our thoughts are our own? Or perhaps that God is within the secret interstices of thought that give it operation? In Platos dialogue, Ion, he has Socrates assert that Rhapsody is inspiration, and inspiration comes from the Gods - the divine spark blown into divine fire by divine wind. It also what inspires Rumis metaphor of the reed in his Masnavi. 

Liminality (from the Latin Limen, meaning threshold) is a technical term deployed in Anthropology describing the ambiguity and disorientation which occurs in rites of passage from an 'earlier' life to a 'later' life; (commnon ones being marriage and adolescence). It has been deployed more widely to describe political and cultural change; and 

Is at one level, and at its barest a mere tautology; at another level - fate, and therefore the fatalism you mention; but only in part, for fate can be destiny, and a mans fate may be his character - and his character written; Omar Khayyam wrote in his Rubiyat: 

According to the wikipedia entry on Categorical Logic: Lawvere's writings, sometimes couched in a philosophical jargon, isolated some of the basic concepts as adjoint functors (which he explained as 'objective' in a Hegelian sense, not without some justification). Hegel had continued with Kants bridging of the world of the subject & object, but whereas Kant mentions antinomies only in passing to point out the limits of experience, Hegel makes this the engine that drives his philosophy through his triadic dialectic. Lawvere is known for advocating the adjunction between the space of logics and the space of its concrete models. Possibly he considered this a motion between the world of thought and that of concrete reality. But there is no sense of a dialectic here in the Hegelian sense. Is there a well-known way that Hegel used the term 'objective'? For example, I've come across 'Objective Spirit'. 

Alfred North Whitehead said 'The safest general characterization of the European philosophical tradition is that it consists of a series of footnotes to Plato'. I'm not interested (in this question) as to what Whitehead meant by this, but simply that he points towards Plato as the pre-eminent ancient philosopher in the European tradition. Before Plato there appears to be several schools of philosophy primarily concentrated in the colonies of the Greeks. Whereas Plato is based in Athens, the pre-eminent polis of the time. How much of Platos dominance is due to the glamour of Athens, and presumably (in contrast) the shabbiness of the colonies. For example, it may mean that his work was more often copied and commented on because he worked in Athens, and not simply because of his originality (if any). And how much of his work is a gathering together rather than a synthesis of diverse philosophical positions developed elsewhere. It maybe that this question is unanswerable, but it does seem to me to be an obvious question that may have been addressed by an expert of ancient greek philosophy. Addendum: Guthrie in his A History of Greek Philosophy – The Presocratic tradition from Parmenides to Democritus (1979) has this to say: 

Implicit in this is distinction of use value which has both subjective & objective character - the objective use-value of water for example is to drink it or to water plants, the subjective use-value of a painting is ones own taste, or as marker of taste knowing no taste but knowing what taste-makers admire. This is contrasted with exchange value; in a barter-economy, one good is traded for another directly; in a money-economy a middle term is inserted and exchange value is expressed as price. All three terms here are objective. Ricardo, deferring to Locke historicises this argument in his Principles of Political Economy: 

There are a number of notions of infinity in mathematics that are respectable. One of the first is 'the point at infinity' to the line or plane; but one can argue that this is a spurious infinity as in another perspective this simply closes up the line to make a circle; and the plane to make the surface of a sphere. In mathematics this construction is called 'compactification'; as the spherical surface is 'compact' in a way that the infinitely extensive plane is not. Do the ordinal infinities or cardinal infinities allow a similar perspective? notes *. It 'looks' possible to embed the long line into the Hilbert cube; which though having a countable number of dimensions is formally compact in another standard topology. 

In this cosmology Krauss is theorising a multiverse of which our own universe came into being. Thus our universe was once nothing and this is his definition of what he means by it. Harris's point still stand as there isn't strictly nothing - there is a pre-existing universe. Essentially, this cosmology is returning to the eternal model of the universe whilst remaining consistent with the big-bang theory which started time in our universe - which means that there can only be a finite amount of time in our past. One understand from this that 'something coming from nothing' is in part a rhetorical strategy, and his solution to this fundamental problem in metaphysics is that the universe (meaning here all universes) is eternal. Typically, Krauss takes an anti-theist line: The question this raises in the context of the Abrahamic religons - Judaism, Christianity & Islam is what does this mean for their theology in terms of their cosmological doctrine - a creator God that created the universe. One way to tackle this problem is to look at it from the view of Geometry: Suppose you see a rod in front of you. One can ask where did that come from; now supposing that bar is infinitely long does not remove the neccessity of that question. This thought-picture is what we might want to to think of seeing the Universe from the point of a God who stands wholly outside of the universe - that is, after Spinoza, sub-specie aeternis (under the aspect of eternity). Properly speaking of course, in theological terms, the universe cannot have emerged from 'nothing' as God was there 'beforehand'. If one objects to this because this is a mere analogy; then this deeply misunderstands the nature of theoretical insight in physics and mathematics where analogy has always played a profound role. Its also rather irritating that Krauss rather repeats the nonsense that: 

Here Marx is using quantitative & qualitative in a special way; it would be better to have said that the first is superficial and the second deeper. Looking at Hume is-ought problem on the question of the provenance, the gap between what is the case and what ought to be the case; a situation resolved by Hume in his psychology; we see this as the origin of moral values; in this form one can also ask what is the origin of economic values - the apple on a tree nor the oil on a ground comes with a price-tag - one can go back to Hume here, by analogy, and say tat it is rooted in human psychology, and the measure of this via Marx is labour; classically it is determined by scarcity; but one notes here that labour is in a positive relation to scarcity; what is very scarce takes a great deal of labour to obtain. For example a diamond is valued because it sparkles and is beautiful (the psychology), they are hard to find (scarcity) and hence costs a great deal to extract (labour). One ought to note, that at least philosophically, that all labour should count; and this means that of the mine-owner as well as that of the miners, and those who transport them - thats why this labour is called socially abstract. One should separate Marxist philosophy & politics: Capitalism is associated originally with the West, with the rest of the world in one form or another politically under its subjection; generally the anti-colonial movement rallied under various forms of nationalism and socialism (one supposes that they didn't wish to identify with the economic or political form of their subjection) and was generally successful after the weakened state of the West after the two World Wars in the early 20C. A general criticism, originally associated with Hayek,is the efficiency of free markets as opposed to that of command economies; this is of course correct, and also besides the point - Marx was interested in the general laws that govern and not determine the economy. Marx as a political activist may or may not have advocated violent revolution; but it is quite clear that he understood that economics cannot in philosophical terms be separated out from violence: 

Since in the world there are many things occurring at once; and sometimes in one way, and at other times in another; the neccessary character can sometimes be difficult to discern; one might speculate this was why astronomy was seen originally as the science par excellance that reveals the hidden order as the stars move to the music of the spheres - in fact we only need look up at the sky to observe this, and see it directly as theatre of permenance, in contrast to the earth where all things are subject to change: coming to be (genesis) and passing away (phthora). Of course, on the cosmological scale the heavens are as subject to change as much as all on earth are; but this is our senses magnified by both the instruments of our practical and theoretical sciences; on the human scale - that which we see directly by our own eyes - this distinction remains: and then one can ask is this regularity, this permanence that we see in the skies - the stars in their courses - is illusionary or real; or more deeply, reflects something real. In Aristotles language, Hume shows that causality is a form of regularity, whose regularity needs explaining; for Hume this was the minds habit of regularising. Kant replaces habit by what he calls a transcendental argument: arguing from what is, to what the conditions must be to make this possible. But given Aristotles thesis that such an explanation of the regularity found in nature is a final cause, it's an intriguing question whether Hume or Kant regarded it as such. 

To say something is probable as opposed to possible, at least in everyday discourse means the former is more likely, and the latter less likely; and at its limit just conceivable. Probability has a quantitative definition, intuitively through frequency of occurrence. Possibility has a logical definition - modal logic - which leaves its degree of possibility indeterminate. One can say something very specific here; what is not possible must be impossible; and what is not impossible must be possible; thus we have immediately a negation operator! It's here that Liebniz enters; for what is logically contradictory, pace the centrality of the Law of the Excluded Middle in Aristotles Organon, is impossible; and this leads into his possible worlds: for what is not logically contradictory must be possible. Thus one could concieve a possible world as a world in 'logical space' that contains no contradiction; but this may not be how Liebniz concieved it. But why restrict to just possible worlds? Why not all worlds, that is include the impossible worlds; and then one can say that at the limit of the possible worlds lie the impossible ones - they are it's boundary.