If not possible, you can consider adding additional flexible secure connection (lock cable /chain), that will not get between spokes. 

If for horizontal, can be combined with this ( I suppose there is enoug space on the wall if you tried with hooks): 

First idea is to attach some stiff cord that you will first string over your handlebar or just lamp mounting point. Then you can try as much as you want to put your light on. On drop it will hang on the cord. It has to be not too long. Second guess is to change lamp type. I had no problem putting torch-like lamp to that kind of handle, but unfortunately torch lamps are not the best option for bicycles: Third idea is to use Headlamp 

It's steering damper. It prevents your handlebar from self - turning. Increase comfort. Steering damper 

So how would you talk to authorities to gain at least no hostility against grassroots initiative? Clarification: This place is an artificial hillock, made from the post-WWII-rubble. Since 2004 it's named to commemorate Warsaw Uprising, but its not any kind of graveyard or so. 

If the brakes are hydraulic, so there is oil/liquid, that pushes pads. You have to check if braking hose contains only liquid, and not even the smallest portion of gas (air). Otherwise the force you put on braking lever is consumed to compress gas in braking hose, not to push braking cylinders. The best way to do this is to remove old liquid and put "fresh" one and then proceed with pushing out any bubbles (venting). 

Because, according to law, that is compliant with Vienna Convention on Road Traffic, that "white" signalizer on the right side of bus lane is: "light signals for buses and other vehicles performing payable passenger transport on regular lines", what, obviously, does not apply to bicycles. I'm not sure if in Germany a cyclist is obliged to know what particulat signals at bus traffic lights means. 

The cheapest option is drilling in grip and putting there some metal replacement for broken part. For half of the price you can get S5 shifter - broken part may be iterchangeable. Last, but probably the best option is to search for used parts. You didn't confirmed, but I still assume you're in Poland. Have look at this bunch of offers: 

The most-right tool is "puller" to remove crank. The most left triangular tool is spoke (nipple) wrench. This black circle looks like Shimano TL-FC16 Hollowtech II Tensioner Crank Arm Tool 

There is nothing to fix, most of the hub works like that. It is normal behaviour implied by the hub internal design. If you really want your pedal not to rotate when moving bike backwards, you can move to single speed, coaster brake, traditional Velosteel hub. Personally strongly dissuade. 

From your description something was wrong with setting crankset onto the bottom bracket axle. It could be not tightened enough, there could be some dirt between octalinks, that affected the whole set and caused it not to be laterally true. If the bottom bracked is tightened properly and you, despite thread issue, are able to tighten crankset, you don't have to worry about. 

Depending on your budget and family enlargement plans, what you can also consider is to buy narrow, 2-wheel cargo bike like below. It's easy to ride, like traditional bike and can be seen as multi-purpose mean of transport. 

If you are going to ride main streets, you should not worry about the tires. At least in Warsaw most streets are salted such strongly, that they are white from salt, dry and clean. -10 is not a problem for "summer" bicycle tire on dry road. But if there are bicycle paths, even along those neatly cleaned streets, keep in mind that it may be icy and slippery the whole winter. Be careful during thaw. Give up commuting with trailer when bicycle paths are covered with thin ice surface. Make sure, that trailer hook is safe in every possible fall over scenario of your bicycle (turns, etc.) and it will not pull the trailer and make it fall over also. Keep in mind, that your pedaling helps you keep warm. Your sons should be dressed even warmer than for winter walk. Try work out some mini-excercises for them to make their muscles work, but will not affect trailer stability. 

From your description yes, your pedals sounds to be not greased properly. If you please could post a photo from different angles, it would be easier to provide further advice. In general, if there is a possibility of disassembling, you should do this and repack the bearings, the same way as you would do with cone hub. For temporary solution or if the pedals cannot be disassembled in non-destructive way, a thin grease or even chain lube may be suitable, but then the pedals should be greased as often as you lube your chain. 

I have city bike with Sturmey-Archer X-FDD front hub with drum brake. Last week, after cold and wet days (drizzle, 2 C), the temperature dropped below -10 C. I store this bike outdoors, I ride it every day 10-30 km. Because of u-lock malfunction it was grounded for 3 days. When I eventually managed to free it, I observed very poor front brake operation. I suppose it is about 30% usual effectiveness. I ruled out the cable - braking cord is moving back and forth with no problem. Has something wrong happened to the brake linning? What could cause such behaviour? Edit: As I'm lazy person, I didn't want to disassembly the hub and see what's wrong. I supposed there is some ice on the surface of the lining, but after few dozens of hard brakings thing went even worse, ie. brake was less and less effective. What I eventually did was riding for some not so long distance, using brake when pedalling with mudulate force. After that brake suddenly gain it full effectiveness. @Emyr is probably right. There sholud be a lot of ice. Long braking melted it and let the brake dry. 

Motorcyclists face the same problem and ask the same question. While discussion is often hot and opinions are divided, I advocate oiling, as advises a man, whom I trust, with years of servicing several drivig school motorcycles. Citation: I lubricate the clutch cable in school motorcycles weekly, which prolongs the life and improves ride comfort. For the lubrication I bought device allowing use sprays containing eg. a silicone oil or stuff containing molybdenum disulphide. However, I've copied once in a mechanic sensational patent: I solder quite accurately cable section of 0.5 cm from the end on both sides. It's to avoid abrasion and come off. Note that the cable breaks usually at the barrel (I have not seen other cases) by the rotation of the barrel in the handle (at which it rubs. There is special device available: 

I think you are in such a small niche, that there are no dedicated solutions for you. Buying two complete, identical headsets is an option. In general people replace the whole headset, so there is no need for spare parts to be present on the market. Edited after comment: If the producer of the fork and crown race does not mention explicitly such possibility, once removed, crown race should not be mounted back, because it can get imperceptibly bent. 

Unwinding the spring, as the article states, will make the hub to shift when you're going faster. Without touching the internals, the hub will shift at the same speed, no matter how high the cadence is. By changing the chainring-cog ratio you adjust the cadence at which the shift-speed is obtained. So the answer is no, there is slight difference. By doing what you propose you can make the whole set shift at higher cadence, but at the same angular velocity, so at the same speed. If you want to shift at higher speed without modifying the hub, you need bigger wheel (if possible).