Start looking for another job. Now. Right now. Stop reading SE and get to it. You aren't getting paid. You have every reason to expect you aren't going to get paid. Don't work for free. Don't rationalize it as "my boss will pull off another miracle at the wire" or "he's a nice guy and I should help out". He kept things going so long not because he's a finance magician, but because he was very lucky. Just because he wants to stick it out to the bitter end does not mean you should. Any time spent trying to bail out the sinking ship would be much better used to look for a new job, especially since you think it will be difficult to find one. 

Yes, you've understood it correctly, though perhaps not completely. It could be applied to things you develop outside of and unrelated to work. In fact, it goes beyond software and lays claim to any intellectual property you create. Write a song? Your company owns it. Is this kind of language normal? Yes, for a company that wants to own all IP generated by its employees. Not every company does this, or takes it to this extent. Should you talk to HR? Maybe, but I'd give it a hard think first. It's reasonable enough to say that this language is too expansive for you. But, even if they're willing to change it for you, you'd probably need a lawyer to make sure everything's OK. Much more likely, they'll tell you to sign it as is or look for work elsewhere. And even if you agree, you'll be marked and they'll know to watch you for seizable IP. Personally, I wouldn't have anything to do with this contract. I consider it predatory: hoping you don't read or fully understand the language so that if you ever make something remotely worthwhile, the company takes it. Essentially you become their intellectual serf. If you really like this opportunity, and don't intend to create anything you want to keep, even in your spare time, then go ahead. But remember that even if you don't care now, you might later. Anything you work on at all during your time at this company becomes a target. Write a killer app after you leave and then mention in an interview you had the idea in 2015? Prepare for a lawsuit claiming the company owns your app. Don't trust that the company "seems nice" or won't screw you. They will do it in a heartbeat if there's substantial profit in it. 

Speak to your boss in private. Explain that you and your coworker have been struggling over division of tasks, and there's been a lot of duplicated work happening. State that your productivity and stress levels have taken hits because of this (that's because of the way the work's getting done, not because the other guy is a dick). Explain how this problem has increased your workload to a point which affects your quality, and that you're worried about burning out. Express that you're concerned your coworker is similarly suffering, and you don't want him to have any problems at work, either. Tell your boss that you had a meeting with your coworker, discussed the issue and came up with a solution. Explain the solution and tacitly request your boss keep up to date on who's doing what. If the meeting with your coworker didn't go well, then tell your boss you tried to do this, but weren't able to agree on anything and request that your boss step in, because duplicated work is a waste of time and money. Make it clear that you are going to let your coworker do these UI tasks his way, even though you think the approach is flawed. If you have objective, quantifiable evidence that the way your coworker does things is seriously damaging performance, present it, if you can do so in a concise and easy to understand way. Offer to set up a demo contrasting the approaches if there's interest in investigating the matter. Be prepared to hear this isn't a big / worthwhile / actual problem. If things are as bad as you say, your boss already knows and will be able to read between the lines. If they aren't, then you've made your boss aware of the problem and brought up things which can be addressed with a minimum of animosity. Either way, you've stayed professional and made a good faith effort to address the problem. After sufficient time has passed (a week at a bare minimum, better if it's two or three), follow up with your boss and provide an update on how things are going. If your coworker isn't adhering to the division of labor you both agreed to, ask your boss to step in. If you've ended up doing back end tasks that you aren't comfortable doing, say so. 

If you get to a face to face interview, be prepared for a thinly veiled (or even direct) "are you a racist" question. I lost an interview by being completely thrown by this. There will be other questions that feel too personal, but this one is the biggest mine in the field. Finally, it's critical to immediately ascertain if the company can supply you with a work visa. You might think you wouldn't get a call if you're obviously foreign and they couldn't legally employ you, but it will still happen anyway. Also check whether they'll pay for it and assist with the paperwork. It's really obnoxious to have to do everything yourself. 

But you have the same goal, don't you? And you're certainly perceiving competition, whether he feels that way or not. Getting a clear division of labor and not arguing over how best to code something will go a long way towards reducing your stress. 

Apply for it first. After being approved, you can mark yes for qualifying jobs. "Intending to apply" and "submitted an application" are far cries from "having authorization". Any company who decides to proceed with you under the assumption your application will get approved "later" will be very unhappy if it turns out you didn't get it after all, because they wasted a bunch of time and money on the hiring process. Even if you subsequently get authorization, such a company would very likely not want to consider you again after being burned. *In cases of extreme financial hardship, you can get approved for off-campus employment, but you must apply for and be granted special written dispensation. I'm assuming this does not apply here. 

You're enabling arguments. Stop doing that. Tell him you're busy with your work. If he consistently tells you he needs your help with front end tasks, politely suggest that he should leave those tasks for you to do. 

These are pretty reasonable requests and you can probably work something out with your client. This way, you can show potential employers something cool that you made and the way you write code, while preserving your client's proprietary information and respecting his wishes. As long as your client is a reasonable person, you'll end up with something that you can show during your interviews. If you get asked to show the code for the super secret, super cool bits, politely explain that it's proprietary and your contract forbids you from revealing the source. There should be no issues whatsoever with that response, but if there are, then you just dodged a bullet, because you're interviewing with a company that doesn't respect contracts, ethics, or privacy. If that happens, thank them for their time and excuse yourself. 

You need to mark "no". You aren't eligible to work. Lying is not the way to begin your professional career. The only work allowed on an F1 is on-campus employment*, which means working for the school, for a business contracted by the school (e.g. bookstore), or something educationally related to the school (e.g. research, work-study). Also, there are limits to the amount of work you can perform (20 hours per week maximum while school is in session, 40 hours during breaks), so check the proposed schedule. Does the job you're applying for meet these requirements? If so, you can mark yes. If you aren't 100% positive (and even if you are, it never hurts to double check), your school should have an office that can answer these questions for you. Go ask them. If you mark yes on the application and you aren't authorized to work, the most likely outcome is that you're immediately rejected from the application process as soon as the company figures out that you don't really have the right to work in the US. The company is asking this question for a reason. You should be happy they're being up front about it, because you can realize that it's a deal breaker and not waste your time. "Oh, you aren't authorized to work here! So sorry, good luck, there's the door." - is this something you want to wait to hear after spending a few weeks interviewing and negotiating? Most applications involve a statement affirming that everything you've said is true and correct, and the company reserves the right to reject or fire you if it turns out you lied. Lying about having the right to work is a huge deal, regardless of the reasons for doing so. Quite possibly word will get around about this (especially if you're going through recruiters), damaging your chances for employment once you are legally allowed to work. Worst case scenario, you start working there and someone finds out your employment is illegal. They report you to the immigration authorities who come knocking on your door. Your visa gets revoked and you are summarily deported. This is not a position you want to be in. It's not worth the risk. 

After applying for about fifty jobs in seven countries, I think I've gained enough insight to supply an answer. Note that the vast majority (80+%) of the companies - or at least their HR / interviewing managers - were ethnically Chinese, which makes a significant difference to workplace culture. This is not nearly scientific enough to be conclusive, but here's the summary of my experience. Not supplying salary information will seriously damage your initial callback rate, but not totally destroy it. However, do expect the question to come up during the first phone screen. If you don't answer it, then you'll get passed over. This is very frustrating because it's used as a tactic to box you in on a number before you know enough about the work or benefit structure to make a decision. From their perspective, if you end up lowballing yourself, great! If you over-bid, you'll get immediately round filed, even if you have sterling qualifications. The emphasis is very much on cost over quality. The best answer to this tactic I've found is to say "I don't know until you give me more information" and then ask a battery of prepared questions. After you get your answers you'll have to start negotiating on a salary number. Negotiations are often very inflexible, especially regarding benefits. Companies usually have a much harder ceiling on what they're willing to spend than in the west. I surprisingly found that recruiters are quite useful, in contrast with my experiences in the US. As long as you can find a decent one, anyway; there are plenty of duds. They can assist with the HR end of things, which is where I had the most difficulties. A downside is that I found them even more chatty and insistent than in the west. Other useful things I learned about the interview process: It's extremely important to make sure you get everything laid out formally in a contract and know what you're getting into. You will receive promises that are never intended to be honored and outright lied to as a matter of course. For example: 

It doesn't sound that way to me. Seems like you've a negative opinion of the person who held your position previously, the environment, your coworker, and your boss. Perhaps you should look for somewhere that's a better fit? 

The last part is the part that needs to be addressed first. Speak to your coworker in private. Be polite but direct about the matter. This about how to best get the work done. You're both very busy and duplicating effort is a big waste of time, so come up with a process that clearly and objectively defines who's doing what. A whiteboard, your task tracking system, a daily email exchange; whatever, as long as it serves the purpose and creates an audit trail. Ask him to pick what tasks he wants to do and tell you, so you aren't duplicating his work. If he says he will take on some UI tasks, let him. If he says he wants to trade completely (he does the UI and you do the back end), tell him that you aren't comfortable doing those tasks and it's not what you were hired to do. 

There are two possibilities: your colleague is teasing or trying to be funny, or he's a jerk. "Remarks like that upset me and aren't funny. I expect this to stop." Say this once, calmly, firmly and politely. You need to make it crystal clear that this behavior is unacceptable; you're not asking him to stop, you're telling him. If your manager is in earshot at the time, great, but don't wait to do this. One of two things will happen, depending on your coworker's intent. If he apologizes and stops, he was just trying to be funny. Graciously accept the apology and do your best to make peace. Remember, he was trying to be friendly. If he just stops, but also shuns you, it means more or less the same thing but he's irritated or upset that you didn't appreciate his humor. Call that a win and hope you don't have to work closely with him in the future. If it continues, don't speak to him. At all. Go straight to your manager. Explain the problem, that you told him to stop but he won't, and how it's making you uncomfortable and damaging your productivity (which means it's damaging the company's bottom line). You say this person is well entrenched, so be prepared to hear something like "that's just his way, we all have to live with it". Those are the magic words that mean it's time to run away from that job as fast as possible. 

Let this one go and chalk it up as a learning experience. I wouldn't say the bridge is burned, but you've definitely crossed it. After 11 days, barring some extremely unlikely emergency, the CTO would have contacted you again if they were really serious about negotiating with you. Now, persistent attempts at negotiation on your part might well (though not necessarily will) be seen as obnoxious pestering or money grubbing. Notice that he was encouraging and flexible on the phone, but not at all in writing? I suspect that the phone conversation was a tactic to get you talking again, so that they could eventually whittle you down to the lower offer. There are plenty of innocent explanations for this, but I sincerely doubt there are any other reasons behind this "sudden" switch. If the flexibility were sincere, he would have given you something, even if it wasn't a pay bump: relocation assistance, extra holiday, whatever. It's possible he might just consider "hard selling" to be a good negotiation tactic (trying to get you to lower your counteroffers until any given ground is token at best), but I also find this unlikely. The CTO said he would negotiate with you and then refused to do so. He also gave you a bald faced lie, and a really bad one at that, about rent prices. Is this someone you want to work for? If you were desperate or in love with this job, you would have accepted the lower offer already.