I interpret this as meaning a Mahanian-style "control of the seas", though it does not necessarily have to mean that. However, I think Mr Fields is stretching for a definition which is meaningless for Athens and Her Allies. Please note that Mr Fields does not define what exactly he means by 'modern sense' 'control of the seas', hence my interpretation of this as completely trying to forbid the enemy from taking to say, as for example the British tried, not necessarily succeeded, in the Napoleonic Wars against the Franco-Spanish alliance. In no place, for example, while reading Thucydides did I get the impression that a Clausewitzian 'Total War' was what the Athenians had in mind. I have seen interpretations of the Athenian refusal to support Corcyra with full strength in the beginning of the war, alongside with their willingness to allow Attica to be laid waste to, brought up as examples of endless (total) war (war for creating a total hegemony), but I am not entirely certain that holds up to scrutiny. And while Athenian sailors were not employed in any other field and could stay at sea for a long time, I imagine they would have had regular breaks during a year if only to avoid the winter seas (or, at least, avoided very major expeditions in those time periods) (no proof of this except vague recollections from Mr Hale's book on the Athenian navy). However, this hasn't really brought me closer to my question. What I am trying to say here is that I don't think the Athenians tried to ever totally "control the sea" because that idea did not come to them as an existential strategy. While the creation of outstanding forts near Spartan properties was common enough, this never seemed to be a permanent goal as opposed to trying to gain a short-term benefit (for leverage in later negotiations -- especially true with the captured hoplites after Sphacteria, etc). So, the question: Is it right to discuss 'control of the seas' in the 'modern sense' as an Athenian objective in the Peloponnesian War and why? Note that I have steered away from the reasoning of whether 'control of the sea' was impossible as it has secondary relevance, and because it is also far more opinion-based. If someone, however, can utilise factual information to prove or disprove this, you are welcome to add this to your answer. 

One example of a region that became wealthy and powerful after a single event was California, whose Gold Rush directly and indirectly increased the population of the state by an order of magnitude. 

Russian colonism of the Pacific Rim included religious missions which sought to perform baptisms. As an incentive to conversion, baptized native men were exempted from imperial fur tax (they then had to tithe to the church, but this may have been a relatively advantageous position.) As women never had to pay fur tax, they must have had other motivations for converting to Orthodox Christianity. What were those? 

In what I can only hope is a coincidence, Lydia Black described a Black Legend about Russian Alaska, which was both started and countered in the United States. The introduction to her "Russians in Alaska" includes this story: 

Early retail in Monterey was either in the presidial paymaster's store, described in Guest's "Municipal Government in Spanish California", or a visiting ship's trading room, described in Graebner's "Empire on the Pacific". The first independent Monterey trading house was perhaps that of McCulloch, Hartnell, & Company. It set up in Monterey in 1822, 5/8 owned by John Begg & Company of Lima, according to "Cattle Colonialism" by Fischer. The enterprise obtained a warehouse and "a spacious adobe to be used as a tienda" in 1823, according to "The Lives of William Hartnell" by Dakin. Business required Hartnell to travel to missions and other ports, but the company had a fixed headquarters in Monterey. McCulloch soon split and Hartnell went out of business. Thomas Larkin opened his store in 1834. 

Dr. John Bryant, President of The Melville Society, kindly told me: "I don't see any mention of HM's assistance or collaboration with his Uncle on making this book." He left the door open as to the existence of such evidence. Thus, the question has not yet been answered in the affirmative. 

Late period sailing ships (around 1800) had potable water supplies and also pumps, at least some with wooden impellers. Water must have been stored low to keep the center of gravity low. What source of power was used to pump water and what kind of plumbing features did sailing ships have? 

The question "What was a person thinking of as 'today'?" in the Eastern Empire can have several possible answers depending on the era we live and the general circumstances at play in the imperial realm. The simplest idea that the Western world has of the Ad Urbe Condita (from the original founding of Rome) is mostly an earlier, Principate, fiction that was used more commonly for 'official' dates than accurate timekeeping. Marcus Terentius Varro's work--the author of the presently accepted calculation for the founding of the City--was accepted as gospel by Claudius for propaganda. Hence, it is unlikely many people in the empire ever thought of their present day in terms of how long after the founding of the City it was, lest it was a celebration of some kind, and I have no reliable information of these being continued in Byzantium/Constantinople. The other early form of timekeeping was consular offices. In the Republic, it was common for years to be known as the "Year of Consul 1 and Consul 2", in imitation of regnal years. Justinian I, however, abolished the practice of annual consuls. With the influx of repeating consular years ('the first consulship of ...', etc), this method must have been more for recordkeeping rather than timekeeping in ordinary life. Similarly, when consuls were not appointed, the years were given in terms of how soon after an established consulship these took place. I cannot imagine many people thinking in these terms either, especially given the following few options. The official calendar of the Empire (Etos Kosmou) between 988 (the 28th Year of Basileios II's reign) and 1453 was the Creation Era, dated backwards to start at 1st September, 5509 BC. While 988 is when it was adopted by the Imperial government, earlier usage for religious purposes within the church was common ever since the 7th century. Local offshoots and earlier versions of the Etos Kosmou, such as the Alexandrian Era, existed at times, but would not have been as common throughout the empire (not to mention that Alexandria was lost forever in 641 AD, not including the occasional reconquests in the decades after). Three of the more important methods of timekeeping have not yet been covered. These are the Julian calendar, regnal years (mentioned briefly above in relation to consular years), and the Indiction. The regnal years clearly must have been an important part of most peoples' lives within the empire, especially as they followed previous Hellenic traditions of the eponymous archon (of Athens). Therefore, I would say foremost that most people always knew in what year of their Emperor's reign they lived in. This answer requires qualification: after 988, with an official reckoning adding power to the Church's, it is not impossible that many people thought in both systems, but especially in the Church's version. This is likely to be the case especially in periods where the Eastern court politics saw a variety of people take the throne in quick succession, in which case most provinces may have even been quite unaware of any changes in leadership. This is additional to Justinian I making the use of regnal years mandatory in 537 AD. The Julian calendar would have been more common in some provinces, no doubt, especially due to the prevailing church influence. Hence, it is not unlikely that especially in the 4th to 7th century, plenty of people would have reckoned their time (year at least) based on Gaius Julius Caesar's re-alignment of the traditional Roman calendar. However, it seems this gradually fell out of touch both with the increasing use of the Etos Kosmou as well as regnal years and the Indiction cycle gaining traction. The Indiction was a 15-year cycle which also began on September 1st. Again it was Justinian I who decreed that all documents must be dated in this system. Indeed, based on the nature of this system, I feel that the vast majority of people would have been most familiar with this system. Even if the emperor's name had changed, the tax collector would probably arrive on time. Hence, I think that for the duration of the Eastern Empire, this would have been the most likely answer to get from the majority of people, the Etos Kosmou being the second at least after the 10th century. 

"Adequacy" is not a technical term and will be hard to apply without reflecting modern biases. Estimations of historical inflation expectations (see the 2016 paper by Carola Conces Binder) could be part of a judgment on monetary adequacy. Tracking trends of cash transactions against bartering and home production is difficult because those mostly go unrecorded. Some risk factors and coindicators for inadequate money supplies are: 

Ynocente Garcia, in his recollections (the "Garcia Hechos"), described Ignacio Rochin, a man executed for murder in 1795 in Santa Barbara. Garcia continues: "a young orphan ... was also executed with Rochin for the crime of Sodomy...." I want to know if this was a unique occurrence. I think criminals were technically supposed to be sent to San Blas or Guadalajara for trial, but that was clearly not as practical as creating justice locally. How many people were judicially executed by the military establishment of Spanish California? 

Apparently there is no consensus among scholars on this one, and several Pacific coast cultures substantially resisted Russian encroachment. 

This question has already been answered, but no-one has brought up the issue of compactness. The US, Canada, and Brazil have vastly more compact shapes and therefore many landlocked subregions and multiple internal routes of travel. By comparison, Spanish America is incredibly elongated. Almost all subregions are on the coast in the line described by the Panamerican Highway. At the time of Latin American independence, only a few land routes connected the colonies. Long-distance travel was subject to native raids, and the Spanish's cherished horses couldn't cross areas without pasturage, making the Sonoran and Atacama deserts practically impassable. In California, the first contact with Lima merchants and Rioplatense raiders happened only in the last decade before independence. Veracruz and Havana were well-linked by packet-boat throughout the colonial period -- but only in that direction, because the return route was to Spain and back. 

Chess and its predecessors are board-based battle games in which players assume the role of various military figures (the specific roles involved depend on which set of pieces are in use). Today's game was standardized in Europe towards the end of the medieval period. It does not require nor prohibit "acting" and "theatrics". 

The name of the war-flag also came to be a battle-cry (though, traditionally, it's been my understanding that 'Deus Vult!' was the main battle-cry of the Templars though this information was gained from Jan Guillou's Crusader trilogy). I came to wonder as the Knights Hospitaller were quite similar after they turned into military orders (elder military monastic order, both extensive landholders in the Outremer, both popular with European gentility) -- how did the Knights Hospitallers' gonfalon look and did it also had a distinctive name? If they did, was this name also used as a battle-cry? Edit: I just wanted to say that simple searches I have conducted have mostly brought up the fact that Templars were forbidden to flee the field of battle if a Hospitaller gonfalon was standing, which does indicate that the Hospitallers had one: 

I am going to post an answer of my own (which I also copied to my blog, on the attached link which references back to here -- both the question and the answer), using both references from my post here as well as the other present answer. I am not accepting the other post as the answer I accepted because I don't think they have answered my actual question as opposed to posting a series of links to relevant but also irrelevant topics. I highlighted as much in a comment last week, but no substantive edits have taken place, and I am therefore thinking this will provide a more accurate answer. 

I was keen on finding a similar answer (or, at least, question) to the Eastern Roman world which led me to read a bit on the AUC timekeeping, and from what Wiki says, the AUC was never rightly an official way of measuring time, but rather a method to refer to special years and such. This changed when the Principes found it a convenient way to highlight the 800th birthday, and such events, and I guess it can have become more common in usage. The official Republican calendar was based on the two serving consuls, i.e., in the Year of Consul 1 and Consul 2, this happened. Hence, this should rightly be considered the 'ancient Roman calendar era' with the AUC system a secondary measure which arose later in the Imperial time. A trivial answer for the second bit would highlight that Livius' chronicle goes up to 9 BC, and hence the last year he definitively refers to as an AUC is 762. I am unaware of other chroniclers preferring this system to other calendars, but I am sure someone else can posit a better guess to a final year that was mentioned in any chronicle as an AUC.