This a great example of "self-organization" in a geomorphological system; this one an oscillating system at a fairly large scale. On a much smaller scale, you find similar structures on sand dune surfaces themselves as well as dry dusty dirt roads: 

That certainly looks like a fossil, but of what is awfully hard to say.... Here's why: You've only provided a planar surface and fossils (and their traces) exist in 3-D space. This is important because it helps pin down the entire structure of not only the fossil itself, but whether or not it was deformed over time. Your "fossil" shown here, may be a planar cross section through the fossil, but through which part if the fossil may be impossible to say. Is it a radial plane through a soft-body sponge (like a deli slicer cuts through a salami)? Or is it an oblique slice through some swamp plant's seed pod that has been subsequently deformed into a circular shape? Here's where both that 3rd dimension comes into play as does the fabric of the host rock. I would suggest looking for anything regarding fossils and geology of where you found this rock, narrowing down the particular unit that looks like this one, then seeing if there are any academic papers published that may include fossil descriptions similar to this. Good luck! 

Your local university likely has a small natural history museum in its geology department. These are generally free and filled with information regarding local geology. I'd start there.....and bring your rocks; the attendant might be able to help you find someone who can identify your rocks. 

Places with stable climates like interior deserts are likely to be least affected by climate change. They will go from being simply "hellish" to moderately infernal. In Middle Eastern deserts for example, summertime temperature extremes will only rise perhaps another 5-10 degrees F, but will be enough to be mostly unsurvivable. Climatological fringes like equatorial mountain ranges, and polar latitudes will suffer the most, as they are currently. 

According to Wikipedia, and perfectly consistent with basic historical geological textbooks, a formation is: ...the fundamental unit of lithostratigraphy. A formation consists of a certain number of rock strata that have a comparable lithology, facies or other similar properties. ... The concept of formally defined layers or strata is central to the geologic discipline of stratigraphy. 

...fails to account for the time this sediment spent lithifying, or "turning into stone" which would certainly have involved deep burial for some unknown time, at an unknown depth, yielding an upper, or lower bound on no more than a wild guess. Uplift rates of basement rocks (mountain cores) are best quantified using "fission track dating"; a thermochronometry technique whereby the helium track lengths, produced by the radioactive decay of uranium into thorium, are analyzed. The technique depends on careful selection of appropriate mineral crystals, within the host rock, containing radioactive elements. Even this technique requires understanding an uncertain history of annealing temperatures. For example, in this paper: Exhumation of basement-cored uplifts: Example of the Kyrgyz Range quantified with apatite fission track thermochronology the following figure illustrates the complexity of the problem: 

There is no comparing the chemical composition of "atmosphere" with that of mantle rocks and the consequences of rising in each have almost nothing to do with one another. The cooling of rising atmosphere is a fairly simple thermodynamic process requiring neither molecular change of ingredients, chemical release of water, nor thermally impervious boundaries. By contrast, rising mantle materials will undergo different melting processes depending on their water content and chemistry. In the simplest case, like a mid-ocean hot-spot, unpolluted by melt fluxes like water and carbonates, rising mantle rock undergoes "decompression melting" in which 2 things happen: 1) The pressure needed to keep rising mantle material solid is released and the material becomes liquid (like that crudely drawn by Michael, above). Remember, given enough pressure, you can heat up ANYTHING and keep it solid...even hydrogen, like that believed to exist in the earth's core. 2) Constituent minerals undergo phase (mineralogical) changes on their way up to the base of the upper crust. Remember that mantle materials come to the earth's surface as basalts which are mineralogically different from the olivene-rich peridotites of the mantle. Despite being chemically similar, deep mantle rocks contain minerals that are crystallographically denser than those found basalts. As they are brought up, these minerals undergo a phase change that alters their crystalline structure; they become different minerals, lighter and more buoyant, further reducing the density of the rising melt. So, there it is (in a nutshell): reducing pressure on hot solid material allows it to become liquid and also invokes phase changes in minerals that make the overall material less dense. 

As I understand it, "tranverse isotropy" has to do with seismic properties of a rock, a rock unit, or even a specific mineral. It's an important term because even though a rock may appear "isotropic" visually, it may have an internal fabric (invisible to unassisted eyes) that treats seismic waves differently depending the axes through which they are propagated. Internal fabrics can be the result of crystalline alignment from high temperature shearing and strongly aligned microcracking, to cite just two examples. There are fierce debates regarding the seismic properties of minerals in the mantle and there are few specialized labs that can seismically test these unstable, high-pressure minerals. For example, a mylenite can be a mineralogically isotropic rock type but has an distinctly aligned mineral fabric that may do strange things to sound waves when they pass through: reflection, refraction, and polarization come to mind. Without knowing of the existence of this mylenite, in this example, a seismologist might mistake this highly reflective mylenitized unit for something very different. This is not just a minor detail of a rock property but an important component behind understanding seismic transmission and reflection for exploration geologists as well as mantle geophysicists. 

Sure, an island of obsidian could form as result of repeated felsic eruptions depositing layer upon layer of obsidian. But, it'd be a relatively recent eruption as obsidian is mineralogically unstable and devitrifies into crystalline chrystobalite, as it slowly, ever so slowly becomes quartz. 

If you're after "basic" academic work, I suggest the following 2003 textbook from the Utah State University entitled, "Rainfall Runoff Processes", chapter 2: Runoff Generation Mechanisms It looks like a pretty good compendium of what you're looking for with easy-to-understand text and clear diagrams. Further detail, if needed, can be found by hunting down the references within. The entire textbook can be downloaded here: Rainfall Runoff Processes 

The fraction that has survived this "supercontinent cycle" is very small and can be found in only a handful of places where it outcrops....generally as part of interior cratons in Canada, Greenland, etc. However, even within these Archaen shield rocks, the volume of "original crust" is itself very small, hard to find, and subject to controversy with respect to chemistry. Original crustal material that dates back to a pre-tectonic (Hadean) regime would have to have been formed from cooling of molten material and would itself contain a very specific chemical signature that is itself, theorized but not known with certainty. Given how small that volume is, and how difficult it is to access many of these rocks, it's unlikely that anyone will pony up the money for a deep seismological survey of their extent at depth, so, a solid number for volume will not be forthcoming soon. 

In short....no. If there was such a process, it would have already occurred naturally. The big limiting factors to creating nutrient rich soils (in a tropical environment) are temperature and moisture. High temperatures keep soil-forming microbiota from turning all of that organic matter into useful, organic matter-rich, "soil". Most of the biological activity that occurs in soil happens during colder periods of the year. Where heat is year-round, high temperatures propagate fairly deeply into the soil profile, severely limiting the already exothermic process of "composting": turning leafy plant matter into usable organic material; although "composting" is ridiculously oversimplified! High rainfall then strips the soils of much of that biological activity. Most tropical soils, as a result, are merely well rinsed and strained dirt. It's a losing game to enrich tropical soil in the hope of creating conventional agriculture. 

They may be entirely manageable, but the politics would be NUTS! After all, rainwater is a "surface" resource that is promised to users downstream from where it falls. Diverting it underground for the exclusive use of a community would be like trucking parts of Himalayan glaciers to Delhi with no regard to downstream users who depend, for example, on the Ganges. You could fill a couple of academic libraries with proper answers to your questions, by the way! 

NASA's Global Precipitation Measurements Missions can measure rainfall from space: Visible and infrared space-borne sensors can provide precipitation information inferred from cloud-top radiation, and microwave sensors provide direct precipitation measurement based on radiative signatures of precipitating particles. This type of information is not available through ground-based measuring systems. NASA's Integrated Multi-satellitE Retrievals for GPM (IMERG) were used to estimate the total amount of rain that fell over the western United States from January 17-24, 2017. Rainfall totals of over 9 inches (228.6 mm) were shown in some areas. IMERG rainfall totals have been adjusted to reflect observed values in other similar extreme rainfall events. You'll need to dig through the site to find the correct dataset and format, but it's likely in there. NOAA also does a pretty good job of tracking ground-based measurements here: Monthly Precipitation Summary Water Year 2017 We'll need to wait for the end of the month before the February numbers are posted, though. As for daily-tracked precipitation data, you can see that here: Hydrology-meteorology Data Report 

Here's another important paper that I wish I had more time to read: Origins of life: From the mineral to the biochemical world, in which, among many other important things, the author writes, 

Degradation refers to the process of aqueous dissolution of the organic materials; the fact is, organic materials are generally quickly dissolved after the death of a living organism...degraded into nothing before the fossilization process can even start. (Think of the carbon cycle and how organic compounds are re-used over and over again over the eons of life on this planet.) It's a bit of a misnomer in this case because it ignores the simultaneous replacement of that organic matter with inorganic siliceous materials. 

"Sand" is generally made up of whatever eroded rock type is nearby, minus the most easily eroded (and windswept) components. Typically, dunes are made up of highly resistant quartz grains, like the stuff that blows off of white sand beaches, for example, or feldspar sands which are even more erosion resistant (in certain cases). There are also very soft white gypsum sands in New Mexico who owe their existence to a nearby, inexhaustible supply of gypsum evaporites. As for limestone sands, I've never heard of it although it's certainly possible given very specific circumstances. Nevertheless, that's not what controls dune morphology. Dune shape is almost entirely controlled by both wind and sand supply and similarly shaped dunes will occur regardless of grain composition if dune-forming components are the same. 

If you're looking for a cool, well detailed map of convection cells that looks like a modern weather map....forget it. What you're looking for has been notoriously difficult to produce, if not impossible. Even the most advanced seismic tomography techniques using seismic wavespeeds can only resolve mantle "features" thousands of kilometers in scale, but really, only in the X-Y plane. These techniques do a poor job of resolving anything in the Z plane. Even the locations of convection cell boundaries appears harder to find than theory suggests. Currently, the influence of convection boundaries has been mapped from the surface elevations of oceanic plates, but those maps look like odd "heat maps" indicating where oceanic crust has domed up beneath upward mantle flow. No vertical flow lines boundaries are even remotely suggested with these two-dimensional maps. You can read the actual paper published in Nature, 2016 here: Global dynamic topography observations reveal limited influence of large-scale mantle flow 

You tend to find this situation in flat outwash plains like river valleys; places where land is easy to build on, and easy to populate, further "amplifying" an earthquake's effects: 

"Why is the y-axis centered around -0.2 °C?" It's not. The anomaly graph is actually centered at 0 degrees and a particular date, probably the late 1970s, as Gerrit alludes to. Where the axes cross is unimportant. The bottom end of this plot has been expanded to show negative anomalies (everything BELOW 0 degrees) as well as the positive anomalies (everything ABOVE 0 degrees). 

" Who's studied the glacial dam breaking South and having cleared the Hudson River valley, forming the Verrazano Narrows, NY Harbor, Staten and Long Island, and washing through to the Atlantic Continental Shelf?" There's a USGS group at Woods Hole that's done a bit of work on this back in 2004: A catastrophic meltwater flood event and the formation of the Hudson Shelf Valley -From the paper: The ancestral Hudson River is generally thought to have had a long history that began in the Late Cretaceous. Uplift and tilting of the margin, resulting in landward erosion and seaward growth, continued into the Tertiary. The Hudson River was repeatedly downcut into Cretaceous coastal-plain strata during periods of Pleistocene marine regression. Scouring of the lower Hudson River during the last glaciation formed a fiord in the region north of New York City. More recent fluvial downcutting was amplified by drainage of late Wisconsinan glacial lakes, culminating in the failure of the terminal moraine dam at the Narrows, which is a break in the Harbor Hill moraine between Staten Island and Long Island, New York. Borehole data across the Narrows suggest that more than 100 m of Pleistocene and Cretaceous sedimentary material was eroded as a result of this breaching event. Uchupi et al. (2001) proposed that deposition of sediment lobes on the continental shelf and erosion of the HSV were a consequence of this catastrophic drainage. You might scour the references at the back of the paper and do some googling to find any more recent follow-up work they may have done. You could also try this guy at Woods Hole: Jeffrey P. Donnelly. He's first author on a paper titled: Catastrophic meltwater discharge down the Hudson Valley: A potential trigger for the Intra-Allerød cold period The paper is short on the drama of breached glacial dams, but long on how the sudden discharge of freshwater into an ocean alters circulation to cause a brief period of climate change. Fascinating stuff!