The Philosophical Investigations is the best entry-way into Wittgenstein's later thought, and it is here that he problematizes his early philosophy (as found in the Tractatus-Logico Philosophicus. As for the relationship between language and philosophy, Wittgenstein summed it up as follows: "Philosophy is a battle against the bewitchment of our intelligence by means of language." 

There are two answers to this question. On a practical level, this is being done every day, and there are AI researchers who have developed very effective heuristics that are able to mine information from text. A search of the computer science literature can point you to the appropriate research and algorithms, etc. The results are good enough for many everyday purposes. However, from a more properly philosophical standpoint, the task is impossible, for reasons pointed out by (among others) Wittgenstein at the beginning of his Philosophical Investigations, or by Jacques Derrida in his essay "Signature Event Context." There is no systematic way to rigorously derive the meanings intended by a text, as the meaning is determined by context, and context is never saturated. There is always the necessary possibility of ambiguity and misunderstanding. 

I'm afraid I don't have an answer for you, but perhaps I can offer you a somewhat useful non-answer? As you know, Harman's major writings on epistemology are three book-length volumes; most principally, his classic Thought from 1973; Change in View: Principles of Reasoning from 1986; and Reasoning, Meaning, and Mind from 1999. (He appears to be on a 13-year schedule, so perhaps something new on the subject will be coming this year.) The first publication of the Fake Barn Country scenario (that I am aware of, at least) is in Alvin Goldman's 1976 paper "Discrimination and Perceptual Knowledge" (in the Journal of Philosophy, Vol 73, No. 20), which explains why the matter is not raised in Thought. Using Google Books and Amazon search tools on the latter two volumes, I do not see any references there, either. This means that if Harman did respond to the Fake Barn Country example, he did it in an article. A full bibliography of his writings can be found here; there are a number of post-1976 articles which may (or may not) contain the passage you are looking for, if you care to dig through them all. (I imagine most university libraries would contain most of the journals referenced.) Having not read Harman's response (if there is one), I cannot comment on his actual views on the matter-- but I can suggest that "denying that there are fake barns at all" does not seem to be a valid response. The Fake Barn Country example stipulates that there are fake barns, so they are clearly there; moreover, it stipulates that the driver is unaware of their presence, so it does no good to argue that "they are not there for him", as this is precisely what is at stake in the argument. Do you recall where you heard of Harman's (possible) response? 

Yes, a deliberate rule-breaker can be morally consistent without inviting a slippery slope, if and only if he is following a consistent rule in his rule-breaking. An example would be: I routinely run red lights in my city, because I drive an ambulance. A truck driver who runs red lights is still open to criticism from me. This can still be viewed as in accordance with Kant's categorical imperative, simply adjusted for context. 

It took me a little while to understand what you are asking here; it appears that your question is based on the Abbott translation, which is almost a century old now. The passage in question does not equate "conservation" with "happiness". Let us look more closely: 

Wait, what? How does "the supernatural" come into play here at all? At the moment, this appears to be a gross non sequitur. If you think there is an argument to be made which would link the substitution of non-classical or deviant logics into the schema of the Tractatus and "the supernatural", go ahead and make the argument-- I don't think you can expect us to connect those particular dots without a lot more to go on. 

There are three Sanskrit editions freely available. Here is the J.W. de Jong edition; here is the P.L. Vaidya edition; and here is the edition by Louis de Vallée-Poussin. The difference between them are minor. 

Generally speaking, there is more of a burden to supply a reason for doing (or believing) something than not doing (or believing) something, but this is not always the case; for example, it is generally accepted that I would need a very good reason for not believing that the cup I see in front of me is actually there. 

I'm afraid I don't find the question terribly interesting, and I don't think it yields any information about the nature of computing. That being said: Tom Stoppard had a character raise this idea in his play "Arcadia" (without recourse to a Turing machine-- the character was speaking in the early 19th century): "If you could stop every atom in its position and direction, and if your mind could comprehend all the actions thus suspended, then if you were really, really good at algebra you could write the formula for all the future; and although nobody can be so clever to do it, the formula must exist just as if one could." And, of course, that's trivially true, if the universe is made up of (properly atomic) "atoms" which possess no changing attributes other than a position and a direction. Unfortunately, current research in physics indicates that things are a fair bit more complicated than that. So, let's generalize: if the universe is comprised of a finite number of (otherwise) unchanging atomic elementary particles, and if a finite number of types of transformations are permitted to each particle, given the total state of all particles at one moment in time, one could theoretically derive a formula to derive the state for the next moment-- if, and only if, you believe that the transformations and operations thus described are determinate. In other words, if there is any true randomness (and not merely pseudo-randomness) involved, you're shit-out-of-luck. And, at present, we have absolutely no way of knowing whether or not that is the case, so the whole matter is purely idle speculation (which is why I find it not to be an interesting question). Now, what does the above tell us about Turing machines, or the nature of computation? Precisely nothing that we didn't already know. The definition of what is computable remains unaffected. Thus, the answer to your bullet point questions are: 

Similarly, when I look at the house across the street, there exists an "illusory" image of the house somewhere spatio-temporally in my brain, even though the house is larger than my brain. So? 

Generally speaking, the way one "does" philosophy is in an academic setting, so this question can only be answered by the department of philosophy of the school you attend or wish to attend. That being said, I'm not sure what it means to specialize in "critical thinking" if one is "weak in all subjects dealing with symbols and structures." 

The essential characteristic of monads is that they are irreducible; in this way they resemble (philosophical) atoms, which are similarly irreducible to simpler components. Where atoms and monads differ is that atoms are viewed as purely physical, and are therefore tiny. Monads, on the other hand, are immaterial, and are units of "force"; physical attributes (such as matter or motion) are merely phenomenal. It may be worth pointing out that Leibniz came to this theory after reading Chinese philosophy, and that there are similarities to be found between his thought and that of, for example, Fazang, the 7th century Buddhist philosopher. I think that this element of his project often receives less attention than his mathematical, scientific and logical work. 

Who do you mean by "they"? The characters in the Bhagavad Gītā? The authors of the Bhagavad Gītā? Followers of the philosophy of the Bhagavad Gītā? 

I haven't read Hofstadter in ages, so I can't comment on his particular ontological commitments, but I can say that it is standard, since the time of Saussure, to distinguish between the signifier (that is to say, the sensible portion of the sign) and the signified (that is to say, the intelligible part of the sign.) The materiality of the signifier is generally without question, and thus has the same ontological status as any other material object. The signified, on the other hand, is pure thought, and thus would have the ontological status of any other thought. Does this help? 

Any function can be described as a single number, if that function is viewed as a measurement. The question you should be asking, instead of taking this blind alley regarding numbers, etc., is whether "intelligence" or "creativity" or "personality" describe measurable functions (like "length" or "weight", etc.) If intelligence (for example) is measurable, we can come up with an appropriate scale to represent that measurement. If not, the exercise is doomed to failure. Note that this has absolutely nothing to do with the (information-theoretic) question of "how much information can be contained in a single number?" 

They are both simple variations on Modus Ponens, and I don't think that anybody questions that the inferences are valid; what is at stake is whether or not they are sound. EDIT: The general consensus is that the arguments are not sound; there is no particular reason to believe that "necessary existence is a perfection", or that "perfections" are even an appropriate concept here: does it make sense to conceive of a perfectly large (i.e., largest) integer? 

The fact that Nietzsche proposed such an analysis is very true. Whether or not you subscribe to Nietzsche's analysis is another matter; in any event, you'll have to read it carefully before choosing to accept or reject it. 

It is not clear what you are after here. Are you pointing out the commonplace notion that the words "Samsung Galaxy S II" represent an actual Samsung Galaxy S II? 

I think you are mixing methodology and substance. There are a variety of psychological techniques that can be used to persuade people of things, independent of what those things are. These techniques can be subdivided along lines such as rhetoric and logic, and naturally philosophy has a great deal to say about them-- Aristotle and Plato each wrote on this very issue. It seems to me that what you claim are the Dark Sides of religion are, in fact, simply two techniques from among this set, and are not specific to religion at all. Now, in order to evaluate the question "Were there evil philosophers in the past?", we first need to determine what would make a philosopher "evil" for the purposes of this question-- would an "evil philosopher" be one who uses manipulative techniques to persuade people (regardless of the content of the philosophy), or would an "evil philosopher" be one who persuades people of "evil" content, regardless of the means of persuasion?