So, hypothetical 'Brex' would be uncontroversially an acronym, but 'Brexit' would only fall under this if you classify an entire word as an initial part of itself. There is (minimal) precedent for including the end portions of words* in what is commonly called an acronym, take amphetamine for example: alpha-methylphenethylamine. So, using this interpretation of 'acronym', one could call 'Brexit' one. But it's much more common to label such words portmanteaux or blends. 

Short answer, no - vowel harmony is a property of a language, not a subset of words. Even so, there are many counter-examples to show this doesn't occur with re- words: 

I can try and provide an answer for questions 1 & 3, based on Ritter & Rosen 1993's paper "Deriving Causation." The answer to 1 is more syntax-semantics interface than semantics though (given that Ritter & Rosen do more syntax-semantics-interface style analyses.) So Ritter & Rosen 1993 argues that "have" is a "functor predicate" which means that (i) it can introduce an argument (like a lexical predicate) but (ii) it lacks lexical semantic content (like a functional predicate), and thus does not encode a particular theta role for the argument it introduces. Rather, the "theta role" of the introduced argument is derived from the event structure that "have" introduces/modifies. This is meant to account for the observation (which you made above) that the argument "have" introduces can sometimes be introduced as a causer, or as an experiencer/affectee. They argue that the introduction of additional arguments to a construction correlates with the introduction of additional event structure to a predicate. So since "have" systematically introduces a new argument, it also systematically introduces more event structure. It is unspecified, however, for what kind of extra event structure it contributes. It can thus be interpreted as extending the event beyond the original starting point of the event - in which case the introduced argument will be interpreted as the causer of the event. Or it can be interpreted as extending the event beyond the original ending point of the event - in which case the introduced argument will be interpreted as the experiencer/affectee of the event. (I tried to schematize this below in a sort of diagram.) 

it's historical. Obviously there are only two choices. some languages evolved one way, some the other way, and in some languages like latin word order is (mostly) free. It's related to whether your language has case endings,but there could also be other factors, like gender. human languages are incredibly diverse. it has nothing to do with logic or rationality. 

Arabic: 1984 could be read as "one thousand and nine hundred and four and eighty" (the modern reading) or "four and eighty and nine hundred and one thousand" (traditional). I have heard the latter on the radio. and you could probably get away with "four and eighty and one thousand and nine hundred". P.S. On a related note: it is often claimed, even by "experts" (like the Unicode folks) that Arabic numbers are written left to right, and since the language is written RTL, Arabic (and other RTL languages) are "bidirectional". This is total hogwash. You can read and read numerals in whatever order you like. The semantic rule is simply "base 10, least significant digit first", in contrast to (most) LTR languages, which go most significant digit first. The myth of bidirectionality is 100% fabricated by the tech industry. 

In reading a paper by Anand & Hacquard, I've come across the term "witness world," where a witness world can verify a proposition, p. I haven't been able to google an easily understandable definition of a "witness world," (although this is probably due to poor detective work on my part). This leads to my question: What is a witness world (i.e., how is it defined), and how does it do this business of verifying propositions? The closest thing that comes to my mind are witness sets, which, as I understand them, are the characteristic sets of generalised quantifiers, except that unlike characteristic sets for a GQ like [Q NP], which may have non-NP entities as members, witness sets only contain NP-entities. Szabolcsi (2010)'s example is "more than one robot," where a characteristic set includes non-robots (i.e., any set that has more than one robot), but a witness set is constrained so that it only contains robots. I figured I could construct a sort of parallel, where a world would be a set of pairs, so a "witness world" would be a set of these pairs (for a modal, or attitude predicate), but these pairs are somehow restricted by the prejacent or embedded clause's assignment. But I wasn't sure how to proceed here (or whether I even should, in case there is no parallel, or I was going about the parallel in the wrong way). Which is my second related question - is the notion of "witness world" related to the notion of a "witness set," and if so, how? 

In Chinese number names, and both Korean number systems, the numbers follow strict base 10 representations: the name for any number from 11-19 is the name for 10 plus the name for the unit value. 

 1. Though Italian does have the occasional doublet of these words retaining the Latin consonants, these are invariably learned borrowings or loanwords via other Romance languages that didn't undergo these changes, e.g. platea (borrowed); caviglia (through Old Provençal), clavicola (borrowed), masculo (borrowed) etc. Such learned borrowings also occur in Spanish e.g. clave, inflar etc. 

Arabic has no fewer than 4 forms: independent, initial, medial, and final. but in all cases there is a "kernel" form common among them all. one advantage of this design is that you do not need spaces to separate words - not a minor consideration if writing materials are expensive. Caveat: in Arabic, final forms are not always distinct. for example final Waw can look just like medial or initial or independent Waw. but the system works. 

of course mathematics is not a language. but we do have a "language" of mathematics, that allows us to express mathematical ideas. Or so it would seem. Is there really such a thing? Not really. It looks like a formal language, but it isn't, it's just a tightly constrained variety of natural language. Mathematicians do not write their papers in a formal language, generally. Some of them even oppose doing that. we cannot (so far) even define "language", although we can formally define very impoverished formal structures that we like to call languages. regarding the classic triumvirate of phonology, syntax, and semantics: its obvious that the language of mathematics does not have its own phonology, for example. what is the phonology of the symbol used in differential equations? {\frac {\partial z}{\partial x}}? 

As I understood their analysis, they aimed to account for this fact by arguing that "have" can only extend event structure, not introduce new event structure. And because unaccusatives don't underlying have causation/agentivity, "have" in an unaccusative construction can only extend the event's endpoint, so the introduced argument must be interpreted as the experiencer/affectee. (I don't know if this quite gels with your observations about awareness. Except maybe that "ignorance is bliss" and in order to be an experiencer/affectee, you have to know about your misfortune?) As for other languages with similar predicates, they propose that the Japanese adversative -rare is similar to "have," but specified as extending the endpoint (hence the argument is always an experiencer/affectee), and that the French faire is similar to "have" but specified as extending the initial point (hence the argument is always a causer). There are also both benefactive and malefactive interpretations for some Salish applicatives (see, for example, Kiyosawa & Gerdts 2010. Some googling has also resulted in a book "Benefactives and malefactives: Typological perspectives and case studies" by Zuniga and Zeppo (2010). That might give you a good place to look for the crosslinguistic morphosyntactic properties of malefactives. Sorry I've got nothing on the diachronic question. Totally not my forté. Sorry also that I haven't read the later article by Ritter & Rosen (1997) - I'm not sure if they stick with their 1993 analysis, or change it. Some References: Ritter, E., & Rosen, S. T. (1993). Deriving causation. Natural Language & Linguistic Theory, 11(3), 519-555. Ritter, E., & Rosen, S. T. (1997). The function of< i> have. Lingua, 101(3), 295-321. Gerdts, D. B., & Kiyosawa, K. (2003). Psych predicates and applicatives in Salish. In annual meeting of the Canadian Linguistic Association, Halifax, Nova Scotia. Zúñiga, F., & Seppo, K. (Eds.). (2010). Benefactives and malefactives: Typological perspectives and case studies (Vol. 92). John Benjamins. 

there are many transliteration schemes. if you want to be scholarly, follow the Encyclopedia of Islam scheme. informally, I use H for your first example and h for the last. the middle one is not really an "h" sound, I usually go with "kh". 

easy-peasy: context. what you meant is completely irrelevant once you utter your sentence. you could have meant -in your mind - anybody when you said "he". since your interlocutor cannot read your mind, all she has to go on is context - which includes conventions like "he" refers to the most recent "thing" mentioned to which "he" could reasonably apply. Edited per comment from @user6726: touche! proforms do not "get" or "have" a "meaning". But they do have significance, or if you prefer a functional role. strictly speaking they do not "get" their significance from "context", either - they get it from the norms of linguistic practice, which in turn always involve an interaction with the context.