I hope you mean if a sun was 'rotating around' another sun, how long it would take to complete a revolution. There is this thought process. Since they both have equal mass, they would definitely rotate around their center of mass. So now, many factors come into the picture. 

There have been many questions and answers about finding the distance of a star from the earth. But as I did some research on the net, I found that we have specific approaches for finding the distances of different types of stars. So, my question is more specific now. How to determine how far a Classical Cepheid is? What if the Cepheid is extra-galactic? Is there a good method to finding the solution? Can anybody suggest how to make a start at deriving a relation at finding the distance of a Cepheid from us? There is this Period-Luminosity-Color relation. Can anyone at least enlist the journal articles where I can make a study to get closer to finding the answer to my question? 

I'm not an astronomer, just an enthusiast, but I believe the only way that the sun could become a black hole is if when the Andromeda galaxy and the Milky Way galaxy collide, if our star combines with another star and the mass of the two is great enough to create a black hole then it's possible; however, from what I've read, despite the enormous size of galaxies and the absurd number of stars within them, because the planets and stars (especially in the outer edges of the galaxy) are so far away that collisions are actually very unlikely. Some sources of information (none talk about the black hole scenario though): $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

Using the mass and distance we can make some basic calculations using $F = G*\frac{M^2}{d^2}$, where $M$ is the mass of sun and $d$ is the distance of separation between the two 'suns'. Keeping in mind of the fact they must obviously be rotating about their center of mass which is half-way in this case, we can use $a = \frac{v^2}{r}$ accordingly and get to the solution you are seeking. So, depending on the above factors (there may be few more), we may find the linear or angular velocity with which they are rotating around their center of mass, and accordingly we can calculate the period of rotation. 

The 3 major theories are Big Crunch, Big Freeze, and Big Rip. Each of them have reasons why they work and don't work. The future will shed some light on this, but for now it's just fun to talk about! Big Crunch: Poetry of sort, the universe started with a big bang and will end collapsing into the same "infinitely" small point. Big Freeze: Everything is moving away from everything else. Eventually things will be so far away that as stars blow up, reform, and the sources of hydrogen and other things that provide stars their fuel become more rare, things will eventually become colder and colder until there's nothing but ice cubes with no scotch to put them in. Big Rip: I don't know much about this one, mostly because it doesn't seem to be likely from what I've heard others say. I'd suggest reading up on it on the wiki article ($URL$ or googling it. You can see an episode from National Geographic that talks about these 3 theories here: $URL$ A short article on the Big Crunch: $URL$ A short article about Big Rip (includes some talk of the math that Godzy referenced): $URL$ 

Stars are far from perfect blackbodies due to scattering/reflection. This is especially true for hotter stars, because of all the free electrons, but even cooler stars can reflect a significant amount. For example, in aanda.org/articles/aa/pdf/2001/19/aa1009.pdf you will see that they use a reflection albedo of 0.30 for the K star and 1.00 for the F star, but the latter number is not meant to be taken seriously, they simply don't care if the light is reflected or absorbed and re-emitted because it isn't an important term. But the value of 0.30 for the K star might be meant more seriously, though it is still not regarded as a critical parameter because it only affects the color of the light that is reflected, not the total amount of light (given that stars are in radiative equilibrium, so must ultimately return all the incident light, whether it happens by reflection or heating). Indeed, stellar emissions are often characterized by "effective temperature," to connect the surface flux of a star to the Stefan-Boltzmann formula for the emission of a blackbody by using a T parameter that is not necessarily the actual temperature. When using this notion, as is quite common for dealing with stars, there is no essential difference between heating of and reflection from the surface of the star in question. The details of the difference have to do with the shape of the spectrum, but that shape is generally not a Planck function anyway, so as soon as one is using the "effective temperature" concept one has already parted company from a detailed understanding of the shape of the spectrum. (When you do want the details of the spectrum, you will have to model the situation with some care.) You are right that the albedo depends on the type of star (hotter stars having high scattering albedo due to all those free electrons), and many stars do show a lot of scattering from their surfaces. Scattering/reflection elevates the effective temperature above the actual temperature of the layers being looked at, but again, if you stick to effective temperature, it makes no difference if there is scattering or heating of a blackbody, because effective temperature explicitly refers to the outgoing flux with no claims on the actual temperature. It is quite common for this distinction to be swept under the rug, and most stellar temperatures are effective temperatures, not actual temperatures. Another consequence of radiative equilibrium is that the "reflection effect" cannot alter the total luminosity of the binary system seen from all angles, so if the effective temperature of the surface of the stars is elevated by reflection and/or heating, as seen from some directions, this must be exactly compensated by the reduced brightness due to eclipses seen from other directions. So the reflection effect is part of the study of eclipse light curves, which are quite useful for understanding things like the sizes of the stars. 

[In addition to the answer already provided by Py-ser] In the body of a Cepheid, there is a regular or periodical variation of difference between the gravitational pressure and radiation pressure. This radiation pressure is due to the consumption of fuel in it, lighter elements like hydrogen and helium undergoing nuclear fusion into forming heavier elements. The gravitational pressure occurs of course due to the elements and compounds in the star. One increases, then decreases, equals the other and then further decreases, and again increases and this happens periodically. This equilibrium between both the pressures is being referred to here. 

Sort of. There are several videos that I've watched on YouTube that explain this phenomenon but it's all theoretical obviously. The overly simplified story is that as you approach the the black hole the comes a point that the gravity is neither too strong to suck light into the event horizon (the point that light cannot escape the gravity of the black hole) nor weak enough to allow it to leave and what you end up seeing is a warped version of what entered the black hole. Vsauce does a pretty good job of explaining some of this in this video at around 3:30. Visual of a possibility of what the inside of a blackhole of at 6:00 $URL$ Another visualization: $URL$ 

Finally, after searching quite a deal, I found this paper which would aptly answer the question. The paper from 1999 published by Pietrzynski and Udalski in Acta Astronomica lists the Cepheids in the star clusters of Magellanic Clouds. 

What is a Schmidt-Cassegrain (SC) telescope? We have Newtonian telescopes and also Galilean ones. How is SC telescope different from other optical telescopes? What is its construction detail and what different mechanism does it work with? 

This is a Celestron CPC 800 XLT telescope. It doesn't seem to have charge-coupled device (CCD) attached. Can a CCD be attached separately to this 8" Schmidt-Cassegrain telescope even if it didn't come along with the package? For astro-phtography how cheaper and cost-effective would a DSLR camera be than CCD? I think it is better to suit yourself with a CCD than a DSLR camera for quality photography. Do excuse this novice who is here to learn. 

You have a clear view of the history, and it wasn't an independent confirmation, it was simply the best evidence. Whenever one talks about the discovery of dark matter, one should start with Zwicky, and move to Rubin. One might do something similar with the Big Bang, starting with Hubble, and moving to Penzias and Wilson. Normally we give credit both to the initial discovery, and to the confirmation, but it is the most conclusive evidence that generally gets associated the largest credit. After all, it was Edgar Allan Poe who first described the Big Bang model, but he gets no astronomical credit because he provided no evidence. Zwicky certainly did better than that, so does deserve (and should receive) much credit, but there were still many doubters in his day, much as with Hubble and the Big Bang. Perhaps Zwicky's role contributed to the reason that Rubin never received the Nobel prize, I hope it wasn't simply the unspeakable reason, but of course it's too late now for both of them.