If you go to HR about the meetings, expect your boss to push back on everything you have ever done in company time that is questionable. Likewise if your boss does not like you, expect to get smaller pay increase. If you have a union, talking to them may help, but your boss will know who the trouble maker is. One option is to record all the meetings, along with an email to your boss explaining that you will now attend them, as he has make it clear it is expected for you to do so. Then after you have left for a new job, and got a good reference, speak to a employment lawyer about making a claim for the unpaid hours. But it will get out what you have done, and other employers will avoid you due to it. 

Reporting in sick must be easy and quick. I have worked for companies that require you to PHONE in and SPEAK to your manager, that can take 30 minutes on the phone if someone has to go to find the manager. It also has to be done at a time when the manger is at work – not good if someone wakes up sick at 6am and knows that are not fit to go into work that day. Therefore allow email and/or txt to be used. Never say anything negative to someone that reports in sick, they are helping you by doing so. Don’t question if the sickness is real etc. Leave all the questioning until the person is better, or let HR contact them after a few days. (Remember some people don't have a phone line or mobile coverage at home, there are even people without internet access at home.) 

You work for a USA company, but are working in India. They are effectively using your office as an outsourcing resource for the work they don’t think is important enough to use they own employees on. Even if you work for a “native” company, unless that company does more then provide cheap staff to other companies you will get the same problem. It is well known in the “west” that most India developers cannot produce useful results unless there is a very well defined spec – maintenance tasks tend to have a well defined spec. We used to call code written by the India outsourcing company “yes man” code – as they would never question what they were asked to do, just produce software that was no use to anyone. (Therefore it was best for us, if we somehow stop the management getting them to do anything important.) So you need to work for a company that does not depend on work from outside of India, or work for one of the few western companies that developers complete products in India from concept right though to sale and support. 

First of all, take the Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen DVD away from him. He's not John Malkovich, and unless your company is Google, Facebook, or Apple, IT people aren't going to be falling all over themselves to work there. There are far better ways to gauge how candidates handle stress, especially in the IT industry. As some of the comments have said, I'd walk out on that interview. What that HR person is doing isn't about "stress," I don't even think it's being "bad cop," it's being, simply put, a confrontational jackass and liar. Even if you feel that language is too strong, consider the fact that a large percentage of the people working in IT (especially development roles and whatnot) tend to be introverts, "Type B" people, and, in general, those that prefer to avoid confrontation, and may not even do all that well at all dealing with people like your HR manager, but are otherwise very good at their jobs. By doing the things your HR manager recommends, you immediately alienate these people, and to everyone else that doesn't think just like this HR manager, you send the message that this is a potentially hostile work environment. Gauging how someone handles stress is relatively easy in the IT industry - bring them in for a gauntlet day after they've passed enough interviews that you're seriously considering offering them a job. This gauntlet day would vary, depending on the job, but, for example, if it were for a developer, you'd give them a "code day," where you have a rather simple project and you give them a working day to do it. At the end of the day, you see not only how they tackled the project, but what they did throughout the day (how they reacted to things, etc). If they're tech support, you can give them broken computers to fix to see how they handle that. Basically, let them do something resembling the job (but not any real tasks, or you start getting into ethics territory again). Also, don't forget that the interview, itself, is stressful, and you can glean a lot of information about the person from the interview, without resorting to underhanded tactics. A lot of people are good at acting, of course, so it won't reveal the same things or as much as a code day will, but it can still tell you a lot. Remember: An interview is just as much about convincing a candidate to work there as it is about the candidate convincing you that they should work there. What I mean here is that interviews aren't one-sided. You, as a company, are looking to fill a position. You want someone who can do the job well. You interview people because their resumes looked good. If they're really as good as they seem, then you will have competition for them. That means, when you've decided on a candidate that you're considering hiring, you have to convince them that they want to work for you. And that goes beyond the job description, into company culture, and first impressions. With that in mind, what message, then, does your HR manager's behavior send to the candidates? 

There are a few differences. If someone is currently out of work, and does not have other job offer, the employer does not know if they truly want to take the job, or if they are just taking it due to having no other options, or to keep their unemployment benefit advisor happy. In the UK anyone on benefits has to prove they have put in enough job applications and list all interviews have had, often the benefit advisor will phone up an employer to check how some ones interview went. Therefore don’t expect them to tell you they don’t want to job, or know that they can’t do the job. Likewise it is required that someone takes the first job, even if they know they have another job starting in a few weeks time. On the other hand, no employer likes “letting someone go” within the probation period, but if a person is out of work, the employer can over then a few weeks extended trail, without feeling bad if things don’t work out. 

Companies are mostly looking to see that you have written a lot of code (many weeks to produce one program, not a few hrs like most university course work.), ideally working in a team with other people on a real problem. Failing that contributing to open source projects is a 2nd best. Your internships should put you in good standing if you wrote a lot of code on them. To rise above male colleagues, you can stand out by showing basic social skills like looking people in the eye when talking to them, provided you are good as the technical side. I believe the real issue is that women tend to underrate their own skills, when men tend to overrate them and other people tent to rate you as you rate yourself. 

You can’t as per the other answers. However you are more likely to get them to agree to tell you the userIds of some of their programmers that have accounts on StackOverflow and Programmer. Looking at the problems their staff have will give you some idea what their code is like. 

Let’s assume you are out of work at present, that you will not be moving house for the job as it is a short term contract and that the notice period is 7 days each way. (Often with a contract the notice period is 0 within the firsts 14 days.) An employer can bring you in for an interview, take up a day (unpaid) of your time, and a day of the time of at least one of their staff, at the end of the interview they don’t truly know how well you can do the work, you also don’t know how well you will get on with the rest of the team. Or they can bring you in for a week, pay you to do useful work, and be willing to end the contract just paying you for what you have done. If they do end the contract after a short time, you don’t need to show it on your CV, as you where between contracts anyway. (You can also end the contract if you don’t like the work.) From your CV the employer will know you have done lots of contracts like what they are asking, and therefore will know that other employers have decided to take you on after an interview and not terminate you after the first week. For contract work, the employer is looking for someone that has already used the required skills, rather them someone that can learn, so it not interested in “potential”. So what have you got to lose….. 

Don't volunteer information that you fear may give them a basis for discrimination until you have to. For example, don't include participation in organizations that reveal things like your skin color, religion, etc. on your resume. If you fill out applications, choose to not fill out any kind of demographic information if that's at all an option. By not volunteering this information, you're ensuring that they look at your skill set and not your skin color. Be persistent and keep your standards. You probably don't want to work for someone who is discriminating against you, anyway, so if you can avoid it, then avoid those companies. It will likely take some time, but don't get too discouraged. You'll find those gems who will appreciate what you have to offer, it might just take some digging. Look beyond the big job boards. Don't underestimate the value of the little boards, like Craigslist. Many of the best companies don't advertise on the big boards like Monster.com. Also see if there are any recruiters that serve your area. Most recruiters get paid by the companies looking to hire, so keep that in mind and try to avoid the ones that make you pay (especially if they want payment up front or something), but if you can find one or two good recruiters that get you results, keep them in your network. Consider working remotely, possibly for someone outside of that country. Finance IT sounds like a job that may not require you to be on the site for (or you may have a skill set that is transferable to a remote-capable position). If that is the case, then see if you can find someone to work for that is willing to hire you. Then petty things like skin color won't matter at all. This has the added bonus of potentially landing a job for a company with higher pay ranges and/or an exchange rate that works in your favor, giving you an above-average income for the cost of living in the country in which you live. Go solo. Perhaps you can become a consultant, or otherwise just work for yourself. A typical job isn't the only path to financial security, and many IT fields lend themselves well to consultant work. Any other skills you have can be marketable, too (and can be an avenue to valuable connections for your primary skill set), so don't discount your ability to, say, paint a building or room. 

Even when dealing with publicly available information...here be dragons. First and foremost, can you prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that the online presence is actually the person in question? Between people that look similar and/or share names, and some simply downright nasty trolls, it's possible that the person that posted such things is not the same person that is applying for a given position. Make sure you're making the right connection. That said, it in part depends on what actually constitutes a "negative online presence." Defaming a current or past employer is one thing, and pretty obviously should be considered. As Chad said, such behavior can be a cancer in the workplace, poisoning the whole group. Getting drunk with friends is a different matter (so long as it is legal and doesn't interfere with work), and in my opinion, it's ludicrous to think that just because you can't see evidence of it, that no one else in the company does the same thing once in a while. Additionally, make sure that you're not attributing behavior of your prospective employee's friend/family/acquaintances to your employee. It's easy to say "well, if my other employees do it, they're smart enough to not plaster it all over the Internet," but what if your prospective employee didn't put up those pictures (because they, too, are "smart enough to not plaster it all over the Internet")? What if someone else at the party took and posted the pictures, and someone else tagged the employee? The employee didn't post those pictures, and they have no control over the person who did. Should the employee be faulted for someone else's actions? tl;dr - It's a sticky matter. Make sure you have your facts straight, and don't hold them to an abnormally high standard solely because you happen to have knowledge of things they do that you don't necessarily approve of as a person. Remember that they're human, that your other employees probably do many of the same things, and a given person can't control what others put online.