The goal is totally valid, and I really doubt he will face any disciplinary charges. The play was stopped by the referee because a player was lying on the field after a challenge. To restart the match, the ref has to drop a ball (law 8 - dropped ball) to restart the match. Usually there is no rule about who will keep the ball, but implicit rules usually make the team that not have the ball, to give it to the opposite team, sending it out, or kicking it far in the other team field. The ball was in fact kicked far to the opposite field, but Adriano run for it and made a goal. He just violated a gentleman convention. 

Yes.. if the Player try to take advantage of it, it usually penalized with a yellow card. Usually there is no foul involved, so the flow of the game goes on. It is considered unsportman behavior. 

The best drills for kids are the basic one. Since the kids doesn't resolve good on tactic and strategy (almost all of them), is better to let them do what the football is about: passing and kicking. run with the ball using cones and kicking is by far one of the easiest and more accurate drill for kids. Passing to a fellow player and kicking also is a good drill, both for kicking and also for make a feel of team player. Some kids will kick better than other, then you can focus on different types of kicks and ball control for them. And play.. play a lot, the kids are there for playing :) 

It depends what you mean when you say the worst team, but if you're talking about a team's performance in a season, then watch this video The five worst teams in NFL history, it ranks 

How many times a player who got in a grand slam through the qualifier round won the championship, and who are they? 

I spent some time researching and this is as good as information I could find, though there seems like there is no released official earned revenue just yet. Based on this $URL$ Brazil was projected to make $4 Billion through marketing and TV rights. And based on this document released by FIFA itself $URL$ it costed $15 Billion for Brazil to host the world cup ($2 Billion of that which was covered byFIFA). So that means that Brazil ended up loosing $11 Billion! 

Good try, but that's not what it means. It means that the player is healthy and eligible to play, but the coach has decided not to use him. Players usually become a healthy scratch after poor performances or as a wake-up call. 

Football is a game with a constant flow of play. There are no technical stops, unless a foul is commited or the ball get out of bounds. So what type of statistics can you look for?? the number of times a defender take a throw out?? the number of tackles he makes??? There are a lot of things that happens on the pitch that can't be counted. Imagine a play between a big team (brasil, argentina, spain) and a very little one (faroe island). On a normal day, it will be a huge difference to the big ones. So a central defender can be lucky to have 1 or 2 tackles and maybe 1 or 2 headers.. So statistics are uselles in this case. Imagine the opposite.. The small team defender statistics can be huge. He can have maybe 20 tackles, 25 headers out of their box, and his team still lost 6-0... so How's better on that case?? There are a lot of others things that can happen on the pitch. Maybe the defender never touch the ball, but he cover a player of the other team all the game, and prevented the attacker to even touch a ball. His statistics are still poor, but his play was perfect. Imagine another player. His statistics are poor enough to make you think he is a bad player, but when paired with another one, he plays perfect, covering the holes and making the other player look better. Football is a team game, and some times, teams performs a lot better that players. Football is a tactical game, and a lot of things that happens on the pitch can't be measured. 

Yes. The Division champion will make it to the playoffs no matter what the team's record is and will host a wildcard team (which will have a better record!). That being said, it sounds extremely unlikely to have a team holding the best record in a division with only 3 wins. 

Players and specially coaches don't like playing on short weeks. It doesn't give the players enough time to heal from the previous game, and it makes it tough for the coaches to come up with game plans and do their analysis. So what made the NFL hold night games to Thursdays? 

Who are the last male and female singles' tennis players to win a grand slam on home soil? In other words, which male and female Australian, French, British and American athletes most recently won the Australian Open, the French Open, the Wimbledon, and the US open respectively? 

During the Montreal Canadiens vs New York Rangers game on April 16 2017, the referees called an illegal substitution on the Rangers, but strangely not too many men on ice. This happened during the second period as some players were changing shifts. How come this didn't result in a 2 minute minor? This is a reference to this incident, I wasn't able to find any other similar occurrence. so I'm wondering what is illegal substitution and when does it happen? How does it correspond to the too many men on ice penalty? 

According to what I get on the golf course, the pre-shot routine prepare your body for the upcoming sequence of movements. Golf teachers usually teach you to get the feeling for the next shoot until you fell comfortable, and this become a routine in every shoot. Usually when you are about to shoot, your mind can play a lot of tricks on you (and more tricks if you are in front of water :P ). Making some practice swings should make your more confident on the shoot, and also will let you focus on your objective, since your body should remember the feeling of the shoot you want to make. It's like telling your body how you want to do the shoot. Usually the pre-shot are slower, you can see it clearly easy on professionals. Also take in mind that a routine makes you more confident about what are you going to do. I will add that usually a lot of sports has pre something routine (in tennis you see the players do always the same before serve). 

It feels like over the last few years and specially this season (16-17) more games are going to overtime. So I'm wondering what has been the trend of Stanley Cup playoffs games that go to overtime in the past 20 years? I'd like to see how the rate has fluctuated over many seasons. I chose 20 years as it seems to be long enough to have a meaningful sample size. If you can find data for more seasons that'd be great. 

Barcelona managed to beat PSG 6-1 in the second leg of 2017 round of 16 to win 6-5 on aggregate, having lost 4-0 in the first leg. Inspired by Barcelona' win, what are the biggest comebacks in champions league history after a loss in the 1st leg of knockout stage match? 

Same rule follows, and the player has to sit out the next game. But if the player was sent off because of very dangerous or careless foul, he could face extra punishment(just like elimination style tournaments). 

What are the competitively played sports which players use multiple balls at the same time? I'm not counting games that are played in specific regions. Let's say there should be international matches and championships to consider it to be competitive. Also let's not count golf. There are multiple balls, but each player only handles one ball, and players are not allowed to use any other players' ball. Furthermore, lets not consider sports that use multiple balls throughout the game, but in rotation, such that only one ball is used at a time. 

Maybe golf when you play foursome or fourball?? they are not playing all at the same time, but that's because how the field is made. At least they are all playing one after another, and in groups. They all are playing against each other. 

According to this on line newspaper (that has his corresponding real version), the record is holded by a team with 7 penalties (but it doesn't said in how many matches). But it has info about this team, Talleres de cordoba, who in 1952 has 6 penalties in 5 consecutives matches. 

The problem with your second scenary is not the pass per se.. is the position of player C. if player C is behind the ball, there is no problem if the pass go foward or backward, since the ball in that case is the line that mark offside position. 

What rule should I apply in a situation like this. I know i very uncommon, but I should not touch the ball. Could be the plastic be considered a mobile obstruction? The ball is clearly inside the hole.