Outwardly Foundation for Practice - Admirable Friends: A person who wishes to prosper to and on the path should avoid to associate with greedy and stingy people, avoid places where demanting, claims and rights are praised and assossiate with people having joy in giving. Not doing so, less joy and learning can be expected. Inviting people to take part on ones deeds, direct or indirect is very conductive and additional merit. Helping in doing Dana might gain even more merits (because of ones joy and mind state) than the actual giver might gain. The best wish you may give as crown on your alms, as far as merits can benefit in the world and beyoun (from my persons view, Note it's not supra mundane yet) 

(My person will try to invest this day, to complet the answer and give as much as possible hints for not getting caught by Mara-kileasas, add talks and readings to have most accessable base for developing the base) Much mudita! Possible importand Additions: Don't break precepts, harm your virtue for the ake of making Dana: What ever is near and own is good. Do not take, even kill, ly... for the sake of giving. Even is good made, the taking and giving, it's maximum same, but does not bring benefit at least. One who has really nothing to give is gifted, since he can focus one more refine and greater gifts, that of virtue. Sometimes to let go of desire for making Dana can be of more merits than such outwardly act. But beware of self cheating and excuses here as well. Defilements are smart and quick. Beware of mara-kilesas, demons of defilements: There is a nice talk with good story by Ven. Ajahn Lee, that gives good explainings: The Demons of Defilement: (Kilesa Mara) Do not give to win or harm: There are many people who give to win, gain in reward wealth, honor, influence, favor. Such is of short wordly merits althought it might work as well. There are even many people who give the highest gift of Dhamma with a thought of harming others with it, and to fight something. That is why the Buddha bound "not harming others with your gift" on what makes a benefical gift. Juice as tonic for the afternoon: There are some fruits allowed by the Buddha, where juice can be made from, such as citrus fruits, appel, mango... (general tree-fruits and no big fruits). If wishing to serve such, the juice nedd to be cooked then filtered and before serving made cold. Such couldbe keep one day and taken in the afternoon. Sugar might be added. In regard of packed juice, not all monks and communities are not afraid to receive it. It's sometimes not easy to find out if the juice is made in such a way and what it contains. Coffee without milk and tea can be served. This topic migh be handled most different by certain communities. No problem to ask in advanced "Are the Ven. Sirs able to receive and make use of this or that, if given?" Note that silence usually means not "no", but let you freedom to take action as wished. Main dishes - Rice nessesary? No, not at all. Bread, noodles, potatos... what ever main nutrishion, if wishing to give a whole dish, is fine. It's maybe worthy to tell here, that it is not usual to receive/eat more side food ("curry") that 1:4 in regard of "rice". So a monk would possible have not enough food is given a western style dishes with much main food "side-food" and less side-dishes "main food". Sources for more about food and medicine: One who knows much about others ways, can help much. Used in this way is of benifit for the user. Used in a way to revile or blame others, even if right, but with a unskillful mind, is of no benefit for one. As giver you are not obligated to know what is needed and proper to give, but if liking to be a perfect giver and have joy with it, it's of good use: BMC 2, CHAPTER 4: Food [BMC 2, CHAPTER 5: Medicine (incl. Tonics for the after noon and food for sick monks) Putting the food in the bowl Since not proper and not usual to lift the cover of the bowl wide, but food possible careful into it, one by one. It's good not to touch the bowl, it might harm the surface and it's not easy to fix such for a monk (in Asia, out of this, the folk believe that touching the bowl brings bad fortune has been developed). If you wish to give the side dishes, thinking on possible carring about the monks wefare, in small begs (think on that he has possible no way to care good about packing material, is here also good) or put the side dishes as they are into the bowl. Good to consider that some monks go not only for them alone for alms, but share the food under fellows. Some might have themselves or assistant with them, to receive side dishes, sweets, fruits... in kind of small "picknick boxes". Follow as it looks proper for you and the situation and as you think it's good. Some monks may have not a slight problem to take how ever it comes, some might not have the freedom yet. Don't fall into ideas like: "He should, must...", that reduces just you own benefit." Temperature Frozen, if not ice-cream, is maybe not so easy to take, but well, if ready to eat. Temperature does only play in regard of what you like to give and possible for receiving play a rule and there will be no requirements at all. To hot: is a monk, althought it might be seldom to meet, carries his bowl with his hands, not on support, no protections, the heat you but into the bowl will touch fast his hand as well, can hurt and make him even to let fall his bowl or not able to carry. One might be cateful on such in regard of fresh cooked rice. In a case such happens, one maybe likes to offer some leaves or a piece of garment, or what ever idea one has. Recources for Dana and its practice: 

"enhance meditation practice", in Buddhism, is understood as something that is effective in bringing one closer to permanent destruction of suffering, to nirvana. This may involve, for instance, attaining absorption concentration (jhana), but ultimately is concerned with: 

If I understand this question, this might be a diffuse perception of the skhandas, as these are the groupings that might better translate as the identity constructs (in the modern sense). In that case, i'm not sure there is a word or discussion of identity disorders (if that is what you're referring to) -- i've never seeing this being discussed in any text. I have seen (modern) people talk about supposed risks of mindfulness meditation for people with specific mental disorders who already have difficulties with making sense and perceiving or associating (or too inclined to disassociate) certain things. But wether these are real risks of what specific practice and to whom exactly i'm not sure (e.g. some researchers do advocate mindfulness meditation to people with specific identity disorders). This is the closest link to buddhism and this lack of self identity i've heard of. 

Actually, the Buddha traveled extensively around the territory and he is said to have had the most followers along with the Ājīvikas and the Jains. After his death, popularity increased much more, particularly with imperial support by Ashoka, who not only helped build monasteries and raising pillars with Buddhist ethics content around the empire, but also financed missions to spread Buddhism beyond. Later on, though, Buddhism declined in India, presumably through many forces. Among them, I've seen: 

A good new Essay on this topic, by Bhante Thanissaro: Wisdom over Justice An essay on the Buddha’s approach to the pursuit of justice. And a talk on it: [En/De] Justice vs. Skillfulness - Gerechtigkeit vs. Geschick, Bhante Thanissaro How to learn judging that is nessesary: The Power of Judgment And feel, act, judged by the wise: [En/De] In den Augen der Weisen - In the eyes of the Wise, Bhante Thanissaro To judge best and right mindfulness on your, body, your feelings, your mind and your ideas and mental phenomenas, is what is meant to be mindful, in short. 

According to this answer, the Buddha neither rejected nor endorsed the practice. This answer is not right, uninformed and colored by modernism and faith in materialism rather into that of what the Buddha and wise recommend and all cultures and elders did till some years. Even if intended to drive people to more refine merits, it misses the point to be in the mids of hungry ghosts and that there are less being who will even reach human life, having gained one for now, in the next, not to speak about capable for grasping the higher Dhamma, and for those having reached firm confidence, such small generousity and good sample for later generations is not a matter of defilements and stinginess. Does the opinion of the different Buddhist schools differ from each other on this? In regard of what can be said as old tradition, wiser, with practice: No. There is no school that can be called within the footsteps of Dhamma of the Buddha, with does not only recomment but also practice. They might differ in practice, rituals, folk explainings, focus, intensity, but not on the root: right view, gratitude and generosity. The only "tradition" (with it's "monks" and lay peopke) that likes to make a better and wiser copy is modernism, secularism and scholar-hood, modern approaches, but they are not regarded as within the foot-steps of the Dhamma of the Buddha. Some food for inspirations out of "Googlyana", some word written years ago: 

Taking a cold shower is a usual way of yogis to stay awake. So if weariness arises such may help but also no quarantine. Walking backward is also a way to force mindfulness and other kinds of "dangers" which give mind a reason to stay on topic. On that level one does not need to think about concentration since one is far way and has actually problems to keep ones persistence arose. A certain danger for concentration would be if the thought come up "oh a cold shower, that would be pleasant" and then give it attention and follow this approach of the defilement beguiling. Taking a cold shower it self is also a good test in regard of ones mindfulness. Can you bear it? How is the relation of mindfulness and reaction to cold water. One could gain awakening or insight by having proper attention (yoniso manasikara) at such event. (Note: this answer has not been given with the agreement to be means of trade or the purpose of/for trade and/or keep people trapped and bound. How you handle it lies in your sphere, but does not excuse the deed here either.) 

Atma doubts that one could accumulate much merits by reading and spreading the Diamond Sutra, but in relation to Dhamma, yes: Iti §100 But! Such is not possible for whom how is certain to stingy to give material things and to say "I do not believe in charity because it doesn't cease suffering in a long term and it doesn't solve any fundamental problems in the human world." is fatal wrong. Giving in the meaning of merits means to give and not to do things that it might become as one likes it to have. Grasping for the hole world and even thinking its one own, how could one even make the first step into Dhamma? Such is the benefit of reading and teaching the Diamond Sutra, a plenty good way to cut one self and others from the path... 

Sōtō zen rituals for meals: see this doument and also this page for more details. Here are the verses: Verse upon Hearing the Meal Signal 

His reflection was simply this: something permanent can't be found in things transient (additionally, things that also pose a danger for more suffering). So here, we end up facing the reality that trying to permanently eliminate suffering, to attain a permanent shelter from suffering by obtaining temporary things (company, loneliness, marriage, money, etc), things subject to birth, to aging, to death, sorrow, lamentation and pain...isn't going to work. Hence the gradual path of Buddhism, to substitute gross gratifications by other gratifications that, while still temporary, pose substantially less risk of creating misery and promote the encounter with that everlasting happiness. 

And yet, we cannot say from above that the six sense bases cause (or produce) contact; contact is the "meeting of the three" (which is detailed elsewhere). If a contact is present, it means the corresponding sense base is present. "If I decide to practice the Dharma how does that come about? Isn't my decision to practice just the interplay of causes in a big interconnected web?" Answering "yes" to "decision is just interplay of causes" could open to a deterministic view, depending on what these causes are. But here's a nice sutta that this reminds me of: 

Then, in higher training, the Buddha teaches sense restraint -- which is not something he is seen teaching lay followers as far as I can tell. But contrary to popular thinking, the point is not to create a depressed monk or depressed nun. These sensual pleasures are "substituted" by other kinds of happiness that the monastics trains and cultivates, that are less problematic and lead straight to Nirvana. To name just a few, the happiness of renunciation (e.g. perception that monastic life is simpler and worldly life and commitments as a burden), the happiness of full dedication to dhamma (to practice, learn and teach the eradication of suffering), the happiness of jhāna (deep meditation states). Because these lead to less desires, it's also easier to be content, to experience deeper contentment and long lasting contentment. Finally, when superior and simpler kinds of happiness are cultivated and grow, people tend to perceive sensual pleasures as inferior, gross, a burden, even suffering.