Reading through the comments I am having a tough time figuring out if this thread is still active, but I do have a few ideas. Firstly, you ask what must be changed to follow some form of logic? As noted, magic usually isn't very logically, however I understand what you mean by this and to me it seems like an additional (9th) domain might be useful (since 7 doesn't seem to work as you mentioned in the comments) to ensure some sort of balance. That is, a rock-paper-scissors mechanic. The main reason to use an RPS mechanic is to make sure that no single ability, or any combination thereof, is head-and-shoulders better than the others. If this were the case, there would be no real reason to ever use the other spirits, or for that matter include them in your world, thus my suggestion to add a 9th. A functioning rock-paper-scissors mechanic can only work with an odd number of features. The ability to bind multiple spirits complicates the system, but the combinatorics exist to sort the problem out. My initial suggestion to simplify things here would be to only allow 3 spirits at any given time. This works well as a multiple of 9, and still gives an 24-, 12-, 8-hour time span feature as you mentioned. Should you decide to go that route and run into a specific problem developing a balanced scheme, that may make for an excellent follow-up question. As far as which domains must be added to cover the whole spectrum of a human being? my initial thought was to add a creativity/ingenuity type category, but it would be hard to specify what exactly that might do, especially for the malevolent spirit. One idea that does seem to flow would be an Emotion category. The benevolent spirit would add empathy and the ability to relate to people, thus making them more likely to support your cause. The malevolent form would make you cold hearted and distant, which may be useful for making those "tough" decisions. Just an idea. One other thing: the malevolent Appearance spirit doesn't seem fitting. Instead what if that spirit made you intimidating to others. People would be scared of you and thus less likely to oppose you, but also less likely to support your efforts. 

Real world case: The missile launched from off the coast of Norway and headed northeast from there. The Russians were going ape, they saw what looked like a sub-launched missile heading for space over their northern lands--the sort of trajectory you would use if it was going to do an EMP attack. That caused the highest nuclear alert the world has ever seen. In reality, the missile never entered Russian territory at all. It was heading for arctic territory--a sounding rocket looking at the aurora. (The Russian radars could see that it came from off the coast--they couldn't see it came from a launch complex on an island off the coast. The burn looked exactly like a sub-launched missile because it was--it was an older SLBM motor repurposed for scientific use. Their bureaucracy lost the launch notification that had been sent out.) 

If they want to preserve history for educational purposes but likewise want to pretend the empire has always been even when historical events say otherwise then they should maintain an almost honest history--simply relocate it to somewhere outside the Empire. 

Slot Machines Slot machines in casinos these days are typically tied to a central computer system. Machines that show unusual distributions are taken out of service. I think your best bet is play a random machine, win the jackpot (though, see above, re: "successful outcome"), move on to another casino and repeat. 

Entirely removing flight above a certain altitude would be difficult. At minimum it would certainly devastate the bird population. Gliders for low energy environments. Rockets for vacuum environments. Atmospheric shield Within that 200 years, something went wrong causing the planet to lose atmosphere. A planetary shield was built. It doesn't follow the terrain contours, intersecting with mountains and such. It's ovoid in shape, keeping with the average ovoid shape of the planet. It only keeps gasses in; liquids and solids can get through it. Now that 200 years has passed, the shield still works but there's no atmosphere above it. Artificially Intelligent, Self Replicating Anti-Aircraft Guns The thing about AI is they are single minded and goal driven. The goal they are built on is the one they optimize for. The planet, at one time, needed a really good AA defense. One was designed and built. It includes factories and mining capability oriented towards the ability to replicate and upgrade. It's only interested in keeping the skies free. It's constantly building new, better AA emplacements. Birds were considered necessary at the time and it was easier to "teach" the AI to shoot down fast flying things rather than teaching it to differentiate between a bird and a slow drone. Localized defenses around the emplacements prevent sabotage. Decades later, they have AA beyond anything the current population can design. It's entirely AI driven and, after a long period of getting stuff shot down, nobody bothers with high speed aircraft any more. (Though there is a kind of race to see if one can build an aircraft that is faster than everybody else but won't be targeted by the AA. It's very entertaining. Occasionally somebody produces something with a combination of dexterity, speed, and stealth needed to avoid the guns and win a race, but it doesn't last very long before the guns advance enough to take them out, usually a few days. The bets on how long they'll last can get pretty high.) Technological Singularity There's no flesh and blood people ever since it was discovered how to upload your brain. It's been like that for 200 years. I was one of the first generation. I remember what it was like but it's better in here where you don't have to hurt or grow old or see family die. We still have our wars but they're done in the Games now. Everybody wants computing power and memory space so those are the rewards but everybody works towards creating more computronium. Though, it's mostly automated now. I do miss somethings. Space doesn't really exist anymore. Sure, you can go out there, but there's nothing to go to. The stars, the planets, our sun, they're all just paintings on a background you can never reach. Flight is limited but it's not such a big deal since you can just teleport everywhere. There's no supersonic aircraft since they eat up terrain generation CPU time like crazy. Biplanes are fun but they don't get very high. (The Realists say it makes things more realistic, but the rest of us know it's because the governments use the clear areas for top secret research and such.) Most people today don't know it, but they never quite got the taste of chicken right. 

You're using the wrong tool for the job. You can get far higher velocities far more economically from a linear motor. (Think of a maglev train that just keeps speeding up.) Boosting something from LEO to LTO is no big deal if you have enough power available. However, there's nothing to be gained by putting such a system in orbit. A rocket doesn't require burning fuel, anything thrown out the back counts--and your cargo heading for the moon is something thrown out. Your station goes the opposite direction with just as much energy, all it saves you is that your rocket stays on the station rather than being launched into space. If you put it on the Earth you have some pretty major engineering problems due to the atmosphere. If you build a long track it has to be horizontal--and that means an awful lot of atmosphere. You'll need a very, very big payload with a heat shield better than anything NASA has built in order to do it. Also, nobody has managed to design a system that won't destroy itself with the shockwaves. Alternately, you dig straight down and use a very high boost. The drag problem is lowered to simply incredible. Still no answers for the shockwaves, though. Note that there has been a version of Jules Verne's gun built. There is no doubt that the "payload" (merely of scientific curiosity, it was completely inert) was launched at far above escape velocity. While the instruments recorded very little there is no doubt it was vaporized before leaving the atmosphere. If it hadn't been vaporized it would have beaten Sputnik to space. While in theory it could be done again with a capsule engineered to survive the passage I doubt it ever will be--the charge in the "gun" was a fairly large hydrogen bomb, the "payload" a plug in the hole drilled for it. 

The major issue I see is that rivers are flowing bodies of water. If the world was composed primarily of rivers and river systems, to where would all of that water be flowing? When the water reached its destination, what force would make it continue flowing? Gravity generally only works downhill, so I think to make a river world possible, it would have to extremely flat, effectively turning the rivers into canals. Now, if a planet were incredibly massive, the gravity of such a planet may act to keep the planet flat (but flat enough, who knows?) For @John Robinson's idea of continued bombardment delaying the cooling to have an effect, the planet would have to have little to no atmosphere, creating an issue for the formation of life as we know it. But an interesting thought I had is that the planet only has to be flat. That doesn't mean that it has to have been formed that way. Arguably, a sufficiently advanced (and motivated) society could flatten a world (realistically speaking, a smaller world than Earth) on purpose. Reasons for such a super-task might be the allocation of water to all parts of the globe/ populations; the facilitation of marine-based travel (the preferred mode of travel other than by foot for most of human-history); or self-preservation reasons like to control El Niño-type storm effects from a heating and cooling ocean, or to alter the planet's albedo for various reasons. 

Expanding upon Mark Olsen's answer: While there are plenty of other particles out there that behave similarly to what we consider normal matter there are two big problems: 1) The main one: The matter of our world is in the base energy state. All the other particles we know of are basically higher energy versions of the basic ones. Since said particles have a lower-energy analogue they have a considerable tendency to become that analogue and release considerable energy in the process. None of them are remotely stable. 2) You wanted something light: E=mc^2. In chemical and nuclear terms the high energy versions act pretty much like (except for the decay issue) low energy version--but since they have a lot more energy they have a lot more mass. Lets take "hydrogen" gas but made out of the next higher energy state: The electron (500 keV) is replaced with the muon (105MeV, half life around a microsecond) and I'm not sure what the proton (938MeV) is replaced with but the lowest energy candidate is 1115MeV and has a half life below a nanosecond. Our particle went from 939MeV to 1220MeV--it's 30% heavier. 

"Can a casino system prove my (divine) luck as cheating?" No, they can't prove cheating due to divinely enhanced intrinsic luck. They can (and probably will) suspect cheating. They can kick you out for no reason (right to refuse service to anyone). But they can't prove cheating. 

Given that lizardfolk are often presented as using stone tools, it wouldn't be a stretch to say they're slow evolvers. Lizardfolk are often in magical worlds where evolution takes a back stage to magical bioengineering. Also, if you have a world where lizardfolk are naturally possible, it's likely that there were different species at some point (for example, gecko-based). (At one time there were two species that modern humans could have evolved from.) 

"Anything I do throughout this day will yield a successful outcome, no matter what the odds against it are, but only if it's possible to happen in a day." Let's assume this is literally the rule that has been applied. For your scenario involving casino gambling, no, you would not be throw out. You wouldn't win much either. A "successful outcome" is not necessarily a bountiful outcome. Also, time constrained blessings traditionally have backlash worse than their benefit once the time expires. Win a dollar today? Lose three dollars tomorrow. Me? Spend the day trying not to be too successful. 

How about a totally different reason: A sapient species that is not effectively able to combat the apex predator? Consider an intelligent mole or the like--something that pretty much lives underground. It did not evolve in an environment where perception of a large amount of information at once was of much evolutionary value. It normally runs from a threat, if it must fight it's fighting one opponent in a confined space. Technological aid can overcome the short range senses that such a creature would develop but it can't overcome the information overload problem of surface combat or especially aerial combat. A raptor would totally dominate them in a shared environment. Venturing upon the surface safely would require tanks, wiping out the raptors would require robotic weaponry. 

I think a lot of people missed an important part of the question: The issue needs to persist for centuries. Nothing nuclear meets this criteria. Despite the anti-nuke hysteria it's not going to be dangerous that long even if you turn every bit of mined fissionables into dirty weapons. Biologicals might work but you need something that will persist harmlessly in some host and yet kill humans. That's probably beyond current tech to develop. Blasting the ozone layer won't persist long enough. I do see one approach that would work but it would be awfully slow. Bring down enough comets. Turn the Earth into a waterworld. 

Gender roles would likely be much different, because in the world you describe, people of the same sex must be able to reproduce with each other, whereas in our current set up, that is not possible. Given that our real-world gender roles are formed around (but not necessarily by) the fact that one sex is capable of giving birth, and one is not, I imagine that there would be a less distinct gender difference in the world you describe. This makes me think that "gender" --as we define it currently-- would not exist in your world; the biological reason for sexual dimorphism to develop must necessarily not exist in your world, given that there is a non-zero probability of two members of the same sex having an offspring together. Also, from a genetics standpoint, over time the relative populations (XX) and (Xx) will shrink, because there is a higher likelihood of being born as (xx). While I will not say that these populations would vanish (though I suspect they would as reproductive rates are fairly low) I will say that the gene pools for (XX) and (Xx) will not be as diverse as they should be, creating a genetically inferior sex. If this is what you mean by gender role, then it could be explored in more depth, but I argue at this step that what we are discussing is no longer "gender." 

It flows, slowly. The power source is the tides. You could extract some energy from it but it's not a perpetual motion machine, the ultimate power source is Earth's rotation. Extracting this energy will not slow the Earth, if you don't extract it it will be dissipated as heat instead. 

While there are good answer as to why it can't be done I'm going to back up and look at the big picture. Usual types of radiation: 

1) If you're talking about the Mr. Fusion from Back to the Future I toss the report in the closest trash can. There's no way something that size can dissipate 4MW of heat. It's actual efficiency has to be upwards of 99% 2) If the report is accurate I laugh at radiators. We don't need any fancy schemes to get rid of heat, we just need to turn down the fire a bit. Solar incident radiation is about 1kw/m^2. (Yes, the raw number is higher but some is reflected away. I'm looking at what gets through to warm the planet.) Since the MF is producing 5MW (the amount it produces as power almost all ends up in the environment eventually.) that translates to 5,000 m^2 of solar energy. I impose a tax on all new MF units sufficient to pay for the launch of 5,000 m^2 of sunshade. This sunshade is in the form of a large solar sail craft (or likely multiple craft) that is hovering somewhere to the sunward of the L1 point. It keep station on Earth but is not actually in orbit, it's using the energy being reflected off the sail to hold position. (If it were in orbit the radiation pressure would push it off position. Thus you set it up so the radiation pressure pushes it into position instead.) You might need to increase this tax somewhat to make up for the decreased agricultural production. Expect yields to drop by something more than the % of the sun that's blocked.