The sole difference between a locking and non-locking knife is the blade folding in without any locking/unlocking mechanism. For this comparison i will assume, that you can close the blade with locking mechanism one-handed, otherwise you have an advantage right there. Short FYI: The (legal) reason is that non-locking knifes can not be used as a stabbing weapon as easily as locking knifes (could be considered a downside in the great outdoors?). Some laws (for example in germany) even disallow folding knifes that can be opened with one hand, as they can be used as a hidden weapon. Now back to your question. There are no obvious advantages for a blade to not have a lockable blade. But we can get creative! If an accident seriously disables you, closing a non-locking foldable knife with one (impaired?) hand might be easier. Also, when using your knife for batoning (for which you SHOULD use a FIXED blade knife!), the folding blade might put less stress on the pivot, so you don't break the non-existent locking mechanism. Finally, an anecdotal advantage of normal looking, non-locking, red, classical victorinox knifes: you can take them out of your pocket and use them without having everyone else around you think, that you were up to no good. - As opposed to those tactical folding knifes (which usually lock!). But this is off-topic. So, you might get creative and find advantages for non-locknig folding knifes, but apart from the fact that their non-existing locking mechanism can't break, there is no real advantage to them, especially in an outdoor situation. 

All these things are important, however there are some nice quality-of-life features, or gimmicks you could look into: My head torch allows me to lock it by holding the power button for some seconds. To unlock it, I have to press it for some seconds again. No more empty batteries after your torch lit up the inside of your backpack for 20 hours straight! It even has a battery life indicator - very useful! If the angle of the lamp is adjustable, you can more easily do stuff in front of your face, or the normal height, when you are tying knots, or do anything that requires your light to not shine at something at 90 degrees of your forehead. I never realized how much I love this feature, until I didn't have to temporarily move my crappy old head torch down to my neck to do something in arms reach below nose level. For a more "serious" use, you might want to have a strobe function to defend yourself, or signal SOS. 

This is a type of plug, you find some more information above You use them to catch predatory fish. Depending on the action you can just cast-and-reel these baits, adding some more action yourself. Depending on the baits action, you will use reel-speed to get it to your preferred depth, and then slow down and start working your bait. You reel slowly, you stop and let the lure rise to the top, then you start reeling again to make it dive. Or you just reel at a constant speed. Plugs have a diving depth at which they don't dive much deeper. You are constantly pulling it upwards, and the shovel pulls it downwards, at some point you will reach a balance. You will catch predatory fish with it. It it eats living fish, you catch it. I even had birds attack wobblers of mine. 

You should be able to breathe out through your nose and have no effect on the seating of the mask -- that's what rebreather divers do all the time. If you can't do this, it has to be a problem of fit. Masks are extremely personal bits of kit that need to be tried on before you buy. Typically the test is to take the strap off (or put it around the front of the mask), press it to your face and slightly breathe in through your nose. It should stay in place. If it doesn't stay in place, use another mask, one that fits your face shape better. The strap is there to lightly hold the mask in place; if it's too tight it can distort the mask surround and make it harder to seat. 

GoPros have quite short battery life and it's not possible to change the battery under water. Therefore you'll need to turn it on and off. The best place to hold a GoPro is in the hand as you can frame the shot and hold it steady. Attaching it to a helmet / head strap results in lots of poor video which you'll probably throw away. Either attach a bolt snap to the GoPro housing and keep it in your pocket on a bungee loop, or use a handle -- and add a bolt snap, etc. If you're doing more photography than diving, a 'tray' style system is better with a couple of lights on handles either side. Lighting is key to good underwater photography and GoPros aren't that good in really low light, e.g. UK diving, so you'll need additional lighting that is very wide-angle. The best lights are very expensive; many times the price of the GoPro camera. I accidentally flooded my GoPro by failing to properly close the housing -- an expensive mistake. However, as an unintended consequence, my diving massively improved as I now enjoy the dive and not taking endless awful quality video! 

How about leaving the PADI fold and moving on to other styles of diving, for example technical diving: where you can learn to do much longer dives with decompression (an hour at 30 metres?); where you can use alternative gases - Trimix - and dive deeper; where you can investigate the amazing underworld in caves/caverns/mines; diving with CCR; diving with Sidemount... PADI are great at getting you started, but they're not that well known in the technical diving world where the likes of TDI, IANTD, GUE and others rule the roost. Becoming a Divemaster is fine, but is utterly meaningless in technical diving where excellence in buoyancy, finning, trim, decompression procedures, dive planning are all essential and are required at a far higher standard than required for the recreational Divemaster qualification. Backfinning? Helicopter turns? Frog kicking? Valve drills? Hovering motionless at 6 metres? Ignoring the NDLs? Understanding decompression theory? Accelerated deco? Holding your stops? Not to mention the endless scope for buying tech kit! None of these are covered in the Divemaster course. To answer the solo diving question: what's wrong with diving solo? Imagine you're on a boat and the 'captain' foists some insta-buddy on you. You're then committed to diving with literally anybody; and it's very common to have a novice buddied to you -- they get an experienced diver; you get a liability. Fine if you like that kind of thing, but haven't you paid for a dive too? Provided you've the right experience, skills and redundant kit, why not dive on your own? There's a couple of solo diving courses, such as the SDI Solo Diver course -- that was the best fun I've ever had on any diving course: being blindfolded, asked to follow a course around some submerged ISO containers by touch; tied up (there was some rope the instructor found and dropped on me), air gunned (i.e. simulating a freeflow - so valve shutdowns), having a fin removed and then deploying an SMB then doing a controlled ascent with stops whilst still blindfolded. Interestingly the SDI Solo Diver has a pre-requisite of 100 dives, which is twice that of the Divemaster. The reason is that you've got to be on top of your skills - you're not learning new skills, you're learning how to use your existing skills. 

This looks like a Pedostrangalia revestita (i totally ripped this from the site below. I have no idea if this is correct, I am still looking for the English and German terms (in German it is a kind of Bockkäfer)) $URL$ I am by no means an expert, but those look alike. The wing-covers have similar shapes, red legs, big eyes, the butt-brush. Some coleopterist might come to improve on this answer with proper terminology, please don't forget to laugh about the word butt-brush. Edit: on a German page i have found another similar one: Rhamnusium bicolor, the "Beulenkopfbock" (german) (but, similar to the other source, I found conflicting images on different sites) $URL$ 

This depends on the state, and the kind of course. In some states you don't need a license any more, or could even purchase a tourist-license valid for few weeks. The course can take just a few days, with a final test at the end, but sometimes it is difficult to find a course in a certain time frame. It can happen that you will have to wait a month, or even more, to be able to take a course at all. If your brother actually has a course with a fitting time frame, he should be able to tell you how long the course is, ask him. Otherwise you should check out which laws apply the the state, when courses are offered, and how long they take. 

Unless there is a certain terminology for "backside" plugs, this is a plug (or as I know it: a wobbler. No idea which term is more commonly used around where you live). Wikipedia Link I had to bust out my detective hat and pipe to find information on these ones, but I stumbled upon this: an article about this bait They are(?)/were made by bomber, and nowadays you find them as Arbogast Mudbugs. (Note the two notches vs one notch in the bomber) Now on to plugs as I understand you question being for plugs in general, not your bait specificly. There are some different types, some with shovel, some without. The ones without shovel usually sink, and depend on you to perform, you twitch your rod and work the bait to make it "jump" through the water like an injured fish. With some skill you can walk it through the water impressively (you make make it do sharp 90 or even 180 degree turns). But I don't want to focus on these baits, lets focus on the baits with this "shovel". The shovel can determine how deep your lure runs at certain reeling speeds. These lures typically float (or suspend in the water), and only start to dive once you start reeling them in. You can make it more attractive by adding some twitches again, sometimes you even have to. But usually it "wobbles" from side to side, which attracts fish. To answer your questions specifically: 

Others experience this too (the internet is filled with similar stories). It does not look like you were really sick - this would have lasted longer than a day. However a weakened immune system is a concern after exhausting exercise. It is difficult to tell you what happened to you, but we can still guess. For example people with high blood pressure can experience fever after too much unprepared exercise. You might want to get checked (and while you are at it, check other stuff too, your doc will be able to tell you what to look for). The vomiting could be a side effect of feeling ill due to the fever, but it can't hurt to ask if you drank enough. Especially after long breaks of exercise. You tend to sweat more, and your body loses salts etc, electrolytes in general. This is no big deal for short workouts, but after long trips this may add up - and you will feel sick. There are several possible reasons, but to be save you might want to get checked up by an expert, and "listen to your body signals" (thanks, mom!) when exercising.