Taking the narrator's frame of mind into consideration, it's not really that much of a contradiction. Whatever differences there are between the two paths are basically irrelevant, and the narrator is making a big deal out of nothing. It doesn't matter whether the chosen path is less worn or not: the point is that the narrator thinks it is when that helps them make their decision, then thinks it isn't because "eh, who cares" (and maybe it actually isn't), then thinks it is again because that enables them to agonise and torture themselves with regret afterwards. 

Clearly this phrase in The Great Gatsby doesn't refer to manual vs automatic transmission, because automatic transmission in cars simply wasn't a thing back then. So what does it mean? Well, one thing which was changing in car gear systems even before the introduction of manual transmission was the number of different gears. From Wikipedia: 

sending Don Rumata into a blind and murderous rage. But who were they, who sent them, and why did they come in the first place? They weren't expecting Rumata to be home, and Kyra said: 

No, it is not. Someone asked the author this question on his LiveJournal page, and for once he gave a straight answer: 

Perhaps it's deliberately meant to be ambiguous. Certainly there's a recurrent theme in The Neverending Story of ambiguous endings and unfinished tales: just look at how often variations of the phrase "that's another story and will be told another time" are repeated throughout the novel. Ende is leaving a lot to our imagination, deliberately so. In fact, this fits well with the theme of the story. One of the main goals of the heroes is to make humans start coming to Fantastica again; by exercising our imaginations to finish off all the unfinished parts of the story, we in turn 'enter' Fantastica in some sense. The more time we spend with these characters, in this world, especially when we actively make up stories about them ourselves, the more we contribute to Fantastica. Like Bastian, we can start off by passively reading the story and end up by creating more of it ourselves. You can you can make your own guesses yourself. Go ahead! Finish Atreyu's sentence, finish all the half-told stories, continue to create Fantasica just as Bastian did. But what's the actual answer? The same question has been discussed a lot already by many readers and fans, and there doesn't seem to be a single correct answer. My paragraphs above justify why it's OK for there not to be one, but of course there have been various answers suggested, some more plausible than others. Let me quote the analysis of St John Karp, a blogger who wrote extensively about The Neverending Story because, in his words, "despite how famous and well-loved this novel is, I have never seen any critical analysis that does it justice". He has a surprisingly negative take on the Childlike Empress: 

Since the story is told from the banker's point of view, his impulsive nervousness and excitement are described more explicitly than the lawyer's, as is his arrogant pride: 

It seems that, as I already guessed without knowing anything about the book, the title is a cynical reflection on the contemporary world. Lermontov is saying that a "hero" of our time is not really a hero but something of a jerk. But being unable to say so openly, he resorted to ironic ambiguity in order to make his point. It's also interesting to note that in the original Russian title Герой нашего времени, the word "Герой", while usually taken to mean "hero", can also mean "character". This was perhaps a deliberate choice of words on Lermontov's part, to further increase the ambiguity of the title. 

It was his crazy, guilty conscience. As well as the quote you mention, in which the murderer makes sure that the old man is dead by holding his hand to his heart for "many minutes" without feeling a beat, there's also this in the next paragraph, from when he's hiding the old man's body: 

Panama Oxridge is Paul Adshead. I don't know whether any clues were hidden in the Thyme books themselves, but the website for the series contains an elaborate puzzle whose solution is the author's real name. As mentioned by @Shokhet in comments, you can see the start of the trail here: 

So, in a situation where a minor without parents stood to inherit a considerable sum, it was the Court of Chancery which assumed responsibility for that minor and their assets until they came of age. Under the terms of trust law, the court, or its chosen representative, had the right to make decisions about the child's upbringing and how to use their assets, on the understanding that everything it did was for the child's own good. Thus, that child was not only a "ward of court", but specifically a "ward in chancery". 

Their surroundings aren't described in much detail, but the horror story is extremely effective, partly because it leaves us unsure as to what they actually witnessed. Partly also because of the extended foreshadowing and leadup to the ultimate horror, and the spine-chilling ending that comes just after the passage quoted above, but the lack of detailed information is definitely a part of what makes it stick in the mind: long after finishing the story, we keep thinking about (maybe even having nightmares about) exactly what they saw, what was down there in those black and hideous depths. In "Dagon", it's clear right from the start of the story that this incomplete-information device will be used. (Actually it's pretty likely even from before you start reading the story, if you know how Lovecraft writes, but be that as it may.) The narrator is setting us up for that creeping, lingering horror that comes from letting our own imaginations run amok on what we didn't fully grasp from the story. Beyond a meta-reference to a Lovecraftian literary device, this also increases the horror in a more literal sense. The narrator is telling us that nobody who hasn't actually experienced it can really appreciate it. That accentuates the horror right from the start. We know we're going to read a horror story, and we're also being told that we can never be affected as much as the narrator was. Once again, this leaves it to us to imagine the true extent of the effect on the narrator, and to try to comprehend how twisted his mind is after what he's seen. Same idea again. Finally, I challenge your claim that the story is going heavy on description and exact details. In typical Lovecraft fashion, it starts off detailed, but as the grotesqueness increases, the detail decreases, until we're left with the vaguest of vague descriptions of the final sight which literally drove the narrator insane. Here's an excerpt from the final paragraphs before he wakes up in a San Francisco hospital (emphasis mine): 

The book that immediately sprang to mind when I saw your question is The Minpins by Roald Dahl. It's a beautifully illustrated children's book about a boy who discovers a civilisation of tiny people living in trees and helps them to defeat the monster who terrorises their forest. I loved it as a child. 

It doesn't look like anyone has noticed this Tumbleweed-eligible question, so I found the answer myself :-) Dervish's wealth is mostly from a family fortune which his brother didn't touch, but he also earned a little from the antiques trade. I managed to dig out a copy of book 1, and found the relevant passage in chapter 4 (emphasis mine): 

So what is it? What makes a short story about two men "female"? Well, let's ignore the gender of the characters for a moment, since clearly that's NOT the criterion Gaiman used for the Salim/jinn story, and look again at his comparison of Neverwhere and Stardust: 

Imagine if, instead, the narrator had ridden through verdant countryside in bright sunshine with birdsong all around, and arrived at the House of Usher around midday. If we'd seen that in the first sentence, then the second would have been an unexpected shock, and the writer would have had to work harder to instil in us that feeling of oppressive gloom. He could still have done it, of course, using much the same description of the interior and inhabitants of the house, but it would have taken longer, and might have been lessened by the memory of the pleasant exterior remaining in our minds. Then again later on, towards the end of the story, we get a vivid description of the storm: 

Realising that a limerick about a lady called Jane would probably start with some variant of "There once was a lady named Jane" as the first line, I tried Googling that instead, and found multiple possible results. This link has a few limericks about women called Jane, but none of them quite seem to match what you describe. I found the following limerick at this site, with a similar variant here: