There is a generic way of reformulating Pascal's wager that does avoid some of the standard objections. It goes like this: 

This logic is not quite correct. One way to interpret your question is to imagine your life and afterlife plotted on a number line. Let's say the "life" portion goes from 0 to 100 (years) and the afterlife portion picks up after that and goes to infinity. Your claim is that if you picked a point at random on the graph, the probability of it being in the "life" portion rather than the "afterlife" portion is vanishingly small, whereas on the graph where only the "life" portion exists, the chance of picking a point at random within the "life" portion becomes 100%. Let us assume that you are only able to ponder the mystery of your own existence on an internet forum during the "life" portion of your graph (no computers in the afterlife). Then the point being picked is not random, and since it is not random, you cannot infer probabilities from it. (The difference here with the simulation argument is that the simulation argument imagines a very large number of "life"-like regions, only one of which is not simulated. You could be --apparently --posting on a computer in any one of those regions, since they all imitate life.) I'll offer an analogy to support this claim. Imagine you have a recording that is 3 minutes long. After you play it, it will auto-destruct. Somewhere in the middle of the recording is the statement "This is the moment." When you play the recording, it lasts for a finite amount of time. After that, there is (potentially) an infinite amount of time in which the recording is never ever played again. But there is nothing impossible about there being a specific identifiable moment in that finite time when it was playing, even if there is an infinity of time when it is not playing. (This is actually the same argument as outlined by Eliran and Era, just presented in an easier-to-understand way). 

The branch of philosophy directly concerned with the meaning of words is called semantics, and there are various methodologies within the field that decompose sentences (although, as far as I know, none have been universally endorsed). However, for following the structure of a longer argument, or for sifting your way through a forest of modifiers, basic first-order symbolic logic (which is the discipline being used in your first linked example) is still probably your best bet. It is a well-established field, and there are plenty of beginner's textbooks and online tutorials out there in order to get started --one is probably much the same as another. However, it's worth noting that the pdf linked in your second example appears to actually be a test from a course in basic logic. If you are already enrolled in such a course, your best bet is simply to complete it. 

For most "ordinary" people, and even some philosophers, "to be real" and "to exist" are the same thing. But not for all philosophers. Plato (and his followers, the Neoplatonics) famously believed that the things of the ordinary world, which might arguably be said to "exist" were nevertheless not "real" as he defined realness. Other idealists like Bishop Berekely, might arguably be viewed as having similar views, whether they expressed them in those terms or not. Even from this point of view, however, it's far from clear if the software program is more or less "real" than other things that "exist." It has no soul, which argues against it being real in Platonic terms. It is abstract and conceptual, however, and those are qualities strongly associated with Platonic realness. 

I would say that the reason philosophy doesn't operate like this is because philosophy doesn't primarily progress by the deduction of provable points from known or accepted axioms. Rather, much (if not all) philosophy is formed in negation or opposition to other schools of philosophical thought. In order for a system like yours to work, even in theory, a much more coherent and widely accepted definition of the overall project of philosophy would first need to be established. 

The Turing Test is best understood as a thought experiment designed to support a certain philosophical point of view --that "thought" is not a mysterious metaphysical phenomenon, but just the name we place on what is essentially a very complex mechanical process. Turing's claim was that if a machine could effectively simulate thinking to the point of indistinguishability from an actual human being, there would be no reason to deny that the machine was thinking. In the larger philosophical picture, this claim belongs to a school of similar claims by empirical philosophers to the general effect that the real existence of [x] is equal to its empirical footprint. The test is often misunderstood as claiming that passing the test is evidence of intelligence. This is not true to Turing. His claim is that passing the test is intelligence. In other words, what we view as human intelligence is nothing more than passing the empirical test (manifesting the perceivable signs of the patterns we call intelligence). There's nothing else behind the curtain, even for people. 

This is basically what's known as the "is-ought" distinction, as formulated by David Hume. The idea is that there are knowable facts about the world, but that no accumulation of facts dictates a resultant moral attitude. There can be facts about moral decisions, and in the light of preexisting moral commitments, facts can inform your moral decisions, but facts by themselves are morally neutral. The idea is that science describes the world and how it works at a mechanical level. But it is not suited to telling people what decisions they should make and why. 

Zero is the center of an number line reaching to infinity in the positive and negative directions (as well as the center of the infinite complex plane). It fits right in with all the other points, but it is still structurally unique. 

This is just the well-known two brothers puzzle. It is easy to solve if you can assume that the truthful is incapable of lying, that the liar is incapable of telling the truth, and that both are aware of the other's character (and that each knows the other knows). Then ask either of the two "would the other person describe you as a liar?". If the answer is "no", you are talking to the liar. If the answer is "yes", you are addressing the truthteller. The solution works by effectively routing the answer through one truth and one lie to yield a known truth value. If the starting assumption that all three of you know there are two truthtellers and one liar, and that each person knows what he is, but that you don't know which the others are, the problem is harder but still soluble with the same basic pattern. Your question would now be "would the other person say that I would describe you as a liar?" which routes you through two truths and a lie. The problem is harder again, and probably insoluble, in the case that the liar can tell the truth if he wishes, since he could then theoretically duplicate any answer the truthgiver could give. There's a knowledge differential in this case, since the liar knows his two colleagues are both truth-tellers, but it's all to the advantage of the liar, so it's hard to see how to exploit that. Edit: I didn't closely read the earlier answers, so I see that I've partially duplicated the ones ahead of mine (although I hope I've added a little explanatory value). It also occurs to me that the question "is there a liar among us?" would do the trick, since the truth-teller would say yes, and the liar would say no.