After that they called me asking for the contacts , so i tried explaining that my boss tried questioning me many times to know where i was going and i didn't wanted to answer until i got fed up and told him that i am going to study in Europe so it wouldn't be a good idea to contact them and ask them about me. this could influence their behavior with me and they could not give me my last month's payment i told them also that this company already did cancel my friend's application in another company (but as i told you this really happened to me) 

How can I craft a response to these students that says "we have no openings and please don't contact me again", in a way that is professional but firm? 

This would be an excellent topic for you to discuss with your manager. He/she should be able to give you advice about achieving a good work/life balance to manage your stress. He or she should also be able to help you prioritize your responsibilities to make them more manageable, or even move some of them to someone else. If you're overloaded, your manager needs to know that, and don't be afraid to say, "I can take on this other project, but I need deadlines extended on other projects accordingly." He or she may not realize how loaded down you are, so you have be honest and upfront about how much work you can handle. You mentioned your company is small, so you may not have a dedicated HR team, but you can talk to them as well if you do. It's normal to feel stressed early on in your career. You're still learning how to be an efficient worker and managing adult responsibilities outside of work, in addition to your job duties. It's important to recognize this, and take advantage of resources at your disposal to help manage it. In addition to your manager, you can also seek out other, more experienced people in your industry to get advice, such as your old professors that you had a good relationship with. Many of them probably worked in the industry before moving into the academic world. Since you mentioned working long hours and holidays, I would like to add extra emphasis to the work/life balance. Completing your projects at work is certainly important, but it doesn't do you much good to burn yourself out by not allowing yourself to have a life outside of work. You're obviously already feeling the effects of burn-out. Don't let a single-minded focus on work sour your career and other aspects of your life. 

It is a common practice here in India to show the total possible cost for yourself as the CTC. This cost is not what you get in hand or not what you get on the salary slip but what you were offered in your offer letter or increment letter. Take the following example: 

And you have to mention the overtime rates separately. When you provide your salary slips, all the fixed components are mentioned on it, along with the overtime. You don't have to include overtime in your CTC as it is already covered in the salary slips. The companies in India make offers based on verified salary slips and not on what CTC amount you tell them. If your salary slip shows overtime income more than your basic pay, the new employers would make an offer accordingly. Furthermore, you can always negotiate your salary before a formal offer is made. 

I recently got hired in a company as an information security specialist who should find vulnerabilities and send recommendations to the IT team so they can fix it. X is a member of the IT Team and he is the only responsible for Networking which makes him my only interface to do changes in the network so he is the only one who can give network architectures and other stuff, But X is an arrogant person who wants to always feel superior because of his experience in the enterprise and he doesn't want to accept recommendations from anyone, especially from the young fresh recruit. 

Most of all, be patient. It's not unusual to not hear anything back these days, and you're far from alone. As long as you follow the company's instructions for applying, you don't have to do anything special to make sure HR tracks your resume. If they dumped it, it means they weren't interested. 

There is nothing special about "companies in California". If you're willing to relocate to your job site, most companies across the US won't care where you currently reside. There will always be some exceptions: small companies may only be interested in hiring locally, some positions may have a preference for those with local knowledge, etc. In the case of my team, we recently had an opening for a short-term (6 months) contract position, and we only looked for local candidates because our company offers relocation assistance, and my manager didn't want to shoulder that cost for an intern position. But in general, with large corporations in particular, where you currently live is far less important that where you will be living when you're on the job. 

I am working as a Software Engineer and I'm a hobbyist photographer. The organization I'm working for carries out a corporate social responsibility program. Last month we had an event under this program and I photographed the event. (It was a gathering of orphan kids and old age people and some fun activities with them that were conducted in the office cafeteria premiss). I did not ask for any payment from my employer for shooting this event, as I don't find asking money for a charity event going well with my own self. This morning I got an email from CEO office that he liked the pictures and would like me to shoot an assignment for the company. This assignment involves shooting portraits of a few employees. I don't think it is appropriate for me to do this for free. I have developed photography as a skill over past three years. I have worked hard and invested a lot of time and money over this. I believe I am pretty much skilled and capable of delivering great photographs if asked to shoot. Is this appropriate if I ask for monetary rewards for this assignment? Is it professional to bring this up to my employer. Edit: I am based in India. The company wants me to take a couple of hours off and shoot for them in normal working hours. Regarding the culture, I am not aware if the company pays employees if it asks for additional services. There is a "fun committee" that voluntarily organizes activities (with organization-provided budget, of course). There is another committee for organizing CSR activities and yet another committee for organizing sports activities. All these committee members are employees who work voluntarily taking time off from their normal working hours. Their contribution is counted in their annual performance reviews also. For many such events professional photographers are hired and paid accordingly. After I shot the last CSR event (for free) they seemed to have discovered a decent photographer in the organization itself. Moreover, this assignment involves some serious photography skills and equipment (that I own). I will have to make additional efforts and expenses to carry this to the assignment location. Edit 2 I have replied to the mail from CEO office and asked for time for an informal discussion over this with the person in charge of such activities. She will be in the office in about three hours from now. 

If both your HR department and management are unable or unwilling to address the behavior, you may have to seek legal counsel outside the company. Laws will vary by locality, but this behavior may fall under sexual harassment or "hostile work environment" in the US. Again, I would avoid bringing up the criminal history. I think you have a strong enough case considering current behavior. If you bring up the conviction, people may perceive your complaints as an attempt to punish him for past behavior that he has (presumably) already been punished for. 

so they told me "this is a formality that should be done, you can write us a mail telling the reason why you don't want us to contact them now and may be we will ask them a month after" what should i do , i am confused ? Thanks 

I hate working in my company, the managers were really stressful and the environment was really dark so i had some problems with them: once the manager started yelling at me for no reason, the scheduling is always overloaded and with such environment i couldn't work properly but i have tried my best, the salary is weak, the type of work is bad, when i leave after finishing my 8 hours they tell me that they are not happy with it, ... So i have started searching for a new job and i found one in a big operator, unfortunately the manager figured out where i was going and they blocked my candidature (it doesn't matter how i knew, but i am 100% sure). And now i got recently hired by another company, i have signed the contract and i will start working next month. They gave me a form that includes a field "contacts of your previous bosses" and i preferred to not fill these fields because the company that i was working with is hell and it's bosses are so mean that they could do anything nonhuman to make you suffer because you decided to quit. 

Now this depends upon what experience you mention you have in first place. If the times you have worked don't add up then the recruiter will express a doubt. These doubts could be on various topics like experience gaps, academic gaps, and so on. Perhaps you may have done consultancy work, volunteering or something similarly useful but if you don't show that in your resume, it lets enough room for doubt. So, first thing that you should do is show all your experience, relevant or otherwise, on your CV. Next, about the gaps, I must tell my personal experience. I worked at a place for three months on contract and then was asked to resign because I had failed in my final year exams. In the next six months I cleared those papers and got another job. Later when I went looking for a better job, a lot of recruiters asked me the reason behind the gap. Most of the times I'd tell them the half-truth - that it was a contract job. The next question was inevitable- "How can we trust you if you can hop a job in months?" That would always leave me speechless. Finally once I told a recruiter the whole truth- that I failed and got fired. They did not grill me further, instead hired me for the profile I wanted and a pay beyond my expectations. Sometimes it is best we tell the whole truth. 

my superior (who is a nice woman) says that he is nice guy but he always do this and we should accept him as he is and talk to him carefully. I am capable of attacking him when he does this but as a new recruit i don't want to make trouble. I want to find a solution with a minimum damage.I think that either i go hard on him when he does this or i be nice to him till i get the information that i want. what is the best solution ? Edit i think that everybody here thinks that i am a young kid that doesn't know a thing about professionalism. I have one year of work experience and i know a lot about co-workers relations. As i said this man doesn't only do this to me but to my boss (the information security officer) too and to all other workers who want need something from him so don't try to put the blame on me, i am the one who need help here not him !