These options should help you find the middle ground between doing it all yourself and getting the CEO's direct help. Think about this answer to your question compared with other answers you were given. Which ones were the most helpful? Being given a short list of options to choose from is a great way to give your requesters most of what they wanted, while still pushing some of the responsibility back to them when you can't do it all yourself. 

If the interns says he's just there to screw around, then speak with management to end his internship. You're wasting your time. If he says he's there to learn, then say something like this: 

The first contracts were contracts for a specific work, commissions. "You make a chair for me and I pay you for the finished chair." There was no concept of raises. You had to finish the work in order to get paid. From there the service contracts started - "I need so many chairs per week, that it's easier for both of us to pay you for a whole week instead of per chair." This deal had benefits for both, if both were honest (wo)men. The very moment demand for chairs becomes stable for both parties, it's beneficial to extend the service contract duration. So, back to the topic, a raise is merely the re-negotiation of a contract. In theory, our carpenter could have negotiated a new price for every chair - but the commissioner, too. But both are not lawyers - they don't make money negotiating, they make money working. If they negotiate a day about the price for a chair, there is no chair made for a day. The benefits of a stable price outweigh the advantages - reliable income and reliable supply are the top concerns for both parties in any business, after all, reliable supply again means reliable income for the commissioner. If you compare employment culture in different countries, you will see that your concept is reality in other countries. India f.e. has a high percentage of work as commissions, the demand is much less stable - so you also have a high fluctuation of workers, which is not much different from a high fluctuation of wages. Employing a new human is for sure not less administrative or technical work than changing his salary. Therefore I believe the premise that technology did shape the culture is not tenable. The culture did shape the technology - the concept of steady re-negotiations is completely detrimental to the concept of steady employment, so there was no real need to develop specialized technology or processes for it. EDIT: "We just do it annually." or "It takes so long to get pay raises approved" are variations of "We are not lawyers, we don't make money negotiating". It takes long to get things approved because the people in the chain prefer to do things that they feel is their job (even if approving raises is their job). Remember, that HR and managers are already overhead. The commissioner and the carpenter don't need a HR department or manager to create and sell chairs. Note that technology can't do magic - a human still has to tell the software who gets a raise, starting when and how much, if you talk about performance-based raises. And, you usually keep the overhead as low as possible, so the current HR staff is exactly as many people as you must have for the work you already have. You are much more likely to have a second carpenter than a second accountant. If you start with "I did a great job this month, I want more money." the first conceptional counter-argument would be "Can we lower your salary when your job performance decreases next month in case your wife divorces you?" and then the employee has two choices: If he says yes, he basically switched his service contract back into a contract of commissions. He gets paid by what he delivers. If he says no, you see that it is just a re-negotiation of the whole contract. The employee is a hypocrite (not meant offensive), who wants the benefits of the steady employment with the benefits of commissioned work - the carpenter, who wants more money if he delivers more chairs, but doesn't want less money if he delivers less chairs. The annual raise is popular, because human culture is based upon a year in time-keeping. We measure time in years and seasons if we can - quarters of a year are much more used than thirds, although there is no reason why 4 months is worse than 3 months. A year divided in three chunks feels - wrong. If you do annual raises, you could also do raises every 11 months. There is no technological or administrative barrier that prevents it, it is a cultural one. If a culture would glorify the number 11, it might have 11-month raises though. The next numbers that looks reasonable for a raise seem to be 9 month or 6 months, right? But your SAP HR application doesn't care, it will do 8 months, too. It's culture, not technology that came up with these numbers. So, the two cultural barriers are the culture of time-keeping and the concept of steady employment. The more I move from annual raises to shorter terms, the more I turn the contract into a non-beneficial situation for me as employer - not getting the benefits of service contracts and not getting the benefits of commissioned work. It's not a big technological or administrative barrier - it's a puzzle and the pieces just won't fit together nicely with monthly raises. 

Change your mind about the bullying from "a thing that distresses you and violates your personal rights" to "a puzzle to be solved." 

You could follow this up by discussing with him the video Dan Pink on motivation – mastery, autonomy, and purpose. Talk about those things, then forward him the link. Explain that having autonomy and being allowed to practice your mastery are crucial to your motivation at the company, and that you'd like him to grant you those things so you can be the best employee possible. You might ask him to watch Greatness by ship captain David Marquet or a longer version (there are other versions as well, look at the related videos). You might even get him to watch Great Leaders Serve Others. It's not enough to sit back and let your boss manage you at his whim, however he wants. To be successful you have to manage him, too. Help him learn how to provide what you need to make it easiest to do a top notch job. 

Appropriation It must be known what the data is used for and what the point of the data collection is. As far as I can tell, this requirement is not fulfilled. How this face tracking data is going to be used and what the purpose is, is unknown. Reduction The data you collect must be limited to the amount that is necessary to fulfill the purpose and there is no data already available somewhere that you can re-use. For example, if there is an incident and the existing camera footage shows the face of the person, why do you need to identify all other persons that have nothing to do with the incident? It would be sufficient to let the face recognition software run on the few seconds of the incident and maybe a few minutes before to identify witnesses. But that's it. Necessity The data you collect and the way you collect it, must be necessary. It must be in proportion to the desired purpose. For example, to measure how much time a student spends on the toilet, you do not need a camera in the stall, although it would work; but there are other less intrusive methods to measure time, so the camera footage is not necessary. 

The more you show that he bothers you, the more he gets what he wants. One of the better coping strategies is ignoring the situation, "so as to show the bully that bullying had little effect." In the study above, fighting with the aggressor or other confronting strategies tended to lead to more problems than the bullied child could handle at once. Another article, the long-term effects of bullying, from mentalhelp.net also seems to have some good practical advice that may be of use to you. For example, 

The next time it happens, I recommend that with a concerned/worried look on your face, you say in a slightly-lowered tone—like you don't want anyone to overhear—"Hey man, I'm worried that you could get in trouble for saying jokes like that. I'd hate to see some kind of consequence if someone were to overhear you making that kind of joke." You can reaffirm the relationship as well if desired, "I like working with you and don't want anything to happen that would prevent that." Notice that the focus of your concern is on him. There are very particular reasons for this exact style: 

What has fairness to do with it? He does not ask you to contribute to it in your spare time or you will lose your job, does he? You get paid for contributing to the project. 

When the journal contains enough information, hand it to your boss, tell him that it seriously affects your work performance and ask him "to please find a solution". HR and managers always have the problem that they need to justify the termination. People will sue and play their "I was just fired because I'm" card, even if you caught them stealing, but didn't have it recorded on cam. She will be questioned and deny one half and downplay the other half and it ends up in a "he said/she said" situation. Nobody magically knows that your complaints are justified and that you aren't just overly sensitive. A reasonable documentation helps people assessing the situation. The benefit of starting this way is that this approach can be done in parallel to other strategies - you can choose how many other strategies, like ignoring her, talking to her in private, etc., you want to try before finally giving up and handing in the journal. The important thing is that when it's enough and you really can't stand it anymore and are about to get sick, you don't have to endure it then for more months in order to to collect material. Avoid getting other co-workers involved. Mobbing is popular and so are complaints about mobbing. If you become the head of a movement to get her removed, there is a fair chance that this will actually backfire. If other people think the same way you do, they will have their own talks with your boss. 

I don't see why you can't just put a very bland face on it. It's not a feather in your cap of course, and likely can't be used to promote your skills, but there's no reason it has to be a big hole or even all that mysterious. Select some of the elements of your work that were harmless, and make them the whole job. You had to have done, at least a few times, simple things, or things that can have a good face put on them. You were an office assistant. A driver. You sent faxes. You delivered communications to clients. You were a personal attendant. And so on. The business name can be very bland, too. Something like "Private Construction Company" or "Family Business". You can be honest that it was a family business and they're peculiar about the details of their exact identity not being broadcast. There are many such kinds of operations that are perfectly legitimate. I once worked legitimately for a company for 18 months or so, where half the employees (3 or 4 of them) reported for work daily to the CEO's own apartment, and sat at desks in her living room! Just discuss it in general terms, as honestly as you can, and don't let on that there was anything unusual about it. For someone with as little experience as you, this will not be such a bad thing. 

Chris will never ever reach the level where you are content, because he fails in your eyes whenever his solution is not an exact copy of the solution you would have designed. But not even another senior developer will create the same solution to a problem. Let's look at the facts: Your manager assigns tasks to him and is satisfied with the result, he doesn't even bother to ask you if Chris is good enough to do them. Chris was able to meet all the requirements before with his previous team lead, even though those tasks were "too difficult" for him. Your manager sees no reason to get another senior developer. 

Frankly, companies that switch to "unlimited vacation" always see the amount of employee vacation go down. Anyone trying to sell you on the idea that it's better for employees is selling you a false bill of goods. A better phrase than unlimited vacation is indeterminate vacation. You have no idea how much vacation you'll get, and whether it will hurt you to take it. How would you like to go to work for "unlimited pay" where you choose your own pay rate, but your employer decides if you are abusing the system—and if so, you're fired? Would you feel safe? Or would you ratchet back your pay just a bit to achieve that safety? So similarly, it would be an "indeterminate pay" system. Which sounds like a horrible, horrible way to work. And if the company's fortunes turn, or they're bought by another company, who's to say that doing the same job to the same quality level next year as this year will warrant the same pay in the eyes of your employer?