Yes. Because your apprenticeship is a deal between you and your employer. Your employer is paying you. Not a full paycheck, but maybe a third of what you would earn if you had finished your education. That is because he has to spent time and effort to educate you for three years and you are barely productive in at least the first year. In the third year you are supposed to be as productive as a new junior role. So while your employers pays you, you deliver no value but only costs in the first year, maybe break even in the second and due to your low income actually deliver value on the third year. So overall, losing money in the first year, breaking even and then making money in the third year, your employer is supposed to do ok. Now if you take the education, where your employer even pays you to get educated and then when it's payback time you just vanish and say bye bye, that's unethical. You have a contract signed for three years. Breaking that contract is unethical. 

If your company set up a profile for you, it's their profile and their rules. If it's your profile, then they cannot force you to change anything about it. This is what I would consider standard or accepted. However, if you live in a country and state where your employer can fire you anytime for anything he feels like, I guess the word "cannot" becomes meaningless. 

There is no hard and fast rule what you should ask for if you want a raise. The going inflation rate is reasonable. But in the end, you should ask yourself how well is the company doing and what was your part in it? How much money would you make if you were working someplace else? And don't use other cities as a reference if you don't want to move there. For example, I could easily make 50% to 100% more on paper if I moved to a city either 90 minutes north or 5 hours to the south. But the truth is that they pay more because the cost of living is so high in these cities. They don't actually get more money after deducting taxes and living costs, they just have higher numbers on their paychecks and all bills. Someone making 4K right out of university as a developer is probably in one of those cities. 

Broadly speaking, there are two types of workplaces: those that care about results, and those that care about presenteeism. It really comes down to what kind of behavior the company rewards. If you're in the US, you're probably going to have to work at least 40 hours a week at either kind of company, despite the culture. So sadly, no mid-day bowling. But a results driven company would be more likely to reward the worker who completes all his deadlines and leaves every day at 5 pm over the guy who works late but doesn't accomplish much. On the other hand, there really are companies that value presenteeism and don't seem to care how much actual work you get done. I wouldn't be worried if a company bills itself as having a results-driven culture. It doesn't necessarily mean anything bad, and therefore it's not a red flag. In fact, they can be much better as presenteeism can be boring and demoralizing. 

I know it's awkward, but it's really not that big of a deal. Once the deal is finalized and you have that offer, you just tell HR, your boss, and coworkers "I've had a change of heart and taken an offer at another company. Thank you for all your help and i appreciate everything you've learned here." If they press you (which they probably won't) just give vague answers and talk about how you're looking forward to the new company. People understand. Everyone is replaceable, and it's not the end of the world for them if you leave. They'll just assume you got a better offer elsewhere. 

I would approach it as "With a new team member leaving, I would like to ask for more responsibility and if possible an increase in pay as well" so it doesn't feel like a shakedown. Offer to do more, so you can have a decent argument as to why you deserve more. 

Assuming the situation is as described (still sounds fishy to me), you do have another option: stay with the job you have. Just "recently" it was good enough and hasn't changed. The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence. Meaning the other offer always looks better. Until you start there. And get another offer from yet another company. You signed a contract. Keep to it. Learn to deliver what you promised. Save enough money so you can eat the notice period and then start looking for the job you want. In the future, you may want to check more closely what you sign and vote for people that pass better labor laws in your country. No salary in the notice period seems very strange and would probably not hold up in court where I live. 

Your behavior is not introvert, it's insulting. They are not asking you to socialize, they are asking you for basic manners. Introverted but well behaved people would pass by, mumble "g'morning" keep their heads down and head for their desk to work. That is the minimum to not be insulting. That's what they are asking from you. The fact that you have to explain ("socialize", the thing you hate) that your non-communication is not intended to be an insult is ironic. You are forced into this talk because you over-optimized your non-communication. Actually, having a little communication, even meaningless one-way gestures like a passing "hi", would save you from this real communication. You have to find a middle ground. Communicating just enough to conform to "the norm" will save you a lot of those awkward real talks. What I'm trying to say is that being "social" is a choice you can make. Don't want to chat with colleagues? Fine. You might not get to be the bosses new golf buddy, but you will be respected for your work. Even for the fact that you do work while others chat. Being polite is a basic necessity in any job. If you fail at that (and currently you are!) you will indeed always be the bottom of the totem pole. That does not mean the other answers aren't good advice. If you want to socialize more, it will definitely help you and there is good advice how to achieve that around. But simply greeting somebody is etiquette, like wearing pants to the office or not spitting on the carpet. It's a one-way, functional requirement. Just do it. There really is no sophisticated explanation how to. You open your mouth and do it, then you walk by and go to work. 

As a developer, meeting with stakeholders to establish requirements is often central to your job. It sounds like the main issue you're dealing with is a political one. Look, I hate politics too, but as an employee anywhere you sometimes have to hammer out political issues. I think you're stuck with this one, I'm afraid. Your boss might want to delegate this matter to you, but you might want to try approaching them for advice if you haven't already. Maybe try asking them, "I need to talk to the legal team, but they seem uninterested in helping me. Who should I get together in a meeting so we can get buy in from upper management and the relevant department heads? I'll need the full support of the finance and legal department, and I'll need to work with subject matter experts on other teams." (Of course, tailor this to fit your organizational structure.) If your boss stubbornly resists your request for information, or doesn't give you approval to talk to higher ups about your issues, then you do have a problem. But otherwise, you're going to have to talk to the stakeholders, directors, subject matter experts and whoever else to get buy-in on your project. Make sure everyone knows how critical this project is, and let them know if you need more resources to get the job done right. 

This problem comes up a lot in software engineering, and I'm sure it's the same in any field with a steep learning curve. You should try to have an open conversation with your boss about how often you should bug them, and how often you should try to figure it out yourself. Try to have that conversation over the phone, since you can't do it in person. Furthermore, when you have a question, try to ask everyone else about it first. If there's a more experienced dev to help you, seek out their advice. But in general, I've found it's better to risk annoying your boss than to risk wasting time building something the wrong way. Right now your supervisor is probably too busy to think about you, and put themselves in your shoes. But it's their responsibility to manage you, so it's important for you to be visible and assertive. It's much better to deal with your boss's short term annoyance than having them ask you later why you wasted two weeks of work. 

Be prepared. There are tons of books on the topic so I won't go into detail. Read a few of them. And then practice, practice, practice. 

Probably not. Most companies I heard of consider it a fair deal: they pay for all expenses and the people that work with you/supervise you, you spent your time. Both parties pay part of the whole a cost. As you probably won't be working on production code or at least not on code they will actually release, you aren't actually working for them. They don't gain anything from your three days except a better insight in your work. Most likely you will work on a problem they already solved. They might not tell you to not demotivate you. But only if they already implemented it themselves, they will be able to judge your skill and compare it to their other developers. 

There is at least one reason this person works in HR and not in a medical profession and that reason is she has no idea what she is talking about. That person has no experience in HR either or she would know better. Just ask someone with migraines whether they come for a day or two or if the neatly line up. Hint: they don't conform to company policy either. So this should be a red flag in two regards: one you are talking to an unreasonable and either inexperienced or plain stupid person and two you have set off their warning flags. Justified or not, you will need to keep that in mind dealing with HR. 

You should tell your Ausbilder. He knows you, he knows your work, if the company has any common sense, that person will have the decisive vote on whether they keep you after your apprenticeship. Your Ausbilder does not need (and probably does not want) to know the medical details. But they should be able to help you navigate the workplace including HR, that is their job.