Since you work 10 hours a day, time isn't your friend. As a result, you want to achieve maximum result in the shortest time. The goal is to perform as many whole body exercises as possible. As a result, do something similar to this: 

Yardage, Unfortunately, the legs are tied to the hips and there aren't many leg workouts that would really strengthen the legs without some form of squats or lunges. You might try some Yoga moves; they might not give your legs the bulk you need, but they might be able to tone them or give them more flexibility. Thanks. 

Boris_yo, Congratulations on your transformation! You're one of the people who should frequent this site and help answer more questions. Since you've had personal experience with weight-loss, your anecdotal stories can motivate others to keep shedding the goo. Although I'm not certified qualified to give a fitness/nutrition critique, I will give some advice based on my observations, readings, studies, and anecdotal experiences. Make it fun Whatever you're doing for your weight-loss, make it fun. As long as you're having fun with it, you'll be able to continue your journey as well as motivate others. Even if/when you mess up (on a routine, food, exercise, whatever), smile about it and try again. Food isn't your enemy Don't starve your body. Unless you're doing a program such as Intermittent Fasting, eat at the appropriate time. Instead of using coffee to keep yourself steady at work, eat some light breakfast: 

So yeah, there's a point to whole body measurement. If you feel you want a proportionate body, focus on the areas that need more work so that everything can be even. 

Starting with the most obvious: how long have you been on this food and training regimen? If it's been less than a week, that's a short time to observe any discernable result (except for the frustrating daily up and downs). You need to give yourself ample time to see the results you deserve. Another important problem is your diet. As others have stated, you don't seem to have given your body good nutrition to encourage weight-loss; you seem to have put it in a starvation mode, which might actually make your body conserve its fats instead of burning it up. You need to increase your food intake. Add lean protein (eggs, nuts, legumes, lean meat such as chicken, turkey, etc) into your diet. Then, add more vegetables and fruits. You can actually increase your food consumption, but ensure they are healthy food and not junk. Don't starve yourself; your goal is to be a lean, mean powerhouse, not a malnourished person. Your water intake is okay; you don't have to increase or reduce it (the recommended is 8-10 cups though). Lastly, the exercise part. All Yoga exercises are not created equal. After finishing your yoga workout, does it make you sweat? Does it make you feel that you just stretched every part of your body? If you didn't feel much after the exercise, search for other yoga exercises. My favorite is P90X yoga. It's an hour and half of yoga exercises that work every part of your body. Your body will feel the glorious soreness once you're done. You can also search the web or ask others. For the 30 min aerobics you mentioned, does it increase your heart rate? Is it high or low intensity? Is it consistent? How hard or easy is it for you to complete? Do you go at the same pace all the time or vary it? If your cardio is low intensity, you need to increase it. You should be sweating and panting by the time you're done. And increase the time, if you can; 30 minutes doesn't give you enough calories burns for a noticeable weight-loss. Turn the 30 minutes walk into power walks or jogging. Don't just go through the motion; make your body work for it. That being said, there are more things you can incorporate into your daily activities: Do you take elevators? Use the stairs? Do you park closest to the stores? Park at the farthest parking lot from the stores and walk the rest. Do you sit at a desk all day? Every hour or two, get up and take a walk, run, or perform some lunges for some quick fat burn. Do you like to dance? Put in some music and burst some moves. Losing weight doesn't have to be through programmed exercises alone. By adding activities to your regular daily routines, your metabolism will begin to rise and you'll begin to notice the changes: increased energy levels, clothes becoming bigger on you, people complimenting your size, etc. Even if the scales still stay the same, you'll know that something good is already happening. Lastly, try to join a fitness group (or friends). The encouragement and accountability they provide will ensure you keep it up for a long time. Good luck. 

XX% caloric restriction means reducing your BMR (Basal Metabolic Rate) by the XX% amount. BMR is basically the minimum calories your body needs to maintain all its natural process. So, if you do nothing at all in a day, your body will burn the calories equivalent to your BMR. This article details how you can calculate it. So if you're using a program that requires 30% calorie reduction and your BMR is 2000, your daily calorie intake has to be 1400. If you're active, the total calories your body uses will increase, which will lead to a higher calorie deficit. That's basically how weight-loss through dieting works. Hope this works. 

For building muscle and losing weight, a combination of cardio and weightlifting will be the fastest way to see the results you desire. For muscle building, Strong Lifts and Starting Strength are the most popular and recommended exercises. Make sure that whatever weightlifting program you follow works your whole body and not just specific parts. Combining them with a good diet that comprises lean protein, complex carbohydrates, vegetables and fruits, you should begin to gain muscles in a short time. For cardio, High Intensity Interval Training is the most recommended. I don't know of any specific HIIT program, but P90X and Insanity videos are mainly HIIT programs. So, if you don't find any program worth doing online, give one of those (particularly the Insanity videos) a try. Most weightlifting and cardio programs follow a routine of 3 alternating days of weightlifting and 2/3 alternating days of cardio. So, weightlifting could be on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays while cardio is on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Try to have enough rest as much as possible too. Good luck on your new adventure :). 

In any case, your program needs a revamp. You shouldn't exhaust your energy with cardio before lifting weights. The intensity will be reduced and your gains will be limited. Reduce the time spent at the gym. Three and half hours is too much, especially for weight-loss reasons. Why not? Because after exhausting your body for over an hour, your cortisol level is raised and this prevents further fat burn; energy expended after this point is not from your fat storage. 

Hey Adrian, I didn't know about Maraton des Sables, so I had to google it source. Based on the information gathered, I don't think that any of those exercises will help your preparation for that competition. The goal of the competition is to be able to withstand the heat with as less water as possible. Sauna is basically steam; so, while it might dehydrate you, it doesn't give your body the same experience as what'll be experienced in the actual competition. If you have a way to simulate the dry heat, that would have been your best option; if not, sauna seems like the next best thing. As for the bodyweight exercises, I don't think those are necessary as they wouldn't help your body conserve its usage of water, a highly needed requirement in the contest. What exercise to perform in it? None, except being able to withstand the heat as long as possible with limited water consumption. You probably need to consume less water daily as the contest approaches too, so that your body begins to adjust to the new water requirement. Good luck on that and do let us know how it works out :) 

Disclaimer: This answer is based on my experience with the exercises. Verify that it works for you (and adapt as necessary). I haven't done the cable crunches before; as a result, I'm not certain how effective it is. But based on the videos, the range of motion indicate (to me) that the effects will be felt most on the arms and not the abs (I'd like someone experienced to validate or nullify this theory). I used to perform the hanging leg raises daily until I realized that it wasn't really effective for the abs; it's more effective for the lower hips and thighs. So, I switched it to a different type of hanging leg raises. The posture is still the same as the regular leg raises, but instead of lifting your knees, you lift your legs together into a L-sit position. The slower I go, the more intense I feel my core tighten. You can start with 5 reps and increase it if you still have the energy to continue. I've been doing that daily ever since (I still perform the regular hanging leg raises if I have time for them). In addition to the above, I perform reverse crunches. Make sure your butts are lifted off the floor and your hands are clasped behind your head (this ensures that only the abs are involved in the activities). Start with 20 reps and you should feel the effects on every part of your abs. Also, I perform standing crunches (the one in which your right elbow touches your left knee and vice versa). Try to keep your torso as straight as possible (without bending). Starting with 30 reps should make an impact on the abs. I also perform leg raises. It's similar to the hanging leg raise described above but your back is on the floor. Lift both legs together and lower them together. Also, ensure that the only time your legs touch the ground is after you've completed the set. Some people put their legs down after every rep, but I don't encourage that as it reduces the effect.. Start with 10-15 reps and work your way up. I don't know what this exercise is called, but I recently added it to my list. Adjusting a regular bench press such that the torso region is lower than the sitting region and starting from a lying position, I perform regular crunches by lifting the whole torso from the depressed region to a full sitting position. Then, I gently go back down to the starting position. 15-20 reps of this can be tried. This certainly gives me the same effect as the reverse crunches. I finish with the easiest crunches of all, the regular crunches. I noticed that this mainly works my upper abs only. So, I don't usually feel the effect all over the abs. If you try these exercises and see the effects you want, ensure that you increase the reps periodically. Mix and match them as you desire (I still do them daily) The Result Although I do regular weightlifting, I haven't lifted enough weights (Deadlift PR is currently 270lbs - 1 X 5, Squat is 220lbs - 5 X 5, Bench Press is 160 - 5 X 5) to claim that my abs came from weightlifting. I only do them 3 days a week vs my daily crunch-aton. Using the pictures on this link, my current abs is closer to the guy in the 11-12% body fat than the one on his right. So, I can testify that it works for me. Thank you.