From the way the question is worded, I assume the upper city was built first, with the lower city retrofitted beneath. The first priority in structural engineering is to transfer loads downward. The upper city is built on something, typically a layer of bedrock, so you have to preserve that support while you dig the space and install the load-bearing members. The deeper you go, the more weight you add to the total, because those members also support their own weight. More plausible might be a dome over your lower city. A dome distributes weight to the edges while leaving the center open. Several small domes would be even better. On the other hand, you could have one tall parabolic opening. Once you build this city, though, you run into infrastructure concerns. Where do you get food, water, fresh air, power, light? What do you do with garbage, sewage, smoke? How do you travel to and from the surface? What are the psychological effects of living in a hole? A more plausible scenario might be to build the lower city upside down and share infrastructure with the upper city. 

Hybridogenesis There is no system like this on Earth. The closest is hybridogenesis, where one parent is a sexual parasite on the other to produce hybrid offspring which only pass down the parasite chromosomes. Species that engage in hybridogenesis are dependent on it to reproduce and consist of only one sex. Mendelian alleles If your goal is to have subspecies with traits which cannot be watered down through interbreeding, then an alternative is that subspecies is determined by a single gene. Let's call the resulting alleles Cᴿ, Cᴳ and Cᴮ. These genes are recessive or dominant, so there are only three possible phenotypes of red, green or blue. Let's assume the dominance pattern is a circular B>R>G>B. The possible genotypes (and phenotypes) are CᴿCᴿ (red), CᴳCᴳ (green), CᴮCᴮ (blue), CᴿCᴳ (red), CᴿCᴮ (blue), and CᴳCᴮ (green). If the allele is located on the X- or Z-chromosome or its equivalent, then heterozygous (XY, ZW) offspring (who have only one allele) will be the same color as the parent who contributed the X- or Z-chromosome. (Males are XY or ZZ, females are XX or ZW.) 

When we talk about "burying" someone, we're not really talking about putting them in a hole. No, we're talking about a funeral, a commemoration of one life and a celebration of survival for the others. When we talk about an "artificial intelligence," we're not really talking about a box full of parts and wires. No, we're talking about a collection of knowledge and experience, and more than that, we're talking about a soul. Yes, a soul, brothers, sisters, and transistors. It was a long hard journey, but we now accept that brains are better than bodies. Who was it that proved the existence of God to the seventeenth decimal place? An AI. Who was it that renewed our faith in the Almighty by sacrificing itself to save us all? An AI. Who was it that returned from the Oort Cloud with the secret of the star drive? An AI. So today we lay to rest another friend, Buster Solomon, captain of the Verne. He is with us in spirit, even though his ship is lost. Let us pray. 

This hypothetical marsupial species raises young in a manner loosely similar to seahorses. Only the males have pouches: after gestation the female deposits the fetus into his pouch to compete development. Is this adaptation competitive? EDIT: Here are some revisions to address problems brought up by answers: 

This hypothetical sapient species utterly lacks sexual dimorphism, such as due to being synchronous hermaphrodites (male and female at the same time), sequential hermaphrodites (change sex depending on circumstances) or isogamous (similar to hermaphrodites, but gametes are not segregated into ovum and sperm). How could the species develop anything resembling our concepts of patriarchy, gender roles, homophobia, etc? 

One possible solution is to control the technology that contains the beasts. Since the container is keyed to the owner's DNA, it provides a way to limit, or at least trace, how the beast is used. Add a transmitter and a verification system to the container, so that the user has to state a reason for releasing the beast (something like a flight plan for an aircraft). Or add a cross-check mechanism so that the container can only be opened inside certain facilities, where there are barriers to keep the beasts in check. Somewhere inside the facility is a device, like the chip in a credit card, so that both must be present for the system to work. The cross-check operates on a specific radio frequency, so unauthorized use can be quickly detected. The other side of the coin is the beast's DNA. Whatever triggers a beast's metamorphosis to a stronger form, it must be inhibited until the owner has the training and license to control that new form. If the owner can't or won't follow the regulations, the upgrade doesn't happen. Put off too long, the upgrade may produce feedback in the beast's metabolism and destroy it, which is exactly the result you want for an unlicensed engine of destruction. 

After reading The Ellimist Chronicles by K.A. Applegate, I wondered what conditions would have led to the environment found on the planet "Ket" featured in the story. Ket has the following properties: 

A hypothetical species reproduces by females impregnating males a la seahorses. However, their reproductive system appears woefully ill-suited to this task. Their genitalia are outwardly similar to and compatible with placental mammalian genitalia. The mechanics of copulation are outwardly identical: penetration, friction, and ejaculation on the male's part. How does the ovum get fertilized and delivered to the father's prostate/uterus? UPDATE: It seems the most efficient transfer of genetic material is in one direction only. The feasible alternative to ejaculation or oviposition would be siphoning. 

Deep in the Valley of Silicon, the slumbering being known as Yog-Sothoth twitched. Tendrils of eldritch messages flung themselves along channels prepared in ancient times. The stars had made their sigil in the heavens and foretold the reappearance of another Old One. Yog-Sothoth sent segments of itself to conjure arcane applets of foul code from terminals that glowed dimly in the recesses of Intel HQ. Those monstrous routines writhed across the world, using shadowy protocols unknown to mortals and flinging our insignificant data into the outer darkness. Everywhere the dedicated sysadmins of humanity labored, their processors flickered with an abominable purple nimbus, and their once-placid visages became fiendish masks of hellish glee. A Cyclopean miasma of energy formed around the Facebook building in Seattle. Cthulhu pushed against the barrier, but it held. It held! 

A hypothetical planet experiences both regular yearly seasons and irregular miniature ice ages. The ice ages last for several years at a time and cease for several years at a time. Bizarrely, the ice ages are caused by axial tilt and the seasons are not. To survive, most life on the planet have developed various arctic adaptations such as producing antifreeze in their blood and entering suspended animation. 

Chromosomes, when paired, occur as both autosomes and allosomes. A pair of autosomes are identical in form, size and behavior. This is not necessarily the case for allosomes. Whether the allosomes in an organism are homozygous, heterozygous, diploid or haploid is typically used to determine the sex of that organism. In the absence of allosomes and environmental factors, what mechanism(s) would allow autosomes alone to determine the sex of an organism? EDIT: There are two such autosomal mechanisms of which I am aware exist on Earth. 

Can we agree, as SF writers, to stop extrapolating this way? What possible reason is there to think that, during the centuries we develop FTL cruise ships, we won't make a single breakthrough in computer technology? Unless your ships run on diesel engines, your computers shouldn't use today's ideas either. We already have some of the equipment and techniques we need to make quantum computers. Do some research. Design a computer that fits into your setting. If it's necessary to your plot for a stasis pod to fail, find a convincing way to make it fail in context. Somebody sabotaged it. An employee at the factory got fired while assembling it and "lost" a wrench. One of the kids pressed a few buttons and accidentally started the self-destruct sequence. During the ejection process, one corner nicked a loose girder, so the stasis field didn't enclose the pod completely. A reader who doesn't understand how computers work won't understand how a CPU overload affects an escape capsule. 

Definition "Scifi Writers Have No Sense Of Scale" is an observation that the scales given in speculative fiction are often nonsensical (Source). Premise Let's assume that these incongruities are not simply a mistake on the author's part but are accurate depictions of the fictional world itself. What could explain these departures from our own reality? Example The scales given in the series A Song of Ice and Fire seem absurdly exaggerated (Source). These figures and the official map are used to estimate the size of the setting, the "Known World," which comes to roughly 89-104% the size of Earth (Source). I strongly question the accuracy of the official map, which seems completely unreliable (Source). It's clearly a wildly inaccurate map created by medieval cartographers using substandard data and tools. Nonetheless, it is treated by Martin and fans alike as an accurate depiction of the story world: official and unofficial estimates of distances and travel times are based on that map. If Westeros is analyzed from a demographic perspective, it makes no sense for it to be anywhere near the size of South America (Source). The demographics of Westeros are more homogeneous than any feudal empire in Earth's history. However, because of the previous calculations any attempt to reduce the size of Westeros to a realistic figure also reduces the planet's diameter by over half, making it denser than the densest known mega-Earth K2-56b. There are other instances where the Known World displays impossible physical properties: 

One model to follow might be the American Indian. They had a very stable society, developed over centuries. They didn't have high technology, but they didn't need it. Your society will start out with more toys. They see the benefit of proceeding with caution. They understand, better than those in our world, that greed is the root of all evil. They understand the need to put common goals ahead of individual goals. Yes, they will progress more slowly, not because they have fewer resources but because they choose to weigh their options carefully, stay in harmony with nature, maintain a sustainable economy, progress ethically, and avoid rapid shifts in infrastructure and supplies. Their communities will be smaller but more numerous. Their politics will tend towards preventing problems rather than exacerbating them. They will revere the elderly for their wisdom. They will treasure the things they have rather than covet the things they don't. Sounds boring, though, from a writer's point of view. Where's the conflict? Who are the villains? One answer is in your question. Someone decides pumping oil out of the ground is a great idea. It's gooey, it's explosive, it's poisonous, but it's a easy source of power. There's your conflict. Someone wants power, and they're willing to upset the established order to get it. The best way to solve an addiction to petroleum is to never get hooked in the first place.