Well now. This question is interesting. The answer is: yes, but you're going to have to redefine your concept of 'technological' and also accept an awful lot of conjecture to get it to work. Consider the following: A tribe of proto-humans (let's just call them Monkeys for short) are living on a beach. They're scavengers, but not all that bright. One day the Monkeys come across a beached whale carcass. They tear happily into the eyes and lips, but the thick blubbery skin prevents the majority of the tribe from getting to the tasty blubber. Now, Joe is an atypical Monkey. He's scrawny, but inquisitive and pretty smart. Having been pushed away from the tasty face of the whale with only a few scraps of flesh he stumbles across a tidal rock pool. In the pool wallows a Proto-lobster. It's hungry, simple and running out of time to live. Joe, intrigued, lopes over to the weird insect fish thing, and following some weird quirk of his Monkey brain offers some food to the evidently struggling proto lobster. The protolobster's legs aren't strong enough for full terrestrial movement, but it's a tidal creature and hence amphibious, and when the hairy brown arm of God descends from on high proffering tasty whale, the lobster scuttles up, keeping it's jaws locked on the food, and latches onto the furry surface. Joe is initially shocked by this, but when he heads back to the tribe to show them his discovery the lobster, not relinquishing it's grip on his arm, snaps out at the exposed flesh of the whale. The lobster has sharp claws, and as Also Spake Zarathustra plays in the background Joe lifts his new Arm-Lobster on high. Now, who would think to pick up a rock when you have a suitably trained and specially bred arm lobster? From this point the development of the Monkeys becomes a bit nebulous and can basically be defined however you like, but it essentially replaces technological development with advances in selective breeding, animal husbandry and training techniques. Development would be much slower, but after a while the concept of hefting a rock would be as alien to the Monkeys as strapping a lobster to your arm to act as a trainable Swiss Army knife/extra set of hands is to us. This brings me by a roundabout route to the meat of my point. If this is a thing that happens it will have to happen so far back in evolutionary history that it's impossible to say whether it would or would not have worked. 'Technology' becomes a matter of increasing levels of symbiosis rather than increasing levels of refinement, and the world would be utterly different in physical, social and even moral perspectives. On the other hand, Pimp My Lobster would be a hit on the Cuttlevision. 

Air superiority is a thing because of logistics, not because a plane can beat it's cost in ground forces If I have 100 planes, then every potential target in your country needs to be able to defend itself against 100 planes because I can strike any of them. Since your country probably has thousands of targets I might strike, you do not have the option of putting ground forces everywhere. Your only option is to get your own planes, which is also your best option for attacking me. Aircraft don't have a massive advantage in battle simply because they are high up. If they could land and fight on the ground, as your angels can, they would not lose the real advantage of air superiority. If the angels are flying high, the demons can plausibly dodge the crap that gets dropped on them. If the angels fly low, the demons will throw stuff back and the angels may be significantly worse off than if they landed, folded their wings and assumed some sort of battle formation. 

Commonly useful magic is free, it's the custom jobs that cost money. Much like real world software, magic that everyone would find useful is available for free because sooner or later someone will do it pro bono. As for operating systems, so for Cure Light Wounds. But if you are a businessman, and you need something done that is rather specific and/or unusual, the magic script you need may not exist. So you contact the magic shop, explain your needs, pay for it, then they do the work and email you the magic script you need. In this case, the magic is inherently safe from piracy because only the paying customer wants it. 

While (as an AI professional) believe this is essentially impossible; WERE it possible I'd mention that it's possible that the AI was not "finished" when it launched off. If you created something that is running magnificently but you didn't get to really QA it for fear of being unable to reproduce the result; or it moved to fast and "escaped the network"; or any number of other reasons.. it may just be that when it "launched off" you have no idea what it's issues are. Much like Y2k was a giant nothing but we thought the world would blow up, it could be it was never conceived that it could run out of tasks, and now the consequences are unknown. You literally don't have to have this solved for your story until the end of it; in which case you'll probably already know the best ending you could do based on how your wrote the rest of it. 

While a nuclear warhead by itself seems somewhat useless (as per L Dutch's answer) there is a similar effect that can be achieved that is simpler* than Nuking the opponent, which would be to have a small amount of anti-matter (assuming you know what the opposing hull is made of) in your projectile. When the projectile hits the hull, it will fracture and let the antimatter particles hit the hull; these will annihilate causing small nuclear explosions (?) near where it struck. *Simpler to get working. Harvesting Anti-matter is a pain; but you don't need much of it. These explosions don't have the issue that L Dutch points out because the explosions will only happen when they contact the hull. This is to say that much of the forces that come out of annihilation will be send as shockwaves throughout the hull itself causing the hull to shift in various ways and hopefully tear itself apart. An aside: People talk about Lasers and Railguns all the time, but forget about Particle Cannons. Particle cannons travel at near light speed, can pepper someone with extreme amounts of kinetic energy to tear their hull apart, and if unsuccessful will instead impart large amounts of heat. What's more? They've already been invented and proven to work (so is well within the realm of possibility.) While I'm not sure, you can combine these ideas and have an anti-matter-particle-cannon, firing anti-matter particles at the opponent to not only deliver massive kinetic energy, but annihilate a (very very) small chunk of their ship, and hope the shockwaves sent throughout the ship's hull are enough to rend it apart.