Sure why not. Unless you really want to obsess over the nuances of evolution and the nature of sapience. I'm pretty sure any audience that is going to buy into psionics is going to accept anthropomorphic wolves as human stand ins with little trouble. Humans made it to the stone age. Your bipedal wolfbeings with opposable thumbs and human level intelligence should be able do so too. 

Wikipedia defines a civilization as a "complex society characterized by urban development, social stratification imposed by a cultural elite, symbolic systems of communication (for example, writing systems), and a perceived separation from and domination over the natural environment." No other species on earth is intelligent enough to form a civilization. Significant evolutionary changes would be needed for any other species to be able to do so. Such changes would be distinct enough to be considered a separate species. What species another intelligent lifeform will evolve from is entirely different question. 

Short answer no. There's nothing preventing genetically engineered wolves from having the coloring of a Siamese cat. It wouldn't be done by splicing the genes for coloration from the cat into the wolf. In overly simple terms genes control the activation of proteins. Most times when we are splicing genes from one organism to another we are doing it to have the spliced organism produce a particular protein. This has been done to create glow in the dark zebra fish by splicing in the genes to create a glowing protein found in jellyfish. In the case of coat pattern many genes are at play and it is highly dependent on how coloration is expressed within that species. Given how far cats and wolves are apart simply splicing in the genes for color wouldn't work. 

Glassing is only really meaningful if there is a surface to be bombarded. Any planet without a surface, or a liquid one cannot really be glassed. So gas giants and any planets entirely covered with water are per your definition unable to be glassed. 

It will take a minimum of 4 hours because of the speed of light. Since it can be observed by amature astronomers it will be noticed pretty much right away. Worst case scenario would be if the sun was occluding Pluto it might be unobservable for a month or so. 

If by "realistically be artificial" you mean easiest to construct and place then the answer (which admittedly is a cop-out) is whatever the lightest object that meets your criteria for major solar system body is. The energy expenditure to place even a small asteroid into solar orbit from outside the solar system is going to dwarf any other design considerations. 

Determining the area of a landmass has traditionally been done by subdividing the landmass into smaller segments of known area and then calculating the total. If you're dealing with a fantasy map trace over the map on some graph paper and estimate fractional values for any squares on the border. This should get you an accurate enough estimate for most purposes. I'd ignore the complexities that come from the projection. Most fantasy/sci-fi authors aren't considering it when creating their maps. It's not worth the headache. 

The issues facing autonomous beasts would not be prevented by sticking a pack animal in an exoskeleton. The reason Boston Dynamics LS3 was not accepted by the US Marines was for reasons of noise (It was powered by a small engine) and difficulty with field repairs. It was sufficiently advanced to be able to traverse most terrains and right itself if it fell. If you had an animal in an exoskeleton it you would still need to power the exoskeleton and making repairs to the system would still be problematic. Additionally you now have an animal that you need to feed, train, and worry about getting shot who will panic as soon as the shooting starts. 

Once you start modifying the design for practicality you're inevitably going to end up with a sword and perhaps a shield. Having an extra sharp blade pointed on the back side of the handle doesn't do anything useful but provides lots of potential to accidentally slash yourself. Removing it would lighten the weapon and allow for a larger range of motion. Now you have two swords. You adjust the blade geometry to something less fantastic and more practical. Two swords isn't too useful so you ditch one of them completely and if it's worth it to lug one around you grab a shield. 

Our current understanding of physics does not have a mechanism for the sudden reversal of gravity. Any science based explanation of this effect requires a science sufficiently advanced to be indistinguishable from magic. 

There are many variables that affect longevity. We don't know if periods of metabolic stasis are one of them. It certainly sounds plausible that long periods of hibernation could increase the lifespan of an animal relative to one that doesn't spend time in stasis. As soon as you bring magic into the equation all bets are off. 

Your rivers are unrealistic. Three of your rivers flow towards mountains on their way to the sea. Water flows downhill not uphill. Small rivers tend to aggregate into larger ones, not the other way around. You seem to be mistaking the behavior of a delta with the behavior of the river as a whole. Most of your rivers branch out as they approach the ocean. While real world rivers tend to collect together. Many of your rivers share the same source and flow in different directions with another river. You have rivers on your central island that start randomly and end randomly without emptying into a body of water. 

As a general rule a 30% markup over the cost of acquiring or manufacturing something is a good starting sale price. Obviously if you have a monopoly you can afford to charge more. In our world powerful artifacts that turn would-be catastrophic defeats into glorious victories (tanks, bombs and planes) are sold all the time. Why should your world be any different? 

The power available to a solar array decreases as it gets further from the sun. It's the same reason we can't generate power from starlight. Currently the furthest from the sun we have sent a probe powered by solar panels is the Juno mission to Jupiter. Further out than that we resort to radioisotope thermoelectric generators to power our probes. 

Probably not. Given that the mechanism of flight differs between pterosaurs and bats, the structural considerations also differ. Bats fly by constantly flapping their wings. The lightweight membrane between their wings needs to be as light as possible for this to be efficient. Extra rigidity provided by a thicker wing just adds extra weight for no benefit. 

If you look at early modern body armor it was constructed of steel plates. An example of this would be the armor used by the outlaw Ned Kelly. Equipped with this armor he and his companions were effectively immune to bullets, at least the bits of them that were covered in armor in any case. The primary problem with the armor was that it was extremely heavy, weighing in at 44 kilograms (97 lb). Such heavy armor would greatly decrease the combat effectiveness of any force. Further advancements like kevlar and ceramic plates both provided protection against more energetic projectiles at a greatly reduced weight. There is also the cost of the armor to consider. Newly developed alloys tend to be prohibitively expensive and may not be worth the added protection they provide. It's also a good idea to remember that if the bullets are bouncing off the armor there is the risk of them hitting someone else. There will always be spots that can't be effectively armored and if high velocity bullet fragments are flying off you only to hit your companions it's probably not going to be appreciated. 

Evolution is a slow progress. Sure a species can eventually evolve to survive in a new environment but that's a process that's going to take hundreds or thousands of generations. Intelligence on the other hand allows for changes to spread through a population within a single generation. By the time of divergence (2 million years ago) early hominids were already using stone tools. We have evidence of cooked food from 1.9 million years ago. They were already reaping the benefits of intelligence from at this time. Any change that would challenge early humans would also challenge the rest of the species in the environment. Humans are better equipped than other species to adapt to these changes. The won't need to evolve to thrive, they just need to learn. 

Not in any way that at all resembles "surfing", definitely not in the near-future. The big challenge of doing anything near the Sun is thermal management. Right now it's a major achievement to just to get a probe within the orbit of Mercury. Making a probe that could directly interact with a flare in a meaningful way would need to get much closer and deal with far more heat even before you consider the flare itself. Since large flares are the energy equivalent of 1 billion megatons of TNT I don't think we'll construct anything can survive it anytime soon. 

That rock formation is called columnar basalt. As you can see here columnar basalt can form in many different sizes. How large these columns become is dependent on how slowly the lava that formed them cools. The slower the basalt cools the larger the columns that may form. It is possible, though unlikely, that if the lava cooled extremely slowly it could form pillars 30-50 meters accross. On earth we haven't observed any pillars much over 2 meters wide. 

Language extinction is a complex issue. Assessing the health of an individual language is based more on the average age of the speakers than the total number of speakers. Since the biggest factor for a language's survival is young people speaking it, a lot depends on educating the next generation of speakers. There have been some very successful efforts to revitalize dying languages in places where preserving cultural heritage is important. Simultaneously discouraging the speaking of native languages is a common tool of governments looking to control ethnic minorities. 

Our current understanding of physics does not have a mechanism for creating artificial gravity. Any science based explanation of this effect requires a science sufficiently advanced to be indistinguishable from magic. Call the technology something cool and skip over the explanation for how they work. 

Steel has been the go to metal for guns since their invention. Copper alloys like brass and bronze have also been used for larger guns and cannons. All these metals can also produce an effective sword. The metallurgical requirements for sustaining the pressure of a firearm are much higher than those required to make a sword.