These are not the paradigm. All these are karmic results. Karmic results depend on the degree of intention while doing such good or bad deed. And those bhava after bhava (not reincarnation) depend on the suti mind(seven stages in detail) just before dying. If one know such dreadful samsara, one should better focus only at insight meditation to get liberated. 

What Buddha taught is not the science which layman(non-Ariya) call at present. Science cannot prove everything Buddha taught so far, maybe later. Sansara and the end of the samsara(i.e. Nibbanna) many people tried to find out but in vain. What Buddha said is one have suffering, there is cause of suffering and liberation of suffering. To know this Buddha mentioned something related to mind and matter what most people disputed. Just like making dispute on the footprint of the person whom one want to trace although that same person is just in front of one. One has already been injured by the spear which should be removed instantly so that one can be saved in time. If one practice insight meditation towards Nibbanna and attaining Bhanga Nana(knowledge of dissolution) no more doubts on these things. If you observe so-called empirical science, particle theory, wave theory , dual theory of light even Einstein find difficulty in understanding, will be clear even by lower Nana of insight meditation. Then why some who attain Nibanna never mention is , it is NOT WORTH MENTIONING. Let alone Nibanna which is the ultimate goal. So what I suggest you is practice meditation if you believe it or not, once you attain these levels mentioned, all doubts will be cancelled. 

In my own search, as a non-Buddhist, I have found that logical questioning is useful, but it has limits. In particular, it is reasonably effective at identifying paths that cannot lead to enlightenment once you have decided on characteristics of enlightenment that are important to you, and reasonably effective at identifying the general direction towards enlightenment in many situations. It can be a useful tool to assist you in your search alongside the advise of those teachers you respect. In particular, it can be a powerful tool for upsetting existing assumptions in your own mind. These assumptions can be dealt with in other methods but sometimes logical thought can arrive there faster. If you go far enough down the path of trying to apply logical thought, you'll eventually come across Gödel's incompleteness theorems or Tarski's undefinability theorem. These theorems demonstrate limits in mathematically rigorous thought when dealing with self-referential systems (such as nearly any religious statement including the word "I"). They demonstrate that, for a large body of questions which are highly related to enlightenment, logic simply cannot provide the answer. Often it can barely even phrase the question. From experience, I can also provide a warning: if you rely too heavily on logic, once you reach its limits you can feel lost. Always try to find a happy medium between logic and the more traditional approaches such as meditation and vipassana. Also be ready for that ideal balance to both change as you grow and to be extremely difficult to quantify using the logical and mathematical part of your approach. 

Because others have already mentioned, let me tell you in different way."Because if I am no longer reborn then where am I?" This "I" in the sense of worldly being we accept it as it is. In the case of noble truth, actually there is no "I" just because of ignorance we never recognize it as it is. Naturally it is just five aggregates(nama and rupa). Out of ignorance we have been passing through the rounds of birth and rebirth. In terms of suffering we have been facing through the samsara, it is just like climate change we have. If we have a favorable climate, we love it. If it is not, then we don't. "Why bother even trying to accomplish or achieve anything" you said. If you achieve anything in worldly life, you will have a favorable climate through which you will get in a more comfortable condition. Because of this, Buddha taught about kusala and akusala, and kamma results. All this natural truth, one will come to know by insight meditation. Just by achieving the namarupa pariccheda nana through insight meditation, one will accept, there is no "I". One will have a glimpse of nibbana, if one achieve the Bhanga nana. Buddha teaching is timeless and ready to take on all comers to test it not in afterlife but in this very life at the very moment of insight meditation. Sometimes if one is brought up in a state of most affluent worldly life, suffering is difficult to understand. Only when we know dukkha and dreadful vicious cycle of samsara, we will look for the liberation i.e. nibbana the bliss of which one will surely get to perceive just by achieving sotapanna phala nana through insight meditation in this very life. Then you will know by insight not by reasoning, that Buddhism is NOT kind of depressing. 

One could practice meditation until arriving at the knowledge of what is inside a black hole. However, it is less clear how long such a meditation could take. Perhaps it may take a million years or more to reach such extended awareness. Along the way, one's meditation may lead one to understand other things closer to home. Perhaps on the way one acquires awareness of why a teacher never replies to emails, or just exactly what is down in the crack between a car's seat and the center console, or where one's taxes go after they are sucked in by the IRS. One may even become aware of why one wishes to acquire knowledge of black holes, and find that the answer to this question is even more valuable than knowing the contents of black holes in the first place. At this time, one could choose to set aside the search for such knowledge, and continue along a path of one's choosing. The choice is always your own. 

The deepest description of love I have come across in my walk is a state where one does not oblige oneself to draw a distinction between one and the subject of one's love. One can give freely to the other, not out of obligation or expectation or even altruism, but simply because one does not see a reason to distinguish between giving to their love and giving to oneself. 

Once got the knowledge of review, there is reflection on realizing mind and body but this time is not the same as one underwent in the very beginning. Clearer and vivid as it is. Once attain enlightenment i.e, got through all 16 stages of nana thoroughly preferably fully guided by the well-learned meditation master how to recognize the changes of nana, next time meditation will begin with knowledge of arising and passing away and then going step by step upward. Please refer to insight meditation practice by mahasi sayadaw. 

Clear and short as needed Buddha said, not to take verbatim. Just to praise the benefit of sotapanna. Sometimes one universe metaphorically said like one palm tree, just like that, suffering in long samsara(long, long duration) just compared to seven lifetime(just like a wink of eye) at the most of sotapanna. 

We never know exactly the past karma of the individual let alone other however close, even of ourselves. The best thing is watch closely the behavior and emotional changes and act yourselves as a role model. 

It is the matter of concentration. Whenever thinking of "where am I" arise, try to focus on meditation with what you start. If you start noticing breathing in and out at the tip of nose , just start it again. But it is not meant that you are not making progress. Mind used to get wander like that. All the things whatever happen , just focus simply on the meditation with what you start. It is better noting mindfully "breathing in, know it, breathing out , know it". Whenever you noticed wandering thoughts, just focus again on this "breathing in, know it, breathing out , know it". 

I am not Buddhist, but from what I have heard from them, my experiences are sufficiently applicable to be worth voicing here. I have found great value in studying religions that I do not necessarily believe in. I find it to be a very powerful way to learn from a culture that is very different from my own. In particular, I have found it very effective at highlighting causes of suffering in my own life. The world is an amazing and beautifully diverse place. We have found many ways to live. Many things I was brought up to assume were simply "the way humanity acts" have been shown to be very culturally specific as I study how other cultures work. As an example in my own life, I have been raised as an American and thus naturally raised to believe in the "equality" of the sexes. Exploring other cultures, I found that the other cultures did not always have what I would call "equality." Studying the religions of these cultures helped me understand how a society could be "good" without equality of the sexes. At the end of the journey, I identified that it was not my fellow cultures that were wrong, it was that my personal definition of "equality of the sexes." My concept of what that phrase could mean was too rigid. Studying other cultures which have succeeded with different meanings helped me widen my opinions. I now hold a wider belief (preferring the word "incomparable" over "equal") which helped me elevate above self-inflicted suffering caused by my overly rigid definitions. However, there is a difficult counterpoint to this. Studying other religions is an easy question. However, some things cannot simply be studied in isolation. They must be lived. For these things, I recommend not seeking any carte blanche directive. Your life is too important to sign a blank checque. Seek those in your life that you respect for guidance on such things. It is my belief that much of the richness of life is found by experiencing contrasting worlds, but it can be difficult to do. It is easy to blur the worlds together, and miss out on the most important part of both worlds. This is why I recommend seeking guidance from those you respect on such activities. They may be able to help you set yourself on a path which gains as much as possible from the interaction without doing harm to either group, nor yourself. However, there's no one way to do it. Those in your life can help you find your way to do it. 

There is technically no difference regarding the stages of insight meditation. If one work hard through insight meditation, he/she has to pass through all these stages no matter which methods is. Only thing is maybe so fast that no time to notice the changes. If one really wish to see, they will see it. What matter most is to achieve nibanna. Just to know "seeing the come and go of nama and rupa, no more wish for that come and go, and finally no more come and go" is enough. Sometimes higher nana stages are faster and more subtle. Sometimes just like suddenly pulling out the four delicate cotton strings covered under pile of sand, is so short in a matter of time as an example of Venerable Ananda. So please focus on meditation, dhamma show it by itself. No dispute. 

Please see $URL$ Once returner, Sumanadevi, youngest daughter of Anathapindika, she knew what is what and even remind her father, a sottappti at her death-bed. Their Dhamma is never destroyed after-life and when it is time just by reviewing the nana already attained, they will get nibbana. 

Forcing awareness is a tricky concept. I would not be surprised if every practitioner of meditation has done it on occasion. The best analysis I have found for the issue is that forcing awareness can, in theory, allow one to become more insightful and aware. However, the act of doing so admits the "desire for insight and awareness." By meditating in this fashion, it is not possible to simply let that desire pass through you. It is held on to. At the very least, this is a desire which will not pass. It can obscure that which you are looking for. At its worst, it can lead you down a false target leading you along a less ideal path. I have found that forcing awareness in meditation can be effective for identifying illusions and assumptions, but it is less effective at actually encouraging awareness. Accordingly, in this complicated world with its many illusions and assumptions, I feel it has its place. However, the traditional approaches as advised by the other answers are more effective as these things they do best. A focus on them is wise.