Each time I look at a shadow cast by a sunlit object it seems as if the shadow doesn't move at all. But if I look at it after say 5 minutes, I can notice that the shadow has actually moved a bit. This allows to say "yes, the Sun has moved in the sky". But this doesn't make it all that obvious that "the Sun is continuously moving all the time". So I'd like to make some optical configuration which would allow me to watch a spot of sunlight or a shadow moving much faster — say, 1 mm/s — still being from the Sun, not from an artificial light source. I've tried doing this with a cylindrical silvery surface like that of a kitchen rail system, sticking black tape on it and leaving only a lateral strip of reflecting surface, then then letting Sun rays to hit it almost tangentially, and to observe the reflection. But either this doesn't give good enough magnification to make Sun's motion apparent, or the reflected spot just becomes too faint for the naked eye. So, what can I do to effectively magnify angular motion of the Sun to observe it (almost) directly at the scale of seconds? I's OK if it could be visible for e.g. a minute and required me to adjust my instrument to view the next piece of motion. But I'd like to do it as simply as possible, without too expensive hardware. 

This means that the term equinox, as used in astronomy, doesn't only mean the discrete events of vernal and autumnal equinoxes, but also the direction which the perpendicular$^\dagger$ to the Earth's axis points to at any moment of time. Thus we can conclude that the equinox of J2000 is the direction this perpendicular points to at the epoch J2000, not at 20 March 2000 or any other. So to get the true orientation of the Earth at the event of equinox we should use a precession+nutation model to advance the orientation at the Epoch to the date required. 

I'm trying to calculate the state of the Earth at a given time using Keplerian orbital elements from this page. It has the following instruction: 

So after this calculation we are supposed to know direction of some equinox. But there exists the phenomenon of precession of equinoxes, so this direction shouldn't in general be fixed. I assume the equinox mentioned in that document is some "mean" equinox for the range of dates the data are valid for. So, how do I calculate the true equinox position/direction, given these data? 

Can I point to somewhere in the sky where the Big Bang happened? A pathway so to speak on where we (and our progenitor elements) came from? 

People smarter than me say the sun will be 99% covered during the 2017 solar eclipse where I live (Portland, OR metro). I am curious to know what it might look like (photo or drawing). Does this photo approximate 99% coverage? Or will there be slightly more sun? Will I still see some of the corona? 

I recently learned (if I understood correctly) that the famous Ultra Deep Field photo(s) required something like a 10-day exposure on a very tiny piece of the sky to achieve. How can this occur when the telescope is constantly in motion zipping around earth at ~17,000 mph? Wouldn't the earth and/or possibly the moon get in the way every 90 minutes or so? I suppose my question applies to just about any photo it takes since it would be out of alignment of the target in less than a second. 

From what my non-scientifically-trained mind understands, matter typically enters a black hole via getting caught up in the accretion disc going faster and closer to the black hole until it passes the event horizon, the point of no return. Using Earth as an analogy for a black hole, I assume the accretion disc would orbit around the equator, similar to Saturn's rings, and the matter might eventually crash into Brazil or somewhere along the equator? My main question is, can matter simply do a straight shot into the black hole at a higher latitude, say straight into New York City, avoiding the disc altogether? As you can probably tell by my simplistic analogy, I am a complete layperson. While fancy jargon and artistic looking equations might be expected (which is fine), please also dumb it down to an average intelligent business administration major's level of scientific understanding. 

At some time in the future it is said our galaxy will collide with Andromeda. Yet at the same time the universe is expanding at a ever-accelerating pace. Using the old raisin-in-the-baking-loaf-of-bread analogy, the raisins grow farther apart and don’t “collide” with each other during the baking process. It seems to be the same way with galaxies and the expanding universe. How are these two seemingly conflicting postulates reconciled? What am I missing here?