"tips (meals, taxi, cars otherwise paid for by host)" Let me get this straight: you want the job, but also want to spend practically nothing on the interview? "bus ticket replacement (I had to purchase a new one after losing the print-out sent to me by the company)" NO! It was your fault that you lost the print-out. How much did the replacement cost? = "nickel-and-diming" "hotel stay because I missed my bus (see above)" Probably "No," because the hotel stay was only necessary b/c you missed the bus. Look at it this way: at least you'll have an incentive to pay attention to important details. "My dog ate my homework" is long past. "day-pass to an airline club / lounge. (I had a 4 hour layover)" Unless you are a very senior applicant (Director or other), I would frown about claiming expenses like this. Unless you have won a Nobel Prize, nobody really cares about how comfortable you are, harsh as it may seem. "room service - standard breakfast fare when other options were limited." No and no. Room service is an extravagance. If the standard fare was unacceptable, buy yourself breakfast, and pay for it yourself. What are you, an epicurian? "Does it depend on the position that I am interviewing for? The company?" - Yes and yes. If you are a "C" level executive, you can ask for more. If not, no. "I would generally expect that company-wide standards should apply when interviewing (ie. they would be the same when I interview as if I were to work there)." But you DON'T work there, so this expectation is invalid. Finally, you seem preoccupied with what the company can do for you. 

You must re-assert your authority immediately. There is no need to be rude, demanding or angry about it. You are the boss. It is within your authority to institute a performance-improvement plan. After a month or two, you can schedule meetings with everyone, including the insubordinate employees. Pick the one you will miss the least, and explain how they are being terminated. Have a security person nearby if you really think the person may attack you. Have your HR person escort them to their desk, observe what they are removing, and then out of the building. Don't be angry. This will create an example which may result in bringing the other insubordinate employees under control. If not, you will (regrettably) have to repeat the experience. Sure, it is too bad someone has to go, but every company has a "bottom 10%" of employees, and no one expects to be employed forever anyhow. Don't forget that you have to hire people to replace the ones you let-go. Don't let the applicant be interviewed by the troublemakers; they will bad-mouth your company. And meet with the group of trouble-makers and tell them you expect them to be professional and cooperate with the new employees. And that their effectiveness in integrating the new employee is another item being tracked on their monthly performance reviews. 

Putting my manager hat on (I'm not a recruiter), your approach would not seem casual or lazy unless you were asked for a full CV and you sent only a short one that sent me off to do more work (best case, I would have to follow a link and read more, but the worst case would have me either type something in or search for your name and hope I found the right person). Like you (and many others, I am sure!), I have a short CV (2 pages) and a full CV (approx 9 pages). I also have a LinkedIn profile, Careers 2.0 profile, and so on. The short one does say "Full CV available upon request" in one area, and does also have my LinkedIn and Careers 2.0 links in another area. However, we may differ in that when I am contacted by a recruiter or a hiring manager or whomever, I don't send anything until they verify which they want -- long or short -- at which time they control whether or not they are on the hook for extra work. In the case of putting a CV in a resume back (Dice, etc) I put the full one in because that's more about indexing words than anything (so as to get matches); I've never had a recruiter come back and say "could you send your short one?" The piece of the puzzle that is missing (to me, at least) belongs somewhere near this statement of yours: 

The key to your question is the "barring HR issues" -- deciding when to leave when "HR issues" are a factor is easy. For example, if you are trying to be a change agent and you know you need to hire or fire people, and HR says "nope, can't do either of that", well, there's your answer -- you are specifically barred from changing things, so moving on is the only option. But when there aren't removable barriers in your way, the answer truly is "it's up to you." However, I would note that you have a false dichotomy in your question -- the opposite of a hopeless situation due to HR (or other unmovable barriers) isn't "willingness to lead". There's a lot that goes on between those two positions. For example, I spent an entire year working for an organization that had HR barriers to clear fixes (we couldn't hire anyone -- no money -- and it was very difficult to fire anyone due to state regulations), but a significant number of paths to go down as a manager to try to change the environment. In the particular situation I was in, I had an extreme desire to lead, and by all accounts (my manager's, my manager's manager, HR, external reviewers, and so on) was doing everything "right", but simply had a number of employees who did not want to be led. I gave that situation a year to work out, but when I had the organization's head of HR say to me "It's time to give up. It is impossible to be a change agent here, and it's not your fault", that's when I believed it was "ok" to move on. Others might have reached that point 6 months earlier, some 6 months later, but the point is that it was not something that directly correlated to anything else. I wish it were that easy, but as that same HR person said to me, "Being a change agent is hard, no matter where you are. When it comes down to it, it's an entirely soft skill." 

now what do you want.? the information.? or you want that jackass to not get the information.? either way you are helpless. you cant tell your boss to not share any information with that colleague and also asking your boss to share the same information with you also will not help you much. 

You just mentioned that, my boss feels very strongly that I am just a perfect fit for the job and am exceeding expectations. If you are regular enough, completing assignments on time and your boss is extremely satisfied with the outputs you are providing, then there's nothing wrong that your boss stood beside you in case of any job related issue of yours. In my case, we have to report to our team leader and we dont have direct interaction with the HR folks. We are upto the expectations of our TL. We mostly have some salary and incentives related issues every month. In every case, our TL speaks for us with the HR people. So its fair enough for your boss to stand beside in your problem. However, if your problem was severe enough, that it could put fingers on the boss's potential, then you could ask for what you can do to make up for the damage that is done. 

Bravo.! That's really a brave question. Its a problem that i think many of us should have faced. The question to this is simple. As you have mentioned, there are only 8 or 9 employees in your office, that means your absence in the office will definitely affect the work. Also, you have mentioned that you are feeling quite better and the disease is not much severe and you will be fine in 2 or 3 days, so you might talk to your boss about the disease and ask him to decrease the workload from you. Even working in weekends for completing the work might do the trick. But all depends on how you presents your illness to your boss. but i must say Never Compromise anything for the Sake of you HEALTH 

Speaking as a hiring manager, it is not dishonest to include skills that you never want to use again. It just means you'll have an extra thing or two to talk about during an interview (that you have the skill, and that you don't particularly want to use it, so you're just making sure this job doesn't require it). As you note, all the skills you have work to make you the person you are, and have provided you with experiences you can learn from or leverage in some way. Also, if you list it, and it's remotely related to the position I'm interviewing for, I'll ask you about it. The responsibility is yours to apply to positions that you want, just as it is my responsibility to try to make your resume fit what I'm looking for. Let's say you had 5 years of experience making widgets lefthanded, and 3 years of experience making widgets righthanded, but you never ever want to make widgets lefthanded again, don't take it off your resume -- just don't apply to any lefthanded widgetmaking positions. If I need a widgetmaker of unspecified handedness, I'll see lefthanded and righthanded widgetmaking, and say "ok, this person can make widgets!" In the interview process, you can tell me you never want to make widgets lefthanded, and I can say "no problem, how about righthanded?" and you can say "sure!" and everyone is happy. Or, I can say "well, sometimes we might need a lefthanded widgetmaker" and you can say "you know, I never ever ever want to do that again" and then with my cards on the table (a possibility of having to dabble in a despised skill) you can make the decision that's best for you. If you didn't include your despised lefthanded widgetmaking experience, I'd think you were maybe some run of the mill widgetmaker, not the well-rounded widgetmaker that you are. But if the possibility of having to discuss the despised skill is too much to bear, and it doesn't add any benefit to you at all, leave it off. Note: Will there be recruiters who use those skills as keywords and seek you out based (possibly) on things you never want to do again? Absolutely. Just delete those emails.