In general, others have pointed out nothing prevents happiness to come with moral duty fulfillment. On the other side, we pick up a life risk to analyze, other kinds of risks vary at great scales and should not be treated the same. To risk someone's life to perform moral duties is counter-intuitive and counter-instinct. It roots from the question: what is/are more (valuable) than a life? An easy answer might be "many lives are"!!! Hang on a minute, are you serious? Based on what metric system or criteria? are those many lives of the same kind of the referenced life and how same? who is/are the judge?... such kind of questions will push the initiator back at the wall with noway out. Life is the most complicated concept in any areas of study. Therefore to discuss or make statements about it requires a lot more than just a few quotes. 

Sentence three "But we judge these degrees only by comparison with a maximum." is utterly false. Tallness, for example, is a comparison which is entirely relative, and is not compared to some sort of maximum. There are many comparisons that are not in reference to some theoreical maximum. Given that this premise is wrong, the argument can only stand if one then justifies that "goodness" is measured relative to a maximum. Such a justification is not included in Aquinas's "proof". The argument presumes that goodness is an objective standard. This assumption is directly contrary to reality. There are man competing definitions of what constitutes good versus evil. As another answer pointed out, a woman crusading for women's rights would be considered "doing good" by some people and "doing evil" by others. Even if you did accept the premises of the argument, it is not a proof of the existence of God. We know that Oscar the Grouch is a fictional character, despite the fact that we have defined him to be the quintessential of smelliness. As a mathematician would say "The existence of an infimum of a set does not imply that the infimum is a member of the set." Even if we did accept that "God" is the maximum of goodness, that does not imply that God exists. 

It rather depends on you than on the book or things therein. When you find a matching between your mind or soul's ingredients and the interpretants from the book (For interpretant - Refer C.S Pierce on Semiotic), the chance of being convinced increases and so on. God to each soul is likely to be different in some way, despite many could think they are worshiping the same God. So it doesn't matter it's true or at least convinced to others as well. Such matching is sufficient to make you convinced. In another way, even if others are convinced, you may be not - no matchings or not sufficiently. 

Evidence can establish proof that a theory is wrong. If I find a white crow, then I have conclusively proven that "all crows are black" is wrong. Proving a theory emperically is logically equivalent to proving that all opposing theories are wrong. If an opposing theory could be correct, then clearly we cannot have proven that our theory must be correct. For example, we have proven that "The Earth is round" because all other possible shapes for the Earth have been ruled out by evidence. It cannot be flat, it cannot be a cube, it cannot be a torus, because we have experimental evidence showing those shapes do not match reality. Likewise, we have proven "The Earth is about 4.5 billion years old" because all other possible theories about the age of the earth have been ruled out by evidence. (The theory "The Earth is actually 6,000 years old, but God made it appear exactly as if it were 4.5 billion years old" is by definition experimentally indistinguishable from "the Earth is 4.5 billion years old" and as such, does not count as a separate theory). Likewise, there is no theory other than Evolution that explains the evidence we see in biology. There is no theory other than Anthropogenic Global Warming that explains what evidence we see in climate studies. So, to answer your question, "enough evidence" means we have enough evidence to eliminate all other opposing theories. 

This does not seem to be a question so particular to the music industry. And it is not a question of coming into possession of something. What is purchased in a download of a music file, for instance, but also with the purchase of a DVD, a recording of an NFL game, or a newspaper clipping, is a license to use, with terms limiting the use. We have agreed to terms with the owner of the rights of use. We have made a promise. The moral question boils down to: is there a moral obligation built into every promise? I take Searle's argument for the built in obligation of a promise, in Fact and value, "is" and "ought", and reasons for action, Searle, 2008, to be successful. The specific question is, do we make a promise when we download music? I think it is obvious we do. Musicians who feel these terms are trivial self publish and make their music freely available. The price of admission to a film includes the right to remember the experience and even to tell others about it. If the purple scarf is an original design, then copying it with an intention to sell it is wrong. Society agrees on a time period restricting selling copies of original designs, after which considering the designs to pass into public domain. Copying the scarf for your own use may or may not aggravate the designer. It would be a subjective call, and the designer should be given the opportunity to make the call. 

If you need a proof on this question, then it's fair, on a wider scale, to say nothing can be proved at all. What can you prove if you have no postulates? Or in other words, what are possible postulates for this case? In fact, no one has satisfactorily proved it through history. On the other hand, people do say "life is just a dream". It's not just casual, it has serious implications, especially on the ground of multi-life/reincarnation hypothesis. But anyway it stays a metaphor subject to interpretations. 

I am addressing the question in a rather indirect way as I believe there's no resolute direct answer. For example: the assumed clearest evidence of any type on this topic is Libet's experiment. Nevertheless, I would agree with the criticisms on it and his own view rather than with a variety of bestowed conclusions. Libet "believes subjects still have a "conscious veto", since the readiness potential does not invariably lead to an action"(Wikipedia) My answer is freewill has too many different versions of definition, each with its own ground and purpose. Besides it requires insights from Neurology and psychiatry which have not reached maturity sufficiently enough to have a resolute thesis. Philosophy appears to be the only way for thought experiments but you can't set aside theological sides of it. 

One obvious specific scenario that comes to mind is that the "sensitive matter" is a sexual liason and that when it occurred, Moonlight was an adult and you were a child. You made the promise because you were emotionally manipulated not because it was an appropriate thing to do. In this scenario, you should definitely break the promise, especially if the statute of limitations has not yet expired. If the liason were merely taboo and not illegal, some experimentation that you both decided not to pursue but don't regret, and yet would be tremendously embarassing for Moonlight now, then it would probably be best to keep quiet. 

-What are the philosophical implications of the Higgs mechanism? Developments in science have philosophical implications to the extent they force us to refine philosophical positions we take. Embryonic stem cell research, for instance, is forcing us to refine arguments about when a group of cells become human. A development in our understanding of matter would hopefully affect our understanding of consciousness. Questions within physics aren't, strictly speaking, philosophical questions. Whether an idea can be translated from one theoretical language to another is a philosophical question, and positivism is a dubious answer. If the question is what are the philosophical implications of the Higgs mechanism for theoretical physics then the answer has to do with how physicists handle the translating. But if the question is asking for the philosophical implications in the general sense, that is, to the extent our understanding of matter is affected by the understanding of the theory of the Higgs mechanism, then the answer is wait and see. The role of causality in consciousness is the philosophical question and the Higgs theory does not seem to be developed enough to help us refine our conception of consciousness. 

Firstly, symmetry is only absolute in Math, not in Math-Physics (search for Closer to Truth interview videos on Symmetry). So while putting a physical coin in distribution of flips, it's the jurisdiction of Math-Physics hence no good sense. Nevertheless, intuitively, the coin symmetry is only one among many parameters such as the surrounding air or liquid, electromagnetic fields, ... that if are stripped off, again makes little sense in terms of truths other than approximation. Clearly it's analytic. 

Firstly, the two English words can be understood differently through times and geographies. For example, eudaimonia means literally well-classed spirit and is translated as "happiness". The difference is too remarkable. "Pleasure" in hedonism can be used interchangeably with "happiness". So it is safe as long as concerned in philosophy, no clear lines are important. It depends on your philosophical position to go further into concepts such as eudaimonia, provided they are not precisely "happiness". You can't understand a theist being atheist. 

My answer actually disturbs me. I take Wittgensteins argument against private language as successful, and I take Quine's argument that language is empirical as successful. Here is an example from Wikipedia's article on Wittgenstein's private language argument: "For instance, if one cannot have a private language, it might not make any sense to talk of private sensations such as qualia; nor might it make sense to talk of a word as referring to a concept, where a concept is understood to be a private mental state." Here is a quote from Quine's essay "Epistemology naturalized"(Quine1969): "Language is socially inculcated and controlled; the inculcation and control turn strictly on the keying of sentences to shared stimulation." I'll add that there are languages that omit concepts contained in other languages. There is a language, for instance(I'm sorry, I'm going on memory. Can't find a reference) which describes time as passing us from behind going forward. Like a wind at our back. We see ourselves moving forward, time passing us like a wind in our face. There is also a language (so sorry, no reference) which does not have the concept of contradiction. I take all this to mean that the formulation of our thoughts, and, indeed the concepts it occurs to us to think about, are given to us by our language group/sub groups. Wittgenstein and Quine are saying we cannot express our thoughts independently of society, and the varying conceptual content among languages signifies that even what we think about is determined by our group. When we think about something is often determined by the context of the moment. I cannot argue that we determine a type of concept to think about, nor how to express, even to ourselves, unspoken, the concept. Pain is the classic example of private experience, which cannot be accurately expressed to others, in language, because we do not have access to how others feel when they experience it. But we do not control the experience of pain. And when we do think about it, I think we use the public language. I'm not happy about it, but I only know of arguments against individual determination of thoughts. 

Absence of evidence becomes evidence of absence when it is inconsistent with theories of existence. If the data are consistent with the entity existing, but not being found due to random chance, then it wouldn't be appropriate to conclude the entity does not exist. However, if the random chance is very small, then the data do support the conclusion of absence. For example: the theory "Dodos still live on island X, where dodos were historically last sighted." If the island has been scoured and no evidence of living dodos has been found, then that is strong evidence of absence. On the other hand, the theory "Dodos still live somewhere in the world" requires a much more thorough search for absence of evidence to be considered evidence of absence.