The first steps before flying start with learning the gear and going over the procedures (Source). Then you start what is known as kiting or ground handling where the you get the wing up into the air and use the controls to steer it and learn how to handle it while staying on the ground. 

Certainly, what you are looking for is a backpacking solar stove. Here are some examples. SunFlair Solar Oven SOLTAC's CookSack Or if you really wanted to, you could attempt to build one yourself. 

After taking the first bearing with the two points lined up, continue walking towards the two points, keeping them in a straight line and take a second bearing. If the bearings are wildly different, that means that one of them was effected by a local anomaly. It is also possible to get magnetic anomaly maps. Like this, 

Source The good news is that it isn't all that hard to process the acorns to remove the tannins. You basically crack them and soak them in several changes of water for a couple of hours. 

QC LAB: Do ropes need to rest between falls? If you want more information, I would suggest reading the whole article. 

Source The one drawback to the DIN valves is that they are less common and therefore you might have to get an adapter as well. 

In the same Hornblower story that inspired this question, Hornblower tricks the French captain by acting as if to tack, but stopping and swinging back. When the French try to do the same they are unable to do so. 

Source That really doesn't apply to climbing shoes, especially since you can get your climbing shoes resoled once the rubber wears out. It also depends on how hard and how often you climb, for a professional rock climber with sponsorships doing hard routes in Yosemite, it would probably be worth it to replace shoes fairly often, but probably not for most people. Personally, I have done almost all of my climbing in shoes that were 20+ years old, and while new shoes would probably be better, I haven't bothered to spend the money when the old ones work just fine. 

I think that in order of age it went round, square and then plastic, and seeing them made me wonder what the original trail signs were. 

Basically, a lava tube is formed when a underground lava flow stops flowing, leaving behind a long tubular cave. 

Source There is also a study done that simply asked if hikers had experiences that made them feel unsafe while hiking the trail and while not all of those involved people (such as unsafe conditions) a number of them did. 

Dead Wood for Wildlife On the other hand, one of the biggest removers of dead wood is wildfire, and that has definite benefits for wildlife. So like with most things its a trade off. 

I am going to say yes, it is possible mostly because humans kill other humans with a single punch from time to time and black bears are certainly stronger. 

What you are probably looking for is a satellite two way messenger like an inReach or to rent a satellite phone. The two way messenger will allow you to send both text messages and coordinates, and the inReach at least can be set to send up a message with your position every so often, and then your family will be able to track your route online. You don't want a PLB as they are only good in an emergency and from a purchasing standpoint, a satellite phone will be much more expensive. Depending on how often you plan to do this would be the deciding factor in purchasing a two way messenger or renting a sat phone. 

The solution is the same as for estimating the time until sunset. What you do is hold your arms straight out in front of you and then stack them up from level until you reach the horizon. Each hand is equal to approximately one hour. This can be useful in situations where you have the option of camping on either the west or east sides of a high ridge. Camping on the east side will mean that the sun's warmth will reach you much earlier in the day, while the west side makes it easier to sleep in. One place where this is very handy is the Uinta Highline Trail as you are repeatedly crossing high ridges that run north to south like this one and there is a large difference between sunrise and when the sun comes over the horizon, 

The size of the tracks will stay the same no matter how an animal is moving, however, when an animal runs, the stride length will increase so it's not as good an indicator. As far as determining the gender goes, Adult males 

For how to deal with irrational fears I don't think there is any substitute for repeatedly conquering them. For instance I used to work at a place where we would take people rock climbing and rappelling which (for most people) are much scarier then just hiking. People would get to the top of the climb and then you would tell them to let go of the rock, lean back and push of with their legs. It would freak them out, despite how safe it was. They aren't going to fall or swing or have the rope break but it would still be terrifying for them. Or we would set up the rappels where they would back of a 120+ ft cliff and just dangle in the air for most of the way down. Even with someone belaying them, it would still freak them out. But here's the thing, I don't think I ever saw someone complete one of these things and then regret it. The next time it was easier for them. So take an honest look at how dangerous it really is, and if your fear is irrational, then take a deep breath and think about the last time your conquered something like it. Remember how good that sense of accomplishment felt. As time goes on you will gain more and more experience and with that more and more confidence. 

TDLR : Single actions only fire the revolver, double actions both cock the hammer and fire. The way that revolvers work is that each time it is fired, the cylinder must be rotated and the hammer cocked so that it can be dropped onto the primer to fire the bullet. To do this with a single action revolver the user has to manually cock the hammer back before pulling the trigger while pulling the trigger on a double action revolver cocks the hammer and then fires the revolver by dropping the hammer onto the primer. The downside of not having to manually cock the hammer with a double action is that the the trigger pull is much heavier and that leads one to be less accurate. Most double action revolvers however do have the ability to manually cock the hammer for extra accuracy. Double action revolvers that lack the ability to manually cock the hammer are called double action only. In addition there are a few double action revolvers such as the Webley–Fosbery Automatic Revolver where the recoil is used to rotate the cylinder and cock the hammer to avoid the heavy trigger pull. 

and there you have it. Before using you would want to dress it and tighten it down. If you want to see a video of the process for tying this knot, see the one here. 

Image Source In the other situation mentioned in the linked question where the sling goes around the tree, one would use a longer sling to go around the tree and then hook a carabiner to just one loop. 

Source and that the females have recently had their litters in January-March so there are more young around. 

Source According to Wikipedia, cubs refers to the offspring of the big cats, while either can be used for the offspring of the purring cats, but kittens are more commonly used. As for why it is not consistent, I would just like to point out how people use both Canada and Canadian Geese. 

Hiking Boot Fit and Break-In Tips Personally, I like my boots to fit well both with doubled up socks and with a single pair as I will do both styles, although more often I use two to prevent blisters. If your boots were too small, then you will not have the option to add another pair. Its also worth noting that your feet will swell with lots of walking. On the other hand, boots that are too large can lead to your toes slamming into the front of the boot and that will lead to blackened toenails. I would try the boots one with both a single and double pairs of socks when looking to buy. 

It depends on the circumstances, in fact people going for Mt. Everest will deliberately gain weight beforehand to offset the coming loss. 

Image source For further reading on this subject, Canine vs. Feline Tracks Cougar tracks Mountain Lion Tracks Cougar: The American Lion 

Often times it makes sense to ask the locals by asking at gun shops or outdoor gear shops like for example Sportsman's Warehouse or Cabela's. The other good resource would be the managers of public land in the area, sometimes the BLM or Forest service will have designated areas and sometimes areas will be closed to shooting during certain times of the year. I have also seen in Nevada where towns will have a designated free public shooting range. What you are basically looking for is a place with, 

Let's say that you are out backpacking and a bear spray canister accidentally goes off and gets on your skin or in your eyes or onto your clothing? It can't be a pleasant experience as it is meant to deter bears, how can you get it off yourself and your gear in the field (as any residue could potentially either get onto your skin from the gear or potentially attract bears)?