Have you considered a trailer? This also allows local unloaded trips from a base without all the gear loaded. Keeps weight down low too. 

It isn't the bike. It is the rider. Unless you are at 6% body fat and have done all you can to improve your output your best improvement in speed is yourself. 

I initially looked for a reflective vest but then found very inexpensive LED lights. I got a red one that I put on the rear that I set to flashing mode, then another white one for a front "headlight" and another red one I clip on my backpack or other place near the rear of the bike. I also bought a few reflecting tape pieces and hang them around the rear of the bike. 

I use only a front brake on my fixed gear. Between that and resisting pedaling I have not had a problem. I don;t go very fast on the fixed gear so this also reduces the need for emergency/panic stops of the kind I have had to do with a road bike. you can put front and rear brakes on a fixed gear, but probably not necessary. I would not ride one without a brake though. 

It turns out that it was a stiff link, stripping the chain off the bike, dousing it in brake cleaner, then oil and leaving it to bathe a few minutes, then repeating the process left the chain rust and dirt free, looking like new. When I took off the chain, I broke it at the stuck link (which was clearly evident going through the derailleur when pedalling the bike backwards) -- cleaned everythingh whilst I had the opportunity and reassembled. Whilst the chain was off, I did measure it, and things were within tolerance, although (I assume naturally) a little stretched. Thanks for the help, I now have again a reliable bike! 

I'm attempting to refurbish a bike that I was given, it has a (not sure what brand) coaster brake, which according to sheldon brown's site has a peculiar kind of cone nut. The wheel might be 10 years old, it's hard to say. I've been able to remove the otherwise butchered nuts (see below) using a tap & hammer and an axle vice, now that they are free I'd like to know what they are, so that I can replace them, do they have a special name? I've only ever seen mention of cone nuts resembling a regular washer, but with two flat sides (sorry for the poor explanation) - these that this bike is fitted with are something different, see below: 

So I recently bought a trek marlin 7, mostly to commute to work, nothing rough so far, and this week when I'm going uphill specially, or downhill, or accelerating; sometimes is downright random, it makes two click noises, once per pedal stroke click, click, then click, click... weirdly sometimes it throws three click cl... click! two for the first stroke and one for the second stroke. I'm getting pissed because the worst is that I can feel them in the pedals, and I don't know if it's going to blow up at some point and throw me out the bike, specially when I'm going fast. But it happens randomly and rarely, however quite audible. I checked the derailleurs to the brakes and the seat, nope, the sound occurs in any gear. But this bike is fairly new, will it be covered by the warranty? I'm broke now after I bought it. 

Apologies for my dodgy graphics work, the middle is threaded, and sized to fix the (slightly larger than the wheel nut thread) centre of the coaster brake axel, the outsides smooth (very much resembling a washer) except for the two grooves. The entre part is perhaps 20mm in diameter; unfortunately my bright idea of drawing the part, and then using Google image search has failed me! In the end, I'm sure this particular bolt is a strange european relic designed as some kind of "security" bolt; not dissimilar to the Apple style 5-point start, or similar, to discourage people against fiddling with their coaster brake. But I would really like to rebuild the brake! I'm sure I could replace them with regular "cone nuts" - that is the ones with two flat sides, but the term "cone nut" seems to refer more to the purpose than the design of the nut itself. All information appreciated, thanks in advance! 

What do you think it is? should I complain for the 7th time in the bike shop but this time tell them exactly what it is? anyway the more information the better, so at least I can talk with property. Here's the video where I show my homemade attempt. 

I bought a new bike, a trek MTB marlin 7, and for the first moment (a week later) it started having issues, it was clicking awfully, the pedals broke, the brakes were rubbing, the mudguard broke which I noticed they attached with little plastic things and holes drilled; I got it mostly fixed but clicking didn't go away, I brought the bike around 6 times to the bike shop for them to fix the horrible clicking that came from the back, every time it was a temporary fix, then they said they changed the freewheel and it went away and I thought I finally got a breath, guess what the clicking is coming back, this time creaking too, I don't want to go for seventh time to the bike shop, I just would like to get rid of the bike at this point and have my money back. I honestly don't know if this is normal, this is my first bike, any advice?... 

Please excuse my terminology, I have a Specialized Tricross (2008) with Shimano Tiagra STI levers, and convenience brakes on the top of the bars, running through the same cable. Naturally, adjusting brakes is easy enough, but I have a very sharp pull on the (flat bars, if I can call them that) - and my STIs pull almost all the way to the stop before even engaging. Can this be a case of badly adjusted brakes? I asked my Bike shop to service the bike (minor service) - and it came back more or less like this, it's not dangerous, at all - but I like a very short pull on my brakes after a nasty TFCC injury that still isn't recovered. I've checked the manuals for the STI levers (I expected some kind of internal setting I could crank on these, and have them take up the slack from the ) Whilst we're at it, what's the proper name for these inline top-brakes?