Lubricating the chain and cassette so much that they dripped oil, spinning the pedals many times while doing it, then wiping the excess oil off with a rag stopped the squeaking. The cause of the squeak remains unknown. The oil got into a lot of places. 

How to clamp a brifter to the bar more securely if the clamp is already very tight? More detail: After a small crash (no scratches on me, just a few on the bike), one Shimano Ultegra brifter was wobbling relative to the handlebar. I tightened the clamp bolt that attaches the brifter to the bar as much as I could, but the brifter was still wobbling. I undid the clamp, removing the brifter from the bar and saw that the clamp is a bit rusty, but looks intact. Retightened the clamp bolt as much as I could (the hex key broke), but the brifter is still wobbling on the bar. Before the crash, neither brifter wobbled. There is no bar tape or anything stuck under the clamp or brifter edge, I checked before retightening. The Shimano dealer manual does not give additional info besides tightening the clamp bolt ($URL$ 

Do you have a crank that's easy to replace, like Shimano Hollowtech 2? It's actually easier to exchange those than chainrings. I usually ride a road-compact (50,34), but for long tours around the alps I exchange them for a MTB one (44,34,24). I have a non-indexed front-shifter, so I don't need to change settings. Triple crankset axis seem to be some 3mm longer than double road cranksets, don't know about double MTB - double road difference. Anyway, beware that you might need to change the derailleur distance to bottom bracket - 44 chainrings are quite a big larger than 36 ones. With that comes readjusting the cable. However, do you really need a bigger ring to keep up? I don't know your exact wheel size, but with 2m circumference at 36/11, 90 rpm you do about 35km/h 

What road pedal system can you recommend? They should be durable (pedal and cleats), have no tendency to fail hazardously and work well (a bit of float, support against rotation around the forward axis (unlike SPD), fast and reliable to enter (I can click into RXS faster and more reliable than into SPD, mostly because the pedals are in a predictable angle. I miss the Xpressos more often that not) I'm especially curious about SPD-SL and Look Keo, since I have no experience with them. Backstory: I'm currently riding Time Xpresso 4. The cleats wear far too quickly to be acceptable (5 month / 4 Mm to get uncomfortable, after a bit more I rip the cleats out the pedal on hard acceleration). So instead of replacing the cleats I tend to replace the system. I had Time RXS before and switched over to Xpresso because the RXS were good while they lasted (~30 Mm) but one broke and caused a near-accident as well as a nasty scratch from the exposed axis on my shin. I hoped Time had addressed this in newer pedals, since others report the issue as well. I realize similar question have been asked, but I still could not find one that answers the aspect of durability. 

I have figured out two options: The less elegant option is just putting some washers on the end of your axle, such that they lie between your locknut and the dropout when the wheel is installed. You have to fiddle with the washers every time you take off your wheel, but they will do the job. If you want to avoid that, you have to put them inside the locknut. If your wheel is such that the bottom of the locknut is outside of your cassette or freewheel - i.e. above your lockring, if you have a cassette - you can just put a washer between your locknut and cone. If the bottom of the locknut is not exposed, you may be able to still put in a washer, but it may block the splined locknut/freewheel remover. In that case, you have to use a part that is specially made for the task, usually called "axle spacers". You can find them on the internet by searching for "bicycle axle spacers", and they come in a bunch of sizes down to 0.5mm, so you should be able to find the perfect combination for your setup. You can put these between your locknut and your cone, and they will leave room for inserting the splined freewheel/lockring remover. 

Two shims of double drink can thickness, one to the right of the clamp bolt and one to the left, solved the problem. I speculate that the clamp had somehow bent or stretched slightly in the crash, so the bolt did not pull it strongly enough any more. Shims increase the pull, so the clamp is secure on the handlebar again. Of course, future crashes may dislodge the shims and cause other problems with the brifters. 

Tie the carry handles of the laptop bag to the saddle rails (the small bars under the saddle by which it attaches to the seat post) with an old inner tube, bungee cord, carabiner etc. The bag itself rests on the rear rack. This would still allow the handles to twist and the bag to move to hang beside the saddle. One solution is to make small holes in the bottom corners of the laptop bag and tie the bottom corners to the sides of the rack further back than the resting place of the bag. These ties would have to be fairly non-stretchy. This would prevent too much side-to-side movement, keeping the bag on the rack. Another solution is to use the shoulder strap or its attachment hooks to prevent side-to-side movement. In this case, when viewed from the rear, the left hook of the bag should be tied to the right side of the rack and vice versa (in an X shape). The left-top-to-right-bottom tie prevents the bag from moving left on the rack when viewed from the rear. Symmetrically for the right-top-to-left-bottom. 

This isn't a mnemonic, but this is the technique I use. For both loosening and tightening, the pedal should be positioned such that pushing the wrench downwards would rotate the wheel forwards, regardless of which side pedal you're working on. This means that you can rotate the wrench without holding the crank or the pedal in place, you just need to hold the bike to keep it from rolling forward. To loosen the pedals, hold the spanner like this and push the end of the wrench down: And to tighten, hold the wrench like this and push down: You don't even have to think about which side you're doing, just whether you're loosening or tightening. On the other side, the positioning will be the same, with the pedal pointing to the left as you face the bike, and you push down to rotate the wrench. If you have a freewheel, you can't make a mistake, as the pedals will freely rotate if you position them the wrong way. 

AFAIK all today's 105 and up Shimano cranksets are Hollowtech II, so when replacing your old you need to exchange the bottom bracket with bearing cups. You need to figure out what kind of bottom bracket shell you have and whether replacements even exist (only BSA68 and Italian are available). They are much better than old cranksets (easier to install, reduced weight, increased stiffness, much easier to remove). If you're changing crankset I'd definitely recommend switching to Hollowtech II, but I would not bother if you don't have a good reason to switch (wear, need for different transmission). I also recommend replacing chain and cassette when you're replacing chainrings - they are, for some reason, the most expensive parts of the trio, and you don't want to wear them excessively due to a worn chain. 

If you ride alone you could try clip-on aerobars. With these you basically get rid of all strain on your hands and better aerodynamics 

There is not that much load on the light - just add spacers or bend the mount as @super proposed, you'll be fine. 

For Shimano derailers, you may be able to find interchangeability information online on Shimano's website, but it's not easy to find. $URL$ has "exploded views" of their products which have a handy "interchangeability chart". These seem to be really badly edited though, as I have found quite a few where the interchangeability is mentioned for one derailer but not vice-versa. I think the best way to get a more exhaustive interchangeability list is to just google the "SHIMANO CODE NO." for the part you're looking for, which can be found on the chart in the exploded view of your product. This comes up with a nice list of all the other exploded view PDFs on Shimano's website that include the same part. You can than order the part that goes with any of the products in that list. This helped me find the exact same pulley wheel I was looking for, however there may be other sources for parts that will work just as well, though they may not be an exact match.