For any Dr. Doolittles out there, when a seagull makes a "cooing" sound, is it more like the "miaow" of a cat, or the purring of a cat? Specifically, when the seagulls "talk" to each other, it is oftentimes in barks or croaks; whether they mean by these sounds "watch out!" or "look at that!" or "get out of my way!" I don't know. But when I feed them bread by flinging it heavenward along the strand, whilst they swoop down and snap it with their beaks, those anticipating a tasty morsel are making sounds, not like the cawing of a crow (Monterey, where I live, should be renamed "Crow City"), but more like a dove, or the whining of a puppy. Is this sound akin to a contented sigh ("isn't this great!") or is it more of a begging sound ("Gimme summa dat bread!")? 

I think there have to be two parts to the answer: If you are in an immediately life-threatening situation where you have to act in order to survive, then the only thing that can save you when you are mentally shaken is training and routine. You can train dangerous situations in a safe environment so that when they occur for real, you know what you have to do and can do it almost on autopilot, without having to think about it. This is an important part of what the training of firefighters, police officers and soldiers tries to achieve. On the other hand, if you are in a reasonably safe place (or can get to one without effort), then the most important thing to do is to stop, calm down and think. There's an aphorism in wilderness survival that says, very aptly, 

Last night, I had to climb a tower at work. When I reached the top platform (about 40 feet up), and turned my back to close the swinging gate behind me, I was whacked on the back of the head. Fortunately, I was wearing a hard hat and was not knocked off my feet. It did hurt, though - without the hard hat it would have been worse. What hit me? A bird. I saw it gliding away as I looked around to see "what hit me" (literally). It was probably an owl, as this was after dark. We also have seagulls in the area, and it's possible it was one of them, too. I wasn't being overly observant at the moment, obviously, as I don't know which one it was - it was a good-sized bird, though. I realized then that the other time a similar occurrence transpired it had to be a bird, too - possibly the same feathered "friend." I had thought somebody had hit me with a rock or a dirt clod (but nobody was around; I looked at the ground below me, rather than outwards, where I would have no doubt seen a bird, as I did last night). The platform is small and when the plant is in operation, very noisy and vibrates. I am almost 100% certain there is no nest up there. So why did this bird attack me? Both times it/they whacked me on the back of my head, hitting my (plain white) hard hat. They were sharp blows that hurt, even with the hard hat protecting my noggin. My question is: why would this/these bird[s] attack me? For fun? Because I was in their airspace? Or what? I have never molested them. I have shone a flashlight on them a couple of times as they sat in their tree. They have never swooped down on me as I was walking in the area, only when I'm about 40 feet above ground level. This occurred in Marina, California, a quarter mile east of Monterey Bay (between the Bay and Highway 1). Do owls (or seagulls) have something against white hard hats, or people climbing up on platforms? 

"9 Out of 10 Climbers Make the Same Mistakes" by DaveMcLeod focuses very much on one thing: how to get better at climbing, mostly from a mental and organizational point of view. The author sometimes gets into rambling, but undeniably gives good and well-founded advice. If you're serious about pushing your grades, it's a must read. 

The job of a spotter is to prevent the climber from landing on their head and (if possible) ensure they land on their feet and on the crashpad. This may involve moving the crashpad (which should coincide with the climber having a secure hold or position. The job of a spotter is not to "catch" the climber! That's something they're simply not going to be able to do and attempting so can only lead to injury. Consequently, the spotter should not be standing directly below the climber. They should stand so that they can push/guide the climber towards the crashpad and keep them upright / keep their head away from the ground. This is usually best achieved by keeping their arms mostly extended, the heel of the hands towards the climber, fingers slightly bent backwards and the thumbs lying against the palm, not extended. 

Walking along the strand this morning in Monterey, I was confronted by hundreds (at least) of stranded (no pun intended) tuna crabs (I thought they were shrimp, but a visitor from San Diego told me they were tuna crabs, and had, as a result of El Nino, been washing ashore and dying down there). Some were still "alive and kicking", but on their back. I gently turned them back over with my shoe, and they poked forward their antennae (term.?) and looked at me as if to say, "What? Are you going to squarsh me now?" They didn't immediately head back toward the ocean; was my turning them over as they were flailing about instrumental in saving some of their lives, or were they goners, and such efforts would ultimately end in futility? 

In an area near where I work in Monterey, I often walk during the noon hour and end up in a meadow that is much-beloved to red-winged blackbirds. The other day I saw something unusual, though - as I walked into the meadow, I noticed a large bird - some sort of crane, I reckon - with a large black snake half-swallowed. When it (the bird) noticed me, it flew off several dozen yards, and then landed again at the far end of the meadow, standing there again, with the snake dangling. The snake must have been already dead, because it wasn't flopping around. I walked toward it/them to get a better look. The bird then lifted its head skyward, gulped down the snake, and flew off. I didn't know cranes or crane-like birds ate snakes, and I'd never seen a big black (or dark brown) snake around here before. Is this normal behavior? What type of bird was it, probably? What type of snake was it, probably? Hopefully not a rattlesnake, because they give me the fantods, even though I've only gotten close enough to to hear one rattle once. 

Well, urine has a strong smell, and rabbits are very sensitive to smells. Too sensitive, in fact - human urine will repel, not attract rabbits and is sometimes even suggested as a means to keep them out of gardens. Rabbit urine, on the other hand, could definitely work, there's a good chance that rabbits in the vicinity would come to inspect what strange other rabbit has invaded their territory. 

Most importantly: be prepared. Always bring sufficient warm and waterproof clothing to make the worst possible weather for the area and time of year survivable. An emergency bivouac sack, a warm hat and gloves weigh very little, and can save your life. Also, something to start a fire (a lighter is not ideal as it could fail in very cold conditions), which can keep you warm and increase your chances of getting found by a search party. Here's a report written by a guy who lost a friend and barely survived himself when they were caught in a storm while climbing in Yosemite valley, with insufficent clothing. 

Where I walk weekly (Del Monte Beach in Monterey, California), I beachcomb for shells, glass, and particularly stones. Most of what gets cast up is rather dull and uninteresting - gray and black rocks of no particular noteworthiness. However, there are always at least some gemlike little rocks of various hues: yellow, green, white, orange, caramel and chocolate brown, reddish-brown, pale blue, etc. These are often well-worn and oval. Every foray differs from the previous (quantity and "quality" of what gets thrown onto the strand by the relentless waves), yet certain stretches tend to have a consistent concentration of these gemlike stones. I reckon quantity is determined by the strength of the tide, so full moon and new moon can be expected to produce a good harvest. Storms would be another factor, obviously. I assume when certain deposits are washed up, it's because the waves are "digging deep" in certain locations on the ocean floor where these types of stones tend to be concentrated. So I can predict in a small way what portion of the beach will produce which type of stone; is it possible to predict with a greater certainty which area of the bay is going to get scooped out based on lunar phases and weather patterns? Basically I'm wondering why certain spots on the ocean floor are "reaped" on one occasion but not on another. Is it such a complicated interplay that it can't possibly be predicted? 

The more common term is "mining bees". As the name says, they build nests underground, usually in sandy ground. The other big difference between them and regular honey bees, is that they are so-called solitary bees, so they do not form hives. The nest is built by a single female, who lays eggs in several chambers and provides each with pollen and nectar. So since they do not form hives, they never really become a nuisance, and they provide good pollination for plants. Here's an article: $URL$ 

Being on a marked trail and staying on it protects you pretty well against 2 and 3, so make sure you do that - no shortcuts or getting creative! But you can lose the trail, especially if 1 strikes. Specific things you can do to mitigate the remaining risks: 

The only thing this 30+ years old piece of climbing history should be connected to is a fixture to mount it in a frame or display case. 

Humans differ in their food preferences. One person loves oysters, another can't stand them, etc. What about animals? Are there any rabbits that don't like carrots? Lions that don't care for zebra? Brown Bears that won't eat fish? Panda bears that turn up their snouts at bamboo? Koalas that eschew eucalyptus leaves? This question might seem flippant, but it's not. If there are such cases (robins that don't like worms, etc.) what do they eat instead? 

I walk along Del Monte Beach in Crow City, USA (Monterey, California) quite often. It is not too rare to see dolphins frolicking (so it seems to me, although they may just be going about their business, with no particular feeling of fancifulness or frivolity as they periodically arch their backs out of the water every several seconds/yards) about 60 feet (estimated) off shore. However, it seems that either I have been very unlucky lately, or this may be a seasonal occurrence. What used to be common is now "special" - I saw one again last week for the first time in at least several weeks. Is this because they would tend to be in Monterey Bay only during a certain time of the year (and not in late spring)? Is it based on a prey/predator situation, the temperature of the water, or something like that? Or is it just sort of a "random" circumstance or "happy accident" that I might happen to see them quite a bit for a stretch of time, and then an "unhappy accident" that I miss them for quite awhile (they're there, but I just don't happen to look in the right place at the right time)? 

What signal? The GPS signal is sent by satellites, GPS devices receive this signal, they don't send out anything. A phone might send out a GSM/UMTS/LTE/whatever signal when trying to contact a base station, but that has nothing to do with GPS, and I'm not sure whether rescue services can use those signals to detect a phone; typically they use information from the base station to find the location of phones, but in your situation there would not be a base station in reach. 

Sudden drastic weather changes Avalanches Being stuck in the cold, possibly overnight, because you got lost or injured. 

Obviously, the 100% figure is incorrect as there have been individual people who survived higher falls. In any case, the height alone is not decisive. It makes a huge difference what surface you fall on and in what position. You'd have a pretty good chance to survive a 20 meter fall legs-first onto half a meter of snow on top of grassy ground, while a 5 meter drop head first onto concrete or rock is almost certainly fatal.