2018-Present NFC East a. Philadelphia Eagles (2017) b. Dallas Cowboys (1971) c. Washington Redskins (1982) d. New York Giants (1986) 

Both the runner who interfered and his teammate (the batter) are out, and any other runners cannot advance. 

Asim Kamal (PAK) '03 AG Chipperfield (AUS) '34 RJ Christiani (WI) '48 EJG Morgan (IRE) '06 SP Patil* (UAE) '14 All were dismissed at 99 in their debut. SP Patil was not out. Hope this helps! $URL$ 

Rule 24.1 details what a penalty shot is: it replaces a lost scoring opportunity. Rule 24.7 tells us that the penalty shot officially occurs at the stoppage of play, not when the infraction occurred. This means that when the attacking side is able to maintain control of the puck after the infraction, and they pull their goalie, and manage to score on themselves (explicitly allowed as a goal for the offending team in rule 78.5 (xi)), the penalty shot would occur at the exact same stoppage of play as the offending team's goal. However, this is a problem. We know that only one goal can be awarded at any stoppage of play, as detailed in both Rules 78.6 and 24.6. So what happens? Does (a) the offending team's goal count, and the penalty shot is not taken, (b) the offending team's goal not count, and the penalty shot is awarded, (c) the offending team's goal count based on the outcome of the penalty shot (i.e., if the penalty shot is good, the goal is disallowed, but if the penalty shot fails, the goal is allowed), (d) the offending team's goal count, and instead of the penalty shot, a penalty is assessed and served by the offending team, or (e), both goals are awarded, despite the rules saying only one can be awarded at any stoppage of play. Scenarios (a) and (e) seem very unlikely. Scenario (b) seems pretty likely, though there is nothing in the rules that should disallow the offending team's goal. Scenario (c) seems to be the outcome most supported by the rules, as the scoring opportunity the penalty shot restores occurred before the offending team's goal. Lastly, Scenario (d) seems supported by a very liberal interpretation of Rule 24.6. Any help or more rules that could provide clarification or shed some more light is greatly appreciated. I've thought about this for a few years and I desperately want scenario (c) to be true, though I suspect it's (b) or (d). 

There have only been 62 games since the 2000-01 season, including playoffs, in which 2 guards on the same team both got 10+ rebounds. In that time, there were a total of 23,163 games played, so that gives us ~0.27% of games. I found this by using this Basketball-Refernce search, which pulled up all the times that a guard got 10+ rebounds in a game since 2000-01. Then, I copied the results to Excel and looked to see how many times two guards on the same team (and on the same day) both got 10+ rebounds. There were 62 games which fit the criteria. I used this search to find how many games have been played in that time span. Here is a table of all the games it happened in: 

The longest time between two consecutive NHL playoff goals for a player is 11 years, which has been done by 5 players: 

1945-1949 Western a. Chicago Bears (1921) b. Chicago Cardinals (1925) c. Detroit Lions (1935) d. Green Bay Packers (1929) e. Los Angeles Rams (1945) 1943 Western a. Chicago Bears (1921) b. Chicago Cardinals (1925) c. Detroit Lions (1935) d. Green Bay Packers (1929) 1935-36 Western a. Chicago Bears (1921) b. Chicago Cardinals (1925) c. Detroit Lions (1935) d. Green Bay Packers (1929) 

1998-2013 Atlantic a. Philadelphia Flyers (First win 1974) b. New York Rangers (1928) c. New York Islanders (1980) d. New Jersey Devils (1995) e. Pittsburgh Penguins (1991) 1967-1970 East a. Montreal Canadiens (1916) b. Boston Bruins (1929) c. New York Rangers (1928) d. Detroit Red Wings (1936) e. Chicago Black Hawks (1934) f. Toronto Maple Leafs (1918) 1941-1967 Unnamed, only conference a. Montreal Canadiens (1916) b. Boston Bruins (1929) c. New York Rangers (1928) d. Detroit Red Wings (1936) e. Chicago Black Hawks (1934) f. Toronto Maple Leafs (1918) 1936-1938 American a. Boston Bruins (1929) b. Chicago Black Hawks (1934) c. Detroit Red Wings (1936) d. New York Rangers (1928) 

I'll stop there since I've covered the "Big 4" of American Professional sports. Source was me going through Wikipedia comparing division timelines with lists of champions, seeing if there was a team that hadn't won yet in any given division. 

There are a couple ways to look at this, but since 1998, the Western Conference seems to be overall better than the Eastern. If you look at this site, you can see that in the 18 years from 1998-99 to 2015-16, the Western Conference has collectively had a better record vs the other conference 16 times; that means the East only bested the West twice in that span. Even in those two years, the East margin of victory was very small. If we look at which conference won championships, the margin is a little closer but the West still comes out on top. From 1998-99 to 2016-17, the West has won 12 titles, and the East has won 7. This is much closer to 50-50 like I said earlier, showing that the disparity between the best teams in each conference is less. However, the West still seems to be the better conference. 

10 years apart has been achieved by 14 players, 9 years by 12 players. Source: Looked up list of players who scored a goal in any year in the playoffs, copied all 9352 player-seasons to Excel, and then queried to see the longest time between consecutive seasons for a given player. Once I had the names, I looked them up to see the specifics on dates and games. Here is the Hockey-Reference list of players who scored a playoff goal during any season, and which seasons it was. If you decide to double check me, beware that some players appear to have 20+ year gaps, because multiple players can have the same name (like Syl Apps!). Here is a table of all 9+ year gaps: 

In college football, we see the exact same thing. Using just the AP poll, and looking back over the last 3 seasons (this data wasn't as ready and I did it half by hand), we see that polls do slightly better in the first ~4 weeks, during the nonconference schedule, and then do worse once conference play starts. The dropoff is likely due to the increase in level of competition; again, this is ranked teams vs unranked teams: 

The NHL rules are contradictory in this circumstance, and do not specify what course of action is to be taken. I know this is a little contrived, but is not a long-shot to occur. Relevant rules, emphasis mine: 

In the NHL, certain penalties become penalty shots if there is insufficient time remaining, but the vast majority do not. The only penalties that I know of which result in this rule are Delay of Game via intentional displacement of the goal posts and Deliberate Too Many Men, as seen in rule 74.4. 

Possibly pitcher Steve Cooke? He played on the Pirates in 1997, which had Florida spring training. Here is his for comparison: 

Sports science actually "tested" this: $URL$ They grabbed a professional sumo wrestler and dressed him up in goalie gear (even managing to put his leg pads on the wrong legs). They had NHL player George Parros shoot on him; they note in the video that Parros is not really known for scoring. This is true, and any average NHL scorer would demolish the goalie even more than Parros did. The fact of the matter comes down to how accurate NHL players truly are with their shots. The puck is incredibly small and can find even the smallest holes when on the stick of a sharpshooter. Goalies need to be agile and mobile, and even when they had two large people in net at the end of the video, Parros was able to snipe the "5 hole" of a mega-goalie. 

In college basketball since 2011, ranked teams are a combined 3933-868 (81.9%) against unranked teams. However, if we break it down month-by-month, we get this: 

1994-1997 AL East a. Baltimore Orioles (1966) b. Boston Red Sox (1903) c. New York Yankees (1923) d. Detroit Tigers (1935) e. Toronto Blue Jays (1992) 1998-Current AL Central a. Chicago White Sox (1906) b. Cleveland Indians (1920) c. Kansas City Royals (1985) d. Minnesota Twins (1924 *As Washington Nationals, 1987 as Twins) e. Detroit Tigers (1935) 

There's no good answer for this because a lot of stuff that, by the letter of the law, should get penalized is instead let go. It comes down to tradition or culture; it's just how hockey is played in front of the net. A lot of this is a grey area where officials see "acceptable interference" vs interference that you would penalize. The rule of interference states that any player has the right to his own ice; i.e., the ice that he is standing on and reasonably occupies. Just because someone runs into you and falls over doesn't mean you interfered with them as long as you are maintaining your ice and not moving into their path intentionally. That's why you see a lot of players get in front of an opponent while skating and force them to slow down or change their direction. This is not interference because, again, the player is establishing body position. 

When two players are in front of the net, they are often said to be "jockeying for position". Both players are essentially occupying the same ice, or attempting to establish body position in it. A referee will let pushing and bumping go and not consider it interference. It in general becomes a penalty if someone gets crosschecked or tripped or slewfooted or otherwise forcefully knocked to the ice. It becomes interference if instead of general pushing and shoving, you restrain the player by grabbing and pulling with your arm or stick. As I said, there's no good answer. Most refs turn a blind eye to most stuff happening in front of the net until it goes too far. 

The worst shot differential by a team in a playoff win is -37, when the Chicago Black Hawks beat the Boston Bruins 6-4 on 4/11/1975, despite being outshot 19-56. To find this, I first looked up the lowest shots by a team to win a playoff game, which was 10. Then, I looked up all the teams that won a playoff game, but whose opponent scored at least 39, since that would give us the -29 difference; no team could have a shot differential worse than -29 unless their opponent had 39 shots. Luckily, there were at least 10 teams with worse shot differentials in a winning playoff game, so I didn't have to expand my search. I found them by copying all the games in Excel (only 416, two pages on Hockey-Reference), and then calculated the shot differential for each game and sorted them. Here is the list of the top 10 (11, due to ties): 

The biggest statistical indicators of a defensive forward in the NHL are going to be some new advanced "fancy stats" that have been taking the NHL by storm recently. The two main ones for players are Corsi and Fenwick, which are actually very simple. Corsi is just a player's +/- for shot attempts, and Fenwick is just a player's +/- for shot attempts not counting blocked shots. We can do a bunch of neat things with them, like finding someones Corsi%, which is their Corsi For / (Corsi For + Corsi Against); here, Corsi For is shot attempts that the player's team took when he was on the ice, and Corsi against is shot attempts made by the other team when he was on the ice. Another useful thing to look at is a player's Corsi when the game is "close", meaning that it's within 1 goal. Player usage changes when teams start to get large leads and it skews stats. Corsi% is very useful at finding efficient players; however, it weighs offensive and defensive contributions the same. One thing you can look at also is called Zone Starts. If a forward routinely gets sent onto the ice when the faceoff is in his own zone then perhaps his coach views him to be good defensively. Lastly, Takeaways is also a good stat to view; whether or not a player is adept at taking the puck from the other team. These can all be found on NHL.com's stat page if you go to "Players" and then under the "Report" drop down menu, select what category you're interested in. I hope this helps! 

This rule means that if there is 1:59 or less remaining on the clock, it defaults to a Penalty Shot, but if it's 2:00 or greater, it's just a minor penalty. The reason the rule book does not specify 2:00 remaining is similar but subtle. In the NHL, any given team cannot play with fewer than 3 skaters on the ice an a time. This means that if a team is already down 2 skaters, and they receive a 3rd penalty, that penalty time does not actually start until the 1st penalty expires. The player will still be placed in the box and the team will be allowed to continue with 3 players. If it's the case that the team is already down 2 players, and receives a penalty for Delay of Game - Displacing the Goal Posts such that the penalty time won't start until there is 1:59 left, then it's a penalty shot instead. 

Centers are trained to take faceoffs as part of their responsibilities, and so are better at it in general. Wingers can take faceoffs, and often do if a center is thrown out of the circle for a violation (such as moving early or not getting set). There is no rule about who has to take a faceoff. Here is a video showing the center getting thrown out, so the winger comes in to take the faceoff in his place. The second violation draws a penalty. There are a few reasons centers ended up being the ones to take faceoffs, though. The first is balance; you want to have the same number of people on either side of the circle. This is so your team can be prepared no matter which way the puck goes after the faceoff. If you have a right winger taking the draw for example, and the center and left winger are both on the left of the circle, then you would have no support if the puck went to the right. So, we want our team to be balanced on both sides of the circle. Then, it makes sense to train centers to take the draw instead of a winger, so that after the faceoff, the players don't have to worry about switching back to their respective positions while the play is happening. It is also important to note that in hockey, the positions are very fluid and not set in stone. Defensemen pinch in to play offense sometimes, forwards will backcheck on defense, and wingers and centers cycle. Any skater on the ice can, in general, play any of the skater positions if need be. It all comes down to specialization, and which responsibilities they are best at covering. It is not unusual to see coaches have forwards change positions throughout the course of the year. Wingers get moved to center for some games and vice-versa. Sometimes, even forwards and defensemen will change positions! This was seen famously in Dustin Byfuglien, a current defenseman for the Winnipeg Jets. In 2010, he won a Cup with Chicago playing forward. 

Note the drop-off from December to January. This is when conference games start, and ranked teams start playing 2-3 quality opponents every week. Overall, the early polls seem to perform just as well as the late polls (considering strength of competition) or better.