I have this fork available: RST Gila T8 (120mm travel option). The 80mm XCT fork on a 2-year old Specialized Myka is getting worn. I am considering installing the fork. Here it is explained that fork travel is not important. What is important is axle to crown length. However, I am unable to find that information. What is the Gila Axle-to-Crown length? What is the maximum permitted for the Myka? Does it depend on the style of riding? 

Here is an example of taking the turn entirely on the outer edge. This has the effect of increasing the turning radius. On the other hand, on slip and the bike leaves the track. 

This is my first autumn. Here are my (quite immature, but nevertheless) thoughts. When one is stationary and not carrying a backpack, heat loss occurs due to convection and radiation. If clothes are used, that are properly strapped at the wrists, waist and ankles, only radiation remains significant. Therefore, thick, layered clothing with homogeneous distribution over the entire body makes sense. Quite different when riding. The torso, higher legs and the head generate the vast majority of heat (which is abundant, as we all know, when riding). For those areas something to brake the wind ought to be sufficient. The areas that need warmth are the joints. This mandates the use of gloves and ,IMO , knee pads. Add to this that knee pads have other advantages, such as supporting the joint that we, cyclists, (ab)use the most, and physical protection. That said, only the scarf remains. It doubles as throat insulation and as breathing aid in the cold air, that a physically active individual inhales rapidly. Conclusion: wear light clothing at the torso and higher legs and pay special attention (i.e. a lot of protection) to the extremities and the (fore)head. 

But really, the first point is all that matters to me. Not sure why all other answers in this thread condemn it. I have owned powerful handlebar light. I have owned a weak helmet mounted light. The latter is much more comfortable for mild trail downhill. 

Also I have heard the rule as 3 chains per cogset and 3 cogsets per chainring. As you see, not too often. 

A little more experience with the bike and trails around, so let me comment on it. It seems that passing through several ankle-deep bodies of water already robs the chain of all it's lube (I use "Finish line" "wet conditions" generously applied). That is, the chain has been submerged several times completely in water. Subsequently, the chain feels dry and grinds specifically. Therefore, my advice would be to clean (a couple of wipes with a handkerchief) and lube (with at least a simple $1 oil from the hardware store) after the worst has passed. This means either after the wet section, or at least, before the asphalt ride home. Bottom line, if you have more than a couple of kilometers to home, and the chain feels dry (it rubs and squeaks specifically), dismount and spend 2 minutes to prolong it's life and make your ride more pleasant. 

I have come to believe that the major skill when riding singletrack is scanning the terrain. After any turn there could be a hiker, a fallen log or just a boulder that you didn't memorize during the last pass. From then on, the reflexes, embedded in the muscle memory, kick in and braking/turning/dabbing/hopping occur. I attempt to look as far forward as speed dictates, and not to get fixated on obstacles. Still, the perpetual concentration becomes tiring after a couple of hours. Any tips on both how to both improve scanning at high speeds and how to become less fatigued by a whole day of riding? 

When I browse on-line bike shops disc brakes are listed as "front" or "rear" e.g. here. I have never noticed any difference between front and rear brakes - disc or V-brake, hydraulic or mechanic. Except the cable/tube length(but moat brakes are sold without attached cable/oil tube). So what is the difference between a front and rear disc brake, if any? 

Ok, I like the above two answers a lot ... since they say what I want to hear. However, here is what SR SunTour responded to my official support request (after less than two hours of the request!): 

The source of the problem was that the plastic body of the screw threads difficultly into the thread. The feeling is comparable to those metal bolts with rubber seal to prevent vibration. Consequently, when I was screwing the bolt in, there was no increase in the feedback torque - it was moderately difficult to screw the bolt in, up until the head broke off. So, firstly I tried to burn a slot in the body of the screw with a heated screwdriver. I got it several millimeters deep, but when I attempted to turn, half of the screw broke off. Next I tried drilling with a dremmel. The bolt is in the bottom of the front triangle, so even though I used a flexible arm (like the ones at the dentist's), I was unable to attack the screw co-axially and the drill bit constantly hit against the aluminum frame. Next I tried a soldering iron. Bought a cheap, thin-nose, 30W iron and managed to remove a lot of material. This was the most successful method so far ... almost. Having done everything possible, I inserted a steel screw and tried to chase the thread with it. To my disappointment, it didn't work. The "nipple" at the frame began rotating, with respect to the frame. The bolt become stuck within the "nipple". Now I need to go to a LBS and ask if they could replace the thing. 

I am on the hunt for new rotors for my mechanical disc brakes, as the old are too twisted now and the brakes can't be adjusted without the disc rubbing the pads. What is the difference between the cheapest possible rotors and several times more expensive "series and branded" ones? 

I do not have experience in the winter, maybe this one will be the first. I am going to try waterproof overpants + rubber boots ОР waterproof overpants + waterproof shoes + gaiters 

There is this trail around my location. Half of it is a rock garden. The stones are similar to the picture below. The elevation is not extreme - one can ride uphill, at the lowest gear. My bike has 160mm front and rear travel. It actually goes over any of the stones without help from my side :) Here is my problem. When I try to descent over them (at some speed) there are times, when the front tire "steps" on the side of a stone, then slides down (and because, unlike the picture, the stones are watermelon-shaped, this is easy, there is no flat "top" to step on). Because the rear end is moving forward, this attempts to turn my handlebars to the side and throw me from the bike. Both times this happened, I regained control, but the look of the "landing", should I fail the third time, discouraged me from descending at joyful speed. It doesn't look really difficult, the stones are arranged at a flat pathway, and the slope angle is not steep at all. What should I do to learn to handle those front tire slips on the side of a rock? Or how should I prevent them?