Use Puncture Resistant/flat-resistant Clincher Tires such as Specialized Armadillo or Continental X-King ProTection. Pros: Widely available, no special tools/equipment/supplies needed to install if using puncture resistant clinchers. Some types of puncture resistant tires have very long wearing treads. Cons: Puncture resistant clinchers can be difficult to change when you do get a flat, can have relatively higher tire weights and are sometimes less flexible and/or harder than normal clinchers. Less effective against side-wall penetration than against tread penetration, but usually still better than conventional tires. Use Tire liners: Either commercially available ones such as mrtuffy or home-made ones such as an old punctured tube or the tread cut from another tire Pros: Normally a pretty in-expensive option. Cons: Added weight, additional difficulty changing tires, can reduce the flexibility of the tire resulting in a rougher ride. Provides only limited side-wall penetrations. Run slime, no-stans or other sealants in tubes Pros: Can be very good at stopping leaks from simple punctures. Allows the user to use whatever type of tire they wish and doesn't harm the flexibility of the tires like some other options do. Cons: You may have to periodically replenish the sealant, it adds weight, some types of sealants form balls of gunk as they dry up, can sometimes gum up the valve, can partially glue the tube to the tire in the event of punctures and if the tube fails for some reason it can create a real mess. Depending on the type of sealant, can be hard to install in tubes without removable cores. Use tubeless tires Pros: Lighter weight (even with sealant) than some of the other options. Depending on the tire selected you can find very flexible/grippy tires. Almost eliminates the likelihood of pinch flats. There are tubeless tires available with addition flat protection that still retain a high degree of flexibility such as the Schwalbe Nobby Nic's Evolution with SnakeSkin or Double Defense. Cons: Requires specialized wheel-sets and/or rimstrips and valves. Requires you run sealant. Tires can be hard to mount initially and if not using UST compatible rims and tires an air compressor may even be required to get the tires to seat. Multiple punctures can release enough air before holes seal the tire becomes susceptible to burping. If this happens it can be hard to reseal the tire in the field. If you are on a longer trip you still need to carry spare tubes in the event the tire gets a large cut or burps so much the tire becomes unseated. The sealant can create a mess when you have to install a tube in the field. True tubeless/tubeless ready tires tend to be more expensive than normal clinchers. Use thorn resistant tubes Pros: A relatively inexpensive option. Allows use with any type of clincher tire. Can be combined with sealants for additional protection. Simple installation. Cons: very thick, less flexible Use solid core tires Pros: No air to leak out of the tire and cause a flat. Cons: less/little flexibility results in less traction and a harsher ride, depending on the exact type, may be more possibility for rim damage when hitting obstructions as the tire is more likely to transmit the shock than absorb it. Are very heavy compared to other options. 

Make sure the light's mount has enough adjustability so you'll be able to correctly aim it. Make sure the light's mount will fit properly on your bike's seat stay. For instance, the seat stay mount for the cygolite hotshot I use won't fit on the extra skinny seat stays on either of my road bikes but fits fine on my hybrid and CX bikes. When mounting the light, make sure it is extra secure, you don't want to risk the light getting knocked into the bike's wheel because it was installed too loose. 

As others have mentioned one reason is to make it easier to installed slime/sealant into a tube or tire. Typically you'll take the valve off, and use an injector to put the slime into the tire. For tubeless tire setups, removing the valve core allows a higher volume of air to quickly get into the tire when you are first blowing it onto the rim. Some types of valve extenders used by people with deep profile rims thread into the valve core threads. Another reason to have removable Presta valves is they tend to be somewhat fragile so being able to replace a busted valve vs. having to replace the whole tube could potentially save a little bit of money (or allot of money if we are talking about breaking the valve core on a $150 tubular tire.) The valve cores should be consistent from maker to maker. 

If you ever need to remove the caliper assembly from the mounts (for instance to change your brake pads) you'll use a similar process to re-align the assembly to the rotor. In that case you would re-install the caliper assembly but only screw the caliper fixing bolts in part of the way and then follow step #2 above. 

It is worth noting the way a stage race is composed can dramatically change the cost of putting on the event. For instance the Tour of the Catskills is a 3 day event but only has 3 stages. If the race was held as a 2 day event a number of costs such as those for officials, permits, medical support, neutral support etc. would be lower. Additionally the sheer number of race categories and the fact all of the Stage 3 races are on the road at the same time increases the cost quite a bit. In stage 3 you have 7 separate fields racing at the same time which means you need to find and pay insurance for 14 moto refs, 7 pace cars, 7 wheel vans.... A more typical Amateur 2 day, 3 stage race composed of a road race, time trial and criterium or very short circuit race would be much less costly to produce than the Tour of the Catskills. One thing not included above is an estimate of any in-kind sponsorship support received. At the very least you would want to make sure you have enough sponsors to provide prizes for any of the fields that are receiving merchandise prizes instead of cash prizes. Ideally you would want to find in-kind sponsors cover as many of the misc. services required by the race as possible. This can have a dramatic effect on the profitability of a race. 

One possibility is to mount the tail light on your bike's seat stays. As an example here are a couple pictures of my preferred tail light (the cygolite hotshot) mounted to the seat stay of a cross bike: 

If these adjustments do not resolve the issue, bring the bike to the bike shop you purchased it from and have them check it out. My LBS has had several customers (including me) experience issues with the 1x11 cassettes for which the ultimate solution was SRAM sending out replacement cassettes and chains. (Although I think in all of these cases the issue was the chain unexpectedly derailing onto smaller cogs while back pedaling on the largest couple of cogs.) 

That is the appropriate tool to open KMC (and similar) style missing links. It is possible to open them with some needle nose pliers but is much easier with a missing link removal tool and you are less likely to damage the chain (or yourself.) 

Likely the brake caliper assembly isn't mounted quite parallel to the rotor and needs to be slightly adjusted. This is a pretty easy process that takes less then a minute to complete: 

20.5" is way to big. You likely want something more around 18.5". There are a number of bmx bike sizing charts out on the net to help guide you. Two examples are: 

Other items you'll want to consider changing in addition to the frame size are going to be crank length, stem length, bar rise and bar width. Assuming you bought a pre-built bike, likely they are all oversized (for you) on your current bike. You may even be better off with a different wheel size. If you were to get a smaller frame and move parts over you would want to make sure the new frame used all the same sized parts. Specifically you would want to make sure the new frame used the same type/size of bottom bracket, headset, seat post, dropout and wheel. Do you have access to a local bike shop that has someone knowledgeable about BMX racing on staff? If so it might be worth stopping by and having a conversation with them. 

Even though you mentioned in a comment that the high and low seemed to be adjusted properly, it still sounds to me like the 'L' limit of the rear derailleur is improperly set and does not allow the upper guide pulley to fully move the chain onto your largest cog. If this is indeed the case, shift into the largest cog and adjust the 'L' limit screw (the outermost 3mm adjusting screw) until the center of the upper guide pulley is aligned with the center of the largest cog. Another possibility is the chain gap is not properly set. The chain gap for the XX1 groupset should be between 12 and 16mm and should be set while the chain is shifted onto the largest cog. You adjust this with the single 3mm adjusting screw located by the derailleur mounting point. Make sure the limit screws are properly adjusted before checking or changing this setting. The chain gap is the distance between the top of the teeth on the upper guide pulley and the top of the teeth of the largest cog as shown in the following illustration from the User Manual for SRAM 1x11 rear derailleurs: 

If that event truly folded because of financial pressure one could assume the total cost of the stage race approached the revenue generated by the race which was likely between $65,000 and $80,000 based off the pre-registration numbers shown for the race on BikeReg. With that said, I can roughly estimate some fees based off the USAC fee schedule, my personal experience with races my team produces and conversations I've had with other Race Directors: 

This is not the most comfortable riding position on the bike but if you combine this with spinning up those hills instead of stomping up them as Criggie suggests you'll find your climbing will improve quite a bit. One other suggestion: When you are out on a ride and there are any more experienced rider arounds, especially any who race, ask one of them to give you a quick critique of your riding. They may be able to point out additional areas of improvement in your riding technique. 

Another possibility is a rack mounted light. Again like the seat stay mounted tail lights, there are lights specifically designed for rack mounting as well as mounts for that allow other tail lights to be used with racks. In the example of the cygolite tail light I use, there is an optional rack mount available, although I was actually able to adapt an old rear reflector mount to serve in this capacity. 

There are many options available to help reduce the likelihood a chance encounter with goathead thorns will interrupt or end your ride for the day. Not all of these options involve replacing your tires. This answer is in large part a consolidation and expansion on the existing answers: 

I would suggest contacting the manufacturer. They should be able to provide you with a chart indicating the maximum allowed tire pressure for different sized tires on your rim. It is worth noting wheels designed for situations in which you typically run low pressures (cyclocross, cross country MTB) do not need sidewalls as strong as wheels designed for rim brakes. This allows manufacturers to produce rims that are slightly lower in weight with the tradeoff being a lower maximum allowable pressure. Your wheels obviously are not super lightweight race wheels but a few years ago people were blowing out the sidewalls of their rims when seating tubeless tires on such wheels. 

Using a 5mm Allen Key, slightly loosen but do not remove the two caliper fixing bolts so you can move the caliper assembly side to side. Depress the brake lever so the rotor is being clamped by the pads and then re-tighten the caliper fixing bolts to 6.0 - 8.0 N.m (53.0 - 69 in. lbs.) 

As Criggie says this is all about technique. You are trying to counter balance keeping weight over the rear wheel so you can maintain traction and weight over the front of the bike to maintain steering control. The main technique you want to use is the Chest to Nose technique where you move forward on the saddle while at the same time leaning forward over the front bars. MTBtips has a short video on youtube demonstrating this. 

There are a bunch of options out there for this sort of mounting, from lights specifically designed to be mounted on a seat stay to ones that come with seat stay mounts in addition to the normal seat post mount. A few things you want to keep in mind when choosing/using a seat post mounted tail light: 

CX is a blast! It is also a 30 to 55 minute sufferfest of intense aerobic effort where your heart will be exploding out of your chest, your lungs will sear and your legs will be screaming at you. Given this is your first race ever, if this is a USAC sanctioned race and they have a pure category '5' race that is the one you want to ride in as it will just be other beginner men. Barring that, look for a category 4/5 or better yet a category 4/5 35+ race. If the 40+, 50+, 60+ race is an 'open' race (meaning any category of racer can enter) I would shy away from it as there will be cat 1, 2 and 3 racers in it. The day before the race get all your stuff ready. Make sure you have appropriate clothes for the weather plus your helmet, your shoes, water bottle with whatever sort of hydration you do, energy gels etc. If the weather is poor consider bringing a towel to dry off with and an extra complete change of clothes for post-race. Again, if it is going to be wet or muddy consider bringing a few plastic bags to put your muddy and wet shows and clothes in. Also, take your bottle cages off the bike to make it easier to shoulder in the race. Day of, try getting to the race early in the day (ideally an hour or more before the first race of the day takes place) so you can pre-ride the course a few times. Don't try to crush it when pre-riding the course. Instead focus on learning what line to take through different sections of the course, how you are going handle off-camber sections, how you will handle run-ups and the barriers, where is there going to be a bottleneck during the first lap etc. When you are pre-riding, if there is a section that gives you problems or you don't feel comfortable with, ride just that section multiple times until you have a game plan for it. As you are doing all this remember that for some sections the fastest solution may be to get off your bike and run with it. While you are doing this also watch other riders. How are they handling different parts of the course? How are they dismounting/mounting their bike? Make sure you pick up your number before registration closes for your race. Make sure you pin it on the correct side. Use 6 pins. Don't pin through the holes in the numbers. Make sure you are warmed up before the start of the race. After you've warmed up hydrate. If your normally consume gels, gummies or other energy food while cycling consume your normal dose while hydrating. If you don't normally consume gels, don't do so now. Show up to race staging 10 to 15 minutes before the start of your race. If it is cold or wet outside try to stay warm and dry by wearing a jacket to staging and discarding it when the officials start staging the race. Listen to what the official say prior to the race start. During the race, as Glenn Gervis says in his answer, you most likely won't win, you might be lapped but that is ok. Go out and do the best you can, don't fret the barriers and run-ups, if you crash, skid out get run into don't panic, just pick yourself out and continue. When you put your bike down after going over a barrier or shouldering it on a run-up make sure you place it back on the ground gently so you don't drop the chain. If you find yourself a ways back in the race focus on the closest person in front of you and make it a race between you and that person. Where does he slow down? Maybe he is slowly riding that muddy off-camber uphill section and you can run it and pick up time on him. Once you pass him switch your focus on the next person in front of you. When you are right behind someone remember pass, don't pace. If the leaders come up behind you don't interfere with their progress. At the same time that doesn't mean you need to stop. Just kind of pull off to the side a little and let them by. Make sure you check your results as soon as they are posted. If you think they are wrong, calmly talk to the officials about it.