It is believed that our sun will become a red giant with a diameter of about 1 AU. When the fusion slows down, gravity will collapse the sun. Since the energy release from the fusion diminishes slowly (maybe hundreds of years for a significant change of 1%). Let's assume that only a small fraction of the sun (10%) is needed to collapse (to 1/1000 the volume) to produce a nova. Would it still be possible for a star to collapse in a few hour (instead of decades)? 

The average surface temperature on Venus is 462 °C. You would need a temperature above 800 °C before you would notice any light. Added: Here are some calculated radiation outputs of the surface temperature of Venus, a 1000 °C black body and the sun. 

It may take a few million years for the stars to find stability in their new orbits. After a few billion years more, there might be spiral arms again. 

I don't know what you reason for saying that, but it is unimportant since the Hubble telescope looks at all the stars. Disadvantages: The telescope will need to be self cleaning. There is a lot of dust kicked up when as meteoroid strikes. An extended manned mission to the moon to set up a large array. 

If the cores of the 2 galaxies collide, I would think it to be very likely that star systems will be effected and the central black holes to join. 

In a word, no. The light path for a gravitational lens around the sun would be too close to the surface to see the star behind the sun. Usually, a gravitational lens is from a galaxy far away so that the light can converge after passing the galaxy. Aside from the sun, do you see any stars during the day? 

Revised: There are several reasons why the sun cannot be part of a binary system (even if the orbit is 26 million years). If the star has the mass of Sol, the binary system would orbit around the point equal distant from both masses. This would definitely show a change in parallax for some of the stars. A Sol size star in a 26 million year orbit (about 3.5 ly) would have been noticed. It would have an apparent magnitude of -0.01. At this distance, the star would be influenced (by gravity) from our neighbouring stars and would probably separate into its own system. The greatest mass that would not become a star would be less than 1/10 solar masses, which would have an orbital radius of less than 1.43 ly (90600 AU). The center of mass would be over 9000 AU from the sun. Since the Oort Cloud extends beyond 2 ly (Wikipedia states 3 ly), a Jupiter size object would probably have cleared an area around its orbit of other objects. 

Actually, the sun, planets and other small bodies are all created from the cloud of dust and gas that existed before the solar system. As the gas and dust collect towards the center, the mass rotates and soon an accretion disk forms (which is why the planets are nearly on the same plane). So your notion of the beginning of the universe is incorrect. It did not start with a bunch of planets (or stars) randomly thrown into space. Also all the stars in a globular cluster are rotating in the same direction; the stars are in orbit in the cluster. Added: Yes, they did have irregular movements. It started with a large cloud of gas and dust, some from the big bang, mostly from exploded stars systems. The particles all had different directions and speed. When gravity influenced enough particles to group and start accumulating is when the mass began to spin (conservation of momentum). The spinning mass flattens out to an accretion disk and planets can start to form (along with the sun). 

It is known that the universe that we can see in our telescopes is less than the total universe. Since we cannot see what is beyond the visual edge, we cannot determine if the universe is infinite or finite. 

The sun is not actually on fire, like a log burning. In the core of the sun, a nuclear reaction takes place that generates heat. Because the sun is so large, it generates a lot of heat and it glows like an incandescent light bulb. 

No, the sun is not part of a binary system. If it was, then there would be a wobble in the stars during the year, due to sun's orbit in a binary system. 

Only one geostationary satellite is needed for some functions, such as TV broadcasts to the Eastern Seaboard. 

The simple answer is yes, because magnetic fields extend to infinity. Your question should ask if a significant interaction is present. My question would be, what is a significant interaction? 

According to Newton, any binary system revolves around the center of mass. For the Sun-Earth system, the center of mass is inside the Sun. I believe most people will then say that the Earth revolves around the Sun and not the other way around. 

The mass will be slightly less than the combine masses of the 2 galaxies since some of the stars will be hurled away. Since the disks of the galaxies are at an angle to each other, the volume would be (roughly) the volume of the 2 galaxies as they collide. Eventually, the volume will decrease (I'm guessing to between 60 to 70%) as the stars adapt to their new environment and the central massive black holes combine. 

If the satellite's orbit touched the Tropic of Cancer, it would not be geostationary since the orbit about the center of the Earth would move the satellite north and south to reach the Tropic of Capricorn as well. Any geostationary satellite can be placed so that a designated city is always in line of sight, it doesn't need to be directly overhead. 

No, it won't work. After all, it is recommended to make a pinhole camera to watch a solar eclipse. What you suggested is similar to a pinhole camera. Why it won't work, is that the rays that pass through the pinhole are not parallel, but divergent. Light from a point source would have (nearly) parallel rays. 

Mount a camera on the tripod and take a long exposure. You should be able to determine the concentric circles of the stars paths. The center of the circle is the North pole. 

The event horizon would be spherical. What is usually depicted in drawings is the accretion disk, where all the debris gather before entering the event horizon. 

Since most comets are on a predictable orbit that has them circling the sun (several times), then they cannot be from outside the solar system. Any comet that originates outside the solar system, will pick up enough velocity approaching the sun to be able to leave the solar system. Therefore, we would only see the comet once. It is unlikely that the comet approaches Jupiter (Saturn, Neptune or Uranus) where the trajectory shifts enough so that it will remain in the solar system. Since the solar system is believe to be formed from the gravitational attraction of interstellar gas and debris, it is very unlikely that comets will be ejected unless their orbits are perturbed. So, there is a low probability of a comet being ejected from one system, another low probability that the comet will encounter another system (after millions and billions of years) and yet another low probability that the comet gets captured in the system. Added: If the object was pushed out to 1 LY and it then returned as a comet, it was still under the influence the sun's gravity and would not be considered as extra-solar. The object would need to come from another system to be called extra-solar. Since the ejected objects are in a nearby orbit to the solar system, they will either return, or travel outward. Think about a satellite with a period of 12 hours. A slight push will put it in orbit 2 meters higher, and will increase the period significantly. There is a lot of space at Neptune's orbital distance, and the intersection with Neptune's gravity is quite small (ratio of area of influence (0.1g) / surface area = ${8.6\times 10^{-11}}$). The reason the Jupiter captures asteroids is because they are in the same plane and are moving in the same direction. This increases the probability of changing the orbit significantly. It could also take several hundred passes before the orbit changes significantly. The area of influence is the cross section area where the gravity is greater than 0.1g. The surface area is the spherical surface area of the mean distance to the planet. Jupiter - ${5.325\times 10^{-8}}$ ~= 0.0000053% Saturn - ${4.703\times 10^{-9}}$ ~= 0.00000047% Uranus - ${1.791\times 10^{-10}}$ ~= 0.000000018% Neptune - ${8.605\times 10^{-11}}$ ~= 0.0000000086%