Note: My assertion that cars can stop more quickly than bikes originated from my motorcycle rider's ed when I was getting my motorcycle endorsement. It was stated that cars are able to stop more quickly in general, and as such you must learn to follow further back than if you were driving, and also learn to swerve around stopped vehicles (in emergencies) rather than trying to brake in a straight line--as you are most likely going to end up on the bumper if you only brake without additional maneuvering. 

You can indeed check by hand, however you will only be accurate if you practice it often and cross-check with a tire gauge whenever possible. Realistically you should always use a tire gauge if possible--however knowing how to check by hand is a good backup when changing a flat, or when away from home and in need of a quick check. As others have said, buy a gauge! A good digital presta/schrader gauge can be bought online for roughly $25 US. Digital gauges are more consistenly accurate, however a less expensive analog gauge is still much better than guessing by hand. Now, once you have a gauge, use it after every long ride on your road bike--or at least weekly (road tires lose pressure quickly, so daily is better yet). But! Before putting your fancy new gauge on, give your tire a squeeze and push the tip of your thumb into the side of the tire. Make a guess if the tires are "ok", "low" or "really low". Follow up with your gauge, add air if needed, then repeat the squeeze to see how they should feel at pressure. 

A potential cause is the alignment of your brake pads. Pads needs to be adjusted and aligned so that the front-edge of the pad hits the rim slightly before the rear-edge of the pad hits--this is called the "toe-in". Improper toe-in results in your brakes very rapidly grabbing and slipping from the rim; this happens fast enough you only hear the effect--and it sounds terrible. The trick I was shown for adjusting toe-in is to loosen the brake shoe; insert something ~0.5-1.0mm thick under the rear-edge of the brake while holding the brakes down, then re-tightening. A second set of hands can be great for this--but you can also just put a rubber band around the pad and tie a knot in it to keep it in place. Your goal is to have the back of the pad slightly further from the rim from the front. 

A trick I often use to center my wheels is to simple install them with the bike upside-down, resting on its handlebars and saddle. Gravity keeps them fully seated while I tighten the quick-release; otherwise both my hands are occupied and I often mis-align the wheel. 

The issues you've identified aren't terribly serious--however if they aren't a comprehensive listing of the issues (such as bad bearings, etc) then they may be understating the amount of work required. The question of whether the make and model is "worth" repairing is largely up to you to decide. Being an unknown bike you should evaluate it on the value it has for you, rather than a broader market value. The specific issues you've cited aren't terribly costly to resolve. You can purchase replacement tires, handlebars, and saddles from any good used parts shop for a fairly low price. A new chain is a small investment, and is a regular component to replace. Overall though I presume your question is omitting some details. Photos and a more comprehensive listing of known issues will help better evaluate the potential to return the bike to a functional state. 

My best guess is the hole would allow a headphone cable to run down the collar, through the inside of the shirt, and into the pocket. 

I think the other answers cover the main points very well, but I wanted to mention that brakes can wear that quickly--especially in hilly environments and/or if you're carrying loads. My commuter is typically pretty well loaded, and my job is on top of a big hill. These aspects combine for fast wear, and I normally adjust my brakes about as frequently as you say. I just replaced a set with ~800 miles on them whereas my road bike (which I ride on highways without stop and go traffic, and carries very little aside from myself) hasn't had to have the cable adjusted in several hundred miles. 

Your main concerns should be your tires, your paint, and (as you mentioned) components like grip-tape and seats. Getting degreaser on these has the potential to stain--so extra precautions may be in order. Typically your best option is to try and prevent it from contacting them, and cleaning it off quickly with mild soap & water if you do make a mess (although soap and water itself will stain things such as leather if you're not careful). A secondary concern is that you fully remove the solvent after it's done. Leaving excess solvent/degreaser behind is a very bad idea--see Rubbing Alcohol below for tips. As for other solvents/degreasers: 

The very first thing you need to get absolutely correct is size. Since you're purchasing a new bike you should expect to spend at least an hour or two being fitted--essentially determining what size frame you need. Once you know your size, don't expect it to be constant between manufacturers. Beyond size, focus on your intended uses. Since you're looking at a road-bike you might consider different features: 

I've been very happy with my Trek Fx (I opted for the 7.3 model). It's a solid and quick bike, plenty of fun to ride, and with a rack and fenders a very solid commuter. I wouldn't recommend intentionally buying a "difficult" bike, but rather just change your style of riding if you want a little more effort. 

The Cy-fi speaker is an option. It is a wireless speaker that attaches to your stem or handlebars and wirelessly plays from an ipod/mp3 player. The upside is that it doesn't cover your ears at all. The downside is that you're playing loud enough other people hear. 

Cyclocross bikes are typically geared for this situation--they are essentially a road bike intended to handle some dirt, and typically are fitted with somewhat knobby tires (similar to your Fischer hybrid) and a lower gear range. These bikes can be considered hybrids with drop-bars in many ways, and will let you get close to the speed of a road-bike while being able to handle single-tracks, light sand and gravel, and other terrain a road bike couldn't touch. Another option would be a more road-oriented hybrid. Your Utopia is more towards the mountain-bike side of the spectrum, and the front shock and disk brakes add quite a bit of weight. I'd recommend that if you're happy with the Utopia you should look at the Trek Fx line of hybrids. They're much faster than the Utopia, but extremely versatile. They won't be as fast as a road bike, but should be quite a bit faster than your Utopia. Regarding your difficulty shifting, it sounds like it would be good for you to go to a bike shop and try test-riding a variety of bikes with different shifter styles. Some shifters (such as STI's) require strength of your index and middle finger; however flat-bar shifters often use your thumb for the harder shifting. 

I've (anecdotally) noticed this effect is much more pronounced on road bikes with drop bars than other styles of bikes. It is quite difficult to prevent on a road bike when standing and pedaling hard; although it has little impact on performance or speed. In my opinion the wobble is mostly a side-effect of holding tightly to the bars while standing and pedaling. When you're really crushing the pedals you use your arms to essentially pull yourself down onto the bike and to maximize power to the pedals (if you weren't holding on firmly you would be lifting yourself above the bike rather than pushing the pedals around). When pushing the pedals and pulling the handlebars it's quite difficult to prevent the bars from being turned slightly side-to-side, which results in part of the wobble. Add to that most of your body weight being rocked from side to side and the bike begins to get that lean effect. Overall it is quite difficult to prevent, and preventing the wobble would likely cost more in terms of speed than just compensating for it. 

Cycling glasses will meet all of these aspects. However, the specific set you buy can range from low-end, nearly disposable glasses to high-end high-dollar ones. Features such as interchangeable lenses (so you can have clear lenses on shady days or in the dark) are nice-to-haves, and can be had even on cheap pairs. An alternative is to have a few pairs of glasses so you can pick the right tint for the day. The right tint is very important--whether you have one pair with interchangable lenses, or several that you use depending on conditions, you'll want to ensure you have a pair for any riding time. Riding without glasses can be dangerous. Large bugs, branches, and road debris can really hurt if it catches you in the eye. Price will partly be dictated by how long you'd like them to last. These will be taking bugs and other debris at relatively high speed, so they will all need to be replaced eventually. Personally, I have a pair of relatively low-end Uvex Blaze's--paid about $30--and they come with clear and medium-tint lenses. They have suited me well, and have taken some drops. I'd expect I'll get perhaps a year of usage out of them before I do something disastrous and they are gone. The interchangable lenses are quite nice--I use them regularly, especially when commuting where I often need clear lenses after dusk. 

Yesterday a coworker insisted electrical tape on his chainstay was necessary, as "[he] gets so much chain slap [he's] literally snapped frames". Now there's a couple dubious aspects to this--but my question is simply: can chain slap result in structural damage? 

The simplest is to look for the "L" and "R" on the respective pedals. Most pedals have them. If there's no indicator which pedal is left and right, then do a little guess-and-check. If the pedal doesn't start to thread onto the crank after about 1.5 turns then try the other pedal. Just remember not to force the threads on. They should start easily, and once started should take little force to fully thread. Putting a little grease on the threads is highly recommended, it will prevent corrosion and keep them from ceasing--and provided you snug the threads into the crank there's no extra chance of them coming out. 

Given a "standard" cyclist's wardrobe (e.g. paddded shorts, jerseys, moisture-wicking t-shirts and socks--made of blends of lycra, spandex, wool, and other "specialty" fabrics) what special-care products are good to have to ensure longevity of the garment and its functionality? I've so far been using a cold-water delicate-cycle wash with a free & clear detergent and line-drying. My only issue is I've noticed some base layers still have a bit of odor left-over, certainly not enough to need a second wash--but presumably due to either sub-par cleaning technique or products.