Given that the wizard, a low level magic user in a dry area could easily create wind gusts causing sand/dust storms to hide their movements from the enemy. Strong wind gusts could also make radars malfunction and damage surveillance equipment. Just those two combined could at best cause a little delay in advancements or at worst allow the enemy to sneak bigger more powerful weaponry into good positions for attack. Defense The same things go for defense. Good cloud cover and fog could hinder an enemy who is trying to advance. A very good wizard could create small storms on top of advancing enemies. The tactical advantages are endless if you can control the environment of a battle. Missile and NBCs(Nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons) Sudden changes in weather can throw off important calculations which can make weapons of mass destruction very unstable and hard/dangerous to try to use properly. Sudden gusts of winds can throw off the trajectory of a nuclear warhead. Even though magic is possible NBC weapons would still be very deadly, but it would give some hope to defenses because even for fighter jets, flying in storms is hard. Overall, war as we know it would be over and it would be even harder to try and gain an advantage against another magic wielding nation. The Global Security(link above) outlines most of the things I talked about and much more. Magical Creatures In my opinion the magical creatures would be impractical to use in war because of the easy counter by another wizard. Unless a very powerful wizard made a magical creature in a military base and it killed all the wizards that could help, the magical creature would quickly be banished. Probability Unless you are in a long range gunfight not many things in battle are left up to chance. At a time when any calculation no matter the complexity is possible by means of supercomputers most variables are found and accounted for before it can cause real harm. Guidance systems for missiles and bombs are extremely accurate and most problems are caused by human error. Side Note If magic was suddenly discovered by more than one nation at a time the war would probably be over before it started. The nation who gained control of the first magician would wield the power to take over/attack other unsuspecting countries with magical creatures and powers that they had never seen. Just like the use of nuclear weapons, the use of magic in war would have to be monitored and controlled very strictly to prevent hostile nations from doing anything crazy. Supreme wizards would be extremely powerful and even overpowered. A storm twice as large as Katrina would cost almost a quarter of a billion dollars which would cripple, if not bankrupt a poorer country. An out of control supreme wizard would devastate economies. And they say that corporate espionage is bad... Edit: 

A quick google search lets you find even more results. So in a sense, we already are hybrids. Note that is not just us: any two species have genes in common. There are two reasons for that: one is that we all share a common ancestor. The other is that horizontal gene transfer seems to be a thing. 

This is a slight variant on the "Caribbean Island" theme. The problem with this is solution is that currents may bring to your island a random zombie. After 50 years spent far from the world, you are not prepared to deal with it. A possibly better solution is to find an island on a river. This has a few additional benefits: 

Well actually a 32,000 mph orbital speed means that the radius of the orbit of the earth around Jupiter is around 621 000km, which is less than the Roche Limit of Jupiter 900 000km. So the Earth gets crushed into pieces. The moon probably too. 

Edit: The basic shape of the harpoons would be something close to umbrellas, which would open once inside the ship. The "inside" of the umbrella would at pressure zero thanks to the hole you just made, and the "outside" would be at room pressure. The ribs can also help to reinforce the harpoon, much as the barbs of real-life harpoons. Concerning the air lock, the things you deploy have something like a corona-shape. Two more things I did not mention: 

One idea is to have your world be a $3$-dimensional subset of a $4$-dimensional space. And your sun (or suns) are regular stars moving along the fourth spacial dimension. We can only see them when they cross our special $3$-dimensional space, and they are invisible otherwise. Since this is a bit complicated to describe, let us reduce this by one dimension, and imagine we want to build a $2$-dimensional world, that is a sheet-world. In this $2$-dimensional setting, planets and stars look like discs. We live on the surface of a disc which is big enough that is seems "almost" flat. What would an infinite world look like? Well basically you have one horizontal line that splits the world into two regions: above the line is the air, and below is the ground. Now what are the suns? Well they are balls (regular, 3-dimensional ones)! We usually cannot see them, but sometimes one crosses the sheet of paper that makes our world, and then we can see it. At first the intersection of the ball with the plane is a very small disc, which makes a nice sunrise (or 'sunswell'?). Then it becomes bigger until most of the ball has crossed the plane, and finally you get a sunset ('sunshrink'?). How and why there are seasons depends on how and why do the suns move, so it is entirely up to you. Maybe the suns stay on the same track and every morning you see the same sun? But there could also be a stream of suns that all follow the same path and every morning you see a new sun. Finally the movements of the suns could be very chaotic, so that some areas stay in the dark for ages before being once again habitable by human beings. If you want to get creative, you could also say that sometimes, suns do not cross our dimension above the ground, but below, melting the rocks around them: that is how volcanoes are made... You could also say that there are many other sheet-worlds: usually they are far away and we cannot see them, but sometimes two sheets come really close and strange things happen, like people and objects appearing or disappearing randomly (or on purpose) by switching sheets. 

If you're looking for a real-life example i'd suggest looking at the first german republic of 1918-1933 and their president. He had very substantial powers to interfere with the entire government in case of an emergency. Through a rather complex system of loopholes and rule-bending the last president, Hindenburg, basically ruled like a monarch, disbanding the government, backing a minority government, revoking basic rights... The position got these powers to protect the country in case of emergency. The founders thought that a strong ruler was needed to ensure quick responses to imminent dangers. You'd just have to make that system hereditary, then you'd already have your limited monarch. 

Orc culture is often portrayed as being rather focused on gaining glory through one-on-one fights and showing of personal strength (at least if the Orcs are a physically strong race), and archery is not exactly the most glorious of trades. After all its rather hard to show personal skill in a battle situation: Who shot whom, can it really be called a feat of strength if you kill someone with a bow and stuff like that- to sum it up: It often just doesn't fit into Orc society, as portrayed by the author. Another reason orcs may be worse archers is an inherent lack of visual coordination. If I remember correctly the use of bows strains a similar part of the brain as reading, meaning that the ability to read means more developed coordination. Of course Huns for example were superior (horseback) archers and most (if not all) were illiterate, but what counts is the theoretical structure of the brain, allowing them to learn how to read. The huns also trained with bows excessivly, as it was the most useful weapon to them, which brings me to my final point: Why should Orcs use bows? Depending on their terrain bows might be next to useless. What if they live underground, were cover is, well, rather plentiful, or in regions with next to no wood? And no suitable animals to make bows out of their bones, of course... So the possible reasons are: