Do not get manipulated by the CC. CC'ing the email to somebody higher up the ranks then you is an easy (dirty) way to make the problem seem like it's yours. Ignore the CC. Be firm — not rude — when replying to bad questions. It is highly unlikely that your management will have a problem with this (as long as you stay friendly). In the case that they do decide to talk to you about it you still have a strong argument for not answering bad questions. You have a job to do — things to get done — and bad questions are a waste of company time. 

Provide some details — if they ask. I would tell them about why it took you longer and about the turnaround. You where able to get yourself back on track, this is something to be proud of. It does show willingness to improve and also the willingness to put time and effort into mastering your job and your life. This is something that can come across positively. A lot of companies want to see how you deal with challenges in your life and career. This experience shows that you are somebody who can overcome challenges, it is positive. You do not need to go into details. You could probably spend an hour talking about what challenges you faced in this time and how you overcame them, don't. Keep it short and sweet. I was faced with X challenges and solved them by doing X things. Yes it took you longer to finish studying, but you learned from it. If they are happy with your work they will keep you. As it sounds to me you are already in a good position at this company and they aare happy with the work you are doing. They are considering your candidacy and they already know it will take you longer to finish. The reason why it took you longer is not likely to change their minds (well unless it was something like you where stealing from the University or doing other criminal things). 

I don't know what country you are in, but where I live engineers are responsible for what they deliver. So if someone dies because I deliver faulty products or knowingly allow faulty products to be delivered, then I go to prison. Ditto if actively lying or conniving in lying about what your products can do, or whatever, you, yes you yourself, are guilty of fraud. As it says further down, if it's a lie, preface it by "my boss says". Never sign off code or test reports if you don't like it. Never. Better still, find an excuse not to present this stuff to the customer. But firstly, get a new job and get out of there, don't wait another day. And find an alternative exit route in case of fire. And, oh yes, if there is a fire and people die because you didn't report the chained-up fire exit, then you too are at fault. I see below you reported it in a roundabout way, but do it in writing. Mail your boss and his boss that this is illegal and dangerous. Do it right now. This is not a joke, these are people's lives. 

The Answer Stick to your guidelines, even if they are absurd. In my opinion gender ratios like these are just a way to make your company look 'diverse'. It's marketing and has nothing to do with actual talent recruitment. Talent recruitment should be about finding the most talented candidates possible, regardless of their skin color or gender. That being said, stick to the guidelines. If it's company policy then you have to go with it till you are able to change it or find it upsetting enough to leave. The Rant Of course you are going to have more male candidates. In most countries — even more so in developing ones — the ratio of men-to-woman studying — and interested — in IT related fields is incredibly lopsided. You can not fix this with recruitment ratios. Hiring woman because they are woman is exactly what gender equality is not about. 

You are the admin and this is a company PC. You can sidestep the problem: Establish guidelines of what may be installed. Do not allow games to be installed. Do not allow users to access internet sites like dating, social networks, etc. You can give security as the reason. Lots of places do this. Send a mail round telling everybody this will be policy starting on Monday. Have a remote way of cleaning up PCs regularly. This way you stop the guy doing this without breaking any law or union agreement and without offending anybody. 

The same as I always do in this kind of thing; walk into the middle and say, now lads, you are getting a bit loud. They are not acting in their usual civilised way, they need a nudge back into the real world. If you let it escalate, it will only get worse. I have done this all over the place, even in loud drunken gatherings. It has always worked. Maybe because I am rather small, female, older than they are... (and because I have the assurance only a black belt can give you). Of course there are limits. I would probably leave warring biker gangs alone ;-) But you don't see many of them round here. 

I once worked at a company where overtime had to be done , everyone did some (even high leaders) and they had a pretty effective way to convince people to do it. They offered free time at higher rate than they usally did. In France for exemple , you can get your overtime paid , or you can have this time back later as additional holiday time. This company offered like 1.5 or 2 hours for 1 hour worked. Free time offen motivates more than a slightly better income because you can't be taxed on your free time. 

You should ask your friends more details about what the job realy is, how's a day at work, details about the environement could also be great. You could dislike an intresting jobs because of a negative workplace. Basicly it's up to you to list what you like and what you lack at your current job, and compare with what your friend will describe his job like. 

Go to the boss and say, boss, I think we need another person in the team. I'm off on a long holiday next year and what happens if one of the others gets sick or something? We have plenty of work to keep three or four people busy. We really need backup. So let's look at getting some help in. There. You've covered all bases and hurt nobody. 

I am the only Brit around, so I do a lot of this. You have to be tactful; Oh dear, there are some typos in here, would you like me to have a look? It seems to work, they keep coming back. I have been doing this for so long that it is almost my second job. I keep a dictionary and a grammatical guide and a thesaurus here and show them the problem, and say a lot of Brits get this one wrong too. It's got a lot better since spell-checkers arrived. When I write something important in German I ask someone to proof-read it for me, and say; I'll do the same for you sometime. As a matter of fact it can be a bind if the students want me to proof-read their dissertations, but if it's too long I just do the first chapter and tell them to extrapolate. 

In general, patience is a virtue. Even if the email is somewhat urgent you need to allow at least 1–2 working days for a response. People are busy and that especially counts for COOs. While a lot of people do read their work related emails over the weekend it should not be brought into account, instead you need to make effort on you part to communicate during the week. If the email is urgent you can send a read receipt with it (not recommended, but worth mentioning). This will notify you when the person confirms that they have read the email. Note that when using read receipts they can still read it and choose not to notify you. Read receipts can also be considered rude by some people. If you have not received a response within 1–2 working days then you should call the person being contacted. Sending a second email within such a short amount of time might come of as rude to some people but calling wont. Calling shows that you are serious about working with them. However, in your case I would call today (Monday). You said that you are expected to start within the next few days so even waiting one day can be too long. Take this next part with a bit of salt... Technically if your old employer already knew that you would be leaving in a few days then they should not expect you to stay longer. They may ask but they can not expect it. So if it is not completely OK with the new company you need to tell the old employer no. Update: You learned a valuable lesson. Just because previous employees where released on a short basis does not mean you will get the same treatment. When looking to switch jobs you need to first make sure until when you are contractually subjected to work before promising any date to your new employer. 

The point of a resume is to get your possible future employer to want to meet you. As long as it is in adequacy with the job offer then there's no reason it shouldn't be in your resume. Even more if you learned a lot and ended up working with a known company ! Be carefull though to keep your resume clear and readable , recruiters see a lot of resume and don't have much time to spend on it. You must adapt your experience to what the company wants. That's the important point. The breaks don't realy matter as long as it's not 2 years of break on 3 years of freelancing. To highlight it you can develop this part more than the others but be carefull , don't overload you resume. 

Yes, actually, but not in writing, do it in person and off-site if you can. I have done this; I transferred department to get away from the swine, and after a reorganisation he got assigned to us. So I left, officially to get some more varied experience. The boss said, what is the real reason? And I said, because I never want to be in the same room as X ever again. And he said, there's something wrong here, four of you are leaving to get away from this guy. I told him some of the nasty stuff X had done to me and many others, trying to keep it light-hearted and zippy. Last time I went past, I saw X had been downgraded and had to share an office (this is as low as it gets here). So it helped. It made me feel better too.