There are some rear lights that have really cool flashing patterns with very tiny but bright LEDs. I have a pair (front and rear) of Knog's each of which has four LEDs but are only about 1.5 inches square. I'm all too far away from my teen years, but my cycling group thinks these are cool :-) 

But most riders would probably think 110 pounds as excessive unless they are very heavy. The ride will be more comfortable and maybe more efficient five or ten pounds lower. 

I use a Garmin Edge500. I upload to the Garmin website, and the site shows a gradient map of the ride, among other things. The grade and altitude measures do have some error. But I can also monitor this during the ride and get a better idea of what various grades feel like. As an example of inaccuracy, a bunch of us who did the Santa Fe century on Sunday reported total climbing figures between 4700 and 5700 feet but clustering around 5300. Maximum measured grade was 16% on the agonizing Heartbreak Hill, which seemed endless. Your gearing will probably make more of a difference than your slope measures. If in doubt, get the biggest freewheel cluster your derailleur will handle. 

So I recently bought brake calipers only to realize they didn't reach my rims. In fact they only go to about the midpoint of my tire. The calipers are similar to these : 

What is the difference between brake cables and derailleur/shift cables? When I look online for replacement cables I see "brake cables" and "shift cables." 

I have a Felt Z80 road bike like the one pictured below. Would it be possible to add disc brakes instead of the caliper brakes it came with? I don't plan on getting a new bike for awhile so I thought this would be a beneficial upgrade because I ride in the rain from time to time. 

I'm relatively new to cycling so this question may be obvious to some of you. When I get into certain gears my chain or drive train makes a noise that I can only to compare to the noise a rollercoaster makes when it starts going up the first hill. (That analogy will either make perfect sense to you or you won't get it at all) It happens specifically when I get into higher gears on the rear rear cassette. What could be causing it to make this ungodly noise? 

Five feet seems to be a popular variant of the 3-feet law. I suspect that's because if you tell people five, maybe they will give three. But five has the benefit of making it cleaer that the car needs to partially cross over to the other lane instead of trying to squeeze by without crossing the line. 

It seems to me that such an extreme position indicates a fit problem with the bike. Maybe that's what you should attack first. 

The Look Keo's are very popular, but until recently they had a problem in gritty areas, because the contact edge would erode quite quickly. Newer versions have a metal strip added there, so look for that if this is an issue. I'm currently riding Mavic pedals very similar to the Looks, but I wouldn't recommend them. The cleats wear twice as fast as my old, pre-Keo Looks, and they seem to be harder to clip into than others I have used. 

The neoprene mask I tried did not breathe very well. A knitted balaclava works well in my experience 

two other things to consider. While braking in a turn is always dicey, counter steering may give you more control. Second, consider whether running off the road may give you a softer landing if you have to crash. 

In my experience the best way to fix/prevent that issue is before you install the pedals make sure to apply a water proof grease like this to the threads. 

From what I was told, steel frames show their degradation with rust while aluminium alloy may not show any signs at all even though it is still degrading. How can you tell if an aluminum alloy frame is starting to degrade before catastrophic failure? How long can I expect an aluminum alloy frame to last? 

It costs about 3 dollars and will ensure that the threads will be less likely to cross thread and most importantly the pedals won't seize or stick to the crank arm the next time you change out the pedals. If the damage is already done you can buy a 9/16" 20 tpi die to re-thread the pedal like in the image below and a 9/16" 20 tpi tap to re-thread the crank arm. 

Whenever I use my CycleOps magnetic trainer (like the one pictured below) my knees always end up hurting. 

I learned for the first time that aluminum alloy frames are said to have a "life expectancy". This is the bike in question, my 2007 Felt Z80. It has an aluminum alloy frame. I really like it and don't want to buy another road bike for a while. But it is almost 10 years old. My specific frame is a 7005 series alloy. 

If I had a single speed instead of fixed gear, I could do one thing that I really miss: Bunny hop a curb. That's something I've had to do more than once on a regular road bike just to avoid cars and it's something I do all the time on a variety of bikes just for convenience. For the life of me, I can't do it at more than a crawl with a fixie. I can shift weight over a pothole or the like, that's not too bad, but getting airborne is impossible for me. The Fixie keeps me off some of the types of locations I rode all the time in college: extensive sidewalks, railroad tracks, potholes, etc... Not a problem where I live, but it would have been years ago. 

I have a large workbench with a bench vise mounted on it. I made a jig from a couple pieces of wood to hold the bike upside down, then I clamp the bike either high or low so it doesn't twist in the jig. This holds it in place, rock solid. 

You can avoid getting your pants dirty and save rotational weight at the same time by not wearing any pants at all. 

I believe Sheldon passed away some years ago, so I don't know whether anyone is updating that site anymore,but if it's Sheldon, it would be divine inspiration. 

Are you sure that such leakage is normal? While I don't know the component you cite, I've never had leakage from components in the over 45 years I've been riding regularly. 

Ride like that video, and you won't make it to sophomore year. As for protecting the bike, you might consider a fixie - most people wouldn't be able to ride it away. 

I have 10000 miles on my Di2's. Never threw a chain, which used to happen on my DuraAce occasionally (through several generations). Shifting very crisp. Do you need them? No, but they work very well and impress your friends. 

In a heavy rain, I just take my glasses off. Hats or similar don't really protect the glasses enough to be worth the trouble. 

I really doubt that this is a diet issue. I think it is a volume issue, and it will go away if you keep at it. Taking off one day - maybe midweek - would be a good idea if you are feeling tired. 

I came across this article that somewhat explains why it is angled. Basically what it does is provide a slight angle without having to use a stem that is adjustable. What it fails to mention is that you can't place spacer rings above the stem meaning your handlebars must be at the top of steerer tube. Too add to all of that nonsense you have to use a top cap that has a hole that is off center to accommodate the angle. It seems really stupid to me but if those extra few degrees of angle are what you need to dial in your fit then I suppose having an angled shim would be useful. 

Today in the middle of my ride it started raining and I could barely see due to the amount of rain on my glasses. This is basically what I could see 

If I understand your question correctly, what you could do is add a thin piece of rubber underneath the rail clamp before you tighten it down. That should have the same effect as using a rubberband to help remove a stripped screw. The rubber will fill between the cracks that have been worn down, previously causing your saddle to slide back. It's worth a shot considering it will cost you nothing or next to nothing. 

Chain wear is objectively measured. Ask the shop to show you the chain wear measurement. It's a simple device that shows how much the chain has stretched. But if the chain is really worn with such small mileage, then something else may be wrong. Even if it has never been cleaned or lubed, I doubt that it could be worn out already. 

Another possibility: if the chain is very worn, you might get erratic shifting. Use a chain checker if the chain has more than a few thousand miles on it. 

I put 40,000 miles on my Ksyium Elite wheels without ever even needing to true them, much less suffer a broken spoke. OTOH, my second pair of these cracked the rim on the rear wheel around the valve hole with about 7,000 miles. Fortunately this happened two weeks before the warranty expired. 

Another possibility is that the pedal threads were different from the crank threads - e.g., one English and one French. Not very likely these days, but perhaps more likely than that someone could have somehow managed to force the alternate-threaded pedal into the crank.