As his text develops, a petit recit appears to be a local contradiction to some paradigm or grand scheme, which can have major consequences. Such is for instance Gauss' (or Bolyai's) 'recit' that the Fifth postulate in Euclid could be replaced by something else; same for Planck when he proposed that black body radiation might be coming out in 'chunks' (or quantas). Proposals for wholesale change of a dominant view are obviously doomed, but a petit recit turns out to be something that cannot be accommodated within the frame of an existing grand recit. It is difficult to disagree with Lyotard that at least in science there is a net benefit. Interestingly, the chapter's title is Legitimation by paralogy and one should bear in mind that Lyotard uses the word 'paralogy' in a Kantian sense [KRV, II] and not in the usual one (as "fallacy"); for him a paralogism is mainly a paradox, a word to be opposed to 'analogy' and 'homology'. Discovering paradoxes reveals that our understanding is far from perfect and for some people that might also be beneficial. 

Classifications are more likely to be conventional than descriptive. So they are also more or less useful. A desirable feature of classification is exhaustivity but is easily obtained by including a class "Other". Thus a most rudimentary form is a series of descriptions ('bullets'), with the last one labelled 'other'. Logic also achieves exhaustion if a feature, that is a predicate, applicable to the whole domain is chosen: anything is either an "A" or a "not-A". If two such independent features are known, on may obtain a complete fourfold classification (e.g. 11, 10, 01, 00). The four suggested purposes are actually two pairs that are not well separated as they are based on something like ego vs. not-ego and plan vs. no-plan, both being roughly along the axis inside vs outside. 

Lyotard's rarely mentions the petits recits by name but a notable place is the final chapter of the Postmodern Condition: 

Just a partial non-answer here: shortly after Luther, catholics and protestants started calling each other 'atheists' and the word rapidly became a disparaging description without literal content. A classic example is found in Mersenne's writings (Quaestiones celeberrimae in Genesim, Paris, 1623): 

Wikipedia entries are easily edited and I would suggest to remove the 'spatiotemporal'. It is conceivable that mathematical entities are ontologically different but they share some properties with other domains of existence. Actually this explains why geometry works in physics and everyday life: we can calculate how much glass we need for a square window. And a map, which is 2D, is useful even if the world is 3D and there is no good 'mapping' (unambigous and continuous) between such spaces. Geometrical squares are more durable than square windows but that is not an objection to sharing properties. Encoding time as a line transformed geometry (historically, that is ) into physics:: irreversibilty was left out but some perennial features of pendulums and the like were seen. The notion of 'cause' is rather anthropomorphic and is used in science mostly as a way of speaking. It can be reformulated with more strict logical means. A good point to remember is that much of logic admits graphical representation (Venn diagrams, etc), so logic does not unconditionally 'transcend' the world. 

There is an unsurveyable amount of writings on The Idea of progress, on progress in general or in some distinct area. Sweepingly, one may be tempted to assert that the West progresses uniformly ever since the antiquity even if the Dark Ages appear definitely to be a period of regress (see. e.g. Ian Morris and his data). A briefest overview is Reinhard Koselleck's "Progress" and "Decline'': An Appendix to the History of Two Concepts (Practice of Intell. Hist. p218-35). The Idea of Progress ed. by A. Burgen, P. McLaughlin, J. Mittelstrass (1997) is a collection of essays by notable contemporary authors. A recent work by Daniel Špelda, Veritas filia temporis: The origins of the idea of scientific progress (Annals of Sci, 2016) proposed an original development which merits some attention and also provides good references. 

No. This is the short answer but there is also a longer story. As things stay the burden of proof would be on the side asserting a Minoan origin. There should be evidence and arguments because minoan culture does not seem to have been different from other palatial cultures. If one tends to see philosophy as set of separable puzzles to be solved by various means then one could believe it to be transportable. Actually much depends about how one conceives both philosophy and history. The debate about the origin was the great affair of the 19th c, and there is rather good recent book From Hegel to Windelband,Historiography of Philosophy in the 19th Century, ed G. Hartung and V. Pluder, De Gruyter 2015. ( includes M. Forster Does Western Philosophy Have Non-Western Roots?, p.141-58 ). In the 20th c. the value of 'origin' has plumeted but nothing significant seems to have been said against the historicist stance that makes philosophy not just a Greek invention but an inherent part of its culture. It was after Homer, the myths and the sages that philosophers appeared. 

Vilfredo Pareto perhaps deserves a mention as it might be argued that from his economic studies he derived a sociology which used to be seen as a philosophical discipline. Oscillatory population dynamics seem to underlie his theory about "lions" and "foxes": Cycles of Interdependence (and more) is online'; the anthropologist Jerald B. Brown in The Wave Theory of American Social Movements /City and Society, June 1992, v6. p.26-45/ offers a brief historical sketch of such society related ideas. 

It is not the case that for every clear cut question there is a 'good' answer: was walking on two legs discovered or invented? Just as the perception of straight lines, edges or corners, small numbers, say, up to 5, seem to be hardwired. Practical experience has given humans a 'feeling' what is to add/subtract, that is, for example, to get from 4 to 5 or to 3. Neither form nor content was first (just like in the chicken-or-egg problem). Measuring is a refinement of counting and Pi is the name of the attempt to measure the circumference of a circle with its diameter; it can be expressed in infinitely many ways, just as any other number. The alternative seems more meaningful when considering more advanced mathematics: many 'inventions' from one domain are 'discovered' elsewhere (eg the Gamma function). Lee Smolin in his Singular Universe exposes a view according to which 'mathematics is evoked', so it is neither discovered nor invented and also it is not arbitrarily phantasized. A more sociological-historical approach would propose that mathematical objects are a specific kind of 'collective representations'. Actual people live in a society which maintains a tradition. In early times observations and thoughts are anonymously 'sedimented'. Mythological figures fullfill the expection about heroic figures, a person who has been the first inventor or discoverer. Unstated contexts and rules offer for late-comers ready-to-use quasi-objects amenable to further perfecting. 

The interest about (any) cycles in human society and/or history is deep and lasting: the wikipedia article Social cycle theory is a brief summary with some refs and links to some notable names. One should note however that it is historians (e.g. Ibn Khaldun, Vico, Korotaev) and economists (Kondratieff) who consider seriously cycles, while no notable philosophers endorse such views. Actually ideas about perennial truth(s) and/or progress are major counter arguments. Also more archaic views about the universe in general are contrasted with religious attitudes that promote an end to history. At a level above mythology the Greek Stoics are probably the most famous example of philosophers who embrace an overall cyclic cosmology. 

Most of what we call philosophy is built around an opposition of the type mind vs body, intellect vs senses etc., so concepts are taken to be the opposite of pictures: they are supposed to be intelligible, not perceptible. Besides this main reason there is also history: christian ideology did not leave much room for schools; also, philosophers are not gregarious nor do they conform to business strategies that use logo-s. Developing narratives around some simple figure or image is usually taken to be a case of symbolism, not philosophy proper. So the Yin-yang hardly qualifies here or one would have accept the hammer and sickle, the infinity sign and whatnot. 

Perhaps one should use some google statistics to find what is hot currently, but some general remarks can also be made. 2400 Years of Aristotle are celebrated under Unesco this year (that is 2400=2016-(-384)), so everything about Aristotle is a really hot: at every level ( from department to world) there will be dozens of conferences, and almost anything could be pushed somewhere. So. Aristotle is hotter than Plato just now. An other point is that in the last 50 years or so there has been a consensus that ethics and politics as understood and discussed by ancient greek thinkers are rather politically incorrect. Historical perspectives on both A and P being are really demanding work, the interest is shifted mostly towards science and logic. For Plato, a yearly “Bibliographie platonicienne” is published by les Etudes platoniciennes and scanning through the last two or three issues allows one to get an idea what is hot. The Timaeus and 'mathematics' are obvious evergreens. Personally I am fascinated by the debate about the so called 'intermediates', a notion A invented in order to explain P. 

(Man as existentialism conceives him is not definissable because originally he is nothing. He will be later and will be the one that he makes himself. So there is no human nature...) Sartre JP L'existentialisme est un humanisme (1946) The translation is mine and I am not sure if it is contemporary enough but the it has been repeated countless times untill the end of 20th.c. An other well known phrasing is "l'existence precede l'essence", retold a few lines before the quote and followed by remarks about previous thinkers e.g. Kant. 

Fallibilism (the wikipedia and its IEP source) seems to be the general case and for philosophy of science Popper's falsificationism offers a good perspective. "All models are wrong, but some are useful" can be rephrased as "No model is true but some are hard to falsify". Popperianism has many critics but this has to be expected as it is more concrete than fallibilism. Charles Peirce is credited for outlining this idea and of course he is another pragmatist (confirming Cornifold's "Jamesian pragmatism" perhaps). 

Perhaps Feyerabend's view can be understood in analogy with the idea of a single Logic: today we readily accept that there are many logics and no apriori criterion which form should be specifically used. Most people however are still convinced that they reason and act according to logic, assuming it is the same one known since Aristotle, even if most of their questions do no get a yes/no answer (but rather a 'dunno'). 

Addendum. Sartre's name starts popping in the last 50 pages of Richard Rorty's Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature (1980) and in the concluding sections (8.3) one can see perhaps a reworking of his view. 

"The starting point of this reflection was most often a feeling of impatience before the naturalness that media, art, and common sense continuously impute on a reality, which is completely historical despite our living in it"... (my transl, ask google for more) Earlier existentialist thinkers criticized (and denied validity of) the concept of human nature; with structuralism the divide nature-culture became a key issue. Barthes' critique denounced in popular form its incorrect drawing by (bourgeois) ideology. All of this is probably irrelevant if the unnamed philosopher spoke English on the radio. 

As early as 1666 Leibniz was able to compose "A Conjecture Why It Seems That Anaxagoras Could Have Said That Snow Is Black" (A II, 1, 4-5). Later, as a librarian, he became extraordinarily well read and knew most of what was preserved from Anaxagoras' views. However his references usually come indirectly by quoting a critical remark made by Socrates in Plato's Phaedo. Today it seems easy to find many similarities between Leibniz' Monadology and Anaxagoras' philosophy. Who was the first to note and/or comment in print such a connection? 

Does being a professor of philosophy make you a philosopher? Perhaps. Paisley Nathan Livingston is a professor of philosophy and has published a book Cinema, Philosophy, Bergman: On Film as Philosophy, Oxford UP, 2009, 215pp. reviewd in NDPR, where you can read something about Bergman's existentialism 

"Lambasting" is not a proof. English editors obviously have been unwilling to translate French rebukes to S&B's rhetoric. The case is open and one should hear both sides, even if one of them speaks mostly a foreign language. Yves Jeanneret, L’affaire Sokal ou la querelle des impostures (Paris, PUF, 1998, 274 p.) is abook length "lambasting" of Sokal & Bricmont written soon after their bestseller. For a few quotes there's a good review. Also Baudouin Jurdant edited Impostures scientifiques, Les malentendus de l'Affaire Sokal (Paris: La Découverte, 1998). Sorry, this is not a proof and so there si no hope.