As to why no arms, legs, or torso musculature are shown, the wiki entry on Herma, which is the name of such statues, offers that: 

The parka he's wearing looks similar to an M51 Fishtail parka (more here), which is based on the parka issued by the US army during the Korean War: 

Not 100% certain and no idea of the time period or authenticity, but FWIW the blade's slightly bent shape that grows thicker towards the end of the blade, pointy tip, and the grip's slight curve make it look more like a Chinese style saber (with an unusual looking guard) than a katana: 

As to sidearms, think clubs and axes rather than swords. Early metallurgy was unreliable enough that you wouldn't know if your sword could withstand getting smashed over and over as you parry until it's too late. 

More of a guess than the actual answer... One data point is the planes being used. The German bombers had a top flight speed ranging from around 300km/h to around 500km/h depending on the model. They were escorted by fighters and there could be dogfights before they reached their targets, so it's probably sane to think of that as a maximum approach speed. Another data point is the extent of the radar coverage. If the map is anything to go by, and depending on the point in time, aircraft would get detected around 150km off the coast at best, and when it's nearly overland at worst. Put another way, in the rosiest possible circumstances - that is, undetected until near UK soil, and flying full speed ahead with no RAF reception committee - a Luftwaffe bomber could theoretically be over London in a dozen minutes or so and over Birmingham in about an hour. In practice, radar would detect the aircraft a half hour earlier in both cases and the RAF would seek to intercept the Luftwaffe. There also is a practical concern, which introduces another big unknown in this back of the envelope calculation. Namely, how long did it take for military staff to trigger the alarm systems in this or that location - after all, there's little point in having sirens run in more distant cities like Birmingham until it's established that they're a potential target. 

IMO don't take "faraway land" and "people of which we know nothing" too literally. It reads like he's referring to Sudetenland and the crisis' immediate stakeholders as something the British have no direct stakes or interests in, and thus not something they'd want to go to war over. Put another way, a crisis involving territory and people closer to its border (e.g. the Low Countries) or those of its colonies might have warranted making war preparations. Sudetenland, not so much. 

(Posting this as a speculative answer, since I doubt there are any credible sources out there to answer the highly specific question in your title.) Until the industrial age you'd tell gemstones apart using the naked eye (and a magnifying glass if you had one). Synthetic gems weren't a thing until recently, but there were mundane crystals like quartz. It's not easy for an untrained eye to tell cardinal gems apart from mundane ones, so it's highly likely that you'd involve a jeweler of some kind to make sure. (This page has an unsourced story of a buyer acquiring sapphire for the price of quartz. I'd surmise it's an urban legend, but it's nonetheless a concrete example of where confusions might arise.) As to precious metals, they were used as coinage because they were relatively corrosion resistant and easy to work, so it's sensible to speculate that someone accustomed with using them day in day out might be able to tell e.g. a brass coin apart from a gold coin. (Plus, gold is softer.) Anything beyond that would likely have required some kind of expert too. (That said, I'm extremely suspicious that you'd encounter many coins made of non-precious metal that masqueraded as gold or silver in the medieval ages. A more sensible problem would have been clipping bits of metal off of genuine coins as described here. They used small balances like this one to detect them.) 

There's a similar account in Women and War by Jean Bethke Elshtain. I can't access the book notes from either reference in Google books, but both references seem to offer a citation for the quote. 

With respect to the Persian king, Encyclopedia of Kitchen History by Mary Ellen Snodgrass, p 427, offers (sorry for the screenshot ... Google Books doesn't allow to select text): 

The author is unknown if the file's wikimedia commons is anything to go by, but digging a bit deeper using Google image search seems to variously attribute the original to a painter named Lindberg, to H Zabatari/Hans Zatzka, and possibly others. Be wary that the sources might very well reflect hearsay without checking or, like this answer, googling. That being said, H Zabatari/Hans Zatzka seems like a better bet based on this slightly more credible looking and better researched source (an auction page for an original): 

Yes. France's Head of State traditionally has had the power to pardon. It was abolished for a short while during the Revolution, only to be reintroduced during the Consulate a few years later. $URL$ (in French) 

Earlier in the 19th, Charles Fourier "characterized poverty (not inequality) as the principal cause of disorder in society, and he proposed to eradicate it by sufficiently high wages and by a 'decent minimum' for those who were not able to work." These ideas and others made their way into more contemporary chatter. For instance In Praise of Idleness and Other Essays (1935) by Bertrand Russel, or more recently The Abolition of Work (1985) by post-left anarchist Bob Black. 

Original answer: Not sure it'll lead to the very oldest such coins, but intuitively coin face value would very likely be contemporary with the introduction of fiat money - because in earlier times the weight and metal composition of the coin would be good enough to capture its value. It's only when you start issuing money on paper and cheap metal that the face value starts to matter. In this spirit, Revolutionary France introduced coins at the side of Assignats where the denomination is clearly marked in plain text: 

It was, in the sense that WW2 removed any lingering doubts on how post-WW1 treaties left (or indeed created) a lot of unfinished business. There still is some today - in Hungary for instance. It also brought to light the need for reconciliation. 

Sex and nudity weren't as taboo then as they are now - particularly since the puritan Victorian days. Olympic athletes, for instance, raced naked. Homosexuality was pervasive enough to have been called "the principal cultural model for free relationships between citizens." And sex practices were creative enough to have left an actual word behind for oral rape. People would not be walking around nude day in day out, mind you. There were some conventions ... that were sometimes turned on their head. For instance by the Cynics: 

The area had multiple claims to fame. From a strategic viewpoint, it connected the Tigris and Euphrates basin to the Nile basin, as already mentioned by Tom. It was also part of the fertile crescent, a moist and fertile tract of agricultural land compared to its otherwise arid and semi-arid surroundings: 

Closest I'm finding is a quote by Henry A. Wise Wood, referred to as a civic leader. Quoting Votes For Women: Woman Suffrage Movement by Marjorie Spruill Wheeler: 

There are two main differences. In Athenian democracy: 1. Voting was direct, rather than indirect through representatives like it is today, as already noted in Semaphore's comment. 2. Not everyone got to vote; only adult male citizens could, and even then not all were eligible. Only 10% to 20% of the total number of inhabitants participated in democracy in practice. 

There's a map on p.2 that shows established, sporadic, conjectured trade routes. I've only skimmed a few passages, but it seems pretty clear the Mayans were aware of and de facto trading with the other two. At the very least one could suggest it may have been like the Romans, who knew the Chinese existed and de facto traded with them through intermediaries. Anecdotally I recollect also reading somewhere (possibly on this site or in a source reference from it) that the Spaniards' reputation had reached Florida long before they actually showed up, resulting in fairly hostile natives. 

I think your question is best answered by addressing an underlying presumption. Namely: your 21st century eyes and your living in a society that considers hate speech to be antisocial are misleading you into assuming that societal norms were similar a century ago. They were not. On the contrary, hating jews (and gypsies) in the early 20th century was closer to being a matter of course than it was to being a socially unacceptable aberration. Europe had a very long history of being antisemitic. The breed of antisemitism that was prevalent then stemmed chiefly from 19th century thinkers who borrowed novel scientific ideas to explain how natural selection shaped the world they lived in - i.e. one in which Europe had subjugated the world. The notion that the Aryan race was superior, as an aside, was by no means a Nazi invention. Given how popular each of science, occultism, and Atlantis were at the time - the theory dips in all three - there are good grounds to assume that the idea was, if not widely held, at least widely spread long before the Nazis came to power. (For comparison: do you know anyone who holds that the US government was behind 9/11 or the assassination of JFK?) Speaking of conspiracy theories, it certainly didn't help that crackpottery like the Protocols of the Elders of Zion were widely circulated, and likely taken at face value by many. (Nor did it help, for that matter, that Nietzsche's concept of Ubermensch or his critique of religion weren't understood by his sister or the Nazis.) At any rate, the answer to your question is yes, Hitler's voters were well aware of his antisemitism. He had written a book full of the stuff, for starters. Anyone opposing Hitler would have been quick to raise awareness of the issue if they had a problem with it. But much more salient, I think, is the fact that antisemitism was widespread enough at the time (be it latent, through repeating Jew jokes and Jew-related crackpottery, or blatant, like the Nazis) that Hitler had little to no reason to make his racism and antisemitism a secret when speaking in public. On the contrary, don't miss that - much like now - being open about one's unsettling or downright outrageous views in politics can be icing on the cake for the right audience. Like o.m. suggested in a comment, Hitler's antisemitism was an extra selling point for parts of his voters. 

I unfortunately can't locate the bibliography section to back the claim, but a Greek text describing how the king of the Medes in Psittakos, Persia, erected a kitchen alongside a clear flame strikes me as a lot more precise than the vague claims seen on various oil/gas trivia sites. (The 120 CE date is weird though since that would be the Parthian Empire rather than the Medes.) This article by Kaveh Farrokh is much more specific, and offers circa 550 BCE as the actual date: 

padded coif $URL$ OT aside: you might also find this Youtube video from Lindeybeige on mail coifs interesting. 

(The maps are from an Atlas Obscura article on Isochronic maps and the wikipedia entry on German Railways.) Here's an isochronic map centered on London from the early 1880s to give a feel of how long it would take ~20 years later: 

Put another way, he was anything but a random peasant who works rice fields. He was well born, well educated, and well connected. 

This article suggests he spoke six languages. This last article offers that Mary spoke the two languages of her subjects and Latin: 

Edit 1: I googled a bit more, recollecting that the Roman Denarius had a long history of debasement and might have made use of fiat-like features at one point. The latter page incidentally contains this passage of potential interest (emphasis mine): 

So, in essence, where Douhet envisioned that the Air Force was the only thing that mattered, with wars ending quickly without much ground or naval operations by basically bombing the civilian population to the point where they revolt and sue for peace, Wever viewed the Air Force primarily as a means to support ground and naval troops. Or put another way the first was a proponent of systematic carpet bombing as a strategy in its own right (and was proven wrong in WW2), while the second was more of a proponent of precision bombing of strategic targets. 

With the caveat: citation needed. But this being Wikipedia, I'd wager the citation needed was added by someone who didn't bother reading the various sources in the page (chiefly the above and the one below). It also mentions a slave as you pointed out: 

It's hard to put a precise date without generating debate, but I'd put forward that Europe took the lead at some point between the early 14th to late 15th century. Several processes were in full motion around then: Medieval Scientific Dynamism Where there was indeed a dearth of books and literate scholars in the Early Middle Ages, science and technology in the Mid- to Late Medieval Europe actually was a lot more dynamic than is often credited. It saw developments such as the Three Field System, plowing-related technologies, mill-related technologies, etc. - all of which contributed to significantly boost the agricultural output. Also worth highlighting during the period are universities, which began to appear between the 11th and 13th century depending on the region. My point here is that it's incorrect to assume Europe was roamed by uneducated peasants only. And the Byzantine Empire to the East was far from backwards, and still interacting with Western Europe. Science never really died during the period. Hindu-Arabic Numerals Fibonacci is known nowadays mostly for the sequence named after him, but the latter actually is a mere example problem he gave in passing within Liber Abaci, a book he published in 1202. Liber Abaci introduced Hindu-Arabic numerals and place value to Europe, enjoyed a very wide success. It was transformative for both science and finance in Northern Italy and then Europe. Being a savvy marketer in his time, he followed it with a shorter, more to the point version for use by merchants. One could argue that it laid the foundations that were necessary to lift Europe out of the middle ages. The Reconquest of Spain When one thinks Renaissance, one usually thinks about the rediscovery of Classic arts and literature. But this is actually hiding the reality that preceded it in the late Middle Ages. Numerous scholars went to Spain to study the very large collection of scientific literature that the Muslims had left behind - particularly after Seville fell in 1248. (Sicily arguably was a major cultural gateway before that.) The Printing Press Gutenberg's invention of metal movable type around 1440 allowed to mass print books. The bible was, of course, the top seller. Most titles below it were scientific in nature. (In particular works based on Fibonacci's book.) Byzantine Refugees Waves of Byzantine scholars and émigrés came to Italy in the aftermath of the Turks conquering Constantinople and dismantling the Byzantium Empire in 1453. They brought numerous manuscripts with them, ultimately setting the stage for the Renaissance. Change of Muslim Attitude Towards Science Depending on the historian you ask, the pivotal point occurred between the 14th and the 16th century. Whichever date it is, what's clear is that the period saw the "rise of a clerical faction which froze this same science and withered its progress". The Tarqi ad-Din observatory in Istanbul, for instance, was ultimately destroyed by a squad of Janissaries "by order of the sultan, on the recommendation of the Chief Mufti" around 1577. 

Just guessing ... It could be the foundations/support level of a former fishermen's cabin, as seen to the bottom right of the following picture: 

It might be the inside of a former "colombier" or "pigeonnier" - i.e. a dovecote. Assuming so, the holes are there for the doves or pigeons to nest. 

The first sourced occurrence of Internment camps, if the wikipedia article on the topic is anything to go by, were the US concentration camps for Cherokee and other Native Americans in the 1830s. The same article also has a few passages on the Boer camps. If you expand the definition to include Prisoner of War camps, then the earliest purpose-built camp seems to be Norman Cross (UK) in 1797, to house the increasing number of prisoners from the French Revolutionary Wars and the Napoleonic Wars. I'll confess that the above two dates took me by surprise. I was thinking there would have been earlier examples - excluding quarantine stations - but cursory googling for earlier internment incidents of Jews or Gypsies, of Catholics or Protestants during the Religious Wars, or during the Crusades yielded precious little to go with. The default course of action before then seems to have been to expel or massacre the excess mouths. There were prisoners of war before that, mind you. Enough of them to see thousands of soldiers getting massacred during the Siege of Acre for instance. But they weren't kept in purpose-built camps - which I take as meaning the camps they were kept in were built, manned, and operated on an ad hoc basis. (Interestingly, the French and the UK agreed in Nov 1797 to feed each other's prisoners; it certainly gives a yardstick of how ad hoc conditions were before that.)