Correct. Logic is circular. Note that due to Agrippa's Trilemma, there are only three things logic could possibly be founded upon: unsupported axioms we take on faith, circular reasoning, or an infinite regress. Or, of course, a combination of the three. Lewis Carroll famously demonstrated that Modus Ponens is based upon an infinite regress. There's no way to prove Modus Ponens, except by one of the three horns of Agrippa's Trilemma. So it goes. 

What you are therefore claiming is that we possess free will, and that mind has a causal effect on matter. Both of these claims are difficult to reconcile with your initial stipulation of physical reductionism. I'd suggest you take a look at Raymond Tallis's recent book Aping Mankind: Neuromania, Darwinitis and the Misrepresentation of Humanity which nicely lays out the problems of physical reductionism, and of superficial appeals to evolution. 

Is there something that renders the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy article on the subject insufficient for your purposes? I don't think you can reasonably expect a summary to be more concise than an encyclopedia article, and still be relatively useful. 

The key distinction between a definition and a simple list of characteristics seems to me to be that the latter would include accidental and contingent properties, and the former is more concerned with the essential properties. So, while the ability to hold down papers in the wind is a property of an avocado, it is not an essential property; on the other hand, it is the essential property of a paperweight. And, as you indicate, if the avocado is functioning as a paperweight, any definition will have to be contextual-- are you being asked about the avocado qua avocado or the avocado qua paperweight? 

is named learning. Hence in textbooks about Cognitive Psychology you find information about both issues. Note. To me the connection between these two issues and your introduction with the dream-example is not quite clear. Probably I missed your point. Please let me know. 

You cannot know whether non-observable entities exist. One can speculate about them, e.g., currently about multiverses. But sometimes one can introduce non-observable entities as hypothesis, cf. the atom hypothesis in the time from Democritus until the end of 19. century. Possibly a later time detects the existence of previously unobservable entities. 

In natural sciences like physics or astrophysics one cannot prove general theorems, i.e. theorems which hold for infinitely many cases. Because verification by experiment only allows to verify finitely many cases. Hence the possibility remains that cases have been left, where the statement in question does not hold. That's the reason why one cannot prove scientific theories. Hence one needs other criteria to keep or to abandon a scientific theory. As a consequence from this insight, the philosopher Karl Popper proposes not to verify but to falsify scientific theories. Because - theoretically - one single counter example suffices to falsify the theory. The fundamental book and a cornerstone of Critical Rationalism is Karl Popper: The Logic of Scientific Discovery (1934) This means: Science advances by eliminating errors, which prompts new hypotheses. Added. Or a bit sloppy, but the bon mot of the philosopher and physicist Gerhard Vollmer hits the point: "We err upwards." 

This is not really a philosophy question, but a question of history. A good, provocative book on the subject is Thomas McEvilley's The Shape of Ancient Thought, which looks at the historical connections between the philosophical traditions of the ancient Greek and Indian worlds, and the background they grew out of. But I suppose that most histories of philosophy will attempt to answer this question in one form or another. 

I guess my interpretation of Husserl is a bit different than yours, as I see your assertion as simply restating his insight. When we say that consciousness is intentional, we say that it is intended toward something; in other words, it is always consciousness-of. However, by doing so, we are making no judgments whatsoever about the nature of this something, whether it is an external object or an internal object (i.e., a thought, memory, imagining, etc...) So, to answer your question: I don't know of any counter-examples. 

I have not read the book in question, but this seems like a peculiar idea-- how would one deal with children, who do not have the capacity to enter into a contract? And, presuming that one signs such a contract on one's 18th birthday, what happens to those who refuse to sign, or wish to negotiate a different contract? And, since the power differential between the state and the individual is so immense, to what extent could one argue that the contract was not coerced? 

The English word value form translates the German Wertform. It appears for the first time in Marx, Karl: Das Kapital, Band 1, Abschnitt 1, Kapitel 1, Paragraph 3, entitled "Die Wertform oder der Tauschwert". Marx states that goods can be viewed from two different aspects: 1) Their natural form - they are made from iron, linen cloth, wheat, and 2) their value form (Wertform) - they represent a value, expressed in the form of money. Hence one should not over-interpret the term form in the word value form. I think one does not need not relate it to the philosophical concept of form introduced by Plato or used by Hegel. 

We know that Aristotle was a student of Plato. But Aristotle emancipated from his teacher. Aristotle in his Metaphysics, Book 1, Chapter 6 and 9, critizises Plato's theory of forms. And also most distinctly (Analytica posteriora, Book 1, Chap. 22): The Forms we can dispense with, for they are mere sound without sense. Aristotle was 37 when Plato died. At this time, both were active 20 years in Plato's academy. I would ask Aristotle: How did Plato respond to your objections against his theory of forms? 

What? You seem to be asking about a hypothetical situation in which people would be more willing to throw the switch (presumably,"more willing" meaning in this case "more willing than in the standard 'kill one to save five' scenario"). If that's what you are asking, the answer is trivial: if we alter the thought experiment to be 1000 people saved (or a million, or all of humanity) we find that increasing numbers of people are willing to throw the switch. Similarly, if we alter the experiment to be, instead of a person killed, a rat, or a watermelon, we'd find more people willing to throw the switch. Or, we can keep it a person, but change the result to be one of an injury instead of death. There are lots of ways we can rewrite the scenario to get different results. But if that's what you're asking, what does neuroscience have to do with anything? The way you framed the question seems to imply that neuroscientists have something relevant to say on the matter, but this is at odds with the content of the question. 

I haven't done any research on the number of citations, so instead I'll just mention some major historical touchpoints. In terms of classical philosophy, Lucretius would be a well-attested example of a materialist; he owes much to Democritus, but less of his work survives. Stephen Greenblatt, the noted historian (and Shakespearean) has recently published a book on the importance of Lucretius entitled The Swerve: How the World Became Modern; I've not (yet) read it myself, but it has gotten excellent reviews. In the early modern period, Pierre Gassendi is a good example; his work made its way, via Ludwig Feuerbach, into Marx's historical materialism. In terms of current philosophers, much of the Analytic tradition is materialist: Davidson, Searle, Fodor, and Dennett come to mind-- but this is not to write off the Continental tradition, either: Sartre seems to be a materialist, at least in his Marxist works. 

Reading Kant, e.g., Critique of Pure Reason (CPR), is a difficult task even for Germans (I am a German native speaker). Often Kant makes very long sentences. Before understanding the text one has to search first in the sentence, to which word a certain pronoun refers to. Secondly, Kants uses words which are no longer in use in German. Hence, even after you have learned German you will not be able to decipher each sentence from the original. In any case, I doubt whether a non-native speaker can obtain the capability necessary for a verbatim textual exegesis of CPR on the research level. I propose to rely on the job which a translator has already done for you and to read Kant in your native language. E.g., I consider the translation of Max Mueller a good translation of CPR. It is the base for the translation which appeared in the Penguin books series. My suggestion is to start with the Preface to the Second Edition of CPR. 

IIT is a proposal to explicate the concept of consciousness by information theory. More precisely, by a mathematical formalization and a prescript how to determine the degree of consciousness of an information system. In a survey article, "Reggia, JA: The rise of machine consciousness: studying consciousness with computational models." ($URL$ compares four current approaches to study consciousness with a computational model. In characterizing IIT he writes: 

No, not really. There is one side making specific claims (in this case, historical and metaphysical) and another side arguing that those claims do not hold up. These things can be debated rationally and logically, and with recourse to evidence; there is no need for a reliance on dogma for either position. (And, it is useful to remember where the burden of proof lies in this case.) 

Wittgenstein famously argues that there can be no private language; that language, in order to be language, must be (at least theoretically) public. I've not come across a convincing refutation. There have been a number of philosophers (such as Rousseau) who have written (speculatively) on the origin of language, although this field is more currently the domain of anthropologists and biologists. One of the complicating factors, from a philosophical perspective, is determining the limits of "communication" and "language" in this context; for example, one could argue that a flower is indeed sending a message of sorts to a bee, by means of color markings and scents. 

From a Buddhist perspective, this is exactly wrong; in Buddhist philosophy, sentience is defined as "the ability to suffer" (which is identical to "capable of sensation.")