Following that data, your optimal protein intake would be something between 80 g and 100 g, but this does not mean that you should skip the gym altogether. On the one hand there will still be neural adaption (depending on the weight/reps) and on the other hand there is still an effect on protein synthesis if you are at 1 g per kg bodyweight (there is a ugly but very informative graphic at the end of the Studies on the optimal protein intake section of the article). 

Yes and no. Doing weight lifting will set the stimulus your body needs to grow (gain muscle mass), but lifting alone will be of no use. Imagine that your caloric intake was 1000 kcal per day (extreme value, just to make the point) while lifting. If your caloric intake would not suffice to supply you basic functionality (movements, keeping temperature, etc.), how should you gain any mass? How many calories should I eat then? While I think that in former times way larger values have been promoted, state-of-the-art seems to be a caloric surplus of around 500 kcal on training days (depending on the source in the 300-600 kcal range). Getting your macros right Another important factor is the macros. If you are mostly eating fats and (especially) carbs/sugars you will have a hard time gaining muscle mass (you will most likely gain fat if you are on a surplus). You'll have to intake protein to a certain extent. There is much ado about the exact ratios of protein/fats/carbs and I will not make a recommendation here, but it won't be too hard to find ballpark figures online. Anyway, make sure to avoid unprocessed foods as far as possible. Don't be too dogmatic, but processed foods are (often) packed with minor quality nutrients that might be detrimental to your progress. Strength ≠ Mass I've talked about how to gain mass. Now let's see how to avoid it. First thing to note is that strength and muscles are not the same. You can get way stronger without bulking. The effect of the reps Besides what you eat, another important factor is the number of repetitions per set. To gain strength without gaining mass, you should stick to a lower rep count. Strength regimen is (depending on the exercise) around 4 to 6 repetitions, while classic mass regimen is around 8 to 12 repetitions. 

However, that's not to say that there's no benefit at all to getting calories earlier in the day. What you eat early in the day can affect your blood sugar levels, and therefore your hunger sensations for the rest of the day. If you eat a hearty breakfast with protein and slow-burning carbs, you're likely to feel less hungry during the day, and you may eat less. Conversely, if you eat badly throughout the day, letting your hunger build and perhaps going through insulin shocks because of junk food and simple carbs, you may have strong cravings at night and be more inclined to binge eat. Also, people may tend to eat more "snack" foods at night that they wouldn't have eaten earlier in the day. For example, the first link I posted says: 

The person eating fast food will mostly gain fat, not muscles and therefor maybe look bigger, but this is not due to more muscles. Having said that, eating healthy and gaining are not mutual exclusive, but you have to consider the following 

(only a rough estimate, just to give you an idea). This is not considering that other foods contain proteins, too. EDIT: 2 g per kg bodyweight seems to be too much. See this article. 

There is a great article of Bayesian Bodybuilding (see here) conferring the results of various studies. They are stating that 

Assuming that with "arms together" you mean barbell biceps curls and with "arms singularly" the dumbbell variation I'd advocate to treat them as different excercises. You either have 

The Rippetoe video is fairly comprehensive, and I use it as the basis of my setup. The bar should feel almost like it's locked into your back when you find the spot. When you squeeze the shoulders together and get the bar in the right spot, there's sort of a groove that forms (or will form after some delt development). I take my grip, squeeze my shoulders together and down as hard as I can, get under the bar way too low, and slide the bar up my back until I feel it lock into place. Then I unrack and squat. You can sort of see me doing that at 1:02 in my video here. The variables you have to play with are the bar position and the position of your hands on the bar. I'd watch the videos you linked to, put some light weight on the bar, and experiment using the setup I describe with various grip widths and bar positions, trying to get one where your wrists are straight and the bar feels really locked in. Videotaping yourself will be very helpful here, as you can compare yourself to the reference videos and/or post a question in a forum. Within the StrongLifts universe, another useful resource is the StrongLifts squat setup page. An even more useful resource is the SL Inner Circle but that costs a fair bit of money. I'm a member and I feel it's worth it, but I can see that it's not for everyone. 

I'm following a 3x5 weight lifting program based off of the Stronglifts and Starting Strength programs. I've been starting with warm-up sets of gradually increasing weight, as suggested by Stronglifts and Starting Strength. For example Starting Strength recommends the following warm-up for a 225 lbs work set of squats: 

I agree with the other answerers about music, planning, and gradual improvement. When it comes to gradual improvement, I would also like to emphasize that tracking can also be a huge motivator. What's your personal record for this exercise? Can you try to pass it? If you ran 1 mile last time, can you run 1.05 miles this time? If you lifted 100 pounds can you lift 102.5? If you finished your circuit in 10 minutes can you do it this time in 9:50? If you are determined to at least improve on your last workout you may find it easier to keep going. To help my track my progress I graph all my workouts using Microsoft Excel. It's fairly easy to record your numerical records in a spreadsheet and create a graph out of it. When you look back on the last 3+ weeks of records and see the lines on the graph moving steadily upwards, it's very motivating. You want to work out because you can easily see what you're getting out of it. The other thing I've used before when running is always giving myself 1 more minute before I quit. For example, I may have planned to run for 45 minutes. It's now been 30, and I'm really feeling like quitting. My muscles ache and my feet hurt, and I'm tired. But I don't feel like I have to quit, I just want to. I think to myself "I could quit now and still be happy with myself. I don't need to run the last 15 minutes. 30 minutes of running isn't bad. I can do better later... BUT, before I quit let me see if I can run just one more minute." When that minute is up, I think "Ok, it's been a minute, I can quit now. But... could I go just one more minute before I do?". Ocassionally I really do quit, but often I find that I'll give myself "one more minute" all the way to the end of my planned workout, and I never do quit. It's that mental trick of giving myself an out, then thinking about just slightly delaying it, rather than focusing on the enormity of what's left, that allows me to keep going. 

The ballpark is something around 2 grams of protein per kg bodyweight to gain muscles. Assuming a weight of 80 kg that would be roundabout 160 g. You could reach this (for example) whith 

They are comparable only to a certain extent anyway, and you can't equate 14 kg dumbbell curls to 28 kg barbell curls. Assuming you mean performing the exercise asymetrically (one arm at a time) vs. symetrically (both arms at the same time), I would not use the total weight, but the weight per arm. Anyway, this is quite subjective and I don't think that there is the "correct" way of doing this, this is rather a matter of taste. The correct way of doing it is the one that works for you. Anyway, it may be advisable to stick with a scheme, because you are likely to get confused if you don't. 

Does "vegetarian" mean "no dairy"? Because greek yogurt is great for morning protein. Blueberry Chobani is the variety I usually buy. Two 6oz containers will get you 28 grams of protein and only 280 calories. If 12oz of yogurt is too much or too boring for you, or you want some more carbs, I might suggest something like this: 

Warm ups: I do warm up sets before I do all exercises. Typically I start with about 50 pounds, do one 5-rep set of the exercise. Then I add between 20 and 50 pounds and repeat, until I've got the full weight and I'm doing my first "official" set. For example, the last time I did bench presses, I did 1x5 at 52 lbs, then 1x5 at 82 lbs, then 1x5 at 102 lbs, then 5x5 at 117 lbs (my work weight). Stretching Exercises: None, really. My research has left me unconvinced that they do much good. Diet: I aim to eat about 200 grams of protein per day, although I sometimes fall short. I often start the day with 2 greek yogurts, and I eat a lot of chicken. Based on historical data, I burn about 3100 calories per day on average. I aim to eat slightly less than that so that I'll lose body fat, but I often fail. The other day I actually had 4900 calories in one day! Well, I don't ignore my hunger.... I'd say my average caloric consumption is probably about 3200 calories. I always eat something high protein (greek yogurt, cottage cheese, grilled chicken breast, protein shake, etc) immediately after weight training. My diet could definitely use some improvement though, as I still eat out way too much and I know that's hampering my efforts to lose weight (and save money)! By the way, I currently weigh about 218 lbs, which is about 10 lbs more than I did when I started Stronglifts in February. My goal is to get down to between 180-190 lbs. I've got a belly that needs to go. Rest between sets: As I said, I rest up to 5 minutes between sets for squats, and about 3 minutes for other exercises. This is based on advice I've read on a number of internet sites, such as this question in the Starting Strength Wiki FAQ: 

Reduce your rep count. As a ballpark up to six reps per set is rather strength regimen, above is hypertrophy (size). Above 12 you are rather in endurance range, but I'd guess, that there is still some extent of hypertrophy. Furthermore you'll need a considerate amount of protein to grow, think 1-2 g per kg bodyweight per day, which would be at least 90 g protein for you. Gaining heavily will be virtually impossible if you stay well below that, which should not be that hard if you don't eat much meat. 

TL/DR: Fast food should not be considered for bulking, there are better alternatives. You have an issue with the categories you are thinking in. It's not only healthy vegetables vs. unhealthy fast-food. First of all I'd doubt that fast-food will have any beneficial effect on the body. Of course, when working out, it's possible to gain some muscles when eating fast-food, but this is not because, but despite the fast food. 

You can read more than you care to in examine.com's article on BCAAs. There seems to be some aid to endurance if taken when fasting before training, but not much else. Effects are minor all around, regardless. 

The Starting Strengh website has a Bill Starr article on the subject. He basically says that it's no big deal and the body will adapt. There's a bit on the second page about warmups, where he recommends doing some cardio, followed by some dynamic stretching, and extra warmup sets on the lifts. Muscle rub is also recommended. There's also a bit about diet, making sure you get your fluids and vitamins, and also drinking some warm liquid during training. He doesn't mention much about equipment, but I suppose that would depend a lot on the nature of the particular equipment and how damp it's going to get. Rubberized plates would probably be fine in any environment, etc. Perhaps another answerer will be able to give more input here. 

After warming up as above, a lifter would then do his 3 sets of 225 lbs x 5 reps. I've been warming up in this style, but I find it really tedious and time consuming. Adding/removing plates after every set, and then double-checking to make sure I haven't made a mistake like putting more weight on one side than the other (I've done this more times than I care to admit)... it just really sucks my enthusiasm out of my workout. I'd like to get my 3-exercise workout (Squat/Bench Press/Barbell Row, or Squat/Overhead Press/Deadlift) down to a half hour or less, whereas with all the warm up sets it usually takes me more than an hour at present. So my question is, is there an alternative way I could be warming up that's faster and less tedious? I don't want to increase my risk of injury by insufficiently warming up. But if there's a way to reduce the amount of patience needed for my workouts it'd be great. Just one idea I had - what if I just did like 15 fast reps with 1/3-1/2 of the work weight and then did my work sets? (That might be a terrible idea for all I know. I'm just speculating at what might work). 

Supplemented protein should ideally be only a small part of your total daily protein intake. There are sources of very good proteins (depending on your diet). 

I'm doing bodyweight excercises for some years now with mediocre results (I know that the results can be way better when lifting, but due to time constraints, doing BWE at home is the way to go for me). To improve my results and accomodate my restrictions I made up my own program based on my experiences with YAYOG and Start Bodyweight, considering how my body reacts to different types of stimuli. Basically my program is a split routine with workouts on four days a week (monday, tuesday, thursday, friday - for what it's worth), dedicating two days to push/pull excercises and two days to core/legs. More or less I will build my program upon the progressions from start bodyweight, e.g. start with assisted pull-ups, then eccentric pull-ups, normal pull-ups, etc. I will do four sets of each progression, the first one being a warm-up set with a decreased load (e.g. 3/4 push-ups) and the subsequent normal sets with full load (e.g. normal push-ups). I will aim at 8-12 reps per set, gradually increasing reps until I reach the 12 reps, then proceed to the next excercise from the progression. I know that it's little rest, but I'll aim at sets of two minutes. Workouts: