Short story even shorter unless your angel is a holy angel and has magic on their side or they are will to cut off those limbs, clothing is your best bet 

Lemon batteries are used in small amounts to power lights in order to teach chemical properties to children. In extreme bulk (in the case of your gift), they could theoretically used to power a small house; imagine free power! It is unlikely you could power anything more than a house or electric car but no one can deny that free power is quite beneficial. On problem is that you also will need zinc and copper for each lemon battery, so you might have to borrow some supplies to find your generator. If all else fails you can make no pulp lemonade. 

There are many fantasy stories of humans living in the world with prehistoric animals, mainly stemming from the classic image of the cave man. Despite strong hopes, this is unrealistic as human evolution has been occurring for a measly two million years. But surely there are ways humans could evolve sooner. Without messing with pre-primate evolution, when is the earliest humans could evolve in the prehistoric time scale? What if we mess around with evolution before primates? 

We have asked how a government could cover up an alien crash before, but the real question is why they would want to. Given that in most science fiction series, that the aliens either outright attack or humans join the aliens, there is never really a good explanation for why the government would want to cover up alien existence. Given that in our own world the government claims they are searching for alien life, why would the American government want to cover up the existence of aliens? 

Here on the stack exchange we talk about dragons... a lot. We have discussed all the factors that would allow dragons to exist and yet, there is a question we have not asked. What evolutionary pressure would lead to realistic dragons? 

There have been a lot of questions about zombie bites on this site. From making it lethal to allowing for an amputation cure. But we have not discussed the primary issue of this line of questioning is its feasibility. Even assuming that a quick amputation can prevent the zombie infection, there are a plethora of problems that come from even regular amputation; blood infections, mobility issues and anemia to name a few. And that's under modern circumstances, where these problems have real solutions and are unlikely to even appear. In the end times, the chances of these problems occurring increases and their solutions become much more difficult to deal with. Additionally, new problems arise such as bleeding out or being unable to do post-apocalypse related tasks. For example, someone missing a hand would be unable to open cans or climb ladders quickly, while someone missing a leg would be unable to run. Considering these problems that exist even with a guarantee of removing infection, would an amputation in the apocalypse be feasible? 

The Serval is a fairly muscular, dog sized African wild cat. While doing research on them for other worldbuilding purposes, I began to think that these animals could make great hunting pets, if they had been domesticated. So I have two questions; one, is it possible for a stone age civilization to domesticate the Serval? And two, if they were domesticated, could they be a viable hunting tool. 

Other strategies The problem with the above strategies is that cold hearted people and loners will not be effected. While those are, in my opinion, the most effective strategies, there are many other choices; 

Let's say that humanity has started a galactic empire, one of the things the embassy of Earth must do is communicate with a variety of alien species. 

While chemical reactions can allow for welding and cooking, there is one thing they cannot do. Smelting. Sure, using reactions we can connect veins, but if we want to mold the metal into sword or axes, fire is the best solution available by a massive margin. 

Cliffs, in areas where there is very little room for error when it comes to grip, ei; cliff faces, having gripping limbs would allow animals to be less likely to fall. Redwood forests, similar to the jungle reason, being able to swing from tree to tree is a valuable asset. 

Is it possible for the people of Alta California to remain independent? What is the smallest change I can make to history to allow for California to remain independent? 

At 6000 meters she would begin to need oxygen and at 8000 human life becomes unsustainable, The speed is a bit more solid and will be the focus of my answer. humans can survive up to 9 G's for a few seconds. Astronauts go through 3 G's during take off, but most of us can live going through 4-5 G's. 6 G's or higher for any long amount of time will kill a human. Sorry for the briefness 

Using some simple physics and fancy mathmatics, which you can read on their site, we can assume the likelihood of the following sizes; 

Recently I have become obsessed with the idea of twin sapient species developing on separate planets of the same horseshoe orbit. As I was considering the technological advancement of this planet, I realized that as one planet discovered space faring technology they would most likely attempt to travel to their partner planet. But considering the way that horseshoe orbits work, it seems less than likely. Horseshoe orbit mean that 1) the planets are only close once a year and even then for a very short time and 2) when they are close the speed change of the planets would make it difficult to chase after. Would a culture with 2010 level technology be able to successfully travel to and land on their partner planet? If not, why would they fail? 

Almost everything has value in the house and if they don't have to worry about other people then they can afford to loot everything. 

The term "race" is loosely used to describe a sapient life form with a similar degree of intelligence and awareness as that of a human. Generally a new race will have shared traits and will be aware of its self and its environment. The way your race interacts with its environment will influence the local culture and how they will use the environments resources to better their standard of living and how they interact together in a social capacity. Race Name(s) You may have a few different names for your race such as a scientific name and common name. The scientific name may be developed from a constructed language or may have been given to the race from a scientific observer or explorer from another world such as Earth. An Earth explorer might provide an alien race with a name in Latin similar to the way we name new fauna and flora species. Classification - Created or Evolved? One of the first questions to consider when creating a new race, is how did it come about? Was it created through intelligent design by a creature with greater knowledge such as a God or scientist or did it evolve from another species? When using the former, the sky is the limit, but the latter employs limitations that help with realism. Personality Traits Shared personality traits of a race are usually generalizations. Personality traits could develop as result of environmental factors or through genetics. If your race is separated into distinct groups geographically, this may result in clans or tribes having different personality traits depending on experience, interaction with local ecosystems and other environmental influences. For example, human can be described as exploring, emotional, greedy and ambitious. Physical Description This characteristic is often best visualized through graphic art but not all writers can draw, you might be a spoon like me who cannot draw living things. The written physical description you provide for your race should include the shared characteristics between all clans or tribes no matter the location. If your race is subject to a varied physical form depending on genetics or environmental factors, you may want to create a list of the different physical attributes and the reasons. Considering common clothing may help defines the races culture. Clans / Tribes Clans and tribes are usually differentiated by location. Each location will have different environmental factors that could trigger inter-racial differences: physical, emotional and intelligent. Consider how your clans and tribes communicate, have there been any racial customs that may have been adopted by other clans of the same race through marriage, trade relations or invasion? What are the cultural or physical differences between each clan or tribe? Consider the human race, which can be divided in the sub races of Negro, Caucasian, Oriental, Australoid and Aboriginal. Relations What relationships does your race have with other sapient lifeforms that may exist on your fantasy world? How has this effected your race's society? How does your race interact with each other? Are there any social customs that are worthy of noting? History The history of your race may begin prior to the your fantasy world if the race has migrated from another world or it may have begun many billions of years after your world came into existence. When you first begin fleshing out this section of your template, jotting ideas down in bullet points is good start. You can later develop these ideas as part of your world building or story. While not necessary, this will help the feel of the race. Race Lands If you race has migrated across your fantasy world, consider showing the origins of your race on your world map You may want to include the path(s) of migration as well as the current civilizations. If designing a evolved creature, this will also help realism and if designing a created creature, this will determine their holy land. Religion What are the core beliefs and values of your race? Are there divisions in your race based on religion or is the racial culture unified in its belief on origin and spirituality? Does your race worship a single Deity? Religion can have a large effect on social relations, technological advancement and social values and norms, as well as shared personality traits. Languages If your race is the only sapient race upon your fantasy world and it is divided into clans or tribes in different geographic regions it may have quite a diverse linguistic culture. In fantasy settings and especially in role-play games a common language shared by multiple races who co-exist together is a common characteristic. Each race may still has its own language and characters are often able to speak more than one language depending on their experience. Common First Names If you have constructed a Conlang for your race, you might draw common first names and surnames from its dictionary especially names that pertain to fauna and flora which could be adopted for characters. Your races religion(s) can also provide a source for first names as too can the history of your fantasy world. Popular first names may change over the course of time. Using a first name in a repetitive fashion for characters of a certain generation would mirror the use of first names in our own human culture however, it may make the story harder to convey and your readers might get confused. Common Family Names The origin of family names in our own societies are often derived from a position or role that a family may have within a community. The surname "Wells" for instance is thought to have been provided to families who were well diggers by trade. Surnames are not necessarily required in small populations but as a population grows it may become a requirement so that people can be told part. Sometimes a surname may also originate from the description of where a person hailed from, for instance, Alex Von Appleston might have been used to describe Alex who came from the small hamlet name Appleston. Race Speed / Physical Strengths If your story or geofiction contains combat or use of physical strength then it is important to keep a note of your race's limitations. How fast can they move / run? How high can they jump? How much weight can they lift? You may want to include two sets of figures, one for averages and the other for extreme abilities. Level of Advancement A race could advance to become a super race only if the physical, spiritual and mental capabilities of your race allow it. A race without magical powers may find it difficult to advance in experience or better themselves if the world around them required the use of magical abilities. The degree of racial intelligence are also factors limiting advancement. Civilizations What civilizations is your Race responsible for nurturing or helping to build up? What part did the race play in the civilizations creation, growth and demise? Are there any significant cultural advances that your race has helped to create? Population statistics Include the population statistics on your map for your fantasy race. The size of the population and ability to socially network with other races can influence the diversity of the culture and sub-cultures of your race. The above template may also be useful for capturing key information for other fantasy races who are not unique to your fantasy world but a variation to the norm. You can be as detailed as you like with the description of each aspect or come back to build upon the characteristics as you develop your story. Once you have fleshed out the characteristics for your race, refer to the race template when designing and writing about your characters. Optional Magic Ability and Powers Not all races require to have magical abilities or powers in a fantasy world. The ability to wield magic may have a positive or negative effect on a race. It can build a race up to become powerful both politically and physically or it can cause a race to become outcast. Keep a detailed list of the magic and power abilities of your race if you decide to include magic and power in your world. Does everyone in the race inherit the same special abilities or are only a selection of powers inherited through genes? Do the number or strength of special abilities increase or decrease with experience and age? You might choose to restrict magic or powers to people who are in a certain profession or who worship a particular deity. Shamelessly taken from here