In other words, in laboratory experiments, there were more would-be Robin Hoods in the lower class. And finally, it's not even the case that all laboratory experiments managed to reproduce the effect of social class (of the subject) on prosociality. There's another Dutch study (the one from which I quoted about the effect of the target class actually) that failed to replicate the effect of social class of the subject on prosociality, which may hint at the possibility of a cultural/regional effect as well. Also, another failure to replicate a direct link is noted in a UK study which proposes instead that 

It's referring to the Douma attack on April 7. Most likely chemical weapons were involved. According to the WHO: 

Since someone asked about women, I could not find a paper using the same criteria as Montagu, but assuming that death by violence was less likely for women, and (given the results about men above) assuming we can take about any period before 1900 as an equally good sampling time... Rowbotham and Clayton (2008) did find lower life expectancy at age 5 for women than for men during mid-Victorian times, an inversion of the situation today, but again the difference was small: 

So, Jameson's own explanation points to one of the more common risk factors (pregnancy)... even though not all reviews agree that the link is convincing. The other Twitter explanations point out to even less discussed causes (STDs, "too much sex"), but that doesn't necessarily mean they are false. It's impossible to diagnose someone post-hoc and say "this caused that in subject X" unless you can remove "this" and obtain a cure/reduction for "that". Neither of the reviews I mentioned above discuss STDs (or too much sex, or even sex work) as a possible cause... which doesn't mean it can't be one, just that probably it isn't a common one nowadays in the general population. I tried to find some studies/data on SUI in sex workers, but insofar, no luck with that. 

So it depends how you interpret the statement "The theory that [depression is] caused by chemical imbalances is false." If you interpret it as "serotonin depletion doesn't cause depression in anyone", that's obviously false. If you interpret it as "serotonin depletion doesn't cause depression in everyone", then it may be true. Not all limitations of ATD are understood though; see Young's review for details. 

As for the hypothesis that (too much) sex is causing SUI, coital incontinence (CI) probably deserves a mention in this context, although "too much" (sex) means something else here, namely that in women predisposed to penetrative CI, deep penetration may trigger it. Penetrative CI is associated with (other forms of) SUI more than the orgasmic CI variant is; the etiology and pathophysiology of orgasmic CI are more controversial. The (previously linked) review I in which I found this info, doesn't mention the frequency of sexual encounters as a factor for either form of CI (or for SUI). So it's probably fair to assume there's no known link. 

So, to draw a conclusion from all this, it looks like the effect of fully discharging a Li-ion battery (of various chemistries) is fairly negligible for consumer electronics. BU is technically correct that Li-ion batteries (like most rechargeables) will lose less capacity per cycle when not fully discharged, but this loss is pretty small for Li-ion batteries at the usual room temperature for consumer electronics, which is the gist of the paper cited by AccuBattery; the latter site exaggerates their finding by claiming the effect is zero, which appears not to be the case based on data from studies that allow better estimation of the small effect. Furthermore, a cycle with a smaller state-of-charge window also yields less energy, which further reduces the effect of full charge-discharge cycles if one considers energy throughput rather than cycle numbers. 

These findings are corroborated by a 1986 review paper that mentions that of all recorded cases (till then) of jumping from the Golden Gate bridge (250 feet high), all cases of survival landed feet first. The mortality rate was 100% for striking the water with the body horizontal. 

That kind of fraud can be done with pork-belly futures, by the way, there's nothing crypto-currency specific to it. There is one kind of more technological fraud related to bitcoin: 

As you can probably guess from the above, the picture is particularly skewed in China; Bárány and Grigonytė have this visual comparison: 

I managed to find however the 1998 paper of Schmidt and Hunter. In that paper, job experience is simply the number of years in the workforce, so there's little surprise it doesn't correlate well with performance. Judging by a quick search, it seems more recent research has been using "prior related work experience" (PRWE), which makes more "duh"/intuitive sense. Alas with even this latter measure there's been wide variance in the degree of association with job performance as reported by various studies, according to the brief summary I found in a Uppal et al. (2014). 

Remains to be seen if this holds up to more scrutiny. CBS has more recent (2017) take on this, which mentions that the trial that led to FDA approval wasn't a blind trial: 

For a summary of opposing economists' views see John, Arielle and Storr, Virgil Henry, Can the West Help the Rest? A Review Essay of Sachs’ the End of Poverty and Easterly’s the White Man’s Burden (January 1, 2009). The Journal of Private Enterprise, Vol. 25, No. 1, pp. 125-140, 2009. As most the most extensive opposition comes from Easterly's book, I'll quote some passages summarizing that: 

(Emphasis in original.) This is consistent with other/prior research, which may not have controlled for as many potential confounding variables, but is usually easier to present, e.g. also quoting from Wikipedia: 

The Dutch coal mistake is supposedly goig to be rectified by 2030, according to the latest news using the more traditional means of closing plants down, which is basically a capping scheme. And the UK's is more or less a repeat of the Norway story (except for the exports bit): 

So we may have further details in the future. Obviously, the US, UK and France held Bashar responsible since they struck at his chemical weapons sites in response, last night, as detailed in the previous BBC link. 

The reason for age squared in the model is that very old and very young people don't get arrested as much as the middle aged. The "age" variable above is also centered at age 16, i.e. age = 0 means 16-years old. The fact that prior marijuana but not "hard drug" use was significant is explained by the authors as the (prior) arrests being mostly for marijuana possession. And they further note that this is by design of the "War on Drugs", which intended to hold all drug offenders accountable... the majority of which turned out to be marijuana possessors. However the main finding, quoting the study's authors, is that 

(Click to enlarge) At one setting the voltage is only 1.5V, at the other end it is 7.5V, but with a large series resistor (>100Kohm). I've heard of exceptional cases where people have died from 12V car batteries, but not from 1.5V. For a human body immersed in water, which greatly lowers skin resitance, the typical figure for whole body resistance is 300 ohms, so 30 V is given in that paper as the voltage needed to cause ventricular fibrilation in water. Granted, skin puncture may lower than even further, but how much further? Another paper claims that 

I tried to find if Huawei has a similar practice with the Chinese government, but I couldn't find specifics. The closest thing to direct/mass surveillance from a Chines company is probably the more recent (2016) case of Adups: 

There have been some attempts to estimate the number of IDPs for [some] past conflicts published in the World Refugee Survey of the U.S. Committee for Refugees and Immigrants, but these numbers have been called into question by other scholars, e.g. quoting an article published on the World Peace Foundation's website: 

The latter is because electric motors' rotor and stator are made of (electrically isolated) stamped laminates (making them of one block is a no-no because of Eddy current losses). They also talk extensively about the battery in EVs and what makes it expensive. They do note that currently there's a substantial overhead of assembling the Bolt battery pack (in Bolt is made of 288 pouches): 

That Wikipedia page doesn't say much about risk factors though, except for obesity... However there are several review papers in pubmed which discuss these. A 2004 review said in its abstract: 

It's hard to prove a negative, but in 2012 Reuters reported that a US classified investigation was leaked, and it said no evidence was found: 

Drag (thus velocity) could not be determined (by Snyder) in either case though. After a bit more searching, I think the first case refers to that of Cliff Judkins who suffered a streamer in 1963. Given that falling a mere 59 meters (~193 feet) into water has a mortality rate of 85%, it's probably not a good idea to try this yourself though. As it was correctly pointed out in the comments below, this statistic is based suicide attempts... ... and it turns out that if you do find yourself free falling over water, Snyder found that body posture upon entering the water is a key factor in survival. His study included survivors only; although the majority of the cases were suicide attempts as well, a few accidental falls were included. He found 

As examples, they give for American Roulette Gu = 35 and Gm = -1/74 and G0 is -1/37 assuming the beginner won't play a simple strategy, which gives a skill of 0.0004. If the beginner does play a simple strategy like just red/black, then the skill is 0 (there's nothing more to be learned about Roulette than that). Using computer simulation, for Blackjack they determined Gm = 0.11, Gu = 27, and take G0 = -0.057 for a "mimic the dealer" beginner strategy, which gives a skill of 0.002. Unfortunately, this metric is difficult to calculate for more interesting games, like any full-fledged poker variant. Several papers have calculated this skill value for simplified versions of poker. 

From another angle, as of 2017, there are 445 RTAs (regional trade agreements) active as reported to the WTO. The chances that only 10% of the world trade happens in these seem astonishingly low, although WTO doesn't give a figure. They do however give a map of the countries with the number of RTAs they participate in. There are only 4 countries in Africa that participate in no RTAs at all. We also know that approximately half of world trade happens under preferential tariffs, but this isn't all that helpful because WTO itself allows such under GSP. 

After a bit more searching, it turned out that the first part of the statement is in even more serious doubt, from "The influence of physical body traits and masculinity on anal sex roles in gay and bisexual men" (which has summary for laymen in a Vice article), about half of the sample (N=429) identified as versatile, and approximately one quarter as top and respectively bottom, however the self-identification wasn't always concordant with penetrative behavior: 

There is one recent review of funding in this area. Unfortunately it doesn't report any totals. Using its supplementary data I've quickly calculated the US funding to be about $900M and the EU funding to 1.4B+3.2B, but the latter 3.2B is for clinical trials support, so I'll leave it out... in estimating the number of grants. I'll use the US average grant value of about $400k/grant. That would give us 2,250 US grants and 3,500 EU grants. So, these would definitely support more than 500 researchers (even if we just count the PIs). As the review notes however, most of the projects funded are preclinical research... and the quick-and-dirty total figures (I came up with) aren't all that impresive considering the ~$700M bill for pushing a single new antibiotic to market. 

The confidence level for the effect of temperature on subjective hunger observed (P = 0.064) makes the effect questionable, of course. The authors didn't even mention it in their abstract, which only said that 

The Grandjean papers are refs 84 and 85, above; the latter one is with Landrigan, in Lancet Neurology 2014. As you can see above the PHS opinion on it is that it is overstating its case, particularly as it applies to other countries. And from a 2018 paper 

It's possible to survive a free fall in water from extreme heights, but it's an extremely rare event, so the conditions for survival are not known. Snyder (1965) mentions two cases of survival following free fall in water after parachute failure: 

I'm not sure what changes in behavioral rather than classical economics account of externalities. I found one fairly recent study proposing that 

I read implicit in that the doubt of the discovery story. No mention of a fly in the book. The SEP page on Descartes is even a bit more adamant: 

Analyzing some of the typical historical examples (in a somewhat obscure venue, I have to say), Diaz and Trouet (2014) conclude that 

This is only somewhat correct. Montagu (1994) did such a study, excluding infant deaths and later violent deaths, an concluded that 

The regression model was (alas) obtained by stepwise backward procedure. There is obvious multicollinearity going on since the daily builds became explanatory/significant in the final regression but having a functional specification was no longer explanatory. Also the same (companion) paper on the (29) US projects reported some more detailed descriptive statistics on productivity (mean 26.4 LOC/day, median 17.6): 

Although I'm aware this doesn't answer the question, I think it's worth mentioning that laboratory research in the past 5 years has identified some of the reasons why antioxidants aren't as beneficial as hoped. Some of the clinical trials from NCI's list (from ghoppe's answer) were aborted after a iatrogenic rather than the hoped therapeutic effect of antioxidants was observed. Why anti-oxidants had the opposite effect on the development of some cancers baffled people a long time... or more precisely until 2012, when a mice model of lung cancer was shown to be accelerated by anti-oxidants. And in 2015, anti-oxidants were found to promte metastasis of human melanoma (again in a mouse model); there was in fact a second study by a different group on the exact same topic in the same year. The findings were in line with the knwolege that the anti-metastatic drug methotrexate has some pro-oxidative effects. So, the current picture seems to be that ROS is sometimes cancer-promoting (in the initial stages--if we stick to the conventional assumptions) but also prevents rapid tumor growth and spreading, whereas antioxidants have opposite effects, at least in some cancers. This is obviously an area of active research so more will probably be known in the upcoming years. It's also an area of high-stakes research because metastasis is the main cause of death in cancer patients. A 2016 review ends with this advice