I would add some warnings - you may avoid very strenuous cardio or abs workout just after you have had a big meal. Though it may not do any harm as such, but it may interfere with digestion or make you feel queasy. 

Oats is a super food and is good for most people, whether skinny or fat! It is a constant in my diet for years, especially in breakfast. You can include a variety of other cereals in your diet to make it more balanced. You can also increase the protein content in your diet to put on some mass, along with high quality cooking oil like olive or rice bran. Oats lowers the cholesterol and has high iron content, while it is true that it is low calorie, you can add raisins, nuts, sugar and full fat milk to increase the calorific value. Cholesterol may not be a problem for you right now, but it is always good to keep it in control as we age.. 

You need to make your legs stronger by doing squats. You should vary your routine by including some weight training exercises like squats, pushups and lunges. Also, try high intensity interval training for short duration and build up to it for increasing your stamina. Modify your diet by balancing out carbs and bringing in more fruits and veggies. Include almonds and other protein sources, if possible eggs. Lots of rice will not do you much good. Read up on the net for healthy eating habits. As a rule of thumb, eat more after activity or when you need to be active. Eat less when you need to rest or sleep. This is a short answer to your question, but you need to research more and listen to your body. It is good to have a goal, but it is more important to change your habits for long term fitness. 

Well, I don;t know much about you, so this may be inapropriate, but there are things called "treadmill desks" which allow you to work standing up and walking. Try Googling "treadmill desk" and you should get the idea. $URL$ 

I can't find what I would consider a reliable reference for the 35% figure. As far as I can make out, (mung) Bean Sprouts are about 3% protein. So 200 grams would give you about 6 grams. Alfalfa sprouts have slightly more perhaps 4% protein. A Guideline Daily Amount or protein for a man would be 55grams and 45 grams for a woman. So, I'd have to say no, 200g of sprouts would not be enough protein on its own. $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

Try dynamic stretching. There is a video at the followng link. $URL$ LEG LIFTS Swing one leg out to the side, then swing it back across your body in front of your other leg. Repeat 10 times on each side. Feel wobbly? Hold onto a steady object. BUTT-KICKS While standing tall, walk forward with an exaggerated backswing so that your heels come up to your glutes. When this is easy, try it while jogging. Do 10 reps on each side. PIKE STRETCH Get in a "pike" position (hips in the air). Put your right foot behind your left ankle. With your legs straight, press the heel of the left foot down. Release. Repeat 10 times on each side. HACKY-SACK Lift your left leg up, bending the knee so it points out. Try to tap the inside of your left foot with your right hand without bending forward. Repeat 10 times on each side. TOY SOLDIER Keeping your back and knees straight, walk forward, lifting your legs straight out in front and flexing your toes. Advance this by adding a skipping motion. Do 10 reps on each side. WALKING LUNGES Step forward using a long stride, keeping the front knee over or just behind your toes. Lower your body by dropping your back knee toward the ground. Maintain an upright posture and keep your abdominal muscles tight. 

I would recommend that you explore weight training. It does improve body fitness and composition more than any cardio activity. Though you may want to get in touch with a trainer for this if you are a beginner. 

You can find plenty of online resources, though some of them might actually be disguised ads. Here is one example resource - $URL$ Really if you adopt and stick to few basic laws of nutrition you will start seeing results. You do not need to know nutrition in too much detail as that itself is an extensive field, you risk getting lost in all the jargon and calorie counts. Just knowing the basics and learning a few healthy recipes will serve your goal. That is my experience. 

I am not sure whether you actually want to be "fat" or look muscular and fit. You are actually looking towards having a more balanced and attractive physique. Getting muscular or getting thin, both requires effort and time and does not happen in a couple of months. You need to have patience and track your progress on a weekly basis. Diet and workout both play a role here. Give yourself at least 4 months to see a visible change. Do not adopt unhealthy eating habits or laziness to get fat. This will do you a lot of harm and invite diseases and weakness. Eat more, but eat healthy foods, full of nutrition. Like adding more protein, more fibre and fruits/veggies. Add carbs too but be balanced with sugars and fats. Add jaggery/brown sugar and olive oil to your diet. Add almonds, raisins and walnuts. Just because you want to increase your body mass, do not load yourself with sugary and fatty stuff. Include weight training, free body exercises to your routine. The ratio of weight training to cardio should be more in terms of time devoted, like 40 minutes of weights followed by 15 mins of cardio. Do weight training after warming up and cardio as a last exercise before cool down. Do squats and pushups as they increase total body strength. If you include whey protein in your diet it will be better, but its not mandatory if you are getting enough protein elsewhere. You should have a before and after workout diet. Before workout, have fibrous carbs and after workout have protein and fast absorbing carbs. Hope it helps. This is from personal experience and watching other people do the same. 

Some of it could be water retention. Are you weighing youself at the same time each day, after toilet, prior to work out and breakfast? Are you using any diet supplements? 

I ski in Austria and Italy with quite a bit of off piste / black run fun. I generally keep pretty fit, but in the 6 to 8 weeks before I go skiing I shift a couple of my workouts to favour squats, dead lifts and box jumps (with ankle weights when possible). 

Also in agreement with Nathan Wheelers answer. I'd add that it would be worth you looking into HIIT or High Intensity Interval Training. Studies have shown this is more efficient at burning fat than simply hitting the treadmill for long periods. My rule of thumb on weight loss is that the amount you eat controls what you weigh. The amount you work out controls whether it turns into fat or muscle. It's not strictly true, but it's a pretty good guide. 

Genetically engineering your muscles? Not in the next decade or two. Steroids without exercise? No. Steroids increase the protein available to cells, which effectively allows you to work your muscles harder so they grow more. 

I may be wrong, but when I read your question, I couldn't help wondering how you can do so much workout and eat so less at the same time. Is it possible that your body has gone into starvation mode and just not burning any calories to conserve weight. In my opinion you are eating too less. Do you not feel hungry mostly? If you do not, then may be your metabolic rate has slowed down.. I would say it would help if you increase your diet a little and include some carbs in the better part of the day. The body needs fuel to burn fat too :-) If you include more weight training and decrease the cardio, you may see better results. This is from my personal experience. I have reduced 6 pounds in 2 months just by increasing the weight training part, with just a little bit of carb control in my diet. Also, full body workout like squats, pushups and pull-ups do much more than dumbells alone. 

You can do trunk extensions flat on the floor. Or if you prefer you can use pretty much anything to lift you up a little eg a folded blanket or cushions. $URL$ 

I have a weakness in my back from an injury 20 years ago. I find that working my back to make it stronger is a great help. If I ignore my back I start getting back pain. I find that kettlebell swings, deadlifts (stiff legged and normal) and squats if I'm very careful about good form are all beneficial. In general the advice to lift with your legs is good advice, but excluding your back from any exercise is not a good idea. 

BTW, I'm 51 and am starting to find it harder to keep my fitness at a level I think of as very good. 

In broad brush terms one pound of weight equates to 3500 calories. So, to lose two pounds per week, you need to cut out 7000 calories or 1000 calories per day. This can be through increased exercise or through dieting. My personal rule of thumb is that food intake controls your weight, exercise controls whether that weight is fat or muscle. So if you aren't losing weight, you are eating to much.