2 years before 1347 the Pope decreed that all cats be killed. This lead to an explosion of the rat population, which carried the fleas which carried the plague. My source was in error. A pope from the 1200s had declared all cats be killed as he declared the cats to be agents of Satan. Looks like it was Gregory IX (1170-1241 A.D.). Earthquakes in China and disasters in other areas west of China meant that rats that normally stayed in place (in the wild away from people), were forced out of their normal ecosystem into the cities where they sought refuge. "Mainstream science" of the time was stuck on their own incorrect version of reality. If a character were to suggest that rats carried fleas which carried bacteria which could not be seen, the character would be laughed at, or worse, imprisoned for witchcraft by church leaders. Religion was the basis for (explaining nearly) everything, and science was in its infancy. If the Bible could not explain it, the Church leadership would condemn it, and the population would have no basis for understanding what was going on. Most explanations were reasoned the plague to be the wrath of God as some punishment. But a few wise people noticed that the plague was spread by contact or nearness to the infected. Modern germ theory and therefore modern cleanliness rules were completely unknown. They changed their straw bedding about once a year, hardly enough to prevent exposure to biting fleas. They also bathed very little as it was not their custom. Plus it was quite a pain to heat up water, or even take a cold bath, especially in the winter. Have you ever had the power go out and taken a cold bath in the winter? I have. Communication was difficult and slow, and thus travel could not be controlled quickly enough. Many cities tried to close their doors (if they had walls) but most were too late. An infected person or rats were already in the city by that time. 

I'd like to present a different opinion: yes, it is possible, but it wouldn't be a 'jet' engine. I'm assuming the fuel is liquid (so not methane), which would be most logical for internal storage. Fuel A dragon has had an evolutionary advantage of creating organic fuels. Arguments that the amounts cows produce is extremely little, are silly because cows have no evolutionary advantage of creating methane; it's a byproduct. Dragons have an advantage by creating the fuel, so they will evolve to do so in copious amounts. It will evolve enzymes that break up organic compounds to highly flammable compounds, just like petrochemical plants do (and animals can probably do this better; compare the most advanced polymer science can make with infinitely more complex proteins in your eyes that makes you see kittens on the internet). Now, imagine a dragon that is evolving to fire-breathing. It already has DNA present to create very hard, scaly bodyparts that are fireproof - I would think that some of the dragons teeth have evolved (grown bigger) to protect softer bits of dragon; think of elephant teeth. Excess fuel... Now it does have a fuel-producing organ, but this organ cannot be simply switched off. In early points of its evolution, it simply burnt off excess fuel by breathing fire, but this posed some other problems; for example, barbecueing the entire forest while sleeping or setting your dinner on fire. So, the dragon evolved ducts leading from the fuel-creating organs to its flanks (for example, under its wings), where excess fuel would be burnt off in a controlled manner. To prevent carbon monoxide asphyxiation due to incomplete combustion, air ducts were evolved as well, that would help combustion. Now comes the interesting part - in flight, the dragon discovers that burning excess fuel not only protects its vulnerable belly from enemies, but also creates thrust, which is used to get away in emergency situations. From here, evolution of the side-burning accelerates, and the little patch of scaly cells around the fuel excess outlets swiftly evolves to nozzles. This particular breed of dragon will soon split off evolutionary from 'normal' dragons, and very probably, its fire-breathing capabilities will soon diminish, since fire-breathing is effectively wasting fuel. Differences from jet engines and other drawbacks As others has pointed out, this would be a rocket engine and not a jet engine. Jet engines compress intake air to several hundred MPa, which organisms simply cannot do (in this extreme case, due to compression heating, cells performing the compression would be burnt, because fire-proof 'hard' cells cannot flex to accommodate compression). The dragon can probably not reach your quoted 10 000km, but may use high altitudes to migrate efficiently, since it will need a large foraging area to create large amounts of fuel. 

There have been thermal cameras pointing at bees showing they generate their own heat. I have personally seen bumble bees buzzing around when it's 50F outside, but only in the past few years. This is a first for me. 

As I read the books I learned that the leadership (politicians, cardinals, etc) were just as clueless bumbling fools, doing too little too late, just like they are today. The two free EPUBs about that plague are listed here. There were other plagues that appeared similar but not as bad as this one. 

There is some evidence that some dinosaurs were warm-blooded, as there is plant-based evidence they lived in cooler climates. 

Vertebrate carnivores have a tendency to be warm-blooded, because they need the extra calories meat provides to generate their own heat. 

It's technically possible but not financially feasible but I see your budget is practically unlimited. And it would always need power to generate oxygen from some type of water source. The hydrogen might be used as fuel also. Power would also be needed to make freshwater from sea water. Any metal parts exposed to seawater would need constant upkeep as salt water is very hard on even the best metal parts we have today. Any moving parts and water intakes and output tubes would need constant upkeep to keep barnacles and other creatures off them. Barnacles, algae, and seaweed are HUGE problems for water intake tubes today, especially near areas where nitrogen-rich runoff goes right into the ocean. Algae is less of a problem in deeper areas where there isn't much sunlight but barnacles and other "fixed" creatures like coral tend to be a problem at many depths. 

I have just finished reading 2 books on the Black Plague of 1347. Sources were mostly actual accounts of people who were there. NO. The plague could not have been prevented because it was caused by many things happening at once.