But really, you don't need much to justify your people being racists than just picturing them as human-like. We are that bad. 

As a side note, thinking about what would happen with my family in your proposed world was hard. Really hard. So, I have to ask a personal favor and ask you to stop making writers imagine their families dead because of lack of sex. This question was not a good one to answer. 

In this exact way? Less than it seems, to be honest. I'll explain with minimal physics, and overly generic simplifications, just for some basic reasoning. This is an answer for a layman. A helicopter works by generating lift. This lift kinda cancels out the gravity effects, and thus keeps the vehicle aloft. The more lift a helicopter generates, further it raises from the ground. That's easy. So, to hold a helicopter directly to the ground, you need to pull it down with equivalent forces. HOWEVER! Captain is holding the Helicopter by the side of the landing gear. This means that, should the pilot speed up the Helicopter, it would start tilting to the side, probably making the vehicle crash. This is called a Dynamic Rollover, and can be caused by pretty much a single steel cable still attached to the vehicle. Heck, it can be caused by anything at all, if the pilot is not careful or skilled enough. Helicopters are finicky machines, and prone to disasters if you don't take care. So, the pilot here is not really pushing Cap - if he does, and Cap happens to be strong as a steel cable, the helicopter would probably start rolling over, crash, and kill everyone on board. That said, this scene can't really be used to estimate how strong Cap is, since we don't know how much force he is putting here. A steel tie-down cable can withstand up to 4kN (around my region) and is enough to cause a rollover. An Olympic Grade gymnast withstand around 3kN during competitions, so it's not a stretch to assume that Cap is stronger than that. 

Now, because the Government uses extensive brainwashing, the people in the army would not help the rebels or have a conscience (to a large extent, like in the case of Germany or modern day communist countries). Can you provide hypothetical solutions to these two problems? Are there historical evidences (of rebels against nuclear armed government, or rebels destroying aircraft carriers)? A win is defined as a case in which the rebels manage to reach at least a stalemate and could recommence living in peace. 

If the country has aircraft carriers, there is more or less nothing the rebels could do to prevent the nazis from pounding their homes. (Otherwise, the navy would not be of much concern) The government has nuclear weapons that could instantly kill all the rebel settlements. 

In an anti-gun debate (I was pro-gun, which is relevant), I used the example of an hypothetical ex-democracy which allowed guns (like the US) and then turned authoritarian with theological brainwashing (let's say Christian Nazis, religion is irrelevant). The Jews, which form a substantial part of the population are now in the center of a genocide. A resistance is now made by the Jewish population, which now has near 100 percent gun ownership due to past laws (thus this will not happen with the gun laws). To beat the army, the shear number of active fighting rebels is obviously enough, even though the rebels' guns are relatively primitive. The artillery could also be destroyed using home-made bombs. Land based air-force could be rendered useless as the rebels capture airbases. Now, I start losing the debate with two major loopholes in my argument: 

Well... We are kinda seeing it already, are not we? Apart from the robots and real-life necessities taken care of, there are already a multitude of virtual worlds that people flee from real life to. Those worlds are normally created by someone, of course, but all of them are made to give the only thing that your reality really needs for your inhabitants: entertainment. So, what it would be like? The central hub would be a giant second-life environment, where people would interact more-or-less in free form, using avatars of their design. There is no need for your avatar to reflect your real body. Some people, probably the most studied ones - let's call then the Engineers - would be tasked with the creation of new, special worlds. Those worlds have only one purpose, and that would be to make the people that choose to live in them entertained. Think of a civilization that has a multitude of MMO's to choose from, with thousands of possible genres, varying degrees of complexity, and always full of fresh content. People would be able to literally live in Azeroth, Elysea, Asmodae, Rune-Midgard, Faerûn, Eberron... you name it. The activities we do today to escape real life would be the bread and butter of your people, and they would live their lives playing what they want to play. People would keep studying and doing whatever they like, but inside the world they love the most. And, if they are tired of the Medieval fantasy of Greyhawk, they can simply move on and become something else in another world, created by another engineer. What you would have is basically the biggest RPG community ever created! 

I think this is where fascism could help (the emperor, not the people). This is similar to exactly what happened to Japan before the world war. The emperor has to tell the people that the dignity of the country and the self-respect of the people are both directly related to the wishes of the crown. Because at the end of the day, that is what a monarch is, right? All you need is to make a political party (assuming democracy) or another institution that relies on the monarch. Once the monarch gains enough power, a starwars type "crisis" could do the trick. In a war, the monarch can get emergency powers that could also give him enough power over the army. Then it is just a matter of time before the monarch could put loyal people in key positions to overthrow the previous government and gain power. For an ordinary person, all the steps are very hard, but for a monarch that has cultural influence over the people and is the symbol of national identity, this might be easier (not saying that it would be easy though). PS: I had love to discuss this case even further in the comments………… 

This would be dependent on two factors: the availability of oxidant (that does not seem to be enough on the planet anyways) and the distribution of both the gases such that there are not pockets of gases that would combust and leave the rest of the planet unaltered. 

My two cents: Contrary to your assumption, it is not pressure that makes life in the deep sea hard (on Earth). It is the lack of penetration of sun light in below a certain depth. Hence, in regions of volcanic activity underwater, we see sea creatures at the lowest depth imaginable. Hence my answer is No!