Ruthless Brutality. A small group can intimidate a large group by pinpoint assassination of those in power, their siblings, parents, friends, and (for all of those people) their children. The rebels do not have to kidnap people to hold them hostage: they just need to be good enough (and heartless enough) that if the politician or general or cop refuses to comply with their private (not public) demands, people they care about start dying. In car accidents, of illness, of drug overdoses or accidental medication issues or heart attacks at 29. Whatever. If the politician talks, they are gone or discredited or framed for pedophilia with child porn found on their computers: And the rebels have in their pocket, developed for years by the same tactics, judges, prosecutors, police chiefs, Congressmen, Senators, and so on (or whatever the equivalent is, in your world). Reportedly Al Capone once said, "99% of men will fold up the second you cut them. The other 1% work for me." Your coup is silent, nobody knows it is happening. The rebels do not ask for much, but when they do, deliver: or your daughter in college is about to die of a drug overdose at a concert, just like her dorm roommate did three months ago, and nobody could believe it. But you believe it, because you got an instagram of that girl with the words "the prime of her life" scrawled on it, and you didn't know what that meant. Until that night she died. A little hacking (obtained willingly or by intimidation) and there is no record of the photo or any proof of their messages. Your rebels can be smart enough to play a long game; take a small city first, councilman and a mayor, a city manager and local cops and judges that dare not disobey their infrequent requests to look the other way, lose some evidence, accidentally throw a case. All just as an exercise in building compliance. By the time the rebel leader actually confronts the President; he's terrified for his life; it is about to look like he committed suicide in the Oval Office (or whatever your equivalent is). But make sure your rebels are never brutal for no reason, and do ensure rewards for compliance. Whispered words will travel, they may be brutal and ruthless, but they keep their word. The rebel leader gives his word, the President will live in comfort and no harm will come to him. As long as he keeps his mouth shut, his pockets will be full. If he cannot keep his mouth shut, his head will soon be empty. He hands over the codes; everybody that was supposed to protect him is dead or under a rebel thumb. 

Yes, they could break the RSA encryption algorithm. RSA encryption consists of encoding a message using the product of two very large primes, a little easy (known to us) mathematical work with this number produces two keys; which we call the public key and the private key. The public key can be published and known to everybody. It is not a secret; it is intended to be known. Transmit it over the Internet, put it on a billboard, whatever. With a very straightforward algorithm the public key can be used to encrypt a message. However, the cool part of RSA is that this encrypted message, even with the public key known, can only be decrypted with the private key. RSA encryption is used everywhere, on the Internet, in banking to move trillions of dollars around the world. However, it relies on a mathematical difficulty that, so far, we do not know how to solve: Factoring a very large number into component primes. Current estimates are that it would take millions of desktop computers working together millions of years to factor numbers as large as those we use in RSA, using the best factoring algorithms known to man. Even if we had quantum computers with enough q-bits to factor this number, those algorithms would still take thousands of years to discover the private key based on the public key. On top of that, we can just increase the size of the numbers. The 256-bit, 512-bit, 1024-bit encryptions you hear about are just how many bits are used to store an RSA key, in those flavors. There is no limit to this, and every time the number of bits is doubled the number of breaking calculations grows exponentially. So if some compute algorithm breaks 1024-bit encryption in a day, in 30 minutes I can have a 2048-bit encryption it cannot break in hundred years. (I am a mathematician familiar with this algorithm). If you could break the factoring problem using some sort of mathematics or quantum computing algorithm currently unknown to us; to the point of knowing within a day both the public and private key no matter how long the encryption, then you could trick nearly every major bank in the world into transferring billions of dollars into your accounts, you could break security on nearly every supposedly secure website (including that of many government computers, most brokerages and stock market exchanges). You could utterly destroy commerce and the economy. You could hack elections, and law enforcement records, and the military command structure, anything that is recorded, transmitted or received online. I am not privy to what organizations like the CIA and other secret agencies with billion dollar budgets may use for encryption; so it is possible they do not use RSA, or use it with some other layers of encryption we cannot break mathematically. That said, what common corporations, banks, websites, and government agencies use is always some flavor of RSA relying on the apparently intractable mathematical difficulty of factoring very large numbers. P.S. Forgot the other requirement: We can check whether a factorization is correct by simple multiplication; done in a few milliseconds at most on a regular desktop computer, and even able to be done by hand within a day, given some large paper to work with 1000 digit numbers. Correction due to commentary My claim above about whether quantum computers could break RSA is mistaken; but it can be excised without changing my answer. First, no quantum computer in existence has thousands of q-bits in order to do that; they have not factored numbers of more than about sixteen bits. Second, the question is about ancient human advanced mathematics, not advanced technology, and for our foreseeable future breaking the RSA factorization problem would definitely be in the realm of an advanced mathematical technique, not a technological feat. An aside: In the timeline of quantum computing there is no shortage of hype; the most plausible recent advancement is IBM's 2017 claim of a 17 qubit computer. D-Wave claims 2000 qubits, but Their own announcement says their system operates "1000 to 10,000 times faster" than classical computers. They cannot be all entangled with each other then, and 10,000 times faster is not enough to challenge RSA; we could just make the key longer to compensate, or change our keys every week, or for critical applications like banking or national security, every day. There is no shortage of big numbers! I repeat, this is a side issue, and no known quantum hardware is anywhere near enough to challenge the security of RSA. But advanced mathematics plausibly could do so. 

Yes, an organized extermination of 99% of humanity could be the start of a viable solution. The obstacles could be overcome. Speaking in super-villain mode, 1% of roughly 7.5B is 75M. That is enough to maintain a modern society if you collect them all together and protect them from the extermination. It is larger than the population of England, and 90% the population of Germany. It is 3.5 times the total population of Norway, Denmark and Sweden put together. Really, a million people is more than enough to keep a modern city running, so dozens of cities could be established, around the world, to be close to the resources that cannot be moved (climate, arable land, fisheries, mining operations, etc), and could be kept running. We could maintain the infrastructure of those cities and grow the food, produce the energy, run the factories, etc. Especially with all the world's resources, parts and stockpiles untouched and available for the taking. I don't have to depend on scavenging; the actual factories making things like microchips, tablets, farming equipment, etc can be used, we can keep plenty of people that know how to run them, design them, and program them. The biggest caveat would be population control, but that can be handled too. I can demand genetic screening and abortion for abnormalities, also for parentage. Have all men and women register DNA, and continue to do so at birth for future generations. Parentage becomes a certainty. For both men and women, becoming the parent of a child costs them each a point, and each person has two reproductive points, after which they are surgically sterilized. I'd let them freeze sperm and eggs before sterilization, so if their child dies before adulthood the parents each receive a reproductive point that can be accomplished by in-vitro fertilization, with the same partner or another (e.g. they don't have to stay together). It makes no sense for me to keep the wealthy, unless I just need them to finance the operation. I have been around dozens of very wealthy people (My skills are particularly useful to them) and most of them are not highly skilled, not great managers or businessmen, and not that intellectually gifted. The source of most of that wealth is a lucky strike (as in striking gold), with some kind of entertainment, an invention that caught on, being born to a wealthy patriarch, having the looks, charisma, voice, or athletic ability to become a star (which does require some skills but not a lot of intellectual firepower), or just being in the right place at the right time or having personal friends that did, so they got in on the dirt floor of the Microsofts, Intels, Apples, Googles and PayPals of their day: One genius with 500 lucky multi-millionaires in their wake, because they got stock for a penny that became worth 10,000 times as much, with no particular genius on their part. (e.g. Bill Gates first receptionist became a multi-millionaire on MSFT stock). What I want to preserve is talent, expertise, intelligence and problem solving ability, in hundreds of disciplines, and I want to preserve the ability to teach those things to future generations. So if that turns out to be a rich person, fine, if not, I'll take the John Deere engineer that knows how to keep farm machinery running, and everybody else it takes to continue the modern methods of putting bread on the table. Most of the world would eventually crumble, which is what we want. Return it to forest. Most of the people would rot and die. But they were all going to die anyway in the next 100 years, so whatever CO2 and pollutants they cause are just a pulse, exactly what they would have produced by eventually dying anyway, and less than they would produce if left alive: Their day-to-day CO2 production (their carbon footprint) comes to an end, thus saving an average of about 40 years of life. Within a few decades, as the parts of the world we don't use return to vegetation and forest, the bodies of the dead are naturally recycled into what we actually want: long lived trees and plants that absorb CO2 and produce oxygen. For any particular places that we want to use, the dead can be removed and buried at sea as fish food, eventually helping to recover fisheries and sea life. The oceans and atmosphere would recover, with 99% less pollution, and 99% more forest to absorb whatever pollution we produce. We don't have to give up fossil fuels, our problem is not exactly pollution, but too much pollution so we exceed the absorption capacity of the Earth. Analogous to salt: Eating a pound of salty potato chips won't kill me, eating a pound of salt could produce hypernatremia, salt poisoning that can give me seizures and kill me today. Yes, exterminating 99% of people can work. There is plenty of land near the northern and southern poles that will still be cold enough for us to ride out the worst of global warming if it ramps up severely, for a few centuries. (Of course enough heat kills everybody and everything, we cannot recover from anything.) But I [the super-villain] can't just leave the survivors where they are, that would return them to medieval subsistence living almost immediately, or even hunting and gathering. I need a program (and hundreds of people, but I can hire the few dozen leaders I need to recruit and run them) to identify and immunize those I wish to keep (perhaps without their knowledge). Then I need a plan to either have them already be in the right place at the right time, or a plan to protect them and get them there (to one of my 75 sanctuary sites) once the pandemic begins. I believe both modern civilization and humanity could survive indefinitely with a population of 75 million people. Or with mandatory birth control, whatever we compute as a comfortable carrying capacity of Earth for humans. I would likely spread out the space occupied by about double, and make living spaces much larger. Crowded and towering cities are not at all a necessity with modern transportation (electric rail and cars), there are only a very few practical reason for a building to exceed three stories if horizontal space is not an issue; it is far easier to build, maintain, and demolish such structures. (Some industrial or scientific equipment is necessarily very tall, housing it is one reason to go above three stories).