There is no real doubt that Japan was essentially defeated by 1945. The Japanese military had no means of countering either the Red Army or Allied bombers. Both of these are commonly cited as factors in speeding up a Japanese surrender, but more importantly, as an island nation dependent on the sea lanes for basic survival, Japan was doomed by her disastrous naval defeats. Shortly after the war ended, the United States Strategic Bombing Survey undertook an investigation of the Japanese leadership in the last months of the war. They concluded that: 

tl;dr: There are multiple reasons for Chiang to treat them different. They differed in their culpability, their readiness to make amends, and their connections. 

Though excluded by the question, for reference, the most recent Catholic coronation ceremony of a monarch is the coronation of Pope Paul VI in 1963. Every pope since him have chosen to be inaugurated rather than crowned with the Papal Tiara. In theory, a future pope could still choose to be crowned, though. Alternatively, and more literally, the 2014 canonical crowning of the image Our Lady of Immaculate Conception of Juquila is technically the most recent Catholic "coronation". 

Edinburgh Castle's tourist attraction, the One O'Clock Gun, originated as an audible version of the Nelson Monument time ball. The Nelson time ball has dropped at 1:00 pm ever since it was installed in 1853. Accordingly, the One O'Clock Gun also fired at 1:00 pm. Anything else would have been potentially confusing. Time balls were important for maritime towns as a means for ships to set their clocks to the correct time. This was important for maritime navigational purposes. In England, time balls typically dropped at 1:00pm. This seems to have begun with Greenwich, which dropped its time ball at 1:00pm from 1833 on, because its astronomers would've been busy with observations at noon. 

3.What was its order of precedence? Based on notes in Sir John Froissart's Chronicles of England, France, Spain, and the Adjoining Countries, it was originally approximately equivalent to count. But it seemed to have become roughly comparable to viscount later. 4. What were the other families that used this title? From the same source, several other families used it at some point or another, but by the time of the de Grailly, only them and the Captal de Trene was left. 5. Why did the title not outlive the Middle Ages as the titles of Duke and Count did? It did. After Jean III died, the title passed to his uncle, Count Archambaud of Foix. It stayed with his descendants (in the female line after 1593) until it was sold to Jean-Baptiste Amanieu de Ruat in 1713. The title was always rather obscure and snowflakey. 6. Why did the title derive from Latin rather than something in French? The title started during the time of the first Dukes of Aquitaine. The Roman Empire was a recent thing and French didn't really exist as a language at the time. 

However, having only just transferred to the Tudor court from Scotland, it could also be the case that his intelligence on Bristol weren't the most accurate. Finally, John Cabot, the discoverer of North America in the conventional account, also experienced a failed first voyage in 1496. John Day, a Spanish spy in England, reported to a certain Lord Grand Admiral (possibly Columbus) in 1497 that: 

These were more similar in nature to the trade posts established by European maritime powers during the first wave. 

The castle itself was actually known by several other names, such as "Castle of Avoch" after the nearby village, or "Douglas Castle" after its owners. Hence it was the name of the hill, not the castle, which provided the source of the Scottish peerage titles of Ormond. 

Did the Stock Market Crash of 1929 effectively cause the Great Depression? No. The stock market crash was most likely a serious contributory factor in the onset of the Great Depression. However, it did not "effectively cause" the economy to implode - there were serious pre-existing weaknesses in the late 1920s economy. In fact a recession was already brewing before the stock market had even crashed. 

Wardroom Warrant Officers were appointed to the time a ship was in service, similar to commissioned officers. They had the privilege of access to the wardroom, where they dine with the commissioned officers. The Master was the senior warrant officer on any ship, appointed by the Navy Board for each voyage. To qualify for the position, master candidates were examined by Trinity House for fitness in controlling specific ratings of ships. On this basis they were then appointed to take charge of an appropriate ship's navigation. Both the Purser and the Surgeon were also appointed by the Navy Board. The Surgeon was originally examined by the Worshipful Company of Barber-Surgeons, and after 1745, the Company of Surgeons. The Purser was more of a businessman, and at least some bought their positions in order to profit from selling subpar provisions. The Chaplains were originally nominated by individual captains on an ad hoc basis. In 1665, as an attempt at reforming, the Archbishop of Canterbury was made responsible for appointing chaplains. After 1677 this role was assumed by the Bishop of London. Nevertheless, there were usually too few chaplains to go around the whole navy, and so candidates may request postings to specific ships. Their status sort of depends on how the captain treated them. 

Yes. Under the Yuan Empire, Hainan Island was administered as part of the Huguang Province. The Mongolians took the island when they conquered the Song Dynasty. Partial Chinese rule stretches back to the Han Dynasty, though native revolts forced the imperial administration off the island. More permanent control was established during the Southern and Northern Dynasties period, under local tribal leader, Lady Xian. After the Mongols were driven out of China, its successor the Ming Empire took over Hainan's administration. 

People generally assume that Roman bathing means cleanliness, but the reality is that ancient hygiene falls far short of modern standards. What's clean to the Romans would not necessarily have to concur with our sensibilities. Hence, the popularity of baths among his contemporaries indicate Aurelius's disgust may well be a hint of mysophobia. So yes, some kind of "germaphobe" most likely existed in the ancient world too. Before the age of tap water and hand sanitisers, it's just not necessarily going to fit all of the modern stereotypes associated with germaphobes. Of course, we cannot remotely diagnose people dead for 2,000 years. Moreover, many people today develop coping mechanisms to deal with their compulsions. There's no reason to assume the same would not be true of the ancients. 

The 18th century did see a gradual recovery of women's property rights in Russia, but few of this could be unequivocally credited to Peter's reign. For example, Peter's 1714 Law of Single Inheritance actually prohibited women from receiving lands as dowries. Moreover, while women were theoretically empowered to control their own dowries, the subordinate status of women in civil life meant that their husbands could exercise de facto control. 

As has been noted, the eagle became the national bird because it was chosen to be on the Great Seal, designed by Charles Thomson. The idea did not emerge out of thin air, however; the eagle is a very popular emblem with a very long history in heraldry. Two of the three committees designing the seal included the eagle in some form. Thus, Thomson would have been familiar with it, both from coins (Holy Roman, Spanish and Russian coins in circulation at the time included eagles in their designs) as well as the draft proposals he had been given. More importantly, while Thomson was designing the Great Seal, he had access to Symbolorum et emblematum, an influential 1597 book of emblems by Bavarian Joachim Camerarius. That book happened to contain a depiction of an eagle with an olive branch and thunderbolts. The eagle grasping a thunderbolt has a lengthy history stretching back to Classical Antiquity, when it was an allusion to Zeus (or Jupiter, to Rome). This is believed to have been the inspiration for Thomson's design. Changing the eagle to the bald eagle would have been an original idea, but a fitting one for America. The substitution of arrows for the thunderbolts meanwhile matched the theme of the second committee's proposal, as well as echoing the Dutch Republic Lion - the Dutch arms featured a lion grasping an arrow for each province of the Netherlands. In the same spirit, the Great Seal's bald eagle would grasp 13 arrows. With regards to Wikipedia: so yes, the Zues/Jupter origin does sort of give it a tenuous link to the Roman Republic. But while I don't see it as "anti-American editorializing" per se, that wikipedia passage was apparently just wildly off base. Sources: 

Furthermore, the Lithuanian situation benefited from a greater autonomy and better relations with Moscow that its Lithuanian Communist Party enjoyed. This allowed the Lithuanian party to retain a stronger national character relative to the other Baltic states. Lithuania was thus able to weather the purge of Baltic nationalism that Moscow instituted when Latvia tried to stem the tide of Russian immigration. 

Incidentally, at ~80%, Lithuania was the most ethnically homogeneous of the Baltic states to begin with, compared to Latvians at ~60% and Estonians at ~70%. 

As you've noted in the comments, the archipelago was considerably more populated at the time. Nevertheless, none of them settled on Hatutu beyond seasonal trips. 

What made you think they know about the protein content? Evolutionary pressures would have drove humans to develop instincts for foods that contain the nutrition we need to survive (i.e., cravings). There is also a common human preference for diversity. Those factors alone would have pushed early civilisation into cultivating multiple crops. Additionally, as MarkC.Wallace points out, societies which adopted a good diet would have been better equipped for success than those who didn't. Now, cultivation of pea and lentil seemed to have begun at the advent of human agriculture in the old world. The evidence points to a tradition of human hunter and gatherers living off food including pulses, before farmer societies came about. That is to say, those tribes that did not feed off both staple carbohydrates and high protein pulses (and others) was out competed by those who did. As the successful tribes learnt to start growing their food, they would have begun by growing the food they already ate. Hence the farming societies "knowing" about eating pulses. 

Most of the Great Wall of China as we know them today were built during the Ming Dynasty, circa European Late Middle Ages. However, they were by no means the earliest. The first walls were built during the Spring and Autumn and Warring States periods, 771 to 221 BC. Originally these were largely piecemeal fortifications erected by the fragmented ancient states of China for their own defences. Later the Qin Dynasty unified China. It initiated an ambitious building program that linked the ancient walls into one cohesive defence line. This became known as the Great Wall of Qin, and marks the first appearance of a genuine "Great Wall". These efforts were continued by its successor Han Dynasty. However, it went into decline around the start of the Common Era. Thus, Rome became Mistress of the World after most of these first generation (so to speak) Great Walls were built. Roman territorial extent reached its height a century after Chinese expansion into the Steppes began to be reversed. This stands in opposition to the claim that building the wall caused Rome's fall.