I think if your boss is as cool as you describe him, he will surely understand that people change jobs every now and then. And if you really want to go, you will go no matter what he does; he can only make the parting faster and/or sourer. Which he wouldn't like to do if he values you. From his perspective, if you are going to leave, it is still better if you don't stray very far in your new job. Having you in a new role at a partner company with close ties to them can be benefitial to both of you, so this can bring new opportunities to him as well (depending on your role at the new company). So I would just tell what you told here: you are happy with your current job and could continue here, but you got a rare opportunity to fulfill your long term dream. So you hope he will understand this, and (in case you get the new job) you will be more than happy to continue cooperation in your new role, to the mutual benefit of both companies and both of you. 

Depending on the company, the contracted hourly rate might be negotiated at a higher level than the department that the position is in. The budget for the position may have been reduced. The recruiter may have made a mistake or gotten confused between positions because I'm sure s/he is working to fill several of them. There are a number of reasonable explanations for the salary change. If a potential contractor reached out to me about salary for a position, I would view that person as not following the common procedure. If it appears that you can't follow common procedure before you have the job - what would happen if you were hired? Would I have to worry about you going around me? Do I have time to deal with someone like that? You have the option to interview about the position and then if it's offered and the salary doesn't meet your expectations - then you will need to decide to either accept it or not. This is where being a contractor has its pluses and minuses. 

No, you should not leave. It is only a week we are talking about and you are likely to learn something in that time. If the problem was you getting harassed, picked on, or something similar then I would probably recommend leaving (as it is such a short time frame). However, in your case I would say that staying just for the sake of showing yourself that you can cope with less than perfect circumstances at work will be worth it. You will be proud of completing the internship and this sets a tone for you to build the rest of your career on. If you want to work in any programming field (or any field) you are going to have to fight through jobs and times like these to get to where you want to be. Quitting will always be an option, but seldom the right one. Focus on your long term goals and you will find it easier to deal with the short term difficulties. As Cicero put it 

The Answer Stick to your guidelines, even if they are absurd. In my opinion gender ratios like these are just a way to make your company look 'diverse'. It's marketing and has nothing to do with actual talent recruitment. Talent recruitment should be about finding the most talented candidates possible, regardless of their skin color or gender. That being said, stick to the guidelines. If it's company policy then you have to go with it till you are able to change it or find it upsetting enough to leave. The Rant Of course you are going to have more male candidates. In most countries — even more so in developing ones — the ratio of men-to-woman studying — and interested — in IT related fields is incredibly lopsided. You can not fix this with recruitment ratios. Hiring woman because they are woman is exactly what gender equality is not about. 

You could joke back with, "you must not have enough work to do if you're keeping tabs on me" or something like that. You can try that approach and see if he backs off. I would feel okay responding that way in front of others. If his comments are that blatant then other people won't think less of you for responding in a lighthearted way. This person is clearly being a bully. It's possible that your manager won't let him work from home because he's not productive and is jealous of the trust that your manager has in you. Regardless - I would mention this to your manager. If you don't have regularly scheduled one on ones meetings with him then I'd set one up. If you don't get any traction with your manager then I would talk with HR. If you do reach out to HR then definitely let your manager know so he's not surprised when he hears from them. There's absolutely no reason for anyone to work in a hostile work environment. This includes you as well. 

In general, patience is a virtue. Even if the email is somewhat urgent you need to allow at least 1–2 working days for a response. People are busy and that especially counts for COOs. While a lot of people do read their work related emails over the weekend it should not be brought into account, instead you need to make effort on you part to communicate during the week. If the email is urgent you can send a read receipt with it (not recommended, but worth mentioning). This will notify you when the person confirms that they have read the email. Note that when using read receipts they can still read it and choose not to notify you. Read receipts can also be considered rude by some people. If you have not received a response within 1–2 working days then you should call the person being contacted. Sending a second email within such a short amount of time might come of as rude to some people but calling wont. Calling shows that you are serious about working with them. However, in your case I would call today (Monday). You said that you are expected to start within the next few days so even waiting one day can be too long. Take this next part with a bit of salt... Technically if your old employer already knew that you would be leaving in a few days then they should not expect you to stay longer. They may ask but they can not expect it. So if it is not completely OK with the new company you need to tell the old employer no. Update: You learned a valuable lesson. Just because previous employees where released on a short basis does not mean you will get the same treatment. When looking to switch jobs you need to first make sure until when you are contractually subjected to work before promising any date to your new employer. 

You could talk with your boss and ask what him what the expectations are going to be around future business trips as far as after work activities. You could also let him know that you thought the karaoke bar was a bit unexpected and guage his reaction. For some businesses, it's common practice to take visiting guests out for some kind of entertainment. A friend of mine would be taken to strip clubs and the like because it was the 'cat's away' mentality. "You're away from your boring wife and now you can look at naked young women without her knowing." In the best case your boss says you can skip those activities, in the worst case you only have to travel there infrequently. But as a woman, I appreciate your question regarding this. 

If I were you, I would sit down and talk with him. It sounds like the expectations around your working relationship weren't defined. He appears to be under the impression that you work for him and are to "follow his orders" and your impression is that you're working together. You could also talk with your COO and ask him what his expectations were of you two working together. That might be good information to have in your back pocket with when you do talk with the PM. More often than not these types of misunderstandings are due to a lack of clear expectations and communication. Sometimes it is someone being an asshole but more often than not it's just as simple as a misunderstanding. 

Those that can't take you seriously will not join your company in the first place. But once someone joined, they will most likely be positive about you, to avoid cognitive dissonance if nothing else. Unless you yourself disappoint them, of course. If you introduce yourself to them like you do here, you set extremely high expectations, thus you have to be really really good to live up to your own promise. 

And from your part, it would be better to give them examples and stories showing how your self-study improved your skills and experience in the past, and why you are eager to continue that. This may give a much more realistic picture of your skills and motivation to your prospective employer than telling you spend on average 1 minute or 3 hours per day studying. As well as this way you avoid the dilemma over getting committed into something you may not want to. 

I think you may be looking at it from the wrong end. It's not the profession / career which allows you to live in different countries, it's you who is making a conscious choice about this (and maybe rearranging your life and habits to support it). If you want to learn languages, just pick your favourite and start learning it today :-) Once you can talk a bit, you can leave for a trip abroad. Or even before. I got a scholarship to Spain during my uni years so I was lucky enough to spend 6 months there. I knew about two words in Spanish when I arrived, with a language coursebook in my pack, and spent many of my evenings studying. By the time I left Spain, I could speak fairly fluently. It was one of the best times of my life! As the example shows, there are lots of other possibilities apart from getting a proper job abroad, if you want to discover the world: 

When you get a question that shows no research effort, simply reply with a question. "What have you tried?" or "What have you been able to find out about what may be causing this problem?". If they don't have an answer then simply tell them to come back when they have some effort to show. Make it absolutely clear that you do not answer bad questions. Point out that there are already solutions to most of their questions available on the internet (Stack Overflow). Tell them to go search there first before asking any kind of question not directly related to how you do it at your company. As the old saying goes: 

Do not get manipulated by the CC. CC'ing the email to somebody higher up the ranks then you is an easy (dirty) way to make the problem seem like it's yours. Ignore the CC. Be firm — not rude — when replying to bad questions. It is highly unlikely that your management will have a problem with this (as long as you stay friendly). In the case that they do decide to talk to you about it you still have a strong argument for not answering bad questions. You have a job to do — things to get done — and bad questions are a waste of company time.