I think the problem is with the bottom bracket. Sometimes, when the crank arms are removed, they can be put back really badly, thus causing the pedaling system to be very hard. Or some other times it's just the bottom bracket that needs to be replaced. Once I replaced my bottom bracket, the pedaling system was better than ever! 

I believe that you should increase tension of the rear derailleur cable by untightening the nut on the derailleur and pulling the cable with fair power while locking it back. You should only do that when the chain is in the smallest cog on the cassette and the bolt for the cable is all screwed in. After that if needed adjust the high and low bolts and the third bolt that is for the distance of the derailleur to the cassette. This distance should be around 6mm. Also unscrew the bolt of the cable if gear shifting is of poor quality. 

Given the bike operates like a single speed and all the gearing is in the hub, you should be fine removing the chainguard. Be warned though if you cycle in trousers this increases the chance of losing your trouser leg to the bite of chain meeting chainring. You're also more likely to increase the chance of the dreaded chain grease tattoo on legs or trousers. 

They can be found at $URL$ and they also do a range of different colours for the side if you don't want to do red on the side of the rack. $URL$ 

The crank arm should definitely be lubed before installing into a bottom bracket. This is because of the long term rotations that are going to occur, and you want cranks to spin as freely in the BB as they can. As for other things like BB into the frame and headset, the reading I have done doesn't indicate that the BB needs to be greased prior to installation like you would a threaded BB; nor do headset cups into a headset. Park Tool have a couple of good tutorials for these two items ($URL$ & $URL$ Ultimately the reason you don't need to grease/lubricate those items at installation is because they don't move within the frame. The bearings will move inside each of the items. I.e. BB bearings rotate inside the BB shell and you will install headset bearings inside the cups. So it is the rotating parts that you would grease. The reason threaded BBs should be greased is to assist in the installation of them as the rotate into position (i.e. thread onto the frame). So ultimately there is no need to, however it shouldn't cause any harm if you do grease them before installation. 

I don't think gt ever made a bmx frame, but should it have, it would be one of a kind to celebrate something, for instance a racer that finished first. So they designed it for a purpose. I would advice you to get informed whether or not this is a gt bmx frame. 

I would suggest you tighten the inner nuts but not too much, as it would kinda block the wheel. You need to try and find the perfect spot for the nuts by trial and error(the wheel no moving at all horizontally). I had this problem once and all I did was put the wheel on the frame when it's upside down and spin it while I tightened the inner nuts of the axle. Then I would check if the wheel would still be moving horizontally. If in any case you overtightened the inner nuts on the axle and the wheel won't move try untightening them. These nuts have a tendency to untighten themselves so if you see the wheel moving again it the future don't worry, it's normal, just repeat the process I told you. 

A more puncture resistant tyre isn't going to necessarily help in this situation. If you've come out of work and you've got a flat, it seems like a slow leak. If you didn't find anything in the tyre the 2nd time, I would be checking how you've seated the tyre on the rim, have you accidentally pinched the tube a bit, are the valves in good working order, are the tubes the right size for your 29x2.25 tyres? When you're at home and have time and focus I would very carefully check the rim & tape for sharp edges, I would turn the tyre inside out and very thoroughly check for embedded objects or grit floating around in the tyre. Further to this, check your tube to see what the puncture looks like (single hole, snake bites, etc). If the tube has already been patched, then ditch it and put a fresh tube in. As a side note on checking the tube and tyre for objects and puncture cause, you could mark the tube with a piece of chalk where the valve is so that when you take it all apart you can line the valve up with where it was on the tube so you can more easily inspect the tube puncture site on both the tyre (inside it) and the rim. I find this can be helpful to quickly identify the most likely site of tyre/rim damage. But simply the best way to never get a puncture on a bike again is, don't ride. But we all know that isn't going to happen is it. 

So I have this crank that I want to convert. It has three crankwheels and I don't expect myself to ride on the two of them. I have found a second hand crankwheel from a friend that I want to put on so that my life gets easier but I need the "plates" or I don't know how they are called to come off. As I can see there is a bolt for a hex but when I put it in to turn it and remove it, it does nothing. From the back side of it, it seems to be a rivet. Ps. I don't have enough money for a new crankset if this is what you are suggesting. I just need the crankwheels to come off. 

It could be that you've cross threaded the lock ring, although you should notice this within the first few turns. To prevent it coming loose again though you could try some loctite on it. 

GCN do some great how to videos and will possibly be a good resource for you in your general overhaul of the bike. Here is one specific to you need for this post 

To be honest, the simplest thing is going to be getting tubes with the correct valve length for your rims. If your LBS won't do the exchange put it down to a lesson in what length valves you need for your flash 50mm rims. 

Sometimes the chain can make contact to the derailleur and so make a noise. Sadly, there are certain gears one should travel. These include everything except the combination of a small cog back with big cog front, small cog front with big cog back. If the derailleur are poorly adjusted, this can be the cause of the chain having some friction with the derailleurs. There are two solutions. Either you do not ride in these gears or you have it properly adjusted. 

Should I buy a carbon fibre handebar or an aluminium alloy one for a mountain bike? I would prefer the stiffest, as I do tricks but I don't really know which one is the stiffest. I seen both aluminum as well as carbon fiber handlebars for under 20bucks. Then, should I go for a curved or a flat handlebar? I ride in town, I am about 1.80m tall. I am a male at about 65 kgs also doing work outs. This is neither to skinny nor to fat. I believe its ideal. I do not make huge jumps, just some drops from less than half a meter. I also believe the handlebar should be large at about 70cm in length, so that I can have a lot of grip when doing my tricks. Ps.I wouldn't do any barspins, so I dont care about the length. I just do some hops, bunny hops, manuals, endos, etc. No backflips or frontflips or any stuff like that. Now what is your opinion on my case? Edit: I really much like the design of the carbon fibre handebar whereas the aluminium handlebar is plain paint with a name on it. For the carbon fibre handebar it says that is has passed the EN 14766 Standards and the JAPAN JIS Standards. What to you think? 

As @Batman says, 2mm is VERY little clearance on a bike. It is more likely to be the frame flexing (more so the chain and seat stays) causing the tyre to move around a bit. I would see if there is a way to mount the stand a little further forward on its bracket. You want to create as much distance as you can between your stand and the tyre as possible. Video example of a frame flexing to show what is meant by flex 

I'm not too familiar with handcycles, however you can get some really good electric assist bikes these days. Not sure what the situation is with your knee, however if you are able to pedal to some degree this might be the thing to help you where your knees would typically feel the strain like on the hills. I am currently considering a dutch cargo bike with electric assist, as the hills around my place are too much to manage 20kg bike, plus to toddlers and a bunch of groceries. From my limited research they'd get you about 15-20 miles at about 18mph, so not the full century, however it might be enough to let you do the recreational ride