I made this suggestion at a former software company once, it was flat out rejected, even though they had the money and needed the projects done. The response was from Human Resources. Basically they said, if the company offers you projects on the side for cash, then they need to be fair and offer all employees the chance to do work on the side for cash. As this company was used to already getting people to work on extra projects for free in exchange for favors, "wink wink" come raise/bonus time, that would directly conflict in this case. To answer your question though, I'd definitely ask, it's not going to hurt. After it was all said and done, I was not looked upon unfavorably. Actually, my company seriously considered it for a few weeks until the "lawyers" (HR) got involved! 

I would report him, and encourage others to do the same. The best case for you here is for HR to understand how volatile he has become and dismiss him immediately before his notice is up. HR may not care much about what he is saying, but they certainly should care how this is affecting the morale of other employees. 

An open space is not just about removing walls, it's also about changing the culture of the employees to collaborate more as a team, and not necessarily just person-to-person conversations in a box. Ideally, if you are in an open space, you are co-located with other members of your immediate team. As part of this co-location, open space, you are free to express ideas among team members so that everyone can benefit from hearing the conversation, even if they are not directly in on it. I love when I see open spaces work, Tom and Suzie are talking, and Jim is silently listening. Jim hears something incorrect and can immediately speak up, rather than finding out days/weeks later that something isn't being done correctly. 

You should give a standard 2-week notice, and leave it at that. You may just get lucky and they'll immediately escort you out and pay you anyway, freeing you to take Job 2. You may think your industry is huge, but don't burn bridges unless you have good reason too. At the end of the day, this is "you", so don't ruin your reputation over two weeks. 

He has no idea what a nuisance he has become to you, so any idea that involves bringing in HR or his manager is overkill at this stage. There is going to be nothing more effective than having a quick, non-confrontational chat with him to the tune of "Dude, you're driving me bonkers the way you pound your keyboard...Can we find a solution that works for the both of us?" Before you do this though, research some solutions you can propose, e.g. different keyboard, soft mousepads under the keyboard, etc. 

The only thing left that you can do is to mitigate the damage caused by your breach of trust. In my opinion, the best way to do that is to ensure that no other entity in the universe is affected by that knowledge. Don't use that information to make any decisions. Don't use it to change your opinion of the person whose trust you breached. Don't tell the person you have that information. Don't tell your closest confidant/spouse/lawyer that information. In short, act as if you never knew it. When the information comes back to mind, remind yourself that you only know it as a result of a breach of trust and that you are ethically required to act as if you do not know it. This is hard, but you made the mistake, you should accept the consequences. 

The above answers (I think it's safe to assume that they will all stay above this one) cover the OP's ethical question. I'm going to answer a slightly different question, which is this: suppose you succumbed to curiosity and looked at the file--what is the ethical thing to do now? Consider: 

While I agree with other answers that this sounds suspicious on the manager's part, it seems that when you say "he basically forbade me to write emails to him and other colleagues" that those "other colleagues" are people above your boss in the chain of command ("which had relevance for both that manager and his manager, who I also CC'ed"). If so, your boss is correct, those emails are escalations. If you email someone's boss, you're escalating the issue. He is correctly recognizing that you have taken an issue to his superiors, which is one very solid definition of escalation. LangeHaare's answer addresses a path forward for you to take once you recognize that one thing your boss is saying is correct--you have been escalating issues. Also, as a basic rule of thumb, any time you go over your manager's head, expect either you or your manager to be fired (as explained by Matthew Grivich). It doesn't always go that way, but I would generally consider that to be the most likely outcome in a US business. 

You do not have the authority to book a technician before that. You can simply say "I can't book anyone before X date." That is true, because it is not your decision, as you found out when you tried to do it. The details of the meaning are possibly different from what the hearer assumes, but you are not deliberately deceiving them, just telling them what is in your power to do. If they press you, as that person did, you can say "it is not in my power to make a booking any earlier than that". If they want a supervisor, give them a supervisor. 

You're putting the cart before the horse. I'm 20 years into a web development career now, and I came in my first position with no experience developing websites. Everything I learned, I learned because there was a business requirement, and I stepped up to meet that requirement using a technology I learned on the job. I commend you for getting some experience before you're hired, but know that employers are going to want to see real-world experience to really want to hire you. Saying you read a book, or played around with this technology doesn't go far. Even if you have to donate time, find someone, somewhere that you can help learn web development from. Are there charity organizations around you could help setup a simple site, for free. You're looking for experience, real experience. Get some real experience, then concentrate on getting your foot in the door for an entry-level position. Let your career grow and take off from there. 

If you tell yourself you can't do this, then I guarantee your results will be exactly that. However, if you dive head first in these projects, setting up expectations with your boss that you are learning, and may not be able to deliver on time, that will give you the time to learn the right way to do these advanced technologies. As you are learning, check your assumptions with the experts on Stack Overflow. Get some code reviews internally if possible, and if that isn't an option there are other stack exchange sites for those. You can learn this stuff, yes you will make some mistakes, but that is how we get better. I say all this to say, take the bull by the horns and be happy for the challenge! Just some advice from a developer with 20 years experience 

Request the door be locked where you have to enter a numerical code to get in, and only you and other women are provided the passcode. Problem solved. 

This is an unfortunate side-effect of a work culture that doesn't thrive on that constructive-criticism feedback loop. You probably aren't receiving this type of feedback, because the people who are reviewing you are not receiving feedback like this as well, nor are they comfortable with giving it. It sounds as if the company as a whole does reviews to satisfy the HR requirement, but no real review come as a result of it. The first half of my career (10 years) was like this, I always got stellar reviews, and no negative feedback. Goals and constructive feedback were almost a joke to the employees in the fact they didn't do it seriously. I grew technically in my position, but the way I related to others was weak (I just didn't know it) I then switched jobs, and immediately I got some good constructive feedback. After I was done pouting about the first real feedback I received, I got to work fixing the problem, and keeping up to date with my manager on how he saw my progress. I realized I craved that type of feedback, and over the course of that job I grew tremendously, and asked my manager on many times if he had any more feedback to offer. I say all this to say, it may be time to consider a job change. There are absolutely companies out there that take reviews seriously, and work out this type of feedback loop. Honestly, if you are looking for career growth, nothing helps more than to have a colleague in your field point out improvements you can make. If you interview, the questions you should definitely ask around are: