One expensive component is the cooking pot; depending on if you already have one, you might want to find a stove that is compatible with your existing pot. Trail Designs have several models that can burn both alcohol and wood. You can order their stoves for specific pot sizes. I have experience with their Sidewinder Ti-Tri which can also burn esbit. I would consider the keg version instead of the sidewinder as having the ashes inside your pot is a poor idea in hindsight. Unfortunately, they are not cheap and only 'robust' if you use and handle them properly. I believe your best option will be to find a cheap cooking pot and build your own soda can alcohol stove. Plenty of people have built theirs and used them on long hikes. Use a small plastic container for transportation. To save space, try to store items inside of the container when you are on the move. As long as your wood burning stove have support and space for placing the alcohol stove inside of it, you should be good. Although I have no experience with this specific diy, I would consider trying and adapting this Wood Burning Trail Stove to your needs. Alternatively, you could also spend part of the money on a used wood stove. You could start by looking at the gear swap on BPL. 

It looks like the answer is that it depends on the direction, wind speed, terrain and type of chairlift. The ski area you are going to might keep statistics on how often the wind makes the use of chairlifts unsafe or whether or not they think the lifts will be open for those dates. 

A z-pulley or z-drag is a way of gaining leverage to pull a rope tight or to pull an object or person closer to the anchor. It is commonly used to tighten Tyrolean traverses, recover pinned boats in white water or in mountain or rock climbing scenarios. How would one set one up? 

Source In that specific case the search and rescue teams did have a decent idea of where to look, but still failed to find the person who ended up dying of starvation after the search was called off. 

or to use a one way pulley at the anchor. It is also possible to add another line to the Z to increase the advantage from 3:1 to 5:1. 

It is, however there are some guidelines to follow, and if it happens inside a national park in the United States, a permit may be required. The guidelines are, 

What type of cookware you choose depends on what type of cooking you do. Titanium is certainly the lightest, and it's great if all you do in your pot is boil water to add to dehydrated foods (Lipton noodles, Mountain House, homemade boil-in-bag meals, etc.) or to make beverages. I've never seen or heard of a titanium pot shattering at low temperatures. However, any super-thin, uncoated pan will have trouble distributing heat evenly which leads to hot spots and burned food. A titanium mug works great for me, but then, I prefer to keep my meals as simple and no-cook as possible when I'm backpacking. If you enjoy backcountry cooking, you may be disappointed in ti cookware, especially considering the price point. If you plan on doing anything more involved, such as eggs or pancakes or stirfry, take a look at hard anodized aluminum cookware, such as the MSR Aplinist or GSI Pinnacle series. Hard anodized aluminum weighs only a little more than titanium, is cheaper, and offers several advantages over other aluminum pots. It is durable, offers excellent heat distribution, and is easier to clean as it possesses some nonstick properties of its own even without a Teflon coating. Some hard anodized pans are sold with a Teflon finish, so if that's an issue for you, shop around or examine them in person before buying. If you do go with nonstick cookware, be sure to use bamboo or Lexan utensils to avoid scratching the finish. I use hard-anodized aluminum pans from Calphalon for home cooking and I love them. They heat very evenly and are virtually nonstick. The material is much less reactive than plain aluminum (e.g. it doesn't turn the sulphur in your cauliflower yellow!), and leeches virtually no aluminum into your food. For perspective: there are about 50 mg of aluminum in an antacid tablet; if you do all your cooking in uncoated aluminum pans, you'll consume about 3.5 mg of aluminum per day, and with a hard anodized pan that number is even lower. Bon appetit! 

Camp host information for Kenepuru Head Beyond that, solar showers are mentioned by several reviews of the campgrounds. 

There is also a study that show a link between obesity and altitude sickness. Apparently people over 50 are at a lower risk of altitude sickness. On the other hand fit young men can be at a higher risk, because of how they climb i.e. ascending too fast. There are also drugs that can be used to prevent and treat it. Beyond all of this, it can vary from person to person, so you will want to watch yourself for any symptoms and learn how your body reacts to altitude. Personally, I have never had anything worse than insomnia from altitude, but other people on the same trip had different reactions. 

In lots of places around the world, locking folding knives are illegal for everyday carry while non-locking folding knives are much less restricted. Almost everyone I know who carries a knife daily has a locking and my biggest concern would be the blade closing when I don't want it to and cutting me. If I don't need to worry about the legal aspect because of my location, are there any advantages of a non-locking knife over a locking knife? 

There is at least one documented incident with a bear that occurred in the 1980s which may have been related sexual intercourses. Unfortunately the two teenagers, Jane Ammerman and Kim Eberly, did not survive. Stephen Herrero wrote about the incident in his book titled Bear Attacks: Their Causes and Avoidance: 

If you run out half-way, perhaps you should bring twice as much? That being said... One option for day hikes is to hydrate well before hitting the trail. Also, have readily available water for your return. e.g. leave a water bottle in your car. An other option is refilling from natural water sources during the trip would allow you to consume an adequate amount of water during your trek or short hike without having to cary extra water. It should be possible to plan in advance water gathering points. Depending on where you trek, you may want to consider water treatment. On short trips you may prefer readily available treatments such as the Sawyer Squeeze Filter, SteriPen or the Aquamira Frontier Pro. 

Katahdin is the highest summit in the area and camping is not permitted. Surrounding mountains are not very high and you should be able to camp at the bottom of them with some minimal planning if you're concerned about the temperature. A 30F bag is most likely what you will end up using and I would bring that with a few extra light layers that I can use during the day and at night if needed. e.g. a light puffy & windbreaker pants. If you use lean-to's, these can something feel colder because they are fully open on one side. I have used a 40F quilt in Baxter State Park, in early July, without any trouble. 

Source Basically, if the cord in the question was milspec than each strand would be rated to 35 pounds. However, it can be difficult to say if your cord is actually milspec. 

Having a sense of community on a backpacking trip can mean the difference between enjoyment and misery. It can also be the difference between backpacking as a team instead of as random group of people. The technical definition is, 

Hornblower and the Hotspur How exactly does one determine the best time to tack when optimizing for speed? 

On some backpacking trips a car could be left for a couple of weeks, what can I do to ensure that when I return the mice aren't inside and the squirrels are leaving the wiring alone? 

Personally, I would avoid using whistle signals in the absence of a genuine emergency because other people might assume that you are having one. 

Here is what I have done in the past and have demonstrated for others. Attach yourself to the tether with a Gri-Gri and tie backup knots beneath you to prevent a catastrophic failure of the Gri-Gri losing its grip and you sliding all the way down the rope. Its unlikely that the Gri-Gri would fail, but you still want to tie the knots in case and as good practice. The point of tieing the knots is that if the Gri-Gri were to slip, the knots would stop you from sliding past them. Just a simple figure-eight on a bight or an overhand on a bight will work (make the bights good and large). The Gri-Gri makes it really easy to go up and down the rope as you need and it means you don't need to constantly adjust knots in the rope. The backup knots are really easy to tie and they shouldn't get weighted, making them easy to untie. 

Yes it does dry shoes much faster. When long distance hiking it is definitely a nice thing to be able to stop in town and dry your shoes overnight using newspapers. It will draw a lot of the dampness right out of your footwear. This is a known trick and many people will attest to its magic. 

As to answer what areas may be more likely to allow backcountry camping, I usually look at the two following things. If you are unsure where to start, I would consider any long trails in the vicinity of where you want to backpack. Popular long trails, such as the AT, PCT & etc. allow you to camp mostly anywhere around the trail. There are some exceptions but these are fairly well documented on their respective websites (AT, PCT). You should be able to figure out the details for each individual trail and their specific areas. Typically, you can avoid the more restrictive areas. Some long trails, such as the JMT, have more restrictions and may not be a good option. Looking at a top 10 list may provide you with some inspiration. Secondly, I like to look at National Forests because they usually have less restrictions if any at all (e.g. don't stay at the same spot for > 2 weeks). In many cases, you can camp just about anywhere in national forests. In some places, e.g. in California, they may still require a permit.