No. While you're on that planet, you are also in the same orbit around the star as the planet is. As long as you're in the same orbit as your vehicle (planet, spacecraft), you don't experience any acceleration relative to the vehicle. Whether you're on the planet, or you're just tagging along on the same orbit, is the same thing. Similar question: in a satellite in a very eccentric orbit around the Earth, is any break in microgravity experienced in various parts of the orbit? Same answer - no. The satellite and everything in it follow the same orbit, so microgravity conditions are maintained. 

Yes, with a piece of 1000 lines / mm of diffraction grating that costs a few dollars, and some odd bits and ends, you could see the Fraunhofer lines. Here's a way to build it: $URL$ At the bottom there's a link to a place where you could purchase diffraction grating - but any grating around 1000 lines / mm is fine, and you could probably find it in other places too, if this store doesn't work for you for some reason. You could try to use a digital camera and photograph the spectrum, instead of looking at it directly. Beware, looking into the Sun poses a certain amount of danger. As long as you keep the slit pretty narrow, this spectrograph is safe. If the spectrum is too bright to look at comfortably, the slit is probably too wide and the instrument is not safe for direct viewing (but probably safe for a camera). You could also use it to inspect other sources of light: LED lightbulbs, fluorescent lamps, open flames, etc. It's quite fascinating. 

But then it would be just a bright but tiny spot. I believe what you're really asking for is: what is the combination of factors that shows the object as bigger than a simple dot? In that case, it's two factors: aperture of the telescope, and angular size of the object. Assuming a flawless telescope, its aperture is what determines its resolving power. The resolving power is the angle at which two dots can be separated by the telescope. The formula is: 

No, it's not stable without the huge pressure from gravity. There is a minimum stable size, but it's definitely much greater than a spoon. 

Makes a cute little desktop background, I guess, but it's definitely not research-grade. Now add a tracking platform and things become more interesting, and the possibilities open up quite a lot. 

That's a very high density. It's not any "asteroid" field that would occur naturally and would be stable for a long time. I can only think of a few environments that would be close to that: 

The BH will probably be the last thing left of our galaxy at the end. And even then it will take some incredibly long time for it to evaporate. BH evaporation for very large BHs is basically the slowest process you could imagine. 

The numbers you're quoting are extreme, more like a theoretical limit, and meaningless in practice. The 44k number would be true if you assume a limiting magnitude of 8. There aren't many people alive today who have seen at least one object at mag +8. This is not so much due to vision problems (although that may be important for some people), as to the fact that a mag +8 sky is an incredibly rare occurrence today due to light pollution. If you live on a continent with a low population density (such as North America, Australia, or the remote parts of Asia), then yes, maybe you have a chance of catching a mag +8 sky - if you drive far out into the desert, many hours away from any city or town. But if you live in Europe or the like, forget it. $URL$ $URL$ Furthermore, the 44k number is obtained by assuming the mag 8 conditions, and then counting all known objects in the sky whose brightness exceeds that limit. It is very unlikely that any one person would see them all in one lifetime. Seeing even a single star at mag 8 can be a difficult undertaking for many people, even in ideal conditions. It is very hard to quote a number, since it is so much dependent on light pollution, transparency, visual acuity of the observer (nearsighted people can't focus well enough to see very faint stars), the observer's age (acuity gets worse with age), the observer's experience (visual astronomers with years of experience will be able to see much fainter stars because they know how to look), etc. If you're on a farm, away from cities, in a place with reasonably low light pollution, and your eyes are good, and you've been sitting in perfect pitch black darkness for at least 30 minutes prior - when you look up you can reasonably expect to see a few thousand objects, mostly stars. Keep looking, and after a while you will distinguish one or two thousand more stars, very faint, that you could not see at first sight. Practice this steadily for a few years, and you'll add maybe another thousand; but you won't be able to see those all at once - only one at a time. Now travel to the Cerro Tololo site in Chile, up in the mountaineous desert, zero light pollution, excellent transparency, and you'll multiply all those numbers by a factor of 2x ... 5x. As you can see, the numbers are very flexible because there are so many factors involved. You can't just slap a 44k label on it and call it a day; that doesn't make any sense in reality. Astronomers know that the pure magnitude number doesn't mean much by itself, because it is just one factor among many. In a place with very high light pollution (like where I live, in the middle of a large, dense, sprawling urban area in California), you'd be lucky if you can see a hundred stars at night. Or, in a place with zero light pollution, shine a flashlight into someone's face, and you've temporarily blinded them. You've reduced the number of stars they could see by an order of magnitude for the next half hour (night vision gradually recovers, and it takes 30 minutes to fully recover, according to US military manuals and visual astronomers practice). 

In early August after the beginning of total darkness the Milky Way will be visible overhead. Most of it will stretch NE-SW, crossing the whole sky. All this will change depending on the time of the night, of course. But it's impossible to miss, and it arches overhead - so as long as you can see the sky, you'll be fine. Any place in the Death Valley proper will be okay. Since there are few artificial lights, the sky is very dark everywhere. Even close to popular spots like Stovepipe Wells or Furnace Creek you will be fine - just drive 15 minutes away from the lights and you'll be in complete darkness. I would only consider more mundane concerns such as ease of access, comfort, and safety. From an astronomical perspective it's all the same, as long as the overall horizon is low enough for your shot. I suggest scouting out the area during the day. Where the valley floor is pretty low, the horizon rises quite high. Even if you start out from Ridgecrest, driving towards the Valley, as soon as you're close to the industrial facility NE of the town (not too close - a little before it, or a little past it) the sky is already very dark. That's maybe a 20 minutes drive from the town. Just pull over, and look up. Definitely bring binoculars. This is not the usual city sky. Even in a small instrument, like regular binoculars, it's full of stars. You'll find little clusters and other interesting formations everywhere. Just make sure your elbows are resting steadily on the car's roof, and slowly scan the sky with the binocs. It looks amazing. EDIT: This is probably obvious, but bears emphasizing for anyone reading this who are not familiar with the area - bring water, lots of it, and make sure your car's AC is working properly. You don't want to be stuck somewhere, without water, in 125 F / 51 C weather. 

Dark matter - we don't really know what it is. It's not even sure it's "matter" in a conventional sense, or related to it in any way. We just know that galaxies are rotating in such a way that indicates there's a lot more mass out there, but it is mass that we cannot see and cannot be accounted for in the usual ways. Hence the name "dark" (as in invisible) matter. Dark matter doesn't seem to interact much with regular matter, except gravitationally. Right now dark matter could be passing through you and you wouldn't notice. Dark matter also does not interact with light, so you can't see it. It doesn't seem to interact much with itself either, so for this reason dark matter cannot form "clumps" such as planets or stars. Instead, it probably exists in a diffuse form. Bottom line, dark matter interacts pretty much only via gravity. The shape of galaxies is a proof of the existence of dark matter, and is a result of the interaction between matter and dark matter. Without dark matter, galaxies would be much less massive, and the outer parts would rotate much more slowly compared to the center. Due to dark matter, galaxies are quite massive, and they rotate almost as solid objects - the outer parts rotate approximately as fast as the central parts. Estimates vary, but it seems like there's something like 5x to 6x more dark matter out there compared to regular matter. 

The moving around is normal. It is due to atmospheric turbulence, which happens all the time. Unless you're in a vacuum, the images will always shimmer a little. Sometimes they will shimmer a lot. Other times not so much. In astronomy we have a word for this - it's called seeing: $URL$ 

Black holes are pretty ordinary, not anomalous in any way. There are huge black holes in the center of galaxies, and regular-size blackholes sprinkled throughout. Not sure what you mean by "rogue planets and stars". Planets not belonging to any star system are actually thought to be pretty common. Stars not belonging to any galaxy are also not extraordinary, but of course the distances between them would be gigantic, since any such star, by definition, would be alone in intergalactic space. 

Words of advice: Make sure the lenses are perfectly aligned. When you build the instrument, have some way to adjust the direction of the primary lens, so as to align it with the main axis of the instrument. Some tweaking will be required - tilt the primary a fraction of mm, check the results, tilt again, repeat until the image looks best. This is called collimation and it's very important for the overall performance of the instrument. Have some way for the eyepiece to move back and forth until you achieve perfect focus. This will have to be re-adjusted every time you observe. The adjustment is quite sensitive. A real focuser would help a lot, but this could be achieved also with two tubes sliding into each other, held in place by friction, like in an old pirate captain's telescope. For astronomy, when the scope is focused at infinity, the distance between primary lens and eyepiece is the sum of their focal lengths. E.g. with a 1000 mm primary and a 10 mm eyepiece, the distance would be 1010 mm. This assumes a convergent eyepiece. The telescope will not work well hand-held. The image will be jumping around too much. You will need some kind of mount. At the very least put the top of the tube on a fence or something. But astronomical instruments work best when they are on a rock solid mount. Even a broomstick hammered into the ground, with a loop on top for the tube, is better than nothing. Whichever way you mount the primary lens, don't squeeze it too hard in the lens cell or tube. It will deform the lens and make the image bad. Some pressure on the edge is okay; lots and lots of pressure not okay. You could glue the edge of the lens on some kind of ring. Just use common sense. This is totally doable. I've built a telescope just like that, many years ago. It's great to see what you can achieve on your own. Good luck! 

Diameter is important, but if you're trying to get any magnification out of that system, you need to look at the focal length. If you have a very distant light source, like the Sun, focused through a convex lens, until the image of the source is as small and as clear as possible, then the focal length is the distance between the lens and the image you're creating. Like when you burn paper with the lens, focal length is the lens-paper distance. For concave lenses focal length is a little more tricky to define, but they do have a focal length anyway. If F is the focal length of the forward lens (the objective), and f is the focal length of the lens near your eye (the ocular, or the eyepiece), then the magnification of the instrument is: M = F / f So you need an objective with a long focal length, and an eyepiece with a short focal length. Both the objective and the eyepiece could be convex actually. It's just that the image will be reversed. If the eyepiece is concave, the image will be straight-up, but the field of view of the telescope will be narrow (like looking through a peephole). If you use both convex lenses, the distance between them need to be close to the sum of their focal lengths, F + f. Start there and adjust it slightly for best results. 

The solar system and the Earth have formed billions of years ago from a pile of stuff (mostly hydrogen gas and rocks, with traces of other things) that collapsed together due to gravity pulling all those parts together. The current orbital speeds and spin motions of planets are just residuals from that collapse. In other words, a pile of rocks and stuff collapsed and made the Earth, and the result happened to spin at whatever rate back then - and that's all there is to it. Other "piles of stuff" (planets) spin at different rates, because that's how they collapsed from the cloud of gas and rubble; there's no special reason for it. 

You are way, WAY, WAY out of focus. The scope might also be completely miscollimated. The star must not appear like a big blob, with the "lines" and the image of the secondary mirror visible in the middle, like in your photo. The "lines" are called spider vanes - they are parts of the assembly called spider, which holds the secondary mirror in place. The vanes, or the secondary mirror itself, must never be visible in the image. First, do a rough, purely visual collimation. Do this in a place with plenty of light (inside the house). Take out the eyepiece. Look into the focuser. You'll see the secondary mirror. Reflected in it, you'll see the primary mirror from the bottom of the tube. Reflected again in the primary, you'll see the focuser, with your eye in the middle. 

It's just random. Celestial bodies at that size typically don't collide with each other. They just go on and on for a very long time. A typical collision mechanism is when two neutron stars orbit each other. Their orbits actually do decay slowly over time, because they emit gravitational waves - it's a very slow process and it takes a very long time. When they get close enough to each other, a collision occurs - or rather they merge. Keep in mind this is a rare event. 

It's a pretty broad topic. It depends a bit on the type of DSO. Speaking in general, most DSOs lack brightness, and so to observe them you need two things: 

In the case of the Arecibo scope, the N-ary mirrors are sometimes used to correct the aberrationa of the spherical primary reflector, but that's not the only reason why they're used. Here's a discussion comparing various architectures (classic Cassegrain versus Ritchey-Chrétien versus anastigmatic aplanat) for a large radio telescope, highlighting various design, performance and operational issues for each. TLDR: classic Cassegrain is traditional for radio telescopes, but the R-C architecture performs better and is not significantly more difficult to build; OTOH, with R-C you must always use the secondary. 

Yes, but many (not all) telescopes made for astronomy will invert the image. Presenting the image upright is important for terrestrial instruments, but it doesn't matter for astronomy. Also, it usually requires fewer optical components to make an instrument that inverts the image. Also, terrestrial instruments are made to operate in an environment where there's plenty of ambient light (daylight), whereas many telescope designs (such as truss dobsonians) are built to operate in a dark environment and are usually hampered by excess ambient light. So, in a nutshell, yes, you could turn a telescope towards objects here on Earth, and it would work, but for best results and easiest operation just get some good binoculars. Finally, "power" is a much misunderstood characteristic of optical instruments. It is technically true that a large dobsonian could in theory outperform any pair of binoculars you could care to try, but in practice a large optical stack is difficult to swing around and is fickle with regard to collimation, thermal equilibrium, etc. If you're willing and able to put up with the operating difficulties, with the necessity to flip the image around, etc, then I guess that indeed a large dobsonian could surpass anyone's little binoculars in a terrestrial contest. But very large magnification always reduces the field of view. Go ahead and crank magnification all the way up, and it's like looking through a straw. It's hard to locate anything. Astronomers have specific methods to deal with this difficulty, but for a terrestrial observation the narrow field of view is a liability, not an advantage. There's a reason why various optical instruments have evolved into different shapes and designs to operate in different environments. "Horses for courses", as they say.