I've heard that we have a great shot at finding life on Mars if we just drill deep enough down to the surface to the water and detect if its sterile or not. Are there planned missions to do this? If not, what is the next (or existing) mission where finding life is likely? Is it launching something to Mars, Europa, Titan, or some other moon? Why does the mission have a good shot at finding life? 

Is it true that when a star 'runs out' of its fuel, it hasn't really used up all its hydrogen, it still has hydrogen left, but the hydrogen is not at its center where the fusion happens. If something crashed into it rearranging its content a bit, could its life be extended? 

The absolute limit of a telescope resolution is given by diffraction. No matter how perfectly built and aligned is a telescope, you cannot resolve angles smaller than $$\theta \propto \frac{\lambda}{D}$$ where $\lambda$ is the wavelength of interest and $D$ is the diameter of the telescope. This is why a number of millimeters and radio telescope (and also some -antennas) are huge. The first figure here shows the basic principle. Imagine that you can divide what you observe in tiny squares and consider each one as a point like source. Each one will generate a diffraction pattern when passing into the telescope and if two points are too near, you cannot distinguish between them. Wisely you put your telescope in space: turbulence in the atmosphere degrade the signal, and the best/biggest telescopes have hard times to go below $0.5 arc seconds$ Interferometry comes to the rescue increasing $D$ from the telescope size to the distance of two (or more) telescopes (called baseline). Interferometry has been used in radio astronomy since decades. From what I hear optical interferometry is much much more complicated and as far as I know the only large scale attempt is the VLTI project. So you could imagine to have a constellation of relatively small telescopes spread over hundred thousands or millions of kilometers. But this have the huge problem that you have to know the position and timing of every one of them with an impressive precision (my guess is that the precision in position is of the order of $\lambda$). 

If you rewind the universe back 14,7 billion years, all matter were in one spot, and then started expanding. Do we know where this is in reference to our own solar system? And is there anything there? Or are all matter in the universe just blown inn all different directions and none is left at the "original" spot where it originated 

Its probably small, but is there a theoretical gravitational attraction between all objects in the universe? Light can move pretty far, so does that mean gravity can as well, and is the gravity blocked by the same way light is blocked by an object? 

Astronomical events such as the solstices and equinoxes occur at a specific instance in time on a specific day, often given in Universal Time. For example, this winter's solstice occurs on 21 Dec 2014 at 23:03 Universal Time. Since most of Europe is an hour ahead, this may occur on 22 Dec 2014 at 00:03 (and subsequent hours) given in local time based on the time zone. So British and American calendars will show the solstice occurring on 21 Dec, and in countries east of Greenwich on 22 Dec. 

There are also few gamma ray burst associated with objects at large redshift. This database containts: 

find it and try to get a first guess about the position and velocity (this requires multiple observations far enough in time to be able to measure an angular movement) plug the position and velocity info (and likely their errors) into a computer simulation that simulate the solar system dynamics. Fast forward the simulation to predict the future orbit. observe again the asteroid and compare its position with the simulation. Re-estimate position and velocity. Go to point 2. 

Technically, the distance between Sun and Earth changes throughout the year. The Earth moves around the Sun on an elliptical orbit. It's distance from the Sun changes between 152m km (aphelion) and 147m km (perihelion), a difference of 5 million kilometres, twice per year. 

The terminator at a certain time near sunset, is the one shown towards the east (darkness approaches), running NE/SW. As time progresses, it moves into the top horizontal location, running E/W; this consistent with the more northerly latitudes having continual daytime, coinciding with a certain parallel polar circle. As morning approaches, the terminator moves towards the west (bringing daylight with it), and runs NW/SE. 

To conclude: to observe Pluto or Ceres with high enough accuracy you would need a large number of large space telescopes very far away one from the other with perfect telemetry. It's far easier and cheaper to got there to take pictures. 

The other problem is light collection. If you want to see something very faint you have two options: 1)you observe for a lot of time or 2) you build a bigger telescope (6 to 40 meters in diameter). And here also the largest baseline interferometers cannot do much, as the amount of light that they collect is just the sum of the light collected by the single telescopes. 

After yesterday's announcement of the Kepler telescope finding a huge amount of newly observed exoplanets, i saw a headline claiming that as much as 22% of sun like stars in the universe have planets in their habitable zone. There are loads of stars in the universe, so the number of planets in the habitable zone has to be enourmous. But how many of the stars in the universe are about the same size as our sun? 

We've had hubble for two decades. Its become the most famous space telescope, and lately Kepler seems to be running for the second place. Are there any more powerful, better telescopes planned for launch in the near future? 

There are few objects that might have even higher redshift. Googling I've found three accepted papers: 

two are about a $z\approx10$ galaxy. One published in Nature and the other one in Astrophysics Journal Letters is about a strong lensed candidate at $z\approx11$ published on Astrophysical Journal 

You just have to know the orbit. But the orbit of asteroids is very complicated to predict, because they are influenced, sometimes dramatically, by the planets and by smaller bodies, like other asteroids, that we might not be able to see. On top of this we cannot measure directly the orbital speed of an asteroid. We can only observe changes in the angular position. If we know the distance (which might not be easily measurable) we can at least put a lower limit to the speed. The basic steps to study the orbit of an asteroids are: 

We can observe exoplanets, but is it possible with today's technology to observe if there is life as we know it on an exoplanet? What do you look for when doing this kind of observation? 

How big does a satelite we send have to be to be able to chrush through the ice layer and dive into the ocean on Europa? If a mission should head there, is this a better way of examining the ocean than landing on the surface and drilling through? 

I think it is going to depend on the type of object being examined. Planetary objects tend to be more spherical than stars, which in turn tend to be more spherical than galaxies. My vote goes toward the Heliospheric current sheet, which is thought to extend 10-20 astronomical units (about 1.5x10^9km to 3x10^10km) from the Sun, and is thought to be about 10,000 km near the orbit of the Earth. But it tends to be influenced more by electromagnetic forces, than due to spin forces.