I don't understand what you mean by formal epistemology. If you want to create new knowledge the knowledge you create often doesn't fit in to existing formalisms. So if formal epistemology involves describing the creation of knowledge in terms of formalism, then it's not going to be any use in most interesting cases. As far as the use of logic in epistemology is concerned, a lot of the field is still enamoured with inductivism and the idea of justification despite the enormous unsolvable problems with such approaches and the existence of a viable alternative: Deduction vs Induction -- are they equally valid? Do all epistemologies suffer from the "regress of justifications" problem? My main recommendation is to read the references given in the answers I cited above. 

There is a difference between prejudice and inductive reasoning. It is possible for a person to be prejudiced, it is not possible for a person to do inductive reasoning. Induction is supposed to be process starts with data, derives ideas from the data and then shows those ideas are true or more probable or something like that with more data - the extra data justifies the theory. This is impossible for several reasons. The first step makes no sense because you can't pick what information to look at without an explanation of what to look at. In addition, explanations don't follow from any finite amount of data so you can't derive them from data. And finally, the whole idea of justifying an idea is hopeless. The conclusion of an argument maybe true is the premises and rules of inference are correct, but there is no way of guaranteeing their correctness. No argument would do this job because that argument would involve premises and rules of inference that could be wrong. Knowledge is actually created by noticing problems, guessing solutions to them and then criticising the guesses. The above criticisms of induction were proposed by Karl Popper and improved by David Deutsch: see 'The Beginning of Infinity' by Deutsch, 'The Fabric of Reality' by Deutsch, especially chapters 3 and 7 and 'Objective knowledge' by Popper chapter 1 and 'Realism and the Aim of Science' by Popper Chapter I. A person who believes he is doing induction is wrong because induction is impossible. So what is he actually doing? He has some knowledge about the world that he is using to guess about stuff and he doesn't realise that is what he is doing. Rather, he imagines he is looking at the world in an unbiased way without making assumptions and just describing how the world works. This bears some similarity to prejudice. The prejudiced person doesn't know or doesn't care that he is making false assumptions about some group of people or some issue. Likewise the inductivist is making assumptions that may be false and he either doesn't know or doesn't care. 

Ethics is not about goals or means, it is about making decisions. You can sometimes criticise a goal with respect to whether it can be achieved with means you regard as acceptable. For example, say you want to get a new computer today. You don't have enough money and can't get a loan so the only way you can get a computer is by stealing it. You think stealing is a bad means of getting stuff so you ditch the goal of getting a new computer today. You can also criticise means by considering whether they allow you to achieve particular goals. So let's suppose that you decide to get a computer today by stealing it. If you steal the computer the police might find out about what you did and take away the computer. So then stealing as a means of getting a computer is not particularly good. Now, you proposed that you could look at morality as being about assessing outcomes. You add up all the costs and benefits and then make a decision. This way of looking at morality doesn't really work. The first problem is that in general the consequences of a decision can't be known in advance. Suppose you buy a computer and the computer salesman gets some commission and as a result he buys his four year old daughter a tricycle. The daughter then rides the tricycle into the road and gets creamed by an articulated lorry travelling at 90 mph. This is a bad consequence of your action, but it's not one that you could foresee. In general consequences can't be foreseen because they will involve other people making decisions and to make those decisions they will create knowledge. You can't know what knowledge will be created in the future because if you could predict it you would already have that knowledge. The second problem is that there are many consequences you will never know about even after the fact. So you can't trace all of the consequences of your decision and then decide in retrospect whether it was good or bad. You might say that you're not going to consider all of the consequences but at that point in substance you have given up the consequence criterion because the way you judge what consequences to count can't be solely about consequences. So what's the alternative? Knowledge (useful or explanatory information), including moral knowledge, isn't derived from anything. The idea that it is possible to show that a particular idea is true or right or probably true or right is called justificationism and it is wrong. If you assess ideas using argument then the arguments have premises and rules of inference and the result of the argument may not be true (or probably true) if the premises and rules of inference are false. You might try to solve this by coming up with a new argument that proves the premises and rules of inference but then you have the same problem with those premises and rules of inference. You might say that some stuff is indubitably true (or probably true), and you can use that as a foundation. But that just means you have cut off a possible avenue of intellectual progress since the foundation can't be explained in terms of anything deeper. And in any case there is nothing that can fill that role. We don't create knowledge by showing stuff is true or right or probably true or right, so how do we create knowledge? We can only create knowledge by finding mistakes in our current ideas and correcting them piecemeal. You notice a problem with your current ideas, propose solutions, criticise the solutions until only one is left and then find a new problem. We shouldn't say that a theory is false because it hasn't been proven because this applies to all theories. Rather, we should look at what problems it aims to solve and ask whether it solves them. We should look at whether it is compatible with other current knowledge and if not try to figure out the best solution. Should the new idea be discarded or the old idea or can some variant of both solve the problem? As far as morality is concerned, you can criticise the means or the ends or anything else about a particular way of making decisions that seems problematic and then try to replace it with something that doesn't suffer from the same flaws. In the computer example from the start of my answer, whether you criticise the means or the ends doesn't really matter. In both cases you're going to end up concluding that you should earn some more money and then buy the computer. (Or you might decide to do without it but even in that case it doesn't much matter whether you chose to think about the issue initially in terms of ends or means.) For more on moral philosophy see $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

Hypotheses should not be assigned probabilities. There are a number of problems with trying to assign such probabilities. A theory is either right or wrong so it's a bit difficult to say what it means to say that a theory has a probability of 0.5, say. If it is just about some subjective feeling you have about it, why would that matter? Epistemology is about how knowledge can be created. If you're tying to create new ideas you don't know what you're going to end up with, so what you have to do is propose guesses and then try to eliminate them by critical discussion. The role that probabilities can play in this is that if an idea predicts the wrong probabilities that is a criticism of that theory. No probabilities are assigned to theories themselves. Another problem is that if you were to assign probabilities to theories what explains how you assign the probabilities? If it is, say, some physical theory then how do you assign probabilities to that theory? In reality, any such theory would have to be a guess and so all you really know is that the theories to which you have assigned probabilities are also guesses. There are other problems. For example, Arrow's theorem and similar mathematical results raise problems for any process that purports to make decisions by weighing ideas rather than criticising them. See "Realism and the Aim of Science" by Karl Popper and "The Beginning of Infinity" by David Deutsch, especially Chapter 13. 

Suppose that a person advises you to do something, such as accept some idea or other. Whether you should do it depends on whether the person in question can refute objections to the course of action he is advising. The fact that somebody happens to have called the person in question a scientist doesn't change that. Some people seem to think that it makes a difference, but it doesn't. Scientific knowledge is created by conjecture and criticism, see "Realism and the Aim of Science" Chapter I by Karl Popper. The idea that you should drop your standards of criticism when somebody says the word "scientist" is anti-rational and anti-scientific. That is, adopting or advocating such an absence of standards is a threat to science and rationality. 

Profit is a result of an entrepreneur using goods and services for which people would be willing to pay $x to produce stuff that is valued at some larger value $(x+y). Interest is a result of the fact that people prefer stuff now to the same stuff later. So if you want people to wait for stuff, you have to pay them. You are not very clear about what problem you're trying to solve. For example, you don't explain what the macroeconomic level means, or how you would measure it, or why anybody should care about it. The paper you cited is also clear as mud and favourably cites Marx and Keynes while ignoring criticism of their ideas: $URL$ $URL$ Does the failure to solve a badly stated, unclear problem suggest some radical conclusion about objective reality? No. It suggests that you should think more clearly. You should start by stating your problem in terms that a ten year old child could understand. If you can't do that, you need to go back to the basics of economics. 

Your question has two flaws. (1) Justification is impossible and not desirable. (2) Occam's razor is a badly flawed standard. Justification, showing an idea is true or probably true, is impossible. If you assess ideas using argument then the arguments have premises and rules of inference and the result of the argument may not be true (or probably true) if the premises and rules of inference are false. You might try to solve this by coming up with a new argument that proves the premises and rules of inference but then you have the same problem with those premises and rules of inference. You might say that some stuff is indubitably true (or probably true), and you can use that as a foundation. But that just means you have cut off a possible avenue of intellectual progress since the foundation can't be explained in terms of anything deeper. And in any case there is nothing that can fill that role. Sense experience won't work since you can misinterpret information from your sense organs, e.g. - optical illusions. Sense organs also fail to record lots of stuff that does exist, e.g. - neutrinos. Scientific instruments aren't infallible either since you can make mistakes in setting them up, in interpreting information from them and so on. We don't create knowledge (useful or explanatory information) by showing stuff is true or probably true for reasons so how do we create knowledge? We can only create knowledge by finding mistakes in our current ideas and correcting them piecemeal. You notice a problem with your current ideas, propose solutions, criticise the solutions until only one is left and then find a new problem. Occam's razor is problematic because it claims that you should not multiply entities beyond necessity without specifying what counts as necessity. As a result it has often been given bad interpretations like don't add stuff that isn't justified. It is sometimes true that a better explanation has been created by discarding an idea that people formerly thought was necessary, e.g. - Einstein discarding the ether in special relativity. Any idea should be judged by whether it solves problems that other ideas don't solve, regardless of the number of entities it invokes. For example, it is not a good objection to the atomic theory to claim that it assumes the existence of large numbers of atoms: that's a lot of assumptions ~10 the power 23 for any given object. You could say that's just one assumption but why count it as only one assumption? This is the sort of issue that comes up if you see the number of assumptions as the important issue.