TL;DR: McCain did not invent that number (it does come from an economic analysis). But, it's complicated. 

banning flag burning for being offensive, and banning flag burning when it incites violence or disturbs the peace 

My TL;DR summary is: there is too much uncertainty at this stage to know what the specific effect of an ACA repeal would be. The rest of this answer explains in more detail that: 

where respondents could specify any value from 0 to 100. Of 328 respondents who identified themselves as "White" and also answered "Muslim" to the question about whether Obama is Muslim, 285 gave Donald Trump a higher rating than Hillary Clinton. 43 did not. Finally, let us weight the samples as directed by the survey organizers (using the variable). As per the User Guide: 

It's also plausible that disclosing their resolution to a researchers, and knowing that the researcher would follow up, affected the success rate of the resolvers. The Forbes article with the 8% number later links to an interview Norcross did on NPR. In that NPR interview, he said 

More specifically, she would ask representative voting on a specific piece of legislation to tell her "to whom in their district was the Patients' Bill of Rights important" (e.g. doctors, patients, insurers, hospitals). She also had them fill out a form that provided a list of such subconstituencies, and asked (1) how much mail they had received from each subconstituency in the preceding 12 months, and (2) how frequently their legislative office had spoken with each of the listed subconstituencies in the preceding 12 months. She found that: 

TL; DR summary: no. Someone at Statistics Brain copied data from an unreliable source, introduced an error while copying it, and misattributed it to a reliable source. Now articles all over the Internet use the wrong data, attribute it to the reliable source (that never said anything like it), and don't do any verification on their own. 

This claim was used by the White House to justify an executive action that can affect the operations of a wide range of federal government agencies. In his first official White House press briefing on January 23, 2017, U.S. Press Secretary Sean Spicer discussed a hiring freeze on non-military federal employees that he said counters the "dramatic expansion of the federal workforce in recent years". Has there been a dramatic expansion of the federal workforce in recent years, in either raw numbers or as a percent of total workforce, for any reasonable definition of "recent" and "dramatic"? 

is an important one. The Flag Protection Act proposed in 2005 was essentially a replacement for a previous Flag Protection Act that banned flag burning in general: 

Parts of the story are corroborated in this account (Grado, Gary. "Charges urged in raid in which house burned." East Valley Tribune. Oct 15 2004), which is based on a statement from the sheriff's spokesperson: 

2. The product labeling does not reflect evidence showing that levonorgestrel does prevent implantation by some identifiable mechanism; only uncertainty about whether or not it could. Why did anybody ever think that Plan B inhibits implantation of fertilized eggs? The labeling of Plan B (which in the US, must be approved by the FDA) says: 

1. Levonorgestrel is not effective at preventing pregnancy in women who have already ovulated. The main piece of evidence implying that levonorgestrel does not prevent implantation is that Plan B is not effective at preventing pregnancy in women who have already ovulated. For example, In "Effectiveness of levonorgestrel emergency contraception given before or after ovulation — a pilot study", 2007 [1]: 

but this was deemed unconstitutional in United States v. Eichman, 496 U.S. 310 in 1990, on the basis of their earlier (1989) decision in Texas v. Johnson, 491 U.S. 397. There, the Supreme Court noted that 

It seems like a reaction to ongoing efforts to pass a constitutional amendment allowing Congress to ban flag burning, a move that the co-sponsors of the 2005 act oppose and voted against. Its text notes: 

TL;DR: Some parts of the claim are true, some are false. The first version of a New York Times story on this report contained an error, which seems to have spread (although the NYT story has been updated with the correct number). Soft drinks were the #1 ranked individual commodity purchased by SNAP households in a 2011 dataset of SNAP transactions at one US grocery retailer (compared to #2 among non-SNAP households), but they constitute 5% of SNAP expenditures (compared to 4% in non-SNAP households), not 10%. The $8.5 billion number is not accurate. A better estimate would be about $3.86 billion for 2011 (5.44% of $71 billion in SNAP benefits redeemed), if the spending patterns at this one grocery retailer generalize to all SNAP spending. I don't know where the $8.5 billion number came from, it's not in the NYT article. 

In general, it is plausible - expected, even - that repealing the ACA would not suddenly revert health care back to exactly what it was before it was passed. There have been massive changes throughout the industry as a result of ACA (as alleged both by people who think they have been net positive and people who think they have been net negative, such as this one). However, it's not clear at this point where the dust will settle, so it's hard to say exactly what the effects on insurance coverage and access to healthcare will be. The U.S. Congressional Budget Office in 2015 [5] arrived at a lower estimate: 

In general, the numbers on the Statistics Brain page come from multiple sources: The "News Years Resolution Statistics" table, "Age Success Rates" table, and "Type of Resolutions" table on Statistics Brain come from the Stephen Shapiro article (but sometimes with errors, e.g. leaving out the "always" in the statement regarding the 8% number.) Statistics Brain cites "University of Scranton. Journal of Clinical Psychology" as the source for the entire page. This is likely a reference to the paper published by University of Scranton researchers in the Journal of Clinical Psychology: Norcross, J. C., Mrykalo, M. S., & Blagys, M. D. (2002). Auld lang Syne: Success predictors, change processes, and self‐reported outcomes of New Year's resolvers and nonresolvers. Journal of Clinical Psychology, 58(4), 397-405. (The "Length of Resolutions" table on Statistics Brain comes from the Norcross paper, as does the statement that "People who explicitly make resolutions are 10 times more likely to attain their goals than people who don't explicitly make resolutions".) Other websites using this 8% number also cite Norcross, Mrykalo, and Blagys, e.g. New Year, New You? How to use Behavioral Principles to actually stick to those resolutions: 

In "Effects of oral and vaginal administration of levonorgestrel emergency contraception on markers of endometrial receptivity", 2010 [5]: 

[1] Novikova, N., Weisberg, E., Stanczyk, F.Z., Croxatto, H.B. and Fraser, I.S., 2007. Effectiveness of levonorgestrel emergency contraception given before or after ovulation—a pilot study. Contraception, 75(2), pp.112-118. [2] Noé, G., Croxatto, H.B., Salvatierra, A.M., Reyes, V., Villarroel, C., Muñoz, C., Morales, G. and Retamales, A., 2011. Contraceptive efficacy of emergency contraception with levonorgestrel given before or after ovulation. Contraception, 84(5), pp.486-492. [3] Meng, C.X., Andersson, K.L., Bentin-Ley, U., Gemzell-Danielsson, K. and Lalitkumar, P.L., 2009. Effect of levonorgestrel and mifepristone on endometrial receptivity markers in a three-dimensional human endometrial cell culture model. Fertility and sterility, 91(1), pp.256-264. [4] Palomino, W.A., Kohen, P. and Devoto, L., 2010. A single midcycle dose of levonorgestrel similar to emergency contraceptive does not alter the expression of the L-selectin ligand or molecular markers of endometrial receptivity. Fertility and sterility, 94(5), pp.1589-1594. [5] Meng, C.X., Marions, L., Byström, B. and Gemzell-Danielsson, K., 2010. Effects of oral and vaginal administration of levonorgestrel emergency contraception on markers of endometrial receptivity. Human Reproduction, p.deq007. [6] Durand, M., del Carmen Cravioto, M., Raymond, E.G., Durán-Sánchez, O., De la Luz Cruz-Hinojosa, M., Castell-Rodrı́guez, A., Schiavon, R. and Larrea, F., 2001. On the mechanisms of action of short-term levonorgestrel administration in emergency contraception. Contraception, 64(4), pp.227-234. [7] Peck, R., Rella, W., Tudela, J., Aznar, J. and Mozzanega, B., 2016. Does levonorgestrel emergency contraceptive have a post-fertilization effect? A review of its mechanism of action. The Linacre Quarterly, 83(1), pp.35-51. [8] Brache, V., Cochon, L., Deniaud, M. and Croxatto, H.B., 2013. Ulipristal acetate prevents ovulation more effectively than levonorgestrel: analysis of pooled data from three randomized trials of emergency contraception regimens. Contraception, 88(5), pp.611-618. [9] Glasier, A.F., Cameron, S.T., Fine, P.M., Logan, S.J., Casale, W., Van Horn, J., Sogor, L., Blithe, D.L., Scherrer, B., Mathe, H. and Jaspart, A., 2010. Ulipristal acetate versus levonorgestrel for emergency contraception: a randomised non-inferiority trial and meta-analysis. The Lancet, 375(9714), pp.555-562. [10] Glasier, A., Cameron, S.T., Blithe, D., Scherrer, B., Mathe, H., Levy, D., Gainer, E. and Ulmann, A., 2011. Can we identify women at risk of pregnancy despite using emergency contraception? Data from randomized trials of ulipristal acetate and levonorgestrel. Contraception, 84(4), pp.363-367. [11] Croxatto, H.B., Brache, V., Pavez, M., Cochon, L., Forcelledo, M.L., Alvarez, F., Massai, R., Faundes, A. and Salvatierra, A.M., 2004. Pituitary–ovarian function following the standard levonorgestrel emergency contraceptive dose or a single 0.75-mg dose given on the days preceding ovulation. Contraception, 70(6), pp.442-450.