I've never seen anything quite that complicated for directions on a bicycle. I think that the lower speeds on a bicycle compare to a motorcycle make simpler solutions fine. If you've got a very long trip, plan breaks where you stop to coincide with when you need to flip the directions around. A few suggestions: 

In other words: avoid the carbon/composite seat posts, handlebar stems and handlebars and you'll be fine with this brand. 3. Cannondale 2010 User's manual (PDF) (Starting at page 52) 

With a traditional non-through axle, there's a slot at the bottom of the fork (or the dropouts), the axle is hollow, and there is a skewer through axle. You use the quick-release to loosen the grip around that slot to slide the skewer (vertically) in and out of that slot, while it's still going through the wheel. With a through axle, there is simply a hole on either side, instead of a slot. You remove the axle entirely out the side of the hub in order to remove the wheel. Typically, through axles are much thicker axles. The thicker axle is stronger and stiffer. Downhill mountain bikers were breaking axles, and it's a lot harder to break a 15mm through axle than to break a 9mm traditional axle. The stiffness also helps the bike handle better ("more responsive"). From what I've heard from a framebuilder friend, the move to through axles is also because frame manufacturing techniques improved to allow them. With a traditional dropout, if the two sides were a millimeter off, the framebuilder could simply file a millimeter out of the slot on one side to make things work right. Once it's all polished and painted you'd never notice. With a through axle the framebuilder absolutely has to get the alignment just right, because an oval hole just won't work. The only downside of a through axle is that changing a flat might take an extra second or two. 

Try not to worry about it. It's usually just an annoyance and you get used to it pretty quickly. Don't go slow (can't turn the wheel far enough for it to be a problem unless you're going slow). When going slow and making a sharp turn, pay attention to where your feet are. 

A chain tool (aka "chain breaker") for sure. Many multi-tools include one. Depending on the chain, also a quick link (they come by many names) or special pin. Basic process is use the chain tool to remove a pin or two so that the mangled chain bits can be removed, then reassemble to a shorter chain. Try to leave a pin still in one outer plate; it's a lot easier. When you reassemble it, do it on the bike threaded through all the derailer bits properly. I've done this roadside before. Took me 5-10 minutes, some cursing, a little fiddling with the tool, and ended with very greasy hands. A few of those minutes were waiting for a crosswalk signal so I could retrieve the chain. Make sure to avoid the big/big gear combo or even your big chainring entirely, until you've replaced the chain. And replace the chain right away. 

Lean most of your weight onto the seat or handlebars (depending on which wheel you're trying to check) and watch how much the tire bulges. Do this on a road-like surface, not dirt or carpet. Generally the tire should bulge out a little next to the contact patch, but not much. Try bouncing your weight, no matter how vigorously you bounce the tire shouldn't get close to bottoming out. There should be at least a little bulging, especially when you bounce hard. This works better, of course, if you've used a gauge with those tires before and know how much bulging to expect with proper inflation. It's just too hard to judge with your fingers. Odds are good that a little under inflated and correct inflation both feel almost rock hard. 

Try multiple shops. Try multiple brands and models. Head shapes vary, so it's possible that one "66cm" (26in) model will be too small and another "66cm" model will fit. It's worth trying multiple shops since most shops will only stock one or two brands of helmet and only carry one model intended for larger heads. Having an idea whether your head is long or wide might help. It's hard to measure your head properly with a measuring tape, however. The Bicycle Helmet Safety Institute website has a page about helmets for large heads that gets updated when new models come out. It seems that 66cm is the largest size for bicycle helmets. If you can find any sort of multiple options, a helmet that fits lower on your head and wraps more around the sides and back is better than one that perches on the top of your head. If you can find a motorcycle helmet that fits, that should provide as much or more protection as a bicycle helmet. I believe motorcycle helmets are measured against a higher standard. The problem with motorcycle helmets is that they're heavy and tend not to have as much ventilation as a bicycle helmet, so it might be uncomfortable. Note on sizes: 66cm = 26inches = XXXL = 8 1/8 UK = 8 1/4 US = 9 1/2 FR. Those last few are hat sizes, but many helmets seem to have the hat size type sizing info easier to find. Look for helmets with those sizes or larger. I have big head issues, but luckily most of the big-head helmets do fit. I've had good luck with the "Specialized Max" line even though the official sizing printed on it is smaller than my hat size. I think they're a more rounded rather than circular shape on the inside and that makes all the difference. I'm not recommending this model for you, however, I'm recommending you check out the big helmet options at multiple shops. 

Your bike fit should not cause you pain. Back pain, neck pain, knee pain, hand pain, elbow pain, etc are all signs of a problem; they shouldn't simply be ignored, and probably won't just go away on their own. Muscular soreness after pushing extra hard is really the only kind of pain you should get. I suggest that you: 

From your description ("when [...] in a low position"), I'm guessing that you're putting yourself in a lower position than you're flexible enough to really do right, and compensating for that lack of flexibility by curving your lower back too much and bending your neck back. There's a lot of debate about ideal bike fit, but in general you want to be: 

† "Urban" or maybe "City" or "Street" or something that means "road" without actually saying road. Sort of a silly term that their marketing departments came up with. ‡ If you hadn't heard, Globe is a spinoff from Specialized. 

Sounds that bikes make are difficult to describe. "Fingernails on a chalk board", so sort of a high pitched dry scraping noise, not a squeal, squeak or scream? That sounds like something ceramic, stone or metal rubbing against the metal rim to me. The last loud noise where it then goes quiet could be whatever it is getting turned just before getting entirely dislodged. Does that sound about right? I'm not an expert, but my best guesses: 

You'll probably need to replace the cassette as well. Generally once the chain has worn ("stretched") a little, it starts to wear down all the gears (front and back) that it touches. If there's enough wear that the front chainrings need to be replaced, it's almost certain that the gears on the cassette that you use most are also worn enough to need replacing. Usually the gears on the cassette will wear faster than the chainrings simply because they're smaller (so each individual tooth gets more wear). The new chain will wear faster if the cassette is worn out, but a chain is generally cheaper to replace than a cassette. It should only wear the chainrings if you let the chain wear go. You can look for signs of wear on the cassette, it will mostly be in the form of the teeth being thinner, often with a sort of "shark fin" appearance (sloped on one side). It's likely some gears (your favorites) will be worn more than others, which can give you something to compare against. If you can see signs of wear you should replace the rear cassette. If you replace the chain and chainrings but not the cassette, I suggest paying very careful attention to how the chain runs when you first put it on. If there's any kind of roughness to how the bike pedals, any kind of noise coming from the rear end when you pedal, or problems with shifting the rear, then it's probably time to replace the cassette. Another thing you can do if you keep the old cassette is check the chain for wear regularly. If the chain wears down ("stretches") faster than it seems like it should, replace the cassette. 

Look up routes on maps. Google maps has some decent cycle route data now; turn on the "bicycle" and "traffic" overlays. The Strava Heat Map is a great way to see what routes are popular locally. Your local bicycling advocacy group likely has maps highlighting the best routes. It's likely your local government has an official map of where bike paths/lanes/routes are. Get multiple routes figured out. Look for side roads, bike paths, etc. Small residential roads you'd never consider in a car often work great on a bicycle. And google maps may not suggest that awesome side road because it's not designated as a bike route. Pick the top few routes. Ride the best seeming one. You can do this as a test ride on a non-work day, especially if you're concerned about timing. Keep your eyes out for possible side roads, bike paths, etc. Ride a different one. Repeat until you've tried all the reasonable seeming options. Try them in the reverse direction. Sometimes what you don't like on a route won't be there going the other way. Take what you've learned and adjust. 

If you really would only feel safe riding on the dirt shoulder, I'd keep that route as a last resort, since dirt will probably slow you down more than traffic lights and 55 mph traffic is likely scary and dangerous. On the other hand, lights might be more annoying than an overall slowdown from dirt. Try one, then try the other. Time yourself. Weigh how pleasant the ride seemed. Try each of them each way. Pick the one that was faster, or the one that was more pleasant, whichever matters more to you. It's likely the faster one will also be the one that felt more pleasant, since losing momentum is a major annoyance for most of us cyclists. Personally, I find stop signs slow me down more than traffic lights, especially on a route that I take frequently. With a traffic light you can learn the timing and either stop pedaling or pedal harder in order to avoid hitting the red. I can tell you how I chose my routes: 

200 km / 100mile (160 km) / 100km / 35mile(56km) Wine Country Century in Santa Rosa, California, US The Wine Country Century is put on by the local cycling club, and (depending on specific route), may pass through as many as 7 appellations (officially recognized wine growing regions). The longer routes include a "bailout route" option to get back to the start. Generally scheduled for early May. Santa Rosa is about 50 miles north of San Francisco. 

"On the corners", "Corners" Hands at the outside end of the section where the bar turns. You can grip the corner different ways. There's a sort of position in between corner and hood ("ramp"?), too. 

Saddle comfort can be tough to get just right and is very individual. You might just have to try a few saddles out... Sheldon Brown has a lot of great information about saddle comfort here: $URL$ Are you just getting back on a bike after not having ridden for a while? Your backside has to get used to a saddle. If you haven't ridden in a while, do some short (1 or 2 mile) rides and slowly increase the distance. Try that before you try replacing the saddle. Those short rides in the saddle won't just help your backside break into the seat, they'll help get your riding strength up, so that more of your weight is on your feet and less on your pelvis. How wide or narrow a saddle depends on your anatomy, your flexibility, your riding posture and your riding style. Basically you want the saddle as wide as you need it to be, but no more. Any extra width is likely to lead to chafing or soreness from the saddle pushing into things. Your pelvis has two knobs at the back of a triangle with the point forward (essentially). Sitting down on a stool or chair, you tend to have your weight on those knobs. If you're sitting with your lower back fairly straight, you'll want a saddle that supports those two knobs, probably with a bit of padding right there. If you have your pelvis rotated forward so that you're not sitting on those knobs and are instead resting your weight on part of that triangle, you'll want a narrower saddle. You want just enough that whichever pelvic structure you're sitting on is on the saddle, with fairly little saddle to the sides of that. And don't just go for the saddle with the most padding. A lot of people like a little padding on their saddle, but too much padding will just sort of squeeze into all the other sensitive tissues down there, which can be uncomfortable and cause nerve pinching or circulation issues. Get a saddle with just enough padding.