The twinned poems "The Little Girl Lost" and "The Little Girl Found" from William Blake's Songs of Experience (available to read online) are about a little girl called Lyca who gets lost from her parents and "seek[s] her Maker" in the desert among the wild beasts, while her parents seek her and eventually meet God (?), who takes them to find her with the beasts "In [his] palace". Is there any significance to the name Lyca? Given the religious themes in a lot of Blake's poetry, I suspect these poems may tell a version of some biblical story, or at least have some deeper meaning than a direct description of events. Does "Lyca" refer to some other character? 

Whereas waves rolling before a settled wind - one in a single fixed direction - will be able to move clearly and smoothly without interference. If the wind keeps blowing in the same direction for a prolonged period, these waves can increase in size due to positive feedback. 

Opinion section: I never managed to finish this book either, but not because I had to return it to the library. It's pretty grim in many ways: the family starts off relatively normal, but as the story evolves, we see assassinations, mysterious deaths, incest and other sexual aberrations, and even gruesome deaths of children. The story isn't even saved by having a clear plot that makes you want to read on and find out what happens next. There's no underlying storyline: it's rather a series of more or less disjointed vignettes of different people in the same family and what they do with their lives. 

Finally, this interpretation of the quote is confirmed by other versions (translations) of this specific biblical passage: 

Some detailed research by Quote Investigator (which I found thanks to our comrades at HSM Stack Exchange, so hat-tip to them) has thrown up many different people who've said this or similar quotes: 

Which made me wonder: when did this stop being the norm? In Shakespeare's day, there were no women actors, and all the female characters were portrayed by men, but of course this is no longer the case today. When did women in plays start being portrayed by actual women? For that matter, was the change sudden (perhaps due to a change in law) or was there a more gradual shift? If a fully multicultural and international answer to this would be too broad, then it's OK to restrict answers to English theatre, which has had (as far as I know) a continuous history between Shakespeare's time and the present day. 

Of course, setting aside the idea of a single authoritative edition, we can use some common sense and close reading to guess at which word was intended. In H.S. Toshack's workbook edition of the General Prologue, the difference between "shortly" and "soothly" in this passage is discussed on page 97, making a reasonable argument that "soothly" makes more sense: 

William Blake's very short poem "The Sick Rose", from his Songs of Innocence and of Experience, runs as follows: 

This page (in Icelandic) recounts the same story of Snæbjorn and Hallbjorn as cited above, explaining the history of the name; the same story is also available in what seems to be a fuller and more original form here (also in Icelandic). The Iceland Road Guide describes the Hallbjarnarvörður as "stony mounds with cairns on them", and Map Carta also describes it as a cairn in West Iceland. You can see the cairns on top of the stony mound in the photo above. 

Thus, if someone is described as being clearly descended from a Cohen, the only thing I can think of is that their appearance must be somehow very Jewish. I'm not familiar enough with these stereotypes to be sure, but perhaps the accent described is influenced by Yiddish? Anyway, this must be what the passage is supposed to mean, as that's the significance of the name Cohen. (Interestingly, Cowen is an Irish surname, with no Jewish connections as far as I'm aware. Presumably the surname change from Cohen to Cowen, if indeed there was one, was part of a reasonably common practice among Jewish families in those days to change their surnames to less Jewish-sounding ones.) 

The widow puts the horrors of war out of her mind so that they can't come back to haunt her. This is the "surprise" she might fear - such memories unexpectedly cropping up. With all of them committed to oblivion, she no longer has to "live in fear" of that surprise. 

However, I suspect your question may be too broad as stated. Little people living in a tree is a reasonably common trope, so there must be multiple books that match your description. Please edit your question to tell us more about the book, as has already been suggested in comments. The more we know, the easier it'll be to identify the right book. 

TL;DR: basically any language with strong etymological connections to English (plus Hebrew). There's a lot of information about languages in Appendix F of The Lord of the Rings (itself a condensed version of "The Appendix on Languages", Volume 12 Chapter 2 of The History of Middle-earth), in which Tolkien strictly maintained the conceit that LotR itself was a true story and he had merely translated and modernised it. It's worth reading Part II of this appendix, "On Translation", in full, if only to appreciate the extent of Tolkien's imagination and creativity at least in matters of language, but here I'll provide only the most relevant excerpts to understand the essentials. 

In Shakespeare's play Macbeth, it is Macbeth himself, the eponymous antihero, who meets the witches upon the heath and first conceives the idea to murder his king. It is he who kills Duncan, seizes the throne, has Macduff's family and his friend Banquo killed too, and holds onto power until he is finally killed by Macduff at the end of the play. But much of this is done only due to the urging of his wife, Lady Macbeth, who scorns his 'weakness' whenever he hesitates in performing foul deeds. For example: 

I haven't been able to find any direct quotes from Suzanne Collins about this, and I suspect that none exist. She's notoriously reluctant to give press interviews, and there's not much available in the public record by way of direct commentary from her about her books. 

According to this article ("Kenneth Muir", Proceedings of the British Academy 97 (1998), pp. 393–409): 

Unknown. I've scoured the internet for information about this, and it seems that right now, it's not known what Stengl's pen name could be, or even whether or not she's yet published her new series. The announcement on her blog was less than a year ago (27 January 2017), and she explicitly says that she doesn't want her new pen name associated with her real name, "at least not at first". She also mentions that she isn't planning to update that blog much in the foreseeable future. So she's pretty much dried up as a source of information, and we need to look elsewhere. It sometimes happens that when an author switches to a new pen name, enthusiastic fans still manage to identify them, from their writing style or other clues. But if anyone has done this for Ms Stengl, they don't seem to have publicised their discovery - perhaps out of respect for her wish to keep the two names separate. Some of her fans have mentioned their sadness at her change, but nobody mentions having discovered her new identity. Sometimes the author under their new pen name even leaves clues pointing back to their real name for sufficiently astute readers. But this is impossible to check without knowing where to look for the new pen name, and again there's no evidence of this on the internet. I wondered if perhaps Stengl kept the same publisher for her new series. But Rooglewood Press's list of authors includes photos of all of them, so this doesn't seem possible (unless Stengl changed her appearance as well as her nom de plume). In short - it looks like the secret remains with Stengl and her family, friends, agents, and publishers. For now, at least. 

Since the stories you seek were translated into English, I guessed that the author might be relatively well-known in South American literature. So I did a Google search for , and lo and behold, I found this page which says: 

Why? It may seem obvious to us that dreams are a non-physical phenomenon and wouldn't be visible to someone living in a higher dimension, but I have some possible counter-arguments to that. 

How do we know that our thoughts wouldn't be visible to someone who could see every atom of our brain spread out as though on a map? Imaging of the brain is still very much an ongoing topic of research in every field from medicine to mathematics, and very little is truly understood about how things like thoughts, emotions, and dreams actually work. Try to imagine, from our three-dimensional perspective, what it would be like for a four-dimensional being to look 'down' on our world. Imaging of the brain would suddenly be a trivial problem, as they'd not only be able to see the exact structure of our brain, but also be able to see every single part of it at the same time, laid out as if on a map. They could see our bones and nervous system, perhaps even the electrical impulses travelling along conduits inside our body. Are you really sure that that level of physical knowledge of someone's brain wouldn't be enough to determine their thoughts? At least for a higher-dimensional observer who'd made a study of lower-dimensional beings - they probably wouldn't simply be able to read off mental images from physical interactions, but an expert in lower-dimensional medical studies might well be able to deduce a surprising amount from the precise details of those electrical signals inside the brain. How much was known about the structure of the brain when Flatland was written? Not much, I imagine. See, for example, the following chronology of brain imaging (source):