Or "The Devdas Syndrome: Turning Heartbreak into Hatred", which uses the phrase to describe people who cannot get over a failed romance, who are bitter and entitled and blame all their problems on the girl who told them no. And of course, not every interpretation sees romanticizing tragedy as something to be avoid it. Some find it powerful and moving: 

The interview is from January 2017, soon after the first season of the Netflix TV adaptation was released. Of course, it's possible he's still just being perverse, and pretending a solution exists. But he seems perfectly candid, so it seems likely we can take his word for it. 

This is one way the Library can be infinite -- if the Library wraps around and re-connects to itself, it is infinite, in the sense that you can walk in a single direction forever. The number of hexagons and books are finite, but the Library itself has no beginning and no end. The Library repeats infinitely The story concludes with this thesis: 

The Library of Babel cannot be taken as plausible, realistic worldbuilding. "How can real-world languages exist" is not going to have more of an answer than "How does an immense number of bound books exist," or "How can they know what bread or pyramids are, when they can't possibly have either." There is excellent reason for Borges to use real languages, but they're not in-universe reasons. Borges uses languages here in order to demonstrate yet another facet of infinity: the idea that the already-infinite selection of books and combination can furthermore be interpreted according to a near-infinite number of languages or cipher keys. This is a fundamental theme of the piece: levels upon levels of infinity; and the blurring between the meaninglessness of random chance, the immense significance that's possible when everything exists somewhere. As the books are infinite, and therefore meaningless and also hiding books of impossible truth and value; the ways to interpret an impenetrable book are also infinite, and therefore each book is both meaningless and also possibly hiding impossible truth and value. A lot of the brilliance of this piece is in the crafting of clear, intuitive imagery, for impossible, paradoxical concepts. In this case, foreign languages are exactly the imagery Borges needed. It's an amazingly simple, elegant, graspable way to convey the idea that gibberish to one person might hold meaning for another. It is my opinion that any modification of this concept might have made the story more plausible, but would have made its imagery weaker, less immediate. 

Two major characters in Toni Morrison's Love are local youth Romen and street-smart Junior, who carry on a love affair while both are employed at the Cosey household. In a 2003 review, Elaine Showalter describes them thus: 

It's worth noting that the story heavily implies that Amira is lesbian. It's absolutely explicit that she finds the idea of a (heterosexual) marriage "monstrous". Note how her previous ideas, before "chose me a prince," let her avoid marriage entirely. And even "find me a prince" could be a purely political marriage. So really any conclusion forcing Amira into any marriage, is pretty much "unspeakable." While Kitkat's answer is excellent, and the threat of incest may well be implied here, I think that option dulls the very open criticism towards power dynamics we consider far less shocking. The keys to the portrayal of Amira's story, in my eyes, are: 

However, the word 'taikun' translates as "liege lord; shogunate." So even his name of boyish endearment is also one of power and lordship. Jagmohan, Indian. Jag is the world, and Mohan is to captivate, delight, enchant, etc - combined, the name means "one who captivates/enchants the world." It's a title of Lord Krishna, who is one of the most important avatars of Lord Vishnu, the protector in the Hindu Trinity. The name itself is not an unusual one in India. (Is there any further significance to this one? This all fits well thematically. But in the chapter "The Tenth Director," "Jagmohan" is referred to as "practically a pun," which I don't understand.) Xiao Hei Wang, Chinese. (Significance?) Micromegas, Utopian, sometimes abbreviated to "Mike." 

There are parallels between the two usages -- first and foremost, both portray a God characterized by its ineffability, by the impossibility of finding it, and by the fundamental way the existence of such a God would change the world as the Librarians know it. However, there isn't any particular indication of identity beyond this. Borges here creates a world and a philosophical thought-experiment by using concepts that are clear and concrete and intuitive; that's a lot of what makes the construction of the world so clear and compelling. There's no particular reason to look for a circular book and a man with a true Index, as being "actually the same thing," in some way. 

Author Daniel Handler maintains that a solution exists, and can be derived from the books. In an interview on the Unfortunate Associates podcast, Handler maintains that a solution does exist, and that approximately one reader a year writes to him with the correct solution. Here's the transcript, beginning at 50:30 minutes into the audio (emphasis mine): 

There's a stress here -- that even though the four women are doing all of this impossible creation of children, the mother participates as well. So, in a very real sense, the fifth gable is Marigold's -- just not in the way we (might have) expected. In conclusion, while the simplest reading is that the house has four gables and a magical fifth one, there is also support in the story for a reading where each woman causes one gable to spring into creation. This would address the line saying "the house had only one gable". 

(The Michael/Heinlein reference refers to Heinlein's alien visitor Valentine Michael Smith, of Stranger in a Strange Land.) The Porphyrogene, Masonic. Meaning is something like "child of the purple," with the purple being the imperial color, signifying royalty. 

Or perhaps it's to do with the climax of the coronation, which is a (temporary) breakdown of the sigil-groups, and this is somehow an extension of that sudden, shocking intermingling and universality. But I'm not seeing a clear connection between the sudden void and either of those avenues. So I feel like I'm missing a key piece. This is a deeply thematic story, so I expect the significance here is more a matter of understanding the theme, than it is of finding a logical, in-world explanation supported by the text -- but I might be wrong about that too. 

This understanding of Devdas Syndrome seems borne out by this description of the author of the original 1917 novella feeling it has misled people 

While the associations you draw, linking the various women to the various professions, make sense, I feel they are very weakly supported by the text -- relying on broad stereotypes and tenuous speculation. Even if there is a link here, it is likely to be equally tenuous. Note how late this text is placed in the story -- only after three iterations of baby-creation have (almost) completed; as a momentary interlude before the double climax (of what the first woman makes Marigold do, and the fifth gable). This doesn't seem to me like establishing character; its goal is not to characterize the individual women. The need to establish the women as similar, but each an individual, has passed - Marigold has already been through all but the last of them. Instead, it is further characterization of the group, as one that was once "normal" and "conventional" ("The women had been married before, to ordinary men..."), and then actively banded together ("The women who lived in the four-gabled house found each other in tabloids, then in Sunday papers, then finally in a medical journal that three times failed to pass a peer review..."). This is crucial to establish, since at the story's conclusion we learn that the women are not together only for shared sorrow and circumstances, but are actually cooperating, working in synergy, to achieve something they could not accomplish alone. Reiterating that all these women left lives and careers, bitter or otherwise, serves to reinforce that -- and strengthen the double view the entire story runs on: what seems like women isolating themselves in shared misery, being shunned for their strangeness, turns out to be a deliberate and cooperative project. So, what's important here is that they did not resemble themselves anymore. That their sorrow, their power, their shared house and what they have done with it, has shaped them into something new and different. If there was a strong clear connection, if the influence of their previous lives had been clearly present, that would have been the oddity. 

What is it that makes Kuni so exceptional? Why is he worthy and successful, when all the others are not? What is it that makes him able to navigate the minefield of rebellion, leadership, and power, without succumbing to all the same traps that every other leader in the book does? 

What I gather from the various discussions I've read is that Devdas is a story that romanticizes, perhaps not uncritically, its protagonist wallowing in sorrow and tragedy. So, Devdas Syndrome is roughly this: The romantic portrayal, of wallowing in sorrow, usually over an ended romance. This is how I'm seeing the phrase used and the story discussed, primarily casually, across the internet. For example, this essay describes Devdas Syndrome as the desire to romanticize failure: