Would it be possible that other planets, or even other random celestial bodies, contain different types of pathogens? According to Wikipedia, the known types of pathogens are: virus, bacterium, prion, a fungus, algal or eukaryotic organisms. So, is the universe limited to these types of pathogens, or is it possible that somewhere out there, there exist another, or multiple other types of, pathogens? If so, how many types could there be? If nature fails to deliver, could a hypothetical, very advanced, civilisation create new types of pathogens? The goal is to affect life on earth, by for example, storing the pathogen inside a comet that is on a collision course with earth. Other suggestions concerning the delivery method are welcome as well. 

Since most magic is based on personalities it would be likely that the "mages to be" undergo a psychological screening. This way the students could be divided in different groups. Like Hogwarts, but for the army. These personalities could, for example, be based on "The Big Five personality traits" (see: $URL$ I'd imagine that someone that is training to be a fire elemantalist would also have to undergo years of training in extreme heat. Just so his/her body can adapt to the extreme heat. Like in real life where people living around the equator have a better resistance against heat. So when the person unlocks their power they would have an amplified resistance. Thus when they cast a fireball they wouldn't get hot that fast. In extreme cases they could maybe even get a huge resistance against burning wounds, like this real life guy: $URL$ As for the true love part, easy. Have these type of camps for both sexes. Since both of them are screened psychologically, it could be like an analog dating site. Where you have "cupids" selecting people who would fit together. Both should be taught about compassion and empathy towards the other sex. And get relationship advice from experienced couples. Let them regularly interact with the other sex to learn, then make them go into the last phase of training. This is like an exam period taking months. After a while they should both be celebate. And then, a period of pairing happens. The people are brought together, the nation could hold a warm and romantic festival, setting up the perfect conditions. Most will probably fall in love, but not all would develop "true love". So they are given a time wherein they are being monitored as pairs, awaiting their "awakening". You need a large sample size because of a safety net for all the possible failing pairs. But also a lot of time, because it often takes multiple relationships before someone finds "true love". Furthermore: I advice to pair them up. Not only during the fights, but also housing etc. Grieving widows and widowers also still make good mages if their grief is being fed. 

Any faster than light travel will create paradoxes. The article you linked to on relativistic reference frames explicitly states that: 

If the parent planet is at the outer edge of the star's habitable zone then when the moon passed behind the planet the temperature will conceivably drop to life threatening levels. You only have to look at how cold it can get on Mars which can fall to -73°C Source which is certainly life threatening. While this is largely the function of Mars's thin atmosphere - an atmosphere somewhat thinner than Earth's but one that allows humans to live would still produce potentially life threatening cold nights/eclipses. The orbital period of the moon shouldn't be a problem. The orbits of the Galilean moons of Jupiter range from hours (for Io) to 7 days for Ganymede. So you can put your moon at whatever distance gives you the "correct" period of "night". There will probably be some warming due to the interaction with the magnetic field of the planet - look at the moons of Jupiter again for examples here - but you can easily say that this isn't enough to keep the moon warm enough. 

This is for any degree of faster than light travel, it's just that the faster you go the more obvious the problems are. I don't think that you can avoid this, but for the sake of your story you might have to ignore it, but as long as you ignore it in a consistent way and make sure that you establish your "rules" of FTL before you rely on them as a plot point, you should be OK. I remember one episode of Star Trek: The Next Generation where they used a micro warp jump to create the illusion that a ship was in two places at the same time - the light from the original location still arriving at the enemy ship for a few seconds after the jump. Because it fitted with the already established parameters of the Star Trek warp drive (or at least didn't wildly contradict it) you felt that it was a logical outcome and one that would really happen, rather than actually highlighting the paradox at the heart of the problem. 

Given that whale song is music to us humans and we humans can find meaning in passing clouds I'd have to give this an easy yes, if the aliens have talent. 

Getting feet confused with meters and screwing up your reentry plans. Resulting in a fiery death. Close encounters with space clutter. Resulting in violent death. Overestimating how long equipment will remain functional while you're in stasis. Resulting in eternal sleep, AKA death. Technological advancements while you're in stasis. Resulting in being salvaged for scrap by faster ships that put you on display in a museum, after 'accidentally' causing your death. Actually making it where you're trying to go and finding no one else survived and nothing interesting to do. Resulting in being bored to death. 

I don't think this would devastate or invalidate the scientific method. It may well keep it from becoming popular. We live in a semi non-deterministic world now. But there is a clear distinction between the deterministic parts and non-deterministic parts. We expect a rock to be a rock. But we expect people to be moody. In a world like you describe, physics may have less to do with Newton's laws and more to do with Sigmund Freud's. If you want a rock to be a rock you may first have to spend some time listening to it talk about the day it's had. So science wouldn't be dead. But it would sure be different. If this god keeps screwing around eventually he'll get caught and a theory about him will be born. You're describing a case where he's leaving indirect evidence behind. Sometimes that's enough. We make have discovered a new 9th planet just by looking at how the orbits of other objects have been arranged. 

Put the city at the bottom of it. If you want to be cautions add earthquake stabilizers and inertial dampeners to your tall buildings. 

This can be done, but doing it with a satellite based laser is doing it the hard way. If you want to weaponise a satellite use it for what it's best at: communicating. Hire yourself a team of hackers. Give them the world's best anonymity shield. And set them to work hacking the world's toasters. Soon you are starting fires all over. That tank truck will burn nicely after it's breaking system has been reprogrammed. After the driver somehow rolls away to safety his cellphone's battery starts to burn. Sure, it's not a flashy death ray from above. But it is a death ray, from above. Burn you technophiles! Burn! Now excuse me, I'm going to go unplug my toaster. 

Also, exactly circular orbits are likely to be rarer and less stable than slightly elliptical orbits, so I'd drop that requirement. 

Treat the binary planets as a single planet with the combined mass of both and see if the planetary configuration is stable - which is probably only true over the length of time you're talking about if there are no external events to perturb any of the planets in your system. Our own solar system has probably only been stable for a few 100 million years or so - the last major impact on the Earth was 65 mya, but there wasn't one (that we know of) for quite a while before that. There have been impacts on other planets up to modern times. (Shoemaker-Levi on Jupiter for example). Unless your aliens remove all the asteroids and comets having a stable solar system over the length of time you're expecting would be virtually impossible. On a more basic level, will the binary pairs affect their neighbours enough to perturb their orbits just by existing? The Sun's habitable zone is estimated to be from just within the orbit of Venus to around the orbit of Ceres (source) so it sounds like you have enough space to play with here to have your three sets of planets where you want them. Are the binary pairs stable? Are they too close together to start off with? Given that the Moon is 384,400 km from the Earth and 1/6th of the size, 4.82 million km seems to be a little far apart. You are increasing the distance 12 fold so this will outweigh the 6 fold increase in mass. The planets might not be close enough to stay together over the long term. The planets will drift apart over time in the same way that the Moon is drifting away from the Earth, so you need them to be close enough together for the "lifetime" of your system. Also they are going to become tidally locked with each other so that they end up presenting one face to each other in the same way that the Moon always presents the same face to the Earth. 

Explosive decompression not your thing? At Willy's used force fields we stock the latest in dynamic envelopment technology. So smooth it didn't even wake this sleeping baby! "Shush! Don't wake the baby." 

It might be possible. But you have to think outside a few boxes. For one thing. What makes a sun your sun? Do you HAVE to orbit it? We already do exactly this with Polaris. We just don't think of Polaris as our sun. Polaris doesn't exactly keep us warm. But why shouldn't it? Because it's fairly long way away. Any way to fix that? 

Same reason you build schools in third world countries. Empathy. For just pennies a day you can help earthlings free themselves from the ravages of poverty, war, and daytime talk shows. Or maybe they just want us to live long enough to see how Game of Thrones ends. 

This could usher in a golden age or it could doom all of the Terran people. It really depends on the republics relationship with Earth. Were the other planets of the republic totally dependent on Earth? Was Earth repressing them? Was Earth just a tourist destination that provided nothing but traditional ceremonies? Without knowing the relationship to Earth, really it could cause anything to happen. Maybe the whole galaxy is going to commit suicide since now they'll never see the last season of Game of Thrones. 

Living memory is a two edged sword. Sure they have the wisdom of ages but they also have the bigotry of ages. They remember that your great great great granddad still owes them money. Imagine a grudge that lasts as long as some religions. Set in their ways just doesn't begin to cover it. They need the young to drag them kicking and screaming into the future. Now you humans get off my lawn! 

Depends on the smith and how complicated your design ends up being. You have me thinking of playing with piano hinges at the hardware store. 

Sure, toss a cubical bar magnet into space and you have a "planet" with a magnetic field. The only question is how big it is. If it's big enough it'll stop being magnetic or cubical. A spinning core requires a mantle. So if you want to generate the magnetic field that way you need to be big. Now sure you could build eight three sided mountains on a sphere to form a cube but once it's big enough you need to make the mountains out of unobtainium. How it formed will require a hell of a back story.