There are no, absolutely no, structural effects or defects caused by traveling close to lightspeed. The main problem encountering gas or dust in interstellar space. A forward shield or barrier will be needed for astronaut safety. The main complication with time dilation for a writer is calculating how much time is different between the astronauts in the spaceship and the people who remain on Earth. The physicist John Cramer in an example about a spaceship travelling close to lightspeed came up with a simple way calculating the time for the astronauts. Assume the spaceship accelerates at one gravity (1 g) for one year and reaches a cruising velocity of 0.867 c (86.67% of lightspeed). Time dilation will be two. Let the spaceship travel 86.67 light years which take 100 years for it to do so. At a time dilation Lorentz factor of two, fifty years pass in the spaceship. It now decelerates for another year at 1 g. The total time in the spaceship will be two years for the acceleration and deceleration phases combined plus fifty years ship time. A total time of 52 years. In the relative rest frame of reference for Earth, and presumably for their destination, the time it has taken the spaceship to undertake this trip will 102 years. You can further assume during the acceleration and deceleration phases the spaceship travels a distance of half light year for each phase. The total distance travelled 87.67 light years. The alternative is travelling sufficiently fast to go places, but not so far as to large amounts of time dilation. A velocity of about half-lightspeed it achieve this effect. The time dilation is 1.1547. Calculate the time it take a given distance at 0.5 c, which is simple just double the distance travelled, and divide by 1.0635 to work out the time passed for the astronauts. Then another year for the acceleration and deceleration phases. Time dilation can be the friend of science-fiction writers who want fast, slower-than-light travel. Find a friendly person who knows enough to do the calculations for you. 

Probably the same as major terrorist attacks, military attacks or large-scale wild animal threats. Alien incursions would combine all three. SWAT teams and ambulances will be the first responders. Eventually the different levels of the military will join in. The USA has a National Counterterrorism Strategy, the FBI and the CDC, especially to counteract chemical and biological attacks, does too. The main problem may be coordinating all the relevant agencies that will rush into the fray when an alien incursion happens. It might be more profitable to choose a location, say, Painesville, Ohio, and drop your alien incursion into there and then look at what law enforcement services, military forces are available in that area and its surroundings. Trace what communications are available for sending out the message to the wider world that aliens are here now. That is unless puts a giant force-field dome over Painesville, Ohio, and keeps everybody trapped inside. 

There are two possible scenarios that are workable. If the message velocity a is infinite, then the time delay will be almost effectively zero. Any communications delay will be due to response in the FTL communications itself. If instead of the spacecraft you are trying to communicate moving a t relativistic velocity, it decelerates and comes to relative rest with respect to the position where the transmitter is located. The relative velocity v is now zero. The time delay equation is now: -- 

The answers given by Cort Ammon and Thucydides are exemplary in dealing with problems related to the propulsion system. This answer is more general, suggesting there are limits to the acceleration of any material object. particularly if that material object is a technological contrivance like a missile. This limit is defined by the strength of materials composing the missile. 

Golden Age superheroes were vigilantes. This makes them criminals. While they may have muscled out malefactors their activities were illegal. The Comics Code cleared up their collective act. That's comic book history. If we lived in a world where people with super-powers were commonplace, the main question is how would they use their super-powers, and secondly how that those uses affect law enforcement. To consider this, let's assume there are a wide range of super-powers and this can go well beyond the super-powers normally depicted in superhero comics, movies, TV shows, and fiction. Firstly, there will be many supers whose super-powers are unsuited to either law enforcement or criminal activity. For example, super salespersons, super-models. super-politicians, super-athletes, super-firefighters, super-doctors and super-nurses, super-actors, and super-scientists. Most of these supers can make money and enjoy more comfortable and successful lives using their super-powers to further their careers. Secondly, there will be supers whose super-powers are better suited to law enforcement. For example, super-strength, invulnerability, x-ray vision, super-hearing, and super-stamina. Supers like these could also work as body guards, secret service agents, night club bouncers, security, and in the military. These super-powers can also be used for criminal activity. Thirdly, there will be super-powers that can only be used for criminal purposes (this can mean they will gain useful employment in the more sinister type of government agencies that does things nobody wants to own up to). For example, death-touch, emitting lethal doses of radiation, teleportation (ideal for theft and burglary), total mind-wipes that leave their victims as mindless vegetables, and hurling energy-bolts in the kiloton and above range. Supers who possess the third class of super-powers may not wish to embark on a life of crime, not automatically, but it would be so easy to stray. In a world with many supers and wide varieties of super-powers not all of which will be used for crime or law enforcement supers will have become commonplace. For reasons of public safety, supers will be registered. Their names and identities will be recorded and maintained on secret registers. Some supers may operate openly and be on publicly accessible registers especially if they used their super-powers commercially. Zippy Couriers Uses Only the Best and Fastest Super-speedsters for Parcel Delivery! Go Zippy! Supers employed in law enforcement will have the usual benefits of gainful employment. Steady income, expenses to replace damaged uniforms, pension plans, legal recognition, and retirement benefits. Plus the opportunity to work with other supers and enjoy collegiality. Police and law enforcement supers will have to deal with criminal supers. Super-powered criminals will do what criminals have always done. Gain wealth through violence, the sale and distribution of illegal goods, services, and substances, and the ability to coerce ordinary citizens to their will and contrary to the law of the land. In many ways a world with supers working on both sides of the law will be similar to our world without supers, unless there is a large number of supers with super-powers capable of making major causes to the social and political order (like blasting cities off the map with a single glance), but there will be a major difference between those with super-powers and those without. But that moves into the area of social and cultural differences and is outside matters of super-powered crime and law enforcement. 

The trouble with cliches is that writers often fail to embrace them wholeheartedly. Extrajudicial Rangers operating outside the Southern border meting rough justice. A big tick. To make this interesting, simply embrace very cliche you think of. Rangers? Big hairy guys with swords and bows & arrows or crossbows. Too obvious. Too ordinarily cliched. Now let's go full, over the top cliche. The Rangers are a hereditary clan of chainmail bikini wearing Amazon shape-shifters with night vision and powers of invisibility. The temptation to have them riding motor bikes is great, but should be resisted. Perhaps tame sabretooth tigers would be better. Basically if you have a bog standard cliche either just go it and make sure you treat it with full seriousness. Think about about every aspect of a Guild that has Rangers who guard the Southern border and who fight the mountain clans. This is their life. This is their calling. This is their felt and lived experience. It's what they touch, what they feel, what they taste and smell, their thoughts, their feelings, their songs and stories, what they joke about around the camp fire. It make their reality. Even if your Rangers are a Guild of chainmail bkini-wearing Amazon shape-shifters with night vision and the powers of invisibility who ride sabretooth tigers, then believe with every fibre of being that they are real people who live this life and guard the realm. Absurd cliche? Absolutely! But if you treat even the most absurd cliche with all due seriousness and respect, it will be interesting because unexpectedly it feels real. That's all, just make it real. 

In summary, while Venus has plate tectonics they are radically different from those of planet Earth. Th key factors for plate tectonics on any planet can be summarized as the following. Necessary planetary differences: Factors that make each world unique. Heat sources: Magnitude and relative contributions of different heat sources (primordial, radiogenic, tidal) Size: Surface/vol ratio determines rate of cooling. Resurfacing: Presence and rate of resurfacing processes like impacts or erosion, transport, and sedimentation that mask crustal tectonic processes. Rate and extent of cooling: How prevalent is volcanic activity? How thick has the lithosphere become. Does an asthenosphere exist at all? These factors can be compared with those of Earth's. 

No. It's not possible. It requires (a) someone with a knowledge of electricity to direct the fabrication and construction of the electrified fence, and the generators to power it, (b) it would be effectively economically and practically to make all the wiring and metal components for conducting and generating electricity. Yes, Medieval people were good at twisting wire into chain mail. But chain mail was expensive stuff. Its manufacture was labor intensive and the materials were expensive and hard to come by. You would need a bigger army of blacksmiths to make all the wire needed and all the other metal components for the generators, than troops to defend the castle. All the all, the wise guy from the future who thought of an electrified fence to protect the castle was a dimwit. 

Even if there was enough mass in the asteroid belt to raise the mass of the planet Mars using thermonuclear bombs as the technique to send them on a collision course with Mars wouldn't work. At least, it wouldn't work well. Too many asteroids are structurally fragile. Detonate a thermonuclear bomb on one and it will mainly scatter fragments of asteroid around the solar system. Eventually adding to the mass of the other planets in solar system. Mass drivers and the various solar radiation pressure techniques would be far more reliable. But this still runs up against the lack of mass in the asteroid belt. Of course, an alternative solution would be moving one or more Jovian moons to add mass to planet Mars. 

The alien beacon makers could move some planets into orbits that are perpendicular to the plane of the ecliptic of their planetary system. If every second planet in the planetary system was moved in a perpendicular orbit, this would be so unnatural that anyone observing it would have a reasonable chance of concluding this was due to technological interference. For example, if this was done in our solar system the planets in perpendicular orbits, in alternating order, would be Venus, Mars, Saturn, and Neptune. The planets mercury, Earth, Jupiter, and Uranus would remain orbiting in the plane of ecliptic. The changes to the orbits of the planets moved in perpendicular orbits can be accomplished using gravity tractor technology. This obviates the need to move asteroids and other planetary matter to create new spheroidal planets. This orbital configuration of alternating perpendicular orbiting planets should be sufficiently unusual to only be artificial in origin. This could be a stellar beacon. 

This is time reversal pure and simple. Your device is basically a form of time machine that can cause time flow backwards. [1] Broken coffee cups! No worries. Just bring your handy time reversal system to within two feet of the broken coffee cup. Activate it to reverse time to before the cup was broken. No more broken coffee cups. Every home should have one. [1] Of the three types of time machines this one fits the class of "clock-in-a-box" time machines. Time machines which can control time to go backwards or forwards inside a defined volume of space. Imagine if there was a clock inside a box or any sized container. Manipulating time will make the clock seem to go backwards or forwards and at any rate the operator determines. 

The time travel issue isn't an issue. The two planets, I presume, are moving apart at 24,000 km/s (0.08 c), which is remarkably fast for two planets, but we can take that as read. This means there will be an extremely small amount of time dilation relative to each end of the hyperstable gateway. In fact, the amount of time dilation will be effectively miniscule. Although it will increase with time. But it is small enough that it can be ignored for practical purposes. Gateway engineers may be concerned about it, but only in terms of precision engineering. Will there be a visual lag? No the gateway has a diameter of five metres. The only visual lag will be the same lag in the time it takes light to travel a distance of five metres. Effectively, in ordinary practical terms, it's non-existent. Difference in gravity between the two ends of the gateway will need to be accommodated by placing each end of the gateway somewhere on the surface or even under their surfaces where the gravitation at both ends is the same. Two planets with the same surface gravity practically solve this for themselves. Let's assume there is a corridor through the gateway. If there are differences in gravitation between the two ends of the gateway, then depending on which direction someone passes through the gateway they will going up or down hill. Basically the same as walking up or down an inclined floor over a distance of five metres. The query about potential energy cannot be answered unless we know what potential energy you had in mind. Gravitational potential energy has been dealt with in this answer's previous paragraph. But to clarify this further. Each end of the gateway will subject to the local gravity of either respective planets this will create a gravitational potential difference between the ends. That's why it is necessary to place at locations where the potential difference will be low. 

The planet needs to be have the mass and atmospheric density of the Saturnian moon Titan. The combination of lower gravity and a denser atmosphere would enable a gryphon-like creature to be able to fly and, possibly, carry a human mount. Of course, you wouldn't want to have your gryphon flying around in a truly Titan-like planet. The human rider would need to be wearing a spacesuit. Titanian surface conditions are not very conducive to human survival. If the gryphon is a native lifeform it won't have to worry about its survival. A planet that has the characteristics of a Titan and yet is Earthlike may be difficult to determine where in the universe it might be. Basically this means in relation to its primary star. It needs to be cool enough to maintain a dense atmosphere and yet comfortable enough temperature-wise to be sufficiently Earthlike. Mars which has a gravity similar of Titan has lost most of its atmosphere, so keeping a dense atmosphere will be hard. At the very least, the planet will need a strong geomagnetic field to prevent soalr winds from evaporating its atmosphere. While a gryphon-friendly planet is imaginable, it is extremely difficult to conceptualize where such a planet could be located, astronomically speaking, in its planetary system. So, it's conceptually plausible but may be unrealistic in the practical sense of nature. On the other hand, there is an absolute plenitude of weird and wonderful exoplanets. Perhaps, a suitable planet Gryphon is among them.