Because it's not really a bye per se. A "Bye" is awarded to a certain level of seeded player to allow them to advance automatically to the second round of a tournament by virtue of them having attained such a high ranking. By definition, once the tournament begins, no more byes can be awarded, only walkovers. 

There aren't really any different strategies to beating an opponent in singles depending on whether the opponent is primarily a singles or doubles player. Just attack their weaknesses and play to your strengths as you would against any other (singles) player. It sounds to me like you might have had better success had you not made so many mistakes on your backhand and come in to net more on short balls - but neither of those have anything to do with your opponent primarily being a doubles player. If your opponent comes to net frequently - learn how to hit passes or lobs - that applies to both singles and doubles. Yes, you should always try to keep the ball deep, but "don't ever give her a short ball" isn't a good strategy. You're going to hit short balls eventually - everybody does. So have a good plan ready for when your opponent takes that short ball and comes to net. Like I was saying before - hit a passing shot or a lob. 

Wimbledon is a special case and, to my knowledge, the only event at the ATP/WTA level that uses its own special "recent grass performance" seeding method. Not many fans that follow tennis closely seem to be a fan of this seeding method because it seems to confuse more than it helps. Personally I don't mind it because it tends not to alter the seeding too dramatically. That aside, in some cases I can see why the players themselves really don't like it because it can possibly mean facing a tougher opponent than they would normally - although the opposite could be an outcome as well (facing a weaker opponent). The main reason why Wimbledon can get away with doing this is because it is an ITF event (governed by the International Tennis Federation) and not an ATP or WTA event. That still doesn't explain why they do things that way - since all of the 4 majors are ITF events and the Australian Open, French Open and US Open still follow the ATP/WTA rankings for seeding. 

While he didn't announce it like Pennetta did - Pete Sampras decided to retire a few months after defeating Andre Agassi in the 2002 US Open Final for his final match as a pro. It was the same opponent in the same tournament where Sampras won his first major title too - against Agassi in 1990. Marion Bartoli also retired from tennis very shortly after winning Wimbledon in 2013. She only competed in 3 matches after winning the Wimbledon title before announcing her retirement. 

It helps to think of points and prize money being awarded based on a player's wins, not their losses or matches played. So in the scenario you describe here yes, the player would get the same points and prize money for pulling out of the tournament after a 3rd round win as a player that lost a 4th round match. Both players won the same number of matches. 

Absolutely, I've seen that exact scenario happen many times. It usually results in the other player having to request the challenge since the call gets changed/overruled. Challenges are available for any call, whether it's a linesperson making the call or a chair umpire. See VII. The Competition PDF here. Look at page 130 - Section VII, #7 where it says 

If you look at Diego Schwartzman's 2016 playing activity, he was knocked out in the first round of the US Open. Since the US Open is a 2 week long event, rather than not play any matches for the next 2 weeks, Schwartzman played in a Challenger event being held in Barranquilla, Colombia during the second week of the US Open, where he actually won the tournament and picked up 90 points for doing so. That's where the "+90" comes from because those rankings points will be coming off of his total along with the +10 he got for a first round loss at the 2016 US Open. As far as the +45 goes, you were able to figure it out as described in your comment on this answer, which at the time of editing my comment here said: "By the end of the US Open his 90 points from Barranquilla will no longer be valid (as they will be over 52 weeks old). However Schwartzman can still count 18 competitions towards his ranking score and his best non countable event was 45 points from a 250 series event in Sao Paulo" 

The oil is used to increase the grip or "tackiness" of the rubber surface of the racquet. You can actually just use ordinary oils (like sunflower oil) but the oils vendors sell are manufactured for the specific purpose of applying to table tennis rubber. Anyway, you want to use a medium width brush (like something you'd use to paint model airplanes or something like that) to apply a coat of the oil evenly on to the rubber, then let it soak into the rubber (can take anywhere from 20 minutes to a few hours depending on the rubber). Then repeat this process (applying the oil and letting it soak in) 2-3 times. Advanced players need very tacky rubber to impart the type of spin on the ball that they want as well as to deal with the spins put on the ball by their opponents shots. Really tacky rubber on a racquet should allow you to pick a ball up off the table using just the rubber surface. 

I'm not aware of any iPhone specific service, but you could give the website tennisopolis a try. $URL$ 

So anyway, I play with Yonex Supergrap myself, and buy it in the bag of 2 rolls, which is 30 total overgrips. You can also read reviews of various overgrips on sites where they are sold, such as Tennis Warehouse. 

Actually, yes, it would be your point if it hits your opponent before touching the ground - but only if the ball has not passed the end of the table already. Rule 2.10.01.03: 

Have you tried wrapping something over the base grip of your racket? Some people use gauze and can also buy overgrips which are meant to absorb moisture and provide a tacky feel. If you tend to play with loose hands overgrips can really help. These things I am describing (gauze and overgrips) are generally very thin and don't increase the overall size of the grip that drastically. 

Sampras and Paul Annacone played once. Agassi and Darren Cahill also played twice during the overlap of their careers. I would imagine some of the younger coaches (like Roger Rasheed for example) might have played some of the players they've coached. 

I know that in tennis you are allowed to use either hand to hit the ball with the racquet during any point, set or match. You may not use more than one racquet during any single point, though (though you are allowed to switch racquets between points). And racquet throwing (for the purpose of hitting the ball) is not allowed - the racquet must be in your hand at the point of contact or you lose the point. It is perfectly legal though, between shots, to drop the racquet and pick it back up and continue the point. 

I wouldn't say this is something that happens frequently, but it does happen on occasion when someone that loses in qualifying rounds ends up getting into the main draw as a lucky loser - like the scenario you described in your question. That's generally the only way it can happen - I can't think of another scenario that would allow it to occur, actually. Only the round-robin format can typically produce that and only the World Tour Finals use that format - everything else is single elimination. The problem with finding out when this happened and which players it involved is that there is no publicly accessible database that has all of this information in it - your best bet would probably be the Tennis Abstract website. 

You can also look at sites that sell table tennis shoes and see which characteristics are important by the fact that they show shoes ratings on certain categories. see $URL$ 

Yes, players can receive rankings points for winning qualifying round matches. The amount of points they win typically depends on how many matches they win and what level of tournament it is - a 250, 500, 1000 (Masters) or 2000 (grand slam). An easy way to see what kind of points are awarded is to go to a tournament profile page for a tournament on the ATP's website and click on the "Points & Prize Money" tab (it's a little further down on each of the tournament profile pages). It shows a breakdown of the prize money and points awarded for each level of results (both singles & doubles). Here's a couple of quick examples for the 2 tournaments being held this week in Barcelona (a 500 level event) and Bucharest (a 250 level event) Bucharest: 12 points for making it through qualifying and into the main draw, 6 points for making it into the last round of qualifying. Barcelona: 10 points for making it through qualifying and into the main draw, 4 points for making it into the last round of qualifying. I believe the reason for the difference in points has to do with how many rounds of qualifying are actually held - only 2 qualifying rounds were held in Barcelona, while 3 rounds of qualifying were held in Bucharest. 

The week before is considered. For both the WTA and ATP Tours, every tournament - down to the very final week/tournament of the season - and all rankings points earned, are taken into consideration to determine who the selected players are, and thus who will be selected to play in the WTA Finals/World Tour Finals. 

I've tried many different brands of overgrips over the years from various brands and to me, there are only really 3 different brands that stand out to me as really great overgrips: 

In doubles, just as in singles, the team serving alternates after each game. So, after a doubles player finishes their service game, they will then be on the team that is returning or receiving serve during the next game. The two players on the team returning serve must begin each point on the same side ("their side" will be either the deuce court or ad court side) for the entire service game. Therefore, each player on a doubles team will alternate receiving the serve, or you could say each player returns serve every other point. A doubles team may choose to switch which player is on the deuce court or ad court side after each set but cannot change in the middle of a set. 

The sport of Tennis is way behind other professional sports as far as statistical data and analysis goes, so it's not likely you will be able to even find the data to perform this kind of analysis. As someone who has been watching all of the grand slam tennis events for over 20 years, I can just share my opinion that the extra day of rest does not matter very much. The players at the top of the game are all very fit and their bodies are able to recover quickly. It would surprise me if there was any pattern indicating that an extra day of rest gave one player an advantage over another. I also think you would need to take into consideration other factors such as total time on court for their previous 6 matches, distance traveled during those matches, and perhaps quality of opponent. 

Let's clear up a couple of things first... Only 32 players are seeded in the women's singles draw at the French Open this year. The rest of the field are not seeded, qualifiers, or wild-card entries. Also - a players "talent level" does not necessarily correspond to their position in the draw or even their seeding. Kristina Mladenovic was in the main draw only because her world ranking 2 weeks prior to the French Open was high enough to warrant her being there. She's currently ranked 103 and has been ranked as high as 36 in her career. It was random that she faced Li Na in the first round - not because she's seeded/ranked #127. Lastly - don't forget about the "bad day at the office" factor in tennis. As we saw with both Li Na and Serena Williams at the French Open this year - if you have one bad match where you're not playing your best - and your opponent is - you're out. That's the harsh reality of tennis and single elimination tournament competition. Now, to answer your question... It sounds like the seeding method you are thinking of is how the Men's NCAA D1 basketball tournament brackets are drawn up (with the #1 seed playing the #16, #2 playing #15 and so on) - but that's not really how tennis does their tournament draws. In tennis - the seeded players are each put into their own area (usually a quarter) of the draw (how many seeds there are depends on the tournament and the size of the draw). For example, the #1 seed will be in the first/top position of the draw, and the #2 seed will be in the last/bottom position of the draw. This is done so that the #1 and #2 seeds can't possibly face each other until the final match of the tournament. Once you go past the #1 and #2 seeds, it starts becoming more random about where the seeds fall into the draw rather than a specific formula being applied. All that is guaranteed after #1 and #2 placement is that the following 6 seeds (#3-#8) end up evenly placed into the 4 quarters of the draw - so again, for the French Open, which is a draw of 128 players for the Women's Singles - two of the top 8 seeds will be within positions 1-32, 33-64, 65-96 and 97-128. Usually those two seeded players go into the first and last positions within those numbers (so they only face each other at the latest possible round). After that, where the seeded players fall in the draw becomes more random (names drawn from a hat) - and where non-seeded, qualifier and wild-card players fall is also random. The fact that Li Na faced Kristina Mladenovic in the first round had nothing really to do with anything like seeding or ranking - it was just the luck of the draw. I'm guessing that 8 or 9 times out of 10, Li Na wins against a player like Kristina Mladenovic - it just happened to not be her day during that match. To further show how the draw is more random for non-seeded players, Kristina Mladenovic played Alison Riske in the second round - who's currently ranked #45 in the world - and she also won that match. From what I've seen of lower-ranked players in grand slam events that beat a very high ranked player - the lower-ranked players usually "flame out" in the next round because of their emotional high coming off the "fluke" victory the previous round. Many examples of that come to mind - Stakhovsky beating Federer at Wimbledon and losing in the next round, Lukas Rosol beating Nadal at Wimbledon and then losing in the next round, etc. It's pretty common to see.