Just to ensure, I'd recommend carrying other accessories like pick, extra strings (just in case?) the belt, the Capo in a separate pouch that you can accommodate in your backpack. 

As you specifically mentioned Southern Nevada Mojave Desert, if you come across a snake and considering the worst case its a venomous snake, then its very likely to be a Rattlesnake or a Side Winder or an Adder. The best way to avoid trouble with venomous reptiles is to be aware of your surroundings and observe some rules for your own safety. Most bites result from deliberate harassment of reptiles. If you are sitting in a blind and may not make much movement, at least you should select a place to sit in a blind considering the potential habitats for these snakes and other species as well. 

I have been using backpacks which did not have setting for Torso adjustment. This time around I have bought myself a backpack with such adjustment. 

Okay, continuing the coconut series, How can I break a fresh green coconut without wasting much of it, without using a knife? 

And, How it is supposed to be used: Assume that one of the ropes will be a meter long or less than that which I can fix at the anchor up there and afford to let the piece of rope remain there. And the other strand is what I would rappel on. They did the exact same thing. The knot looked a bit tricky and I don't quite comprehend the amount of safety it would provide when used with the ropes of different diameters. Has anybody tried it that way? Till that day, I had never used kamikaze knot for last man rappel. And, then I tried it with a piece of rope (trusted strength and life) obtained through the same set of rope coil. So, diameter was equal. 

I am planning for a trek in coming winters. Thats not a regular or a trodden trail, its more of an optimistic approach onto a mountain. All the information that I have says that I was never a route, but I intend to make an attempt over the slopes and screes, occasionally having to climb up a not-so-long sort of a patch. How can use a contour map to decide which possible line to take? 

This might appear as an old-school tri-stated (hence, not convincing enough) answer in a perfect binary world. Well, I have been around snakes for quite some time. To be honest haven't really tried to handle them beyond necessity, possibly because thoughts towards their and my own safety. To get used to with what you don't usually do needs some time and persistent exposure to that very thing. The utmost essential things are requirement and desire. Requirement: If I have a strong aversion to snakes, and If I am living in an area where I might find a snake (though, minding it's own business all the while) I may not like my stay there for a longer period of time. C'mon, if I hate drunkards, I possibly can't live by a dirty bar, not for long. This leaves us with the choice to either get used to with it, or change! Desire: This comes as an immediate factor. To get used to with something, I need to feel the desire to underline my requirement of getting used to it. While the above two are applicable over a many many things in life, I'll talk about snakes in particular. The primary factor about making people feel not endangered when snakes are around is education. As a first step without any snake around, I would typically ask what they feel about snakes: 

The feet looked to have a tendency to move towards the bottom while their upper body moves toward the surface, meaning, that the center of gravity would be so low on the body that, some of the weight needs to be re-positioned towards the shoulders. Or the other way round: such that the feet kinda had a tendency to float towards the surface. 

This isn't an 'off-the-shelf' solution, its more of a DIY thing. I do have faced a time when I didn't want to get rid of my shoes because they were intact, it was just the sole that had worn out and would slip often than not. First ensure that they aren't structurally damaged. Is it really going to help longer term if you somehow manage to improve grip? If they are good (as they always are), and of course if you are okay with getting rid of its existing grip, you can try what I have tried years ago. 

Please refer the image below. This is a screenshot from the movie Meru which is about the successful attempt of climbing Meru by Conrad Anker, Jimmy Chin and Renan Ozturk. I didn't understand, why the rope is webbed/passed through snow? 

Realize that you may not be able to do exactly the same movements as a tall climber would do. So, try and look for intermediate holds, if you are climbing indoor in a local gym, or a bouldering station, try to climb through intermediate holds, often you can try using footholds as handholds. In case if you are climbing outdoors, you might want to find those hidden finger pockets or crimps that are not covered in chalk? Change your power building routines to improve arm pinch strength. Being short might help in being a bit more movable. Try and work out technique like rotating your torso to the left or right as much as you can, and a bit more, further. The more mobile you can be on the fall, the more you can reach, irrespective of the height. Try getting your leg higher. Being short, you just may manage to take your knees out of the way and find a higher foothold after an intermediate hold. There comes the flexibility. Practicing hand-foot matching is a best bet in such a case, where you put your foot just where your hand is, thats tough for a tall climber. Drop-knees are very helpful, where you can’t reach the next hold. Take your knee inward as you turn your torso sideways and into the wall. Sometimes, even extending your leg helps to balance your weight, which taller guys will struggle with. Practice dynamic moves. Add exercises like hanging on two handholds and footholds, with your knees bent in your Practice and Power building sessions. 

which clearly explains why water drips in through. The only assertion that I think everybody missed is Surface Tension that comes in picture along with the Sorptivity of the tent fabric. The technical term (when specifically considered with Capillary Action) to what we are vaguely referring as permeability or amount of leaking that can take place is Sorptivity, which wikipedia defines as: 

Northern or Southern Rubber Boa (Charina bottae or Charina umbratica) Western Yellow-bellied Racer (Coluber constrictor mormon) One of the many species of Ring-necked Snake (Diadophis punctatus amabilis) Baja California Ratsnake (Bogertophis rosaliae) Sierra Gartersnake (Thamnophis couchii) 

May be reason for Yawning after being a bit exhausted? (At least I do). Constriction of Pulmonary arteries and Exhausted Lungs: Medically it is called Hypoxic Pulmonary Vasoconstriction. This constriction leads to redistribution of blood flow to better-ventilated areas of the lung. That takes its toll on Lungs and cause Pulmonary Hypertension which is nothing but an increase of blood pressure in the pulmonary artery, pulmonary vein, or pulmonary capillaries. (Pulmonary is whatever thats related to Lungs). Pulmonary Hypertension AND Hypoxic Pulmonary Vasoconstriction altogether makes symptoms of HAPE (High Altitude Pulmonary Edema)! Edema is a condition characterized by an excess of watery fluid collecting in the cavities or tissues of the body. HACE (High Altitude Cerebral Edema): As we have seen that Hyperventilation may lead to Hypocapnia which leads an immediate cerebral vasoconstriction. In a layman's word, its can be called something like a brain hemorrhage. The increased the pressure leads to leaking of endothelium. Endothelium forms the Blood-Brain Barrier, which separates the circulating blood from the brain extracellular fluid (BECF) in the central nervous system. When the blood–brain barrier is disrupted, one is said to be hit by Cerebral Edema. 

It has to go down to all the High-Altitude diets, and not just specific to Mt. Everest. Anywhere above 23,000 feet / 7,000 meters most of the mountaineers lose their appetite to a considerable level. So, at that altitude losing weight is a common observation. Thats where the fats come in picture. Body starts consuming these bodily fats and worst case muscles too. With this a climber needs energy to carry on and the higher altitude, low oxygen environment reduces a climber’s appetite and interest in eating, making weight loss a common observation but a serious concern beyond a certain level. Remember as we all know Digestion needs energy, and to sustain the much needed energy, you need to eat and digest it. So, intake of the food and fluids that provide the most energy with the comparatively lesser amount of digestive effort is the way to go while at higher altitude.