There are lots of ways to indicate you disagree with some aspect of an utterance. I'm thinking here of the spectrum that includes "No, not-X," "Well, not-X," "Hey, wait a minute! Not-X!" "Yes, you're right about Y, but actually not-X," "Have you considered the possibility that not-X?" and so on. I'm interested in the question of how speakers choose between these forms. Intuitively there are a few different factors that go into the decision. Politeness is a big one. But I suspect it's not the only one. Here's one paper on a factor other than politeness that goes into the choice between "No" and "Hey, wait a minute." I'm looking for interesting articles or books on this phenomenon, from any disciplinary point of view: sociolinguistics, anthropology, semantics, pragmatics, whatever. They don't have to be about English — actually, I'd really like some references that aren't about English. Stuff on the role of politeness would be great. Stuff on other factors besides politeness would be even better (though I'm not sure how much work like that exists outside the business in formal semantics about "wait a minute"). 

The Sino-Tibetan languages are actually a wonderful counterexample. Some are isolating; some, especially the modern Tibetan languages, are agglutinative; and the Kiranti languages are highly fusional. Some are tonal; many aren't, including Newari and several of the Tibetan languages. (Indeed, Newari phonology looks like the phonology of an Indian language: voiced and voiceless aspirated plosives, retroflex and dental consonants, phonemic vowel length, and so on.) Some are SVO, but some, including the Tibetan languages again and also Burmese, are SOV. It's important to remember that languages don't "know" what family they're in. A feature that's been part of the language for thousands of years is just as likely to stick around, and just as likely to be lost, as a feature that was just borrowed or innovated yesterday. So for instance, yeah, Mandarin and Newari share a common ancestor several thousand years back — but now there's nothing that's constraining them to evolve in the same direction as one another. And so in fact they've diverged tremendously, Mandarin coming to look like a "typical" East Asian language and Newari like a typical South Asian language. To the extent that genetically related languages are typologically similar, it's a result either of historical intertia or of continued contact. Over the course of 4,000 years, historical intertia only buys you so much continued similarity. So when a language family spreads out over a natural barrier (as the Sino-Tibetan family did) or across a wide area (as Indo-European did), the result is an awful lot of typological diversity among genetically-related languages. 

In both cases the answer is "yes." For #1, look at Serbian, Croatian and Bosnian. Most linguists consider these all to be local varieties of the Serbo-Croatian language, but native speakers will insist that they're different languages. For #2, look at the language situation in China, where for instance Mandarin and Cantonese are treated as varieties of the same language even though they're distinct languages by any non-political standard. 

These three sorts of work aren't totally separate. For instance, if you want to write a textbook for language learners (#3), then you need to know some things about the grammar of the language first (#1), and it would be good to have some literature to cover in class as well (#2). But the distinction is still relevant to the question, because each of the three is valuable for a different reason. It sounds like Louis Rhys is asking about #3: language conservation. For what it's worth, this sort of work can actually be quite controversial — not necessarily among linguists, but among the speakers of endangered languages themselves. Some communities are very interested in teaching their heritage language to their children or grandchildren and bringing it back into daily use. Some communities are actively uninterested in their heritage language — they feel that it marks them as "old-fashioned" or uneducated, or that it prevents them from getting education or jobs, and they would much prefer that their children or grandchildren just switch to the local majority language. And in some communities, there's intense debate between the two points of view. But if a community wants to make sure that their children keep learning their heritage language, then a skilled linguist can help, by preparing educational materials and helping organize classes and so on. The community still has to do the bulk of the work; our job is to serve as a resource. The linguists who do this sort of work tend to see it as community service: it's valuable because it helps a community achieve their goals, and helping people is a good thing. Of course, if a community is dead-set against using their heritage language, and a linguist tries to badger them into using it anyway, that isn't particularly helpful or valuable. (And anyway, it isn't likely to succeed.) For language description, the value is largely scientific: we have theories about these languages that we want to test, and the data won't be available in 20 years, so we have to test them now. For language documentation, there are several sources of value. It can be valuable for science, by preserving data that would otherwise be lost. But it can also mitigate the sort of cultural damage that kaleissin and Alenanno are talking about: even if a child doesn't grow up speaking his parents' or grandparents' first language, he can still read the stories they told — either in translation or, with effort, in the original language — and that gives him a connection to his heritage that he might not have otherwise. And finally, it can be valuable in the same way that restoring old artwork is valuable. There are some truly wonderful pieces of literature that are being passed down orally in small language communities, and if the members of those communities want to share them with a larger audience, then it would be a shame if they were just lost. 

Another way to find "safe" mergers in a language is to look for mergers that some native speakers of that language make. For instance, in English, many speakers merge "cot" and "caught" (i.e. fail to distinguish /ɑ/ and /ɔ/). And in the US at least, those of us who don't have the cot/caught merger are still accustomed to hearing it from other people. So a foreign learner who merged /ɑ/ and /ɔ/ would still be intelligible here. Keep in mind though that this suggestion is relative to a specific language. So in US English, merging /ɑ/ and /ɔ/ is "safe," but that doesn't mean it's equally safe in other languages. For instance, I don't know of any French dialects that merge /ɑ/ and /ɔ/, so I doubt that merger would be as safe in French. I don't think that you're going to find any mergers that are "universally safe" — i.e. safe in all languages — and so if you want your SPA to be a universally applicable system, you're going to run into trouble pretty quickly. On the other hand, a simplified phonetic notation for a specific language could succeed. So you might end up with "SPA-English" (merging /ɑ/ with /ɔ/) and "SPA-French" (merging /œ̃/ with /ɛ̃/ and /ɑ/ with /a/) and so on. 

Some languages, including Mandarin and Cantonese, have a dedicated belief verb that one uses for describing false beliefs. For instance, in Mandarin, yiwei is used to describe beliefs that the speaker wants to emphasize are false; xiang is a neutral belief verb, like English 'think' and 'believe,' and can be used to describe any belief, regardless of whether the speaker considers it true or false. (You might translate yiwei into English as "be under the mistaken impression that.") There's been a lot of research on these verbs in developmental psychology. (The question is, roughly, "If a child grows up speaking a language that has a special false-belief verb, do they acquire the concept of false belief or the ability to think about false beliefs any faster?" This meta-analysis refers to a number of studies on this question in Chinese languages, if anyone's interested.) But I haven't seen any linguistic work on the subject. Can anyone point me towards any linguistic work on false-belief verbs, in any language? 

All languages, as far as we know, do something to mark information status. Basically this means that when you refer to an X, you have to do something to indicate the answer to questions like: 

They're not particularly well-known, but some modern Mayan languages have topic particles. (Others have a more Chinese-like system, with the topic appearing at the front of the sentence but without a special particle to mark it.) A Google Scholar search for the phrase "topic particle" turns up a good number of hits on other languages. Malagasy gets a bunch of mentions; it's still not exactly well known, but it's a national language with (according to Wikipedia) around 20 million speakers. 

In Modern Standard Arabic, phonemic /lˤ/ (a.k.a. "emphatic l") only occurs in one native word: Allah /ʔalˤˈlˤaːh/. (According to the linked article, it also occurs in a few loanwords.) This seems like a profoundly weird situation. If a phoneme exists at all, you'd expect it to show up more than once. Imagine a time before the loanwords with /lˤ/ were borrowed. Would allah then have been the only instance of /lˤ/ in the entire lexicon of the language? I know that's logically possible, but intuitively it strikes me as completely bizarre. So what happened? How did this weird situation come about? (Or is it less of a weird situation than I think? I'd be happy to hear about other languages that have similar "one-off" phonemes.) 

There is a web interface for the Verbmobil corpus that may give a rough approximation of what you need. Try the query for forms of the word aufkommen in which the auf is separated by up to ten words. This is of course suboptimal; you really want to find examples in which kommen and auf are in a specific syntactic relationship. But to find examples like that, you'd need (a) a parsed corpus, and (b) a search language that can describe syntactic patterns and not just surface word order. If you wanted to go down that rabbit hole, I'd suggest the TIGER corpus, but it's not web accessible and not really usable by people who don't understand a bit about linguistics. As Mitch points out in his comment, the separable prefixes are an unusually tough case. So comparing counts for kommen and aufkommen will actually be much more difficult than doing other sorts of comparisons. If you wanted to know something like "Is kommen (with or without a prefix) more common than gehen (with or without a prefix)," you could get a pretty good answer from Verbmobil. You need to use the advanced search so you can set the number of returned matches above 100, but if you do that, gives 1176 matches and gives 4545. (Those counts also highlight another disadvantage of the Verbmobil corpus: it's much smaller than Google's. This is generally true in corpus linguistics: it's easy to get enormous corpora of raw text, but corpora with any sort of grammatical information attached are really labor-intensive and tend to be much smaller.) 

Contrary to some of the other answerers, I do think "intuition blurring" is a real thing. It's a bit like what happens if you say the word "zebra" a few dozen times in a row and suddenly it stops sounding like an English word and starts sounding like a meaningless noise. If you read dozens of complicated, multiply embedded sentences to yourself, they'll all start sounding equally good or equally funny after a while. But: 

This limitation is clear evidence for a morphosyntactic noun/verb distinction in English. Okay. So there are claimed to be languages without this limitation: languages, that is, in which any word can take any syntactic function. The Salishan language family is the classic source for examples of this. Here's one example from St'át'imcets: in this sentence, t'ak 'go' is the predicate... 

Question #2 is more or less what we mean by "definiteness." (Though for what it's worth, English can use the definite article even when the answer to #2 is "no." For instance, in formal English you can say "The whale is a mammal" — and this doesn't mean you're talking about a specific whale with which your hearer is already familiar.) But there are lots of other information-status-marking strategies that don't directly involve definiteness marking. For example: 

Something similar shows up in some of the Italian dialects. The relevant dialects are the ones with the following two features: 1) The Gorgia Toscana: After a vowel, p, t and k go to [ɸ], [θ] and [h]. This happens even when the triggering vowel is in the preceding word: la casa is [la'hasa] in dialects with this feature. But it only affects single p, t and k, not the geminate consonants pp, tt and kk. 2) Syntactic doubling: There are some specific words that, idiosyncratically, trigger gemination on the first consonant of the following word. This has the effect of blocking the preceding sound change. So a casa is [ak'kasa], and not [a'hasa]. If a Celticist were describing this sort of Italian they might say it had two mutation classes. Some words trigger "lenition" or "spirant mutation," others trigger "hard mutation." If I understand correctly, there are even minimal pairs of words that only differ in which mutation they cause. So for instance, the clitic pronoun si doesn't trigger fortition, but the particle sì, meaning "if," does. This is a little like how, in Irish, a means "his" if it's followed by lenition, and "hers" if it isn't. The Italian examples are not as dramatic as the Irish ones, though — my perception is that there are a lot fewer minimal pairs like this in Italian.