Don't underestimate doing what you're told and getting things done on time. This is what would stick out in the mind of someone at this company and that person could make a great reference. Skill sets and getting along with others are key attributes for recent graduates/those with no experience, but once you've been employed for a year, it's important to have people who can vouch for your previous experience. It's not perfect, but prior behaviors tend to be the best future predictors. 

Misery Loves Company It sounds like you've discovered a group that decided to share their contempt for their children. Constant venting about any subject can wear on you after awhile, but maybe you're taking these comments too far? We'd like to see everyone engage in unconditional love in all thoughts, deeds and comments. In the US there is a history of adversarial relationships between parents and children, spouses, in-laws, brothers protecting sisters from boyfriends. Of course no one likes their boss. It's annoying, but try not to take the comments too literally or seriously. You seem to think the children are not in danger which is good. You may find the same people will protect their children like a mother bear if someone else were to say something negative about them. Take solace in that. 

I don't know this person, but try not to confuse his behavior during meetings with how he may be in other settings. Some people like to "put on their game face" and stick to the meeting agenda and get things done because time is important and meetings suck. This is what he does for a living, so working with you in his area of expertise shouldn't be too aversive (Although he may want a break from it occasionally.). Be extremely respectful of his time. Ask about being a mentor or just getting feedback, but strongly suggest you are willing to work with his schedule. You're not going to just drop by his office and have a chat. Scheduling in advance may be preferable or he has a block of time where he is available but can't be specific until the last minute. Be prepared. Have specific questions and limited pieces of work to look at. Don't just come in and ask him to review your entire portfolio. If he truly is the best person to learn from, you may have to put up with some unfriendly, blunt, terse and limited feedback. In the long-run, this may be better than spending hours with an incompetent person. 

Focus on increasing your productivity. So what if you get done and have nothing to do. Track your work and start creating estimates on new tasks. Being able to estimate is a necessary skill as a developer. It requires practice, data collection and analysis. You don't have to share with others if it isn't needed, but for your personal development, it is very important. Review your work. Either try to improve or since you have time, create a second solution. It is good practice and you may find better solutions. Create tests. Review existing code. Ask others if you could do a code review with them on yours and their work. Check the list of bugs and try to fix them (don't check into production). Study another language. Self-study should be a part of every internship. See if there are others who are interested in technologies outside the company stack. 

Ask the recruiter The recruiter should be telling you that they have an agreement/contract with the client and that is why the client should not be contacting you, so you shouldn't contact them either. Just telling you not to communicate with the client isn't very smart if they have a contract. Confirm with the client If the recruiter tells you they have a contract, confirm with the client. Just reply to the email, "They say they have a contract with you, is this true?" The recruiter could be lying. I don't care if the recruiter sends your resume to a client or not, that doesn't automatically give them the right to get a fee if you're hired. That's like some guy on the street who starts cleaning your windows and then asks you to pay him. I don't think that's how business is done, but you have to decide what is right for you. The Recruiter Will Find Out Eventually Tell the company, that eventually, the recruiter will find out if you get the job. They'll keep calling you and will see it on LinkedIn. See how they explain that one away and you'll have a better idea if you want to be associated with any of these people. 

Why did you leave your jobs? Making one bad job choice decision is one thing, but 3? She's going to end up getting caught in a lie. Why do you want to work here? Obviously, this person doesn't know how to evaluate a job, doesn't know what she wants, or has extremely unrealistic expectations. Maybe she just doesn't like to work? What is your greatest accomplishment at your last job? I'm guessing the answer will be nothing. How much can you accomplish in such a short amount of time.? What was your last evaluation like? Never worked anywhere long enough to receive one. 

If you're going to grill someone technically, it's difficult for them to show excitement about the job. Would you judge how much students enjoy a class based on their demeanor during the final exams? Either have a separate interview or break away from the technical aspects and start discussing what the candidate wants in a job. During my last job interview, I met with 4 different people and each one wasted time telling me about the company. That's why none of them are in sales. Identify the attractive aspects about this position and make sure you sell the candidates on this. The role of the recuriter is not to only identify quality candidates but to attract them to the firm. It's not enough to identify who likes the job, but to pursuade them to like it. 

Also include what you learned by being on the QA side that makes you a better programmer. Did it help you think about requirements differently? Does your QA experience carry-over when writing unit tests? Another area to point out is the training of others. Not all programmers are prepared to be a team leader, but with this experience, you could be a future candidate. 

Would you wear it on a T-shirt? Does it have subject matter that you are not willing to discuss with collegues? Do you have strong enough relationships with people at your company that they would feel comfortable telling you if it offended them? And if so, would you take it down? 

I don't know what normal is, but I'm sure different teams fall all across the spectrum of Maintaining the Status Quo <-- --> Encouraging Initiative & Innovation. If your company has many managment layers and everyone demands getting approval before doing anything new, you may have been able to anticipate this type of animosity. It's safe to assume you've never observed your own team members do such a project. In hind-sight it's easy to say, you should have mentioned your project to someone else. You could have saved some grief. The question is whether or not they would have encouraged or even allowed you to pursue this. I know you did it on your own time, but it's easier to squash a project before it is started then after someone has shown a working model. A manager or the team could just tell you not to bother with it. Have a meeting with your manager and find out what he thinks you should do. Upsetting your team to such a level may far out-weigh any side project you could do. Find out if your manager and/or the company have any interest in encouraging innovation. You may get some perspective on what to do next. Innovation is hard so why not encourage it as much as possible? There's something to be said for sticking to a plan and working on things that help the company, but at some point, workers should be encouraged to create and innovate. They should be disappointed in the fact they didn't get to work on such an interesting idea and not interpreting it as you going behind their backs. If their goal is to encourage you to collaborate with them, I feel they've failed. They tried to punish you and your managers should discourage this type of behavior. You did something good for the company. That's why you're all there. Edit: Maybe this is why Google has a policy of allow employees to take time to work on personal projects. Creativity and initiative are sought after commodities in today's work place. Sounds to me like they're a bunch of crabs in a bucket with no lid. No one can climb out because the others drag them back down. This is why some companies fail to innovate. They keep breaking the spirit of anyone who tries to do something. I hope they apologize to you some day. 

Only you really know the person who told you to take it down. I would consider "not up for discussion" to mean they don't want to argue, debate or hear any kind of defense for keeping it up. Apologize and ask for clarification to help prevent posting anything like this in the future. You take pride in what you do and want to share your professional experiences but not at the detriment to the company. 

People often have to work over-time for different reasons. Salaried employees rarely qualify for additional pay any more (US?). I think managers are more likely to request over-time than say, "Can you work under-time and just go home?" Many see it as "an hours pay for an hours work." so unless you want less pay, you have to fill the time you're expected to work. Then you get asked for more. Many people protect themselves from getting more work given to them by appearing to be busy all day long. Or at least they do this to justify the full-time position. Would there be any incentives to allow workers to just go home early if they get their work done? This assumes someone won't find "something" for them to do to fill the time. If the next day they don't get to leave early, is it seen as a punishment? Would it motivate other workers to get things done sooner or will it just stir up animosity? For some employers, they can't always compensate the efficient employee, so would this be an alternative. Can this be accomplished without a lot of trust, honesty and transparency between what employers expect from employees and what the employees are actually doing? i.e. Is it practical in the current workplace? 

Whenever you have a question and he makes it about you and not the problem, stop listening to him. Walk away if you have to, but let him know that if he is going to say something negative about you and not just give you the solution to the problem, you will not listen to him. Offer to come back in an hour or suggest he send you an email when he is ready to behave. Don't let him off easy. Go back and do it again. Show him you are tougher and will do this forever until he stops. An apology would be nice too. It would be great if others would do the same and more people in the office would tell him to stop. This company may have a culture of picking on the new people. They all should be ashamed of themselves. Start sticking up for yourself. Your boss would approve. Do not take quit this job until you find another one. Start the process sooner rather than later. 

Apparently it upset a few of your employees that they went to the trouble to publicly voice their disapproval. You can say it hasn't lead to you discriminating against anyone, but people are less inclined to trust you. How can they know for sure?