The two examples: The case of Alice is different than the case of Bob. In Bob's case, the solution would appear to be quite simple: If Bob is just another employee in the firm, a client should not be approaching him privately to do a job. The client should be turning to the Project Manager or whoever it is who is in charge of getting new business and/or delegating work to various staff members. By the same token, Bob should not be accepting work on his own. He should have told the client to contact those in charge of such matters. Bob appears to have acted inappropriately by engaging himself for the job. So in the case of Bob, management simply needs to step in and take control of the situation and give the work to the employee most appropriate. If Bob has a problem with that, Bob has a problem. (Or, you have a problem with Bob...) If there is no management that is in charge of such matters, the fix still remains simple: Set up the appropriate management structure. 

$70 is a very small amount to pay for software, so if you need it for your work, I don't think it should be a problem, provided that you are an established employee with a good track record and have a tech savvy boss. If a tech savvy boss wants an explanation, I'm sure you can provide one. If you are a new employee or your boss is not tech savvy and/or a cheapskate, you should foot the bill yourself rather than making yourself a target by asking for something outside of the ordinary: Your boss will probably think "Why doesn't everyone need this tool - is this employee so special?" It's not worth losing points with your boss for $70. If in doubt, you can probably find out how this is generally handled from other developers on the staff - but be careful they don't start thinking you're some sort of "prima donna" who needs special tools or perks. 

I'm not a big fan of working remotely, particularly from home. I think it's important for you to maintain face to face personal contact with the people you work with/for. Also, preparing and going to work puts you in a "working frame of mind", as does being in a formal workplace environment with your co-workers. If you goof off or fall asleep, at home nobody will notice - not so in the office.... I can and sometimes do work from home, but I am never as productive as I am in the office, for stated reasons. Having said that, your question may to a great extent be dependent on the record you have established in the office: How long have you been at that job? At least a year or two? Do you have a reputation for a solid work ethic? Have you delivered a significant amount of good work to your employers? Do they know you well and trust you? I don't think a responsible manager would allow you to work remotely from home unless the answer to all those questions is "Yes". At my current job, it took me two years to get a large project up and running and only then did I ask for some time to be able to work at home, simply because sometimes there is business I need to attend to locally, some distance from the office. 

Sounds like maybe you're being too hard on yourself: It's by no means so cut and dry. Every programming task can be attacked in many ways, and most of the time there isn't one "right way". It's a question of trade-offs, and the ability to judge such things has a lot more to do with experience than raw programming skills and talent. Knowing when to "go by the book", something you appear to be good at, as opposed to solving a given problem in the real world work context, is gained only through experience. That's the reason why experience is always stressed in job descriptions for programming positions, and in general. So, even if the experienced programmers you're dealing with are very good, you might also might be an excellent, talented programmer, but simply lacking the required experience and exposure required to correctly and practically solve real-world problems. As for ways to move forward, @VietnhiPhuvan's answer is excellent. Another thing you can do, which is often possible even when you can't easily "pick someone's brain", is to look at the code of those who are claiming they know better. If you've done something that others complained about, look around in the code base for similar problems that others have solved differently: If you understand how and why they are better than your solution, learn from that code. If you think not, if you have a decent working relationship with your peers and seniors, take out the code example and gently ask why they handled something in a particular way when there were alternatives X and Y also available. You can learn a great deal from such exchanges. Sometimes you'll learn that @Telastyn's comment was very applicable to your situation and the people criticizing you aren't really very good themselves, but just as often you'll get some new insights, and advance your own knowledge and judgment. 

Approach your co-worker at some opportune time - perhaps out of the office, at lunch or over a beer after work, and mention that you're wondering if he's ever considered that his wallpaper might compromise his professional demeanor. Don't make it about offending other people, which might put him on the defense, but about his own professional image. He appears to be quite unaware of the possibility that he's damaging himself, and you'd be doing him a big favor by giving him a heads up. Once you've done that, you need to stick with Option 3: 

This might work if the job was in sales/marketing, where knowing how to make a good sales pitch would be very valuable. In the world of software development, it would probably be a good way to get yourself escorted off the premises by security, very quickly... 

Mention only to the security people at the firm what you saw - and only what you saw, not your interpretation. Then go about your business and forget it, until if and when it impacts you directly. You are not the police, the security team, the HR team, or the provider of company gossip. 

Note that I'm making an assumption here that there is some sort of central office where the CEO and most of the employees are working. If the whole company is virtual - everyone, even the CEO - is working from their own location, that's something else entirely. 

You're under no obligation to the foreign firm - neither legal nor moral. You've signed nothing, and committed to nothing (AFAIK) and you've acted in good faith - you weren't trying to fool anybody. The foreign firm also assumes and knows all that, and they voluntarily encumbered the risk of going to the trouble of facilitating things for you. Every business professional knows that nothing is set, until it's SET. It's business as usual for them to try, and for you to opt out. So, just be brief and cordial: Thank them for their help and interest, and explain that, notwithstanding, you've decided their job is not really the right move for you. Done. 

Bottom Line: I don't think you've identified the issue correctly: The problem is not competitive employees - competitive employees are generally good employees, provided they know that they have to toe under when management makes a decision that might not suit them in a particular case. The real problem is that management is not dealing with such cases appropriately. (Or there is not management in place to do so.) 

Your personal problems regarding this woman are not the business of HR or management, and you'll do yourself more harm than good by turning to them about such matters: To them she is an employee in good standing, just as you are - your personal problems with her are yours, not hers as an employee, or the firm's. You've already gotten some good advice in other answers about how to deal with your own issues. Having said that, there is a different aspect here: 

Your math, or what it says in some survey, may not be enough to get him to offer you more. I know it wouldn't convince me - I'd simply say "Go see if you can find a job like that". If I was in your position, I would ask the boss for a weeks or two to think about it, and "go shopping" - test the actual market waters and see if you can get an offer that you believe is appropriate. Then you can go back to your current boss and say "I like working here and I think I can make a good contribution, but I have an offer of $X with benefits (etc) - might you be willing to agree to such terms...?" If you're lucky, he will agree and maybe even up the ante. If not, he'll tell you he's not interested, and you'll know what to do. If your boss refuses to give you time to consider - "take it or leave it" - I'd consider this a red flag: He probably knows he's low-balling you and is trying to pressure you into a bad deal before you have a chance to consider your options. 

Pick the day definitively and perhaps confirm it too. It probably has very little impact, but it never hurts to show them that you're decisive about things. I also agree with the other answers that choosing the earlier date is a good idea. 

I'm assuming that you would like to remain with your current firm if "the price was right", or you probably wouldn't be asking this question. I believe you could approach your boss politely and tactfully - you don't have to just go and look for another job. Since he offered you a full time position he apparently values your work, but may be trying to "lowball you" as the opening move in negotiations. That's not necessarily something you should hold against him - it's just business. (Similarly, your desire to earn more than what he's offering isn't "greedy" - you deserve appropriate compensation for your work.) You already have more knowledge about your boss than just that offer, since you've worked there for a time, and with my suggestion you'll learn even more: 

How do I approach my boss? You don't, unless you already have a new job waiting for you. Obviously it was something he didn't want you to know about, so if you're smart, you'll forget it. I was once at a job where I mentioned to a co-worker that the company was covering traveling expenses for me. She foolishly went to the boss and asked for the same. Next day she was gone... 

I work in a mid-size financial firm in NYC - a fairly "corporate" environment. It's not uncommon for employees to bring their families up to see the workplace, and it was the same in an even larger, higher profile company where I worked previously. This usually happens when the family happens to be in the area for another reason - not coming to town explicitly to visit the office. Since they are in the area, they drop in to see the workplace and say hello. Obviously, extended or disruptive visits are out of the question. Among the staff, those who are interested in meeting the family come over and meet them. These are generally close co-workers or workplace friends. Those who aren't interested or are busy, etc just go about their business.