As the two other answers suggest (Frank Hubeny's and Elliot Svensson's), there is, perhaps, some slight ambiguity in using the word 'save'. If by save you mean preventing their suffering and death, then one response available to the Christian is countering with a free will defense, most notably elaborated by Alvin Plantinga, which Frank Hubeny alluded to. If instead you mean redeem or extend salvation to, which is the more plausible interpretation given your mention of sin and innocence, then one could deny the presupposition undergirding your question--namely, that God didn't save them. On this interpretation, the Christian might respond by saying, "Given the traditional conception of God as a perfect being which Christians endorse, God is wholly just or fair, so that not extending salvation to such innocent younglings would be unjust and therefore impossible for God to do." This might be deemed a more 'philosophical response', as it doesn't fully appeal to Christian scriptures (it appeals to scriptures insofar as scriptures affirm perfect being theology). Or a Christian might respond by appealing to scripture to explain how exactly one might receive salvation without knowledge of Christ, which Elliot Svensson has nicely outlined for us. 

I was reading An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding by David Hume, specifically the section titled On Liberty and Necessity (both parts). Hume reconciles liberty with metaphysical necessity by an ingenious argument, which I think is called the compatibilist position in the debate between determinism and free will. Essentially, Hume declares that the conflict between liberty and necessity is a verbal argument, and argues that everyone actually agrees with both the doctrine of necessity and of liberty when both are properly defined. While I usually greatly enjoy and generally agree upon Hume's philosophical expositions, I felt in this section that Hume was engaging in a kind of word jugglery, evading the actual metaphysical question. I was wondering whether any other philosophers hold this sentiment and went further to formulate serious objections towards the compatibilist doctrine. 

Here, no proof is given (most of Spinoza's propositions are proven, but for simple ones at the beginning Spinoza merely cites the appropriate definitions and axioms). Hence, it appears that this proposition should follow from definition iv. Now, definition iv states 

From what I gather, for realists who are especially fond of a good old-fashioned Mathematical Platonism incorporated in their ontology, there seem to be two ways of getting at it. The first seems to be the need for truth-makers for mathematical propositions/truths, hence the positing of mathematical objects as abstract objects which serve as truth-makers. The other route is to marshal the Quine-Putnam Indispensability Argument, or some contemporary variation, and deduce their existence (am I right in thinking this is a deductive argument, or is it an abductive argument? Perhaps their are versions of both) by noting that the existential quantifier is a device for ontological commitment. First of all, am I mistaken in thinking that these represent some of the motivations for adopting/positing Mathematical Platonism? Secondly, are there any other motivations for adopting/positing Mathematical Platonism? 

I realize that Seamus has already mentioned the classic criterion proposed by Quine, but I think Seamus may have slightly misrepresented it; so I thought I might add a few more details. It is true that Quine famously states "to be is to be the value of a variable" in is seminal paper "On What There Is." But I think it is slightly inaccurate to say that Quine thought that whatever exists is whatever is referenced/quantified in our best scientific theories, that the set of existing things just is the set of all that is quantified in our scientific theories. Here's what Quine says: 

Don't worry if you don't understand the mathematics; all that is important is this symbol, ƛ, which looks like an upside down v. This symbol, called the cosmological constant, basically functions as the intrinsic energy density of the vaccuum. And there is one interesting feature about this constant; when this constant is positive, there exists a repulsive force expanding space-time. Hence, gravitation includes both repulsive and attractive forces. In a sense, gravity contains dual forces, and is an over-arching concept. 

Averroes attempted to refute this work with his The Incoherence of the Incoherence, which defends Aristotlean thought. However, this work was poorly received compared to Al Ghazali's critique. The main thing was that Al Ghazali had written a fairly well reasoned attack on the philosopher's account of metaphysics, which conflicted with orthodox islamic thought, and instead presented the case for the supremacy of god and orthodox islamic consensus while showing the Aristotleans to be heretical, thus garnering the title "Proof of Islam". So deeply entrenched then was his philosophical account that Averroes account, which went against the tide of Islamic account and to the eyes of his contemporaries, against islam itself, was bound to fail. Indeed, many of Al Ghazali's ideas can be found in the works of later philosophers (Descarte presents the idea that every moment is willed from god in the meditations, for example, and Kant raised some critiques of metaphysics that are similar to Al Ghazali's). In Christian thought however, despite the critiques of Averroes which echo Al Ghazali, the explicit philosophical movement of ocassionalism never took hold. Hence, Aristotle's ideas were still considered useful to an extent. St. Thomas Aquinas, despite disagreeing with and attacking Averroes's metaphysical positions, still incorporates Aristotlean thought in his works such as the Summa Theologica, finding several Aristotlean concepts useful. In Judaism, a similar dynamic occurs, wherein the philosophy of ocassionalism never took hold. In short, Averroes's metaphysics is rejected by all three Abrahamic faiths. However, the critiques of Al Ghazali against the entire Greek tradition, and the establishment of the doctrine of ocassionalism in Islamic thought, was unique to Islamic philosophy, and made it less receptive to Averroes's commentaries on Aristotle. The philosophical tides were more receptive however in Christian and Jewish philosophy, explaining why Averroes had a more profound impact on these two philosophical traditions. 

Lately, I have been reading some of Quine's works on modality. I can't help but feel that many of his pronouncements on modality are wrong/misguided, although pinpointing exactly where is goes wrong is proving rather difficult. For instance, in The Problem of Interpreting Modal Logic and Reference and Modality, he seems to defines necessity as follows: 

The passage reads a little differently from I remember. I must say, I rather like my pithy paraphrase of what Russell is saying. 

I am reading Russell's second installment in the series On Meinong's Theory of Complexes and Assumption. Among many things, presentations are discussed a lot in these articles. What exactly do Russell and Meinong mean by presentation; and how does it differ from representation? I have read through most of the SEP article on Meinong, but I haven't yet found a clear explication of the two, leaving me in a more confused state. In fact, the author of the SEP article seems to use them interchangeably, while with Russell's article I got a sense that they were different. Something like: a representation is a type of presentation in which the object exists. Of course, this might be wrong; but, in any case, that still doesn't tell me what a presentation is. The article is pretty technical, introducing a lot of distinctions/concepts, and is very summary (as are most SEP entries that survey a philosopher's career). Meinong seems to imbue a lot of common words with a very technical sense, and the author of the SEP article doesn't give their technical definitions. But I'm just wondering about presentations and representations. 

This is really just an elaboration on Mozibur Ullah's answer. Gravitation is currently described in terms of geometry (General relativity and all subsequent gravitaitonal theories including the brans-dicke theory are metric theories). The equation for gravitation, according to general relativity, is this: 

What I don't understand is how this definition informs us about the magnitude of the reality of a being thing. How does Spinoza's definition of an attribute render proposition ix a trivial consequence (as the mere citation as opposed to explicit proof seems to indicate)? 

Al Ghazali about a century earlier had written a text called The Incoherence of the Philosophers, a critique on metaphysics (or, more bluntly, an attack on the philosophers). By philosophers he means primarily those scholars whose metaphysics is based on Aristotle and Plato, but his attacks really were focused on Avicenna, the intellectual predecessor of Averroes. Wikipedia summarizes the contents of his work as follows: 

He states that Avicenna and his followers have erred in seventeen points (each one of which he addresses in detail in a chapter, for a total of 17 chapters) by committing heresy. But in three other chapters, he accuses them of being utterly irreligious. Among the charges that he leveled against the philosophers is their inability to prove the existence of God and inability to prove the impossibility of the existence of two gods. The twenty points are as follows: Refuting the doctrine of the world's pre-eternity. Refuting the doctrine of the world's post-eternity. Showing their equivocation of the following two statements: God is the creator of the world vs. the world is God's creation. The inability of philosophers to prove the existence of the Creator. The inability of philosophers to prove the impossibility of the existence of two gods. The philosopher's doctrine of denying the existence of God's attributes. Refutation of their statement: "the essence of the First is not divisible into genus and species". Refutation of their statement: "the First is simple existent without quiddity". Their inability to demonstrate that the First is not a body. Discussing their materialist doctrine necessitates a denial of the maker. Their inability to show that the First knows others. Their inability to show that the First knows Himself. Refuting that the First does not know the Particulars. Refuting their doctrine that states: "the heavens are an animal that moves on its own volition". Refuting what they say regarding the reason that the heavens move. Refuting their doctrine that the heavens are souls that know the particulars. Refuting their doctrine that disruption of causality is impossible. Refuting their statement that the human soul is a self-sustaining substance that is neither a body nor an accident. Refuting their assertion of the impossibility of the annihilation of the human soul. Refuting their denial of bodily resurrection and the accompanying pleasures of Paradise or the pains of Hellfire. Beyond heresy The three irreligious ideas are as follows: The theory of a pre-eternal world. Ghazali wrote that God created the world in time and just like everything in this world time will cease to exist as well but God will continue on existing. God only knows the universal characteristics of particulars - namely Platonic forms. Bodily resurrection will not take place in the hereafter only human souls are resurrected. Ocassionalism The Incoherence of the Philosophers is famous for proposing and defending the Asharite theory of occasionalism. Al-Ghazali wrote that when fire and cotton are placed in contact, the cotton is burned directly by God rather than by the fire, a claim which he defended using logic. 

Ah! I found it! It was in his book The Philosophy of Logical Atomism (see the chapter entitled Logical Atomism (1924), which starts on page 126): 

As MarkOxford pointed out in his comment, the argument appears that it could be classified as a cosmological argument. I can't say that I have ever come across a formulation of cosmological argument that closely resembles yours, although I am not terribly knowledgeable when it comes to them. The ones I am 'familiar' with are Aquinas' version, the Leibnizian version, the Kalām argument, the modal cosmological argument by Brian Leftow, and this cosmological argument due to Richard Gale and Alexander Pruss (a literal genius, by the way). I suspect there are many others. As far as objections to cosmological arguments, these are extraordinarily numerous, ranging from abysmal to formidable, so I don't think it would be worth going into detail in such a short space. By the way, where did you find this argument?