It didn't happen. It was a myth and story. (as evidence for it not happening, no-one has found Atlantis) 

You are asking a slightly biased question, by presuming that the UK justice system (unlike the US) is very fair and looks at intent and the poor old US has lost it's way and is now silly. You are wrong, the UK justice system can be just as stupid aswell, just look at the ambulance driver convicted of speeding while transporting a liver for transplant ( $URL$ ) (There are other example of extremely harsh sentances after the recent london riots for trivial things) 

Well firstly, what do you mean by 'continent'? Is Europe a continent? Is India? Remember that now lots of people in the same country (upper & lower class) speak roughly the same language. However that wasn't always the case. You can see this in some places where minorities who have very little power would not speak the language of government. e.g. serfs in the field speaking Old English and the Norman lords speaking Norman French. Also, people in different classes/professions would know different languages. e.g. catholic priests and other educated people would know Latin, Orthodox preists might know Greek in the mediæval period. In later centuries, educated people might know French. But that doesn't mean the common man on the ground might know Latin or French. 

Mostly good old fashioned racism. The target is different for different cultures (Polish people in USA, Irish people in UK, etc.), but the general idea is to insult the people you don't like. 

This doesn't make much sense, was there ever a war where someone wanted to lose? Did Nazi Germany want to lose WW2? No 

I have never heard this theory, and I suspect it's rooted in racism from victors who want to get rid of their enemies. I do not think it has any basis in science or biology. You might as well ask about the theory that Jews have deceitful genes and bad blood that will make them treacherous, another thinly cloaked racist pseudotheory. 

Originally they were tried to just shoot the people in the ghettos/prisons, but it was having a demoralising effect on their soliders. There's only so many times the average soilder can shoot people at point blank range and not suffer psycological consequences. Hence they came up with the extermination camps. The "gas showers" thing was helpful for the Nazis because the people would strip off all their clothes themselves (rather than the soliders stripping the corpses). 

The Catholic/Nationalist community in Northern Ireland was socially opressed by the dominate Protestand/Loyalist community for a lot of the 20th century. Both were white. 

The UK? Various parts of the USA (i.e. the South) were very late in abolishing slavery, but some parts of the USA abolished slavery around the same time as the UK (and other countries). 

I've seen this in movies or cartoons sometimes, that they are waling around inside the curtain wall, but hollowing out the curtain wall with a hallway seems like it would lover the structural integrity of the stone structure, that is supposed to withstand poundings from catapults and trebuchets. I noticed this in the excellent book Stephen Biesty's Cross-Sections Castle, where you can see it illustrated by the author, this is where I first relized the potential structural problem with this. You can see one example from this image below. 

I'm curious on how feudalism (in medieval England primarily) worked in practice. It's pretty straight forward on paper. This is my trail of thoughts, trying to wrap my head around it. I have just conquered a new land and declared myself the king. I have 99 loyal barons, so I give them one manor each, dividing the land into 100 parts, keeping the largest piece for my self (of course!), in exchange for their continued loyalty and 40 days of military service every year. But they don't want to fight themselves so they decides to divide their manors into smaller manors and give them to their knights, let's say they get three knights each, so now there are 99 * 4 + 1 = 397 manors (99 manors, divided into 4 smaller ones, plus my own big manor). This all works out fine for me, because I still get to collect taxes as well as I now have 99 * 3 = 297 knights in my army rather then just 99 - great! But now I get three sons, and I want to give them some land as well, what do I do? I guess I could divide my own manor into four parts and give them one manor each, but then I would loose wealth myself, wouldn't I since my manor is now smaller, or doesn't that matter, they are still paying taxes to me I guess? Or should I give my sons someone else's manor, but that would leave me with some rather disappointed barons, and that doesn't sound good. England has got quite a lot of civil wars through history though, perhaps that's the reason? Or was it that those first 100 manors I divided the country in wasn't in fact all land in the country, and up until now there have been "unused" land that no one was managing, but now that I have tree sons I can give them parts of that land? I think that the Domesday book list something like 9000 manors, or at least I think that there are around 10000 shires in England today, that roughly corresponds to the old manors. But how many manors were there in the beginning (around 1066)? Did William the Conqueror sit down directly after the battle of Hastings and divided his new country into 10000 manors just like that, or did they pop up one by one as the years went by? To clarify the question, it is the continues division of the land over centuries to come that I'm curious about, how did they do it without stepping one someone toes and stealing land from someone else? 

There are numerous kingdoms (e.g. UK) that can be most definitly called capitalist and democratic. The UK is nominally a kingdom, but the elected parliament can control the monarch, and invite a new one in if they want (cf. The Glorious Revolution) 

It wasn't socialist, and in fact was vehenmently opposed to actual socialists/communists. The Reichstag Fire was one of the causes for Nazi party to grab power and was sold as the beginnings of a communist uprising. Socialism was not considered right wing in 1930s Europe. (Remember in the USA "Socialist" is used as a dirty word. In Europe this is not the case ('Socialist Party' is 2nd largest in European Parliament, etc.). That can colour a debate about the word). Pleanty of countries call themselves things, it doesn't mean they are those things. Like "Democratic Republic of Korea", etc. 

Named differently from original inhabitants: America, Australia, New Zealand Changing names: Irish people & governments don't often use the term "British Isles" to include Ireland. The city of Derry/Londonderry in Northern Ireland is another example of name changes. However each tribe wants to call it by their name. Names are a complex issue, people really like some names and really really don't like when someone else wants them to call it something else, or conversely someone else calls something by some name (e.g. Greece & Macedonia naming dispute). Names change aswell, what was once called one thing, now people want to call it another thing. Your example of Isreal is complex because some people living in that area want to call it Palestine. 

Unlikely. Polygamy was banned in Europe centuries before democracy, and it would have been banned for religious reasons rather than men voting to ban it to increase their chances of marriage. 

Ant-semetism and racism were much more common and acceptable in the olden days than now. It was much more common and acceptable to hate Jews, Blacks, Muslims, French (if you weren't French), Spanish (if you weren't Spanish), English (if you weren't Eenglish), etc. So maybe he hated Jews, just because everyone else hated jews at the same time? 

Well that's hard. People are attached to their name, the name of their family, the name of their tribe, name of their city, name of their country. "come up with a new name" means they should change their name based on what someone else wants. Lots of people don't like this, and think that they alone should be allowed to choose their name. 

This is a very hard question to answer, and it's a hard question to even define! You would have to decide what is a religious belief and what isn't (where do religion and politics overlap?). Hitler was big on racial supremecy (obviosly). Is that a religion? etc. Can one person have 2 (or more) religions? You also have to decide what religions are called what. "Christian" is such a broad ambiguous term. It's common for there to be 2 religions, that would call themselves "Christian" and denouce the other as not Christian. Hence one person could say "Of course Hitler was Christian" and someone else can say "Of course Hitler wasn't Christian!". In order to answer this question, you would have to answer other questions like: Are Roman Catholics "Christian"? Are Anglicans "Christian"? Are Eastern Orthodox "Christian"? This debate is futher muddy by combining the (well deserved) hatred of Hitler and what he did, and what Nazism stands for, with religion. Atheist Lobby Groups will say "Religion is bad, look Hitler was Christian" and Christian Lobby Groups will say "Atheism is bad, look Hitler was atheist!". If someone has a strong belief (either pro- one religion or anti a religion), they do not want to associate their grouping with Hitler. So many people will not approach this rationally and empirically, and will look for evidence to support the outcome they want to be true. 

Classical Greece is considered one of the main sources for western civilisation. It's philsophers, poets and thinkers has had a major influence on western (including islamic) thoughts during the millenia. This of course draws the attention of scholars. Even if we had as scant sources for the poltical history of ancient Greece as we have for Illyria, the influence of Plato and Aristotle alone would mean that people were more interested in what there is. Beyond pure history, there is also archaeology. Whereas normal history is comparably cheap, major archeological excavations are expensive, requiring large teams, and often takes place on prime estate. Greece might be only slightly better off than e.g. Romania or Albania, but because of 1, foreign scholars has been more interested in excavations in Greece and have spent time and money there rather than in Romania. 

(The two last claimed that they were sons of Magnus after his death). I also found two cases of four brothers: First, we have the sons of Harald Gille from the list above: 

First, not all world championships is every fourth year: Ice hockey is every year, athletics every second. However, I could not find any event held every third or every fifth year, so this does not really break the basic four-year pattern (Badminton seems to have used a three-year schedule for a while, but is now on a four-year one). This supports the theory of a general connection with the olympic schedule. In many cases, also, it seems like the olympic games were for many sports considered as the world championships. This is the case of e.g. football ("soccer", if you're from the US), athletics and ice hockey. While this obviously, did not guarantee that it would continue to be held every fourth year, it did establish a basic pattern. Also, one should consider that one can probably not have events more dispersed than four years: for most sports, a four-year schedule means there will only be two or three world championships during the best years of a career. A five-year schedule would reduce this further. Together with the wish to avoid two large events the same year, this would mean cycles of two or four years. For some sports, it appears that reducing the value of every fourth world championship is a bearable cost, so theycan have events every year. 

I will give a partial answer, focusing on Sweden ca 1250-1350, but this should be indicative of much of "germanic" Europe up until that point, in particular Scandinavia. Simply put, promulgation was not separated from approval, and approval was done using the same system that also ensured that it was followed: the thing. We should first note that there were several different things, from the lowest level (in Sweden härad or hundare, hundred), which were held with some regularity, but from every week to twice a year, depending on which part of the country, up to the large, county-level things. The things were not only legal gatherings, but also market days and a general gathering, so they were likely well visited. It should be noted here that in the start of the period, each county had it's own set of laws, which had similarities but were clearly distinct. The central thing was led by a lawspeaker, who was responsible for both stating an helping interpreting the law as well as leading the thing. Over the period, the local laws grew more uniform, and at the end of it there were only two sets: one for countryside, and one for cities. This process was done through the thing: for the law to be changed, every local thing would have to discuss and ultimately accept the changes. To ensure this, changes were often prepared by a small committee made up of the lawspeaker, the bishop, and local magnates. Sources Dick Harrison: Jarlens sekel discusses mostly the organisation ca 1250, and the earliest attempts at uniform laws in a few areas. Michael Nordberg: I kung Magnus tid covers the end of the period.