Schopenhauer's intent in the passage is to contrast the knowledge of outer forms, which is the province of natural science, and the knowledge of inner nature, which is, according to Schopenhauer, in the province of philosophy, and which may ultimately leads to knowledge of the thing-in-itself. By the term 'etiology' Schopenhauer refers to natural science, in as much as natural science studies the "external" relations of cause of effect. This is expressed more clearly a bit earlier in the World as Will and Representation (§17). What is etiology? 

Poincaré contrasts this character of geometry (and mathematics in general) with sense-based intuition. The concepts of space cannot be based on visual intuitions alone, because these intuitions are not fine enough, and they actually lead to paradoxes (Zeno's paradoxes, and others). Mathematicians define space in ways that overcome the paradoxes. 

The possibility of existence "inside the intention" borders on paradox. Suppose X does not exist. And then I intend X. And then X exists (inside the intention). So that the X that I intend (which now exists) is not the same as the X before the intention (which did not exist). So that then it seems that I do not intend what I intended to intend (pun intended). I wrote that it "borders" on paradox, because there are ways to escape the paradox. But they have their own prices. One familiar strategy (found in Meinung, also Descartes; and perhaps Heidegger) is to recognize two (or more) distinct kinds of existence. So that existence "inside the intention" is an existence of a special kind. 

No, it doesn't seem similar. Kant's criticism would have been analogous to a criticism of your "assumption A". But your own criticisms were directed elsewhere. 

I'm not sure about Plato, but the interpretive principle that is described in the question has been discussed in modern analytic philosophy, and has been nicknamed the principle of charity. 

The terminology seems to me to have been borrowed from a version of the correspondence theory of truth (roughly, the version of Wittgenstein's Tractatus). According to this version, a statement is made true by something real, a fact, or is made false by the absence of an appropriate fact. So, if a statement is neither true nor false, it implies that there are no candidate real entities, facts, in the corresponding realm, such that the truth of the statement can be decided by the existence or absence of such a fact. Therefore such a condition has been called anti realism. The more specific relation to verification-transcendent statements may be an outcome of the actual kind of 'anti realism' that was investigated by the philosopher who coined this term, Michael Dummett. The status of verification-transcendent statements is an old issue surrounding empiricism. Dummett's definition made possible discussing this issue on a general "semantic" level, with no specific ontological commitments. 

I got to read Ramberg's essay and Rorty's response, so I'll try an answer. This issue requires subtle but sharp distinctions. Ramberg's essay is very cautious. What he attempts, and impressively succeeds in, is to recocile central philosophical views of Rorty's and of Davidson's. Ramberg tries hard throughout his essay to remain faithful both to Davidson and to Rorty. Ramberg did get Rorty to accept the phrase, and the idea of truth as "getting things right". It is crucial to notice, however, that there is not, either in Ramberg's suggestions or in Rorty's concession, the slightest hint about conceiving truth as "representation" or "correspondence to reality". The whole exchange, including the "getting it right" bit, is entirely embedded in the pragmatist notions of "coping", "tools" and "norms". (Indeed, where could Ramberg import relations of representation or correspondence from, when what he does is to defend Davidson? There are no such relations in Davidson's philosophy) Roughly speaking, the change that Ramberg caused in Rorty's views is this: Before the change Rorty was a kind of social relativist, which he also identified as a kind of pragmatism. He believed that the community determined truth and falsehood, although an individual could sometimes choose to alter the community. After the change, Rorty accepted Davidson's "triangulation" view: the self (epistemology), the community (normativity) and the world (causality) jointly and inseperably determine truth and falsehood. Agents are related by linguistic communication, the world is related causally. By contrast, truth as representation and correspondence is not involved. In terms of ongoing debates, again roughly speaking, after the concession Rorty no longer had any substantial disagreements with Davidson. By contrast, he continued to disagree with any philosophers that held to any degree of truth as "correspondence with" or "opening to" the world. This includes McDowell and Putnam. In his response to Ramberg, Rorty seems well aware that his concessions to Ramberg about some views raise questions about the consequences for Rorty's other views. He subsequently lists four of his views that are unaffected by his concessions to Ramberg: 

Yes, we should question everything. Just not all at once. That, according to a central strand in modern philosophy, for which Descartes himself has been a guiding example. Descartes's so called fixed point was a point that he reached through the questioning process. It's not as if he decided on a fixed point before he started questioning. On the contrary, he first embarked on an unlimited (*) process of questioning. Neither did Descartes assume in advance that he will in fact find such a fixed point. 

Furthermore, Kant argued that there existed rationally apriori pattern schemes, the so called schemata, to guide one in forming specific empirical concepts, i.e in applying the categories to the sensory stream. Few philosophers today believe in rationally apriori schemes for interpreting the sensory stream. But the basic model can hold for interpretation schemes that are either biological (innate), social (learned), rational, or maybe some of each. For a specific example of implementing a method for plucking spatial objects out of the sensory stream, see Henry Poincaré's essay "On the foundations of geometry" (1898). Poincaré believed that the models that we apply to the sensory stream are mostly innate. And he argued for a special role for groups, in the mathematical - algebraic sense, in interpreting the patterns of sensory input. 

I agree that the specifics of Plato's Cave Parable are not easy to interpret. Concerning the shadows, specifically, I think that the idea is that the prisoners in the cave lack the opportunity to figure out what shadows are, to understand shadows as shadows. And that therefore the prisoners have no clear basis to ontologically distinguish the shadows from the wall on which the shadows appear, or from the prisoners themselves. It is not clear to what extent the prisoners are self-conscious at all. Note also that the allegory of the Cave appears right after the analogy of the Divided Line, where Plato set "perception of shadows" as the lowest level of human understanding. The Cave allegory, by the way, is only loosely connected to the theory of Forms. Part of its idea is, as you say "to shows our reality to be a shadow of a far more pure and truthful reality". And this, whether the true reality consists of the Forms, or of anything else. But even more than about reality, the Cave is about understanding, about knowledge. It is about the lowly condition of human understanding and knowledge, and about the chances of rising above it. So this is how Plato enters the allegory: 

This is, then, what Camus playfully called the "Nietzschean criterion": to practice what you preach. And in our case: 

Even Quine, in the very paper that inaugurated the meta ontological debate on ontological commitment, stressed that language is at best the sign, not the substance: 

Further, Kant argues about a barrier beyond which nothing can be known. Analogously, Wittgenstein argues about a barrier beyond which nothing can be said. Kant: 

This figure is a closed-plane figure with four sides, all equal (trust me, they are equal :)). And it is not a polygon. 

The order of Descartes's Cogito (I think, I exist) was epistemological, and Sartre did not challenge it as such. What Sartre did challenge, was Descartes's Cogito-related metaphysical conclusion that the I was a thinking substance. 

Kant does mention Aristotle's categories. However, Kant's interest in the categories was internal to his own system, and not an interest in reconstructing Aristotle. Kant's list of categories is quite different from Aristotle's. Aristotle's categories are general-logical and metaphysical terms. He defines the categories as "what is signified by expressions which are in no way composite" (Categories, §4). His list consists of ten categories: substance, quantity, quality, relation, place, time, position, state, action, affection. Kant's categories are logic-of-epistemology terms. He defines them as "conditions under which alone the manifold content of the sensuous intuitions can be united in one consciousness" (Critique of Pure Reason, Transcendental Logic, §16). His list consists of twelve categories, divided into four sets of three: (1) of quantity: unity, plurality, totality; (2) of quality: reality, negation, limitation; (3) of relation: substance- and- accident, cause- and- effect, reciprocity; (4) of modality: possibility, existence, necessity. 

Descartes did not explicitly discuss the meaning of existence, i.e. ontology. That is why Heidegger says about him things like 

It is difficult to establish strict rules in matters of style, but I think that in general it is more readable to state the conclusion of an argument before the premises. Because, from the point of view of the reader, it provides a context. Without knowing what is the goal, the desired conclusion, at least in part, the reader would be in the dark as to what the premises are for, as to what the author is getting at. The "standard form" is fit for a more formal and unequivocal, even if less readable, presentation of an argument. 

Berkeley populated the world with entities, ideas, which were in their essence perceptions. Berkeley's famous formula was "esse est percipi", to be is to be perceived. Those perceptions, the ideas, are things which are necessarily perceived by someone, by some perceiver. There are, on the other hand, no substantial things behind the perceptions, in Berkeley's world. When I perceive e.g. a tree, there is never a real, substantial tree behind the perception, according to Berkeley. That is because, there are in Berkeley's world no entities that could exist without being perceived. This is the peculiar reason why God is required to "hold together" Berkeley's world. My perceptions of e.g. a tree are not grounded in a substantial entity, such as a real tree. Therefore the perceptions must be grounded in something else. And Berkeley concluded (after some more reasoning) that that something is God. The situation is different with Schopenhauer, which is, in the aspect under discussion, following in the footsteps of Kant. In Kant's world, unlike that of Berkeley's, there are substantial things behind our perceptions. These are what Kant called the things-in-themselves. It is not only that things-in-themselves can exist without being perceived. They cannot possibly be perceived, as they are. When you perceive a tree, in Kant's world, there is something substantial behind the perception. This something is not a real material tree (which is why Kant has been called an idealist) but it is a real something, a thing-in-itself. Since there are, then, substantial things behind our perceptions, these things, together with the perceiving subjects, are the grounds of our perceptions. Therefore Kant's world, unlike Berkeley's, is held together by these things-in-themselves (together with the perceiving subjects). Therefore the need for God does not arise in Kant's system,  in the way that it arises in Berkeley's. And Schopenhauer's system, in the aspect under consideration, is just a variation on Kant's system. Schopenhauer upheld Kant's version of idealism, including the doctrine of the thing-in-itself. (Schopenhauer further held that there was just one thing-in-itself, which he called the Will.) That's why the need for God did not arise in Schopenhauer's idealism, as it did in Berkeley's.