Crying Crying invokes a natural protection instinct in humans and animals alike; or, alternately, invokes the predator instinct of an easy lunch. Either way, mimicking the sound of a child crying is likely to draw the attention of either helpful or hungry marks. As long as there aren't many targets, it's unlikely to be detected, unless a whole gang approaches. Making "helpless" or "hurt" type noises is likely to bring food to your door, and has the added benefit of not being suspicious. Being loud Certain sounds have been shown to have a direct effect on human emotions and physical state: Infrasound, very low frequency sounds, can cause a sense of awe or unease, and certain higher frequencies can cause nausea, irritation, vertigo, and disorientation. While these sounds aren't songs, per se, simply finding the resonant frequency of your target and blasting them with sound waves would likely incapacitate them enough to not be a problem. With a good set of lungs, it wouldn't be hard to take down a human for a few minutes with disorienting ultrasonic bursts. Of course, while loud sound can quickly disable a person, the sound will carry. If using loud noise, especially low frequency noise, make sure your sirens can escape with their target quickly, before anyone else shows up. Survivors are not likely to equate such a creature with the sirens from legend, however. Chemical help The right combination of chemicals secreted by the siren could cause any number of effects, from lowered inhibitions to hallucinations. It may be that the siren's song is merely to draw the gaze if those affected by a chemical substance, such as pheromones; when the affected target hears a "siren song", they turn towards the siren, draw in by motions and sounds she makes. Survivors will only remember a beautiful song. Technical interference The sirens of myth and legend drew sailors to themselves by their siren call, drawing them towards rocks that smashed their ships. Our siren may do just that, only at a higher technology level than mere music. Instead, the siren mimics the "ping" of SONAR, confusing sensors into believing there is danger (or safety) where there is none. With their sensors confused, ships wouldn't be able to spot a floating island, and would wreck; the siren could then further damage the ship, eventually sinking it. The more advanced the ship, however, the more difficult this would be; failing could draw a lot of unwanted attention. "Sound" Not all sound we hear is actual sound; interfering with the brain can cause it to register sounds without those sounds actually being present. The right electromagnetic waves could produce the sensation of music, as well as stimulating the pleasure center of the brain; those affected would claim to have heard a hauntingly beautiful song, but one that they cannot reproduce. While under the influence of the "siren song", they would be in a dreamlike state, unlikely to fight or even notice their surroundings. Survivors may even be tempted to return and find the source of the beautiful music; wearing headphones or noise-cancelling devices wouldn't stop the music, either, meaning detection is very difficult. 

Actually, it would require a square of the effort, as pressure is force per unit area. And that's before we consider the resistance of the filter. It's infeasible for any creature to go much past its normal intake pressure due to this. 

This boils down to the age old question of "can crime be eliminated"? The short version is no. Over a long enough time scale, some poor sod will break the law, either out of ignorance or malice. As for why someone might break the law considering the penalties are so harsh. It's a cost-benefit question. After all, you can only be punished if you are caught, and also convicted. Thus a good lawyer and/or some crafty planning will let you get away with it. If we assume that the judges are all-knowing, mind-reading gods, and that all judgements are true and fair, then we can still fall back on the person only being convicted if caught, so they could just become a fugitive, after all the punishment doesn't get much worse for each subsequent crime. A person treated like X becomes X, because there is no possible downside to doing so. The way they are treated will not change. This is a flaw in all extreme punishments. Once you cross the line, there's no, or little harm in crossing it more. Thus, in such a system you would have no minor crime, and the occasional murderous rampage. EDIT: Extra information has been provided by the creator, thus some clarification is required. The Church has some way of determining a corpse's crimes This changes a few things. Now it is an invetibality that if caught, a fugitive will be subjected to their torture/punishment (whether they are executed first or not). In this scenario, these people have two major options: 

Obstacles You're going to run into a few obstacles with your device pretty quickly. There are many more obstacles (language barrier, health, etc.), but other questions cover that pretty well. This is just about the device itself, and related incidents. Battery life Your phone will likely run out of battery in only a few hours of use. Unless you can charge it, your phone isn't going to be much use. You might be able to write down some basic schematics for building a generator and a map of ancient lodestone deposits, but even with that it will be a long time before you get a constant 5 volt supply to recharge your phone. The best fix for that would be to bring a solar charger, a hand-crank charger, or a camp stove charger. The stove would be best, then the hand crank, and finally solar power. However, batteries tend to decay over time, leaving less and less charge. Eventually, you'll need to be plugged in all the time; unless your charger can supply enough power to keep the phone running, your phone is dead. Physical damage Your phone is going to take a beating. Life in medieval times is not easy. It will not only get bounced around a lot more, it will also have to survive humid or wet conditions, and dirt and muck getting on it and in it. You'll want to get a hardened, waterproof pouch for your device. Superstition Find some powerful allies, because without them, you're going to lose your phone, and maybe your life. The ability to create light from the palm of your hand, steal images of people, and display YouTube comments will have your phone labeled as a device of the devil faster than you can say "4chan". You may lose your freedom either way, but it's better to be a servant of a strong master than dead, right? What now? So now you have a phone, a charger or three, a benefactor, and a fully charged phone with a 3G or better connection to the internet. What now? Everything The world is at your fingertips. The internet is full of schematics, DIY, and how-to manuals. Anything you could dream of is available. What's more, you have access to tools like message boards, forums, even VOIP! Where to start? What would give you the most output? Start smart Sure, you can't order from Amazon, but you could call historians, engineers, and mining companies. And with the ability to contact people in the future... make them do your work for you! Begin an investment account. Give a big box to a trusted figure, to be opened at a certain time; do your research online and find the most probable methods of beginning a bank account, accessible to you in the future. Starting with a few dozen copper pieces in each account, instructions to buy or sell, and so on, you can amass considerable wealth. If your efforts to make yourself rich (albeit through time and the Internet) fail because you aren't able to affect the timeline on the Internet, don't lose hope! There are lots of ways to make money; simply acting as a link between times and/or timelines will surely net you at least a little money. You may be able to make money from selling pictures, or raise funds on sites like GoFundMe or Kickstarter. If nothing else, posting on Worldbuilding will get quite a lot of attention (hey, wait a minute...). If you're rich, you can pay people to research for you! Even with a limited battery life, you can stick to receiving emails detailing the best steps for you to take, saving battery life since you only need to turn on your phone once a day or so. From there, it's up to you where to point your resources, though comfort, weapons, maps to mining resources, and so on will make your host rich, which keeps you safe. 

Filtering CO with only a semi-permeable membrane is impossible, due to its similar size to O2. Thus, to satisfy all conditions, we need some mechanism that will separate out unwanted chemicals (preferably in a way that doesn't poison the animal), and then allow the required chemicals (oxygen) into a semi-permeable membrane for a final size pass. The setup that would achieve this is a biochemical filter that feeds into our semi-permeable membrane, and finally into the bloodstream. This has some important implications. The creature will probably have no way of dealing with chemicals that do end inside its blood, such as dissolved CO in liquids, and thus there is a variety of liquids (and solids) that would decompose in the body and become toxic. This is the equivalent of injecting ethanol into someone. You're bypassing the liver, which would normally deal with it. Besides this, its breathing liver (if you will), would need to be able to neutralise a variety of harmful chemicals. Due to how absurdly complex biochemistry is, there probably exists some gas that will get through the filter and come out toxic (this is why methanol kills humans but ethanol does not. Neither are very toxic in the first order, however the same chemical pathway that turns ethanol into vinegar, turns methanol into formic acid, which is quite toxic). Thus it's impossible to have a creature that will survive all airborne contaminants. There will exist some situation in which they'll need a gas mask. However you can have a creature that can deal with most commonly found contaminants on the planet upon which they reside, with analogues to those contaminants being toxic. 

How were the settlers anticipating feeding themselves? I would assume that seeds and farm animals would come along for the ride; even if the planets were habitable, there is no way to know what plants and animals live there, or if they are even edible; however, without the anticipated crop and ranch land, the animals and seeds have to be kept in cryo-storage until habitable domes are set up. That said, synthesizing food is possible, though not easy, and it's not a good long-term plan. The human body needs a lot of different nutrients to survive, and synthetic sources aren't always as good for you as natural ones. Water Without water, there's no point in synthesizing anything, because no one will live long enough to see it. Hopefully, the population has enough water to survive, and a way to recycle waste; there may occasionally be water to find in space, but there is no guarantee. If there's no water, then the population is dead. Micronutrients Micronutrients are required in small amounts; the inorganic nutrients would be easy to either find or synthesize: Boron, Cobalt, Chromium, Copper, Fluoride, Iodine, Iron, Manganese, Molybdenum, Selenium, and Zinc. Any of those not found locally could be even be pulled from parts of the ship; with requirements in the microgram to milligram range, supplies would last quite a while, and generally could be extracted from waste. Organic nutrients (vitamins A, B complex, C, D, E, K, and Carotenoids) are harder to make, but not impossible, especially if you have some basic building blocks and the right equipment. Certain vitamins (especially vitamin D) are created naturally in the body; other vitamins like C are quite easy to synthesize. Many of the B complex vitamins, however, would be fairly difficult to synthesize, and unfortunately are required for healthy living. Difficult, but not impossible. Luckily, the human body can go without many micronutrients for months, even years, with only minimal health impact. Small amounts of micronutrients, far below the recommended values, would be enough to sustain a population of adults for quite a while. Children, of course, should get as much as possible, as their developing bodies need more nutrients than adults. Macronutrients Macronutrients are needed in much greater amounts: carbohydrates, proteins, fats, fibers, and alcohols, the basic sources of calories, as well as essential structures like fatty acids. Of those, carbohydrates and alcohols are very easy to synthesize; both have simple structures that can be created in a lab, though it is much, much easier to distill them from organic sources like plants. Synthetic fiber is fairly easy to create as well, and only needed in low amounts, especially with a synthesized diet designed for minimal waste. Synthetic fats have fairly simple molecular chains and could be synthesized. Synthetic protein, however, has yet to be created in a lab, except by cloning - which, frankly, might be the best option. Cloned meat would be much easier to create than chemically-produced food, and the cloning process would use much, much less material. Assuming there are farm animals, samples could be taken from still-frozen creatures for cloning. Bacteria While bacteria isn't technically a nutrient, it is required to break down food into a digestible form. On Earth, helpful bacteria is easy to come by, but in space, in a sterile environment with no access to other living beings, it's possible for the bacteria in your gut to go extinct - especially if everyone takes any medication that kills off bacteria. I expect one of the biologists will be a "bacteria rancher", keeping a healthy population of gut bacteria in a maintainable way. Otherwise, all it takes is one round antibacterials to wreck your digestion process forever. Short term Many nutrients can be ignored for quite a while; not taking any vitamins for a week (or a month) won't kill you, though going for months on end will make you sick. Most people can go without food for a month without dying, and living on reduced calories for several months would have no lasting side effects apart from weight loss. Synthesized nutrients can replace "real" food for even longer, but be aware that synthetic sources of food often have reduced impacts - that is, eating natural vitamins from a plant will have more impact than synthetic vitamins. Frequent, mandatory checkups can help lessen any nutrient deficiencies. The best case is that the worldship anticipated a "ramp-up" period before the first crops came in, and kept a large stock of pill-form micronutrients and desiccated macronutrients to tide the settlers over. In that case, there would be enough to time clone protein and synthesize the other nutrients, and hopefully get some plants growing. Even basic fungus would be an enormous help towards synthesizing many nutrients. Long term While it may be possible to sustain a population indefinitely on cloned meat and synthetic vitamins, the population will begin to develop various diseases and disorders over time. They will need to focus on building a suitable long-term habitat; assuming they can find a planet with suitable gravity, they should be able to set up habitation domes within a few weeks, have viable gardens within a year. With enough room, in a few years they should have enough herd animals to start eating real meat. Life will still be tough, but at least they won't starve. 

Have bazillions of space habitats in a single solar system (whether our own in the future, or some other one) and let the diversity of humanity just explode. Our own solar system could support trillions of people - or thousands of times more than that! There'd be so many people who all do so many things that nobody could keep up with the news... strange, new worlds can be isolated just by huge volume - and thus explored by someone not that far away by distance, but really far away by culture, etc. Traveling a million miles could pass a trillion people. Months journey (or weeks or days, just say there's more or less infrastructure to get the travel time you want) and thousands of Earths. And don't forget how big and diverse our one Earth is! 

Write a book about your story Get a gold bar authenticated as real gold Become a paid speaker at conferences or book signings or whatever, using your gold bar as a prop to bolster credibility. You could even give moral lectures about the evils of greed and how you won't sell the gold because money isn't important (you just insist on a $100,000 speakers fee because, you know, expenses) Eventually, you might actually sell one as a collector's item, but your main money could come from the book/speaking circuit. 

First contact with an alien life form often goes badly. In the case of Biothanata, it always goes badly. The first glimpse of this alien blob is in the form of a falling star, a meteorite. After burning off an ablative layer of rock and juicy outsides, it crash-lands. Once cooled, a red liquid leaks out of what is left of the meteor, quickly consuming any and all bio-matter around it. As it digests the grass, leaves, bugs, and other creatures, it grows, amoeba-like, sending out tendrils, splitting and reforming, but always consuming. It also digests rocks, or at least breaks them down into bite-size pieces to use, though at a much slower pace. Eventually, if nothing stops it (and nothing has, yet) it consumes all available life on the planet, barring some hardy life forms that are difficult to access. Once it grows large enough, the now enormous blob of red goo begins bunching itself together, then hurling chunks of itself high into the sky. After enough attempts, the giant blob manages to throw one (or more) smaller blobs into space, escaping Earth's gravity. Each blob is packed with rocks and dirt to use as course adjustment. Eventually, over the course of thousands of years, the majority of the space-blob sends itself out to another planet; all that's left is a (relative) handful of indigestible dust and a tiny dried-up blob. How big would the blob have to be to toss a 10-foot cube of itself out of Earth's orbit? Assume the thrown piece can start larger and accelerate itself by shooting pieces of itself off behind it, form itself into a basic wing or flying disk to catch the wind, and generally behave somewhat intelligently; also assume the "main" blob can lift and hold itself to a height of roughly half its base (higher is possible, but will cause it to fall afterwards). Edit: also assume the blob can be very, staggeringly large, nearing "planet sized" itself - as big as it needs to get before it can hurl blobs into space. Once a blob breaks free of the world's gravity, it then breaks free of the Sun's gravity by tossing various space debris behind it. Assuming it has all the time in the universe, and manages to accelerate itself as much as possible, how long would it take before it found another planet? Bonus question: Assuming a starting size of roughly one cubic foot, unchecked growth, and a digestion rate roughly equal to the most aggressive digestion of a creature on Earth, how long would it take for Biothanata to consume the majority of land-based organic life on an Earth-like planet? 

Not necessarily. Logistics The answer to any question of "should we do X" can always be rephrased as "is the benefit of doing X greater than the cost(s) of doing X". So let's rephrase: In a civilisation that has access to tonnes of planets, would vertical farming outweigh the cost of setting up the farms? For certain planets, the answer would be yes. Temperate planets that are close to existing hub worlds for example would have low cost of transport for goods manufactured on them (food included), thus more extreme forms of manufacturing (such as vertical farms) could be utilised before it becomes inefficient to build more dense and/or complex systems. It's not just a matter of the space required, but also the world's climate (and how easily it can be terraformed), as well as how it relates to the economy at large. If it is in a convenient location, or is highly abundant in a particular resource, then it may be worth it to employ advanced engineering techniques to maximise the utility of that planet. 

There are two approaches you could take here. Semi-Permeable Membranes Membranes of this type allow only certain ions or particles via diffusion or passive/active transport. A dialysis machine for example uses this sort of membrane. For ion transport, these require a carrier fluid. Oxygen, Nitrogen and CO2 are all mildly soluble in water, so we could use something water-based as the carrier. In this situation, the membrane is just a sieve with an extremely fine mesh size. Well-controlled, this mesh would only allow your selected compounds through. Sickness or mutation could cause this to malfunction in similar ways to how kidney disease affects humans. Interestingly, this means that compounds with a similar physical size to your usual source will be allowed through. This is similar to why carbon monoxide ends up in our bloodstream. It has a similar size and charge to oxygen, and thus gets through the sieve. To prevent poisoning via these chemicals, a secondary mechanism is present in most complex life forms. Biochemical Filters Our liver is one of these. It uses various enzymes and chemical pathways to process chemicals in our bloodstream, and neutralise toxins. This type of filter is often employed after initial size and charge filtering via the normal input pathway (the lungs in this case). Let me get back to your question. 

In your example - the powerful mage who tires after a long battle - it may well be that he has simply tired himself out; he needs supper and a good night's sleep before he could do that again. Then again, maybe he ran out of ideas, and needs to sit down with a gook book to refresh his thoughts. All that to say: base it on the real world. Some people have more imagination; some have less. Some people can be creative for hours on end, others get headaches after just a few minutes. When you're out of ideas, rest, food, and new stimuli will boost creativity. Or, y'know, browsing Worldbuilding! 

As a radically different viewpoint, consider the Chrysopelea, or flying snake. It glides through the air by sucking in its stomach and flaring its ribs. 

Fur. Polar-bear-like fur traps heat before it ever reaches the surface; no heat detection for you. This fur covers the creature from head to toe; only the pads of the foot are left un-furred. Switchable vascular system. When at rest, the creature's single heart will pump blood through the body as normal. However, when in stalking mode, certain blood vessels constrict, stopping blood transfer between the "inner" system, around organs and muscles, and "outer" system, a thin mesh just under the skin. The inner system pumps as normal, but is shut off from the outer system. Additionally, it helps the fur hide the creature's body heat. Tail-fan. While at rest or otherwise not stalking prey, the tail is furled and looks, well, like a tail. It helps with balance, etc., but is otherwise a normal tail. However, when stalking, overheated, or trying to woo the ladies, the tail unfurls into a large fan. The fan is covered in capillaries. In stalking mode, the tail is waved quickly back and forth (or up and down, depending on how you want it oriented); the musculature of the tail wraps around blood vessels, so when it waves, it pumps blood. Air passing over the tail cools it, and is fanned away, distributing the heat signature. Blood in the tail is quickly cooled, then circulated through the outer vascular system, cooling internal temperature. 

In Star Trek, the holodeck creates a surprisingly diverse amount of things that are said to be all photons and force fields. This includes devices with capabilities beyond the computer that created them (see "The Nth Degree" from TNG where Barclay creates a holographic neural interface, or I argue Voyager's Doctor is more than just a UI for a program, but rather the hologram is part of his computer; his holographic brain is a photonic computer that supplements his program in addition to the database the ship's main computer offers, and that's why he can be lost forever if he goes down with a failing emitter, though the canon is mixed on support for that.) The holodeck is a fairly young technology in the world of the show, so they use it conservatively to get started, but we see the seeds of them expanding it to more and more areas. It isn't just projections of simulations like a modern monitor shows the output of a computer program, but already the holograms themselves are usable devices. 

For something man made, climate change is probably the way to go. Biological weapons just might too, a resistant thing that spreads and mutates before anyone knows what hit them, then the rest die off from like starvation and such in the aftermath. There'd probably be a few survivors though. I'm not sure man made (aside again from perhaps climate change - BTW I would lump asteroid strikes in the same category, as it is the climate change rather than the strike itself that brings on the most pain), but god made things can. Start praying! For something god made, I'm in favor of a number of solar events: