Edit: At first I thought attaching directly to the rope from the middle wasn't a good idea because it would occupy too much space in your leg/waist loops and maybe burn the rope, but after thinking a little and actually trying it at home I see there's nothing wrong with it. Tying in from the middle using a backed up variation of the bowline or a figure 8 knot seems ok for me. 

Climber 1 (C1) climbs pitch, attached to a lead rope (R1) and carrying with him a second rope (R2), which will serve as a zip-line and a haul line; C1 arrives at belay, fixes R1 and sets a hauling system for R2; C2 lowers off the pig (haul bag), which is then hauled by C1 while C2 jugs R1 and cleans the pitch; Repeat for next pitch; 

Stainless steel reinforcements to high friction areas; Added anti-panic handle; Internal components made of a different, higher friction material - this makes it possible to build a larger chamber, which should (in principle) decrease the friction when paying out slack; Casing improved in order to cover the whole interior of the brake - this should keep dirt out; Petzl finally addressed a very serious problem with Grigri2: the stupid, sharp, wrongly placed casing's tail; 

So: have you used this device? Does it wear the rope less than its predecessor? Is it really easier to pay slack with? Have you had any problems with the belay/top rope button? 

While it can be useful if you are really out in the wilds, say in the Amazon jungle, and using a machete to clear every step, I wouldn't expect to carry a knife sharpener for a trip under a week. For short, non-jungle expeditions, A swiss army knife with a couple of blades is often enough for most people. To summarise - it can be necessary for longer trips, or for overgrown jungle, but for many it won't. 

Randall Munroe has the single best article on this I have ever seen, over on his What-If site where he discusses what would happen if all the water in a cloud formed one giant raindrop. I recommend reading the whole thing, even if just for the destructive vision he has, and especially the final line, but a useful excerpt from the page here is: 

But additionally, especially if it is in with metal objects, you must make sure it does not get shorted out when switched on. If you accidentally allow a screwdriver or ice-axe or anything metal to short the terminals, you could suddenly discover a very effective fire starter in your kit bag! 

What my local climbing arena does is have multiple routes up every wall. They overlap, sometimes on flat surfaces, sometimes on real rock, sometimes on artificial (extra grippy) rock. 

Until you are an amazingly skilled skater, just go with a 5. They are cheap, and to be honest, you won't be able to notice the difference. I've skated for years and I can't really tell when I'm on a board whether it's a 5 or a 7 or whatever. Higher tolerance bearings will last longer, theoretically, and pick up less grit, but I treat bearings and wheels as consumables at a price point they just get replaced when too worn. 

Now, is that an issue? Should you retire your dyneema sling because of creep? Reading about creeping in applications more serious than slacklining (for example, in ropes for boat anchoring), a mooring company says: 

It's bulkier than the Grigri 2; It's heavier than the Grigri 2; The possibility to choose between lead and top rope modes adds a new mechanical component, which should pretty much weaken the system; It has almost no ear to grab when using Petzl's recommended belay technique; 

I've split the transitions between the ones I believe are mental and the ones I believe are real. The mental ones are the mystified ones: they usually rest on a threshold and require a change of mindset. If you climb 5.10d and have a strong mind, you can certainly climb 5.11a. You just need to get used to the fact that you climb better than you think. This is not true, however, for the steps between sending V5 and sending V6. There's obviously a mindset tuning, but climbing a V5 does not guarantee you'll be able to send V6 at the same pace you moved from V4 to V5. You will be required to hangboard, campus, and practice other specific exercises that increase your tendon strength and anaerobic power/resistance. People that redpoint V4 have usually no idea of what if feels like to send a V7 - because it's impossible for them. Their body is not ready. They need specific training. I have seen people climb V3 on January and onsight V7 in July, but that's not normal. Those people are different, and are usually teenagers. That being said, if you climb 5.11, you already have a good notion of what sport climbing is. You'll have a shock transition between 5.11 and 5.12, and then you'll be introduced to the world of specific training. From then on, you already know what you need to do: climb less, train more! The grades below could be achieved only by climbing, but the ones above 5.12+ usually (USUALLY!) need specific points that you can only develop by complementing your climbing with campusing, hangboarding, weightlifting, etc. The same applies for grades above V5. Many people don't understand (or simple don't care) their body requires training to break some barriers, and that's why most people plateau at redpointing V4 and 5.11b/c. Some people are very light/strong/young/motivated and don't even notice those barriers, but most people I know, do. I also know a lot of people (myself included) that are stuck at the 5.13 transitions - but come on: those grades are meant to be plateaus. For most people, there is no quick pace after 5.12+. Training (not climbing!) at least 4 times a week is a must, and we know it. 

Try running on sand for your morning or evening run - sand is very good at early stages of toughening up your feet as it still spreads the load well. Once you have toughened the skin a bit, you will be able to walk on forest trails, stone, gravel etc. But for now, the best thing you can do is moisturise your feet - this helps the cracks smooth out so they don't dig into your foot (which is what causes a lot of the pain). Moisturise, and use a pumice stone to rub down any really hard bits of skin. Your feet will toughen rapidly if you walk barefoot every day. 

According to what I can find on Wikipedia and elsewhere, it looks like it was in the 1880s. Before that, bolts had been used as climbing aids. Best candidate for first climber and route is W.P. Haskett Smith up the Napes Needle in the Lake District in 1886, however most climbers that used artificial aids used them to climb, not just for safety until into the 1920s. 

It will not matter which way the fletching runs on arrows for left or right handed archers, however right handed fletching tools will be harder for a left hander to use, as you would need to change the angle of your hand. Any angling of the fletching will produce spin on the arrow, however this is not going to affect the shot of a right or left hander, for the simple fact that once it leaves the bow, the spin direction is irrelevant, and during that first short time between releasing the arrow and it passing beyond the bow, there should not be any spin on the arrow. 

Column 1 (and the ones before it also) is the one that will experience the most unidirectional (mostly horizontal) rope slippage, and will acquire holes due to it. Column 2 will also suffer similar effects, because after the anchor the rope's movement is also unidirectional. The following columns will have no holes, since the rope has again a free angle to move until the leader places another anchor - that is, the rope will dangle and scatter the snow in a uniform manner. This is in agreement with the picture and the video I attached shows pretty clearly that the quickdraw moves up and then, when it reaches a maximum angle, the rope is constricted to move in a single direction. After some meters I'm pretty sure the little hole it opens at each time it does that is already large enough for it to enter it completely. Edit 1: the situation where the holes are inevitably dig is quite possibly when the leader ends the pitch and begins retrieving the excess rope for the second climber to come. This creates constant, fast rope action against the columns. Edit 2: view from above added for clarity. 

I'm off this weekend for a three-day big wall with two other friends. I read "Big Walls", by Long and Middendorf, but the book is too old and doesn't really mention strategies for a three-member crew. For a two-member crew, the strategy is quite standard: 

Shouldn't be less efficient at all - or at least, approximately as efficient. Solar panels generate energy utilising the band-gap structure inherent to semiconductor materials. This means that, to generate current, you need to dislodge an electron from the valence band to the conductor band, and the laws of quantum mechanics state that this can only happen if the photon that hits the electron has an energy of at least the band-gap potential. There's also an upper limit, given by the scattering amplitude: if this photon has too much energy, then the probability it'd "hit" an electron is very very small. In English: solar panels work with light that's in the middle of the spectrum (between UV/gamma and radio/infrared), which includes what we call visible. Windshields are transparent, which means they filter almost no visible light (otherwise they'd be black). In a word: your solar panel behind a windshield glass is as efficient as your eyes behind a windshield glass. Edit: thanks to ChrisH's comments, we can quantitatively have an idea of this small efficiency loss. Due to optical scattering effects, your sight is probably 5~10% worse behind a windshield, which means your solar panel will also be 5~10% less efficient. 

Once you are past uphauling, it is not a move you are likely to use again. It is a high effort move that in high winds is next to impossible. The moves you will need to learn are: 

While various sources suggest drinking some blood in emergency will help, the risks outweigh the benefits. From 5 Myths of Dehydration: 

The front foot is leant back, twisting the front of the board. As you turn back and forth across the slope, that twist should flow with each turn - you effectively lead your turn with the front foot twisting the board. It doesn't have to be a dramatic twist, but it starts the turn and puts the pressure in the correct part of the board. 

For floors, the thing to watch is that pressure on it can lower the effective hydrostatic head, so if you are camping in very wet areas, a 10000mm rating can be very useful - often this is quoted for the groundsheet, and up to 15cm up the sides of a wet weather tent. If you can't get a high rated tent, just go old school and use a groundsheet under your tent. 

Pythagoras is actually exactly what you would use, approximated as finely as you need for accuracy. What I mean by approximated, is: 

This is very different to predators, whose vision is generally for accuracy in targeting - hence binocular, front facing eyes, allowing very accurate distance perception. See this contrasting diagram of an owl's vision from owlpages.com: 

I hope I was transparent enough in my descriptions. Now, let's talk about the advantages of each method. Method 1 has the downside of C2 having to wait till C3 got to the belay to lower off the pigs, and only then start cleaning. But C3 is the fastest of the group anyway: he needs only to jug fast and tight. The main advantage of Method 1 is that C3 can help C1, which just leaded a possible A3+ and is thanking Odin for being alive, to haul the pigs. This method also involves a maximum of 3 ropes. Method 2, on the other hand, can be faster: C2 starts cleaning immediately after C1 fixes R1. C3 can deal with lowering off the pigs and then can sprint up from a fixed line, to help C1 haul a little, and to lead the next pitch. C2 will be cleaning throughout the whole process, so the next leader will have available gear earlier than in Method 1. The problem is that at least 4 ropes must be carried, and that C1 will have to haul at least a little bit on his own. Do you know another method? Does anyone have any experience with both of these methods and can suggest any improvement/comment? 

Disclaimer: This answer reflects nothing else than my own opinion on this subject, since I've never used water to clean holes nor know anyone that does so. So, first thing I'd like to ask you is: why? You'd have to carry more weight, and there's absolutely nothing wrong with cleaning the holes using air. In fact, as far as I know, industrial bolting manuals do recommend that. Now, assuming you have a good answer for the "why?" part, let's think a little bit. What happens when you inject water in a bolt hole (careful when pronouncing those words)? Well, firstly, it fills with water. This is per se a problem, since the whole was already filled with rock powder, which is very thin, and after getting moisturised it will turn into a thick rock porridge. Good luck removing that from the hole. Afterwards, what happens? You find a way to place the parabolt inside, and then you start to torque it. But the parabolt already crushed a significant portion of rock porridge, which entered the casing. This will probably make it harder for the casing to grip the rock and will fill it to some extent with moisture. As one might think, rock has also a pH level. Moisturising acidic rock will make its powder more efficient in corroding metal (and don't fool yourself - stainless also gets corroded). In a word: this doesn't look good. Let's think and try to make it look good. One thing one must consider is the angle at which the water straw is placed inside the hole. If directly or carelessly placed, turbulence effects will guarantee that rock powder accumulates in the end of the hole. What I wrote above is the result of this process.