For the kind of cash you are looking to spend, in all honestly I would invest in any gear that would help you to get out and ride it more. On that respect I'd say a set of lights, a backpack and some waterproofs. The best bike in the world is the one you have in your shed because you can get out and ride right now, you can't do that with a dream. If you get the bug, excellent, outgrow your bike (in terms of your demand of it) and upgrade. 

I have sintered pads and I'm trying as best as I can to diagnose a braking issue. I have Shimano XT M8000 callipers and the rear brake is being something of a pain. If I leave the bike for about 4 days I lose almost all braking power. As I try and figure this out it would be good to know if there's anything distinct I can see or do to figure out whether ultimately the pads have been compromised. This brake system uses mineral oil so I'd be looking for tell-tale signs of that or other lubricants. Is road grime a possibility too I wonder? This issue is driving me crazy and I'm trying to find out if there are any leaks in the system through various methods. Edit My issue seems to be akin to the one discussed on this thread. $URL$ My bike loses braking effectiveness when it sits idle. Quite an odd thing as I'd expect little to no pressure in the system to cause much leaking and surely something should be visible if it is leaking. Edit 2 to document some fix attempts and diagnosis lines I've been down. Firstly I manage to get power back by cleaning the pads with IPA and heating them with a gas flame as is mentioned in the comments below. I've had the bike in the work stand and had a good look for any bubbles around the pots both with a brake bleed block in and with nothing (even pads) in. Bone dry. I've wiped inside the calliper to see if anywhere is still damp to no avail. I've visually checked the crimping around the hose and the banjo bolt but there's nothing that indicates build up from sticking to moisture. Until today I was testing this with just one set of pads. Now there's a chance that my fixes are only good as a temporary measure whilst the bike is being used daily. After sitting maybe some of the contaminants are coming to the surface again. It could also be a build-up of silt from the ride along the canal towpath but I would have expected that to affect me overnight too and not after 3-4 days. I took the pads out and let them dry for the whole work day one day this week and wiped them with a dry tissue and this did nothing to fix the symptoms. I changed the rotors front and back although this only affects the rear brake. I video'd the pots moving with no pads in just in case I could see something when Ina big screen. Not found anything so far. Might need to try it again with a bleed block in for resistance. I'll add more if I think of anything else I've done. 

I've had my fair share of hydraulic brake woes this year so I'll list the things I'd check - I am aware that you've done some already. Firstly some questions though: 

It's quite easy to take apart with just a couple of screws. I have those indicators but I took them off to arrange my cockpit better. If you're in the U.K. I don't mind posting them to you if you can't fix them. If you were to remove them, you'll need the blanking plates to cover the mechanism underneath. 

I guess you need to be methodical about discounting possibilities. It sounds like bearings slipping around but a lot of rattles and clicks sound similar on a bike. Have you got any spare pedals you can put on to see if it's them? Even just borrow a mate's set for 10 minutes. Given that it always seems to be at the same parts of the pedal rotation I would discount the rear of the bike since the alignment of everything there varies with gearing. Check for play down at the bottom bracket. Make sure the axle doesn't shift side to side and that the crank arm on the non-drive side is sitting snugly enough to the bottom bracket. Take the crank shaft out and check the bearings yourself. Are you short of some balls in there. Did the bike shop do as they said? Get a new bottom bracket. They're often cheaper than you'd expect and fitting them isn't too bad. Even fitting press-fit bearings is easy with some threaded bar and some big washers. Of course your LBS can do this too. I've had some creaks on my bike which happens to be carbon but because of this, the seat post noise seams to travel and sounds like a bottom bracket creak. It turned out to be fixable with a wipe down and some carbon paste in the end. Do something similar just in case. It certainly can't harm. 

Are these brakes using mineral oil or dot fluid? If it's dot fluid, when attempting to bleed the system you may want to take extra care and de-gas the liquid like with Avid brakes. The comments suggest cable actuated hydraulic brakes, this is a new one on me for bikes so I'll assume that the cable has been checked and is moving freely / not rusted. 

I can't offer brand and product suggestions but I will say that you could opt for organic pads over sintered for better initial bite. That may compensate for the reduced strength. There's a decent writeup on Pinkbike which coveres the differences between the 2 types of pad. If you're going to be riding in wet and muddy conditions though, it may be best to swap out for some sintered pads for that ride. Can you get someone you trust to help bed your brakes in? On new and freshly cleaned rotors it makes a huge difference to how much braking force is needed. Can you brake using a single finger? That should allow you to keep most fingers on the grip for better confidence. My levers are adjusted so the hook at the end of the lever is in line with my index finger. Although it's a rear brake you can increase your rotor size, possibly by 2 steps if you're running standard 160mm discs. That should give you an increased mechanical advantage. I recently increased my front rotor to 180mm using a postmount adapter. It's a simple job. The other extreme would be to use one lever to operate both brakes. I've seen a junction box for brakes hoses recently that will allow such a thing. The downside is that you'd probably also need a lever with a larger volume. I think Hope do something that should do the trick. Lastly, I'm sure you're doing you physio but keep at it. I smashed my scaphoid and several years on I'm stil paying the price. Keep flexing, stretching and doing your grip exercises. If you don't everything tightens back up again and you have to start over. Nice to see you're still eager to ride though. Good luck. 

I would personally get the rim tape of and give it a good inspection and clean. If you suspect anything from that, replace it. I would also check spoke tension in case your wheel is knackered and spokes are pushing through. This shouldn't be the case and if it is, you need a new wheel. Having said that, you may have a bit of spoke protruding through the nut in to the body of the rim, you might be able to swap it out for a new spoke. Check the tyre too. If, as you say the offset from the valve changes each time, think what else would be aligned differently after a puncture repair? Inspect the bead, carefully run your finger or better still some sort of cloth that easily catches. Something that acts like silk does but don't use silk unless you're minted. Replace the tyre, they're relatively cheap and if you're spending all your cash on tubes then you may as well try and eliminate one element sooner rather than later. More of an aside, your patching could be better. You want the glue to cover a decent area that extends beyond the patch size and let it dry before applying the patch. By doing that you'll get an instant grab on the patch (so get it lined up well) and press it down thoroughly working from the centre out. The feathered edge should be less likely to peel up then but you'll still need to coax it off the backing a bit. Use the chalk to dust the whole area afterwards.