I am thinking of buying a Trek CrossRip or 720 touring bike, but I want it with Ultegra Di2 and the bikes are only listed on the Trek website with lower-end components. So I'd like to buy a frameset and build it up the way I want...but how? I don't live in the US and the official Trek LBS I've been to is outrageously expensive for everything, so ideally I'd want to buy online. The Trek 720 is a brand new model so finding a used one in the right size seems very unlikely. Some brands list framesets on their websites separately, including Trek, but the particular frames I'd want aren't listed this way. 

The balls are 2mm in diameter. How do I know? Well, I found a bearing supply shop, and asked them to see some of their smallest balls. I bought one 2mm ball and one 3/32" (2.38mm) ball for all of 20 cents. The 3/32" ball was slightly too large to fit in the hole, so I tried the 2mm one, and bingo--a perfect fit. Putting the QR mechanism back together is a pain because the tiny 2mm spring wants to eject the ball again, but with the brake facing straight down it's doable. 

No, there are not any male-to-female "extension" wires available for the Shimano Di2 E-Tube system. You can use a junction as you said, or you can use the two-port ANT module. You could also modify an E-Tube wire to lengthen it yourself, if you are handy with a soldering iron. 

This appears to be the one in the diagram you linked: $URL$ That one requires external power from a dynamo hub, though I have seen references online to a battery-powered version of the same light. The same company, Busch & Müller, makes a few others with the same mounting system. In general you can find these things by searching for "European" style taillights, as they are popular in that region (but not in the US). Here's one that works on batteries: $URL$ (the Senso model is similar but adds an auto on/off capability based on ambient light level). Here's another that fits the same mounting holes but with a very different design (for use with a dynamo hub only): $URL$ Finally, some taillights have available mounting plates for 50mm rack mounts, such as this: $URL$ or this: $URL$ 

The most stable and secure racks are the ones which mount directly to the vehicle at hard points, such as a trailer hitch (for rear racks) or door frames (for roof racks). Racks which use fabric straps attached to hooks can move around a bit more, and if they are not very well made, they can loosen over time. This problem is made worse by the fact that most cheap racks use fabric straps. Of course the best is if you can somehow mount your bike inside your vehicle. If you drive a small car this won't work, and even some rack mounts may not be viable if your car has only two doors. Personally I prefer roof racks, and have driven up to four bicycles at a time on multiple cars using them for hundreds of kilometers without stopping, at speeds up to 125 kph. The main problems tend to be (1) the removed front wheels spinning in their separate mounts (easily corrected by small straps which some racks now come with), (2) reduced fuel efficiency and increased wind noise, and (3) the possibility that you will wreck your bikes by driving into a garage or other low-clearance area. All of those problems are reduced on rear-mounted racks. If your car has a trailer hitch, consider a rack that mounts in it. These can be very secure, low-noise, and easy to install and remove (both rack and bikes). The main downside is that accessing your trunk becomes less convenient (but still not as bad as with rear racks which attach using straps). 

I have received confirmation from Garmin support that the Garmin Edge Touring and Garmin Edge Touring Plus cannot do car-style routing, pedestrian/walking directions, nor straight-line navigation. They say the Edge 8xx and 1000 can do it, just as the old Edge 605/705 could. This should be documented in the product literature, but it is not. Bicycle tourists beware: you probably should not buy the Edge Touring for actual touring. More like for casual cycling. 

Shimano/SRAM 11 speed cassettes are wider than 8/9/10 speed ones. So yes, you need a new, wider freehub body, unless your old one was not very old and used a spacer to fit a 10-speed cassette. People with non-Shimano brand hubs are less likely to find replacement freehub bodies, it seems, leading to replacement of the whole hub, or even the whole wheel if the old rim isn't worth relacing. For more on this, read the last question and answer here: $URL$ There's also a compatibility chart here: $URL$ Campagnolo cassettes are the same width for 9, 10, and 11 speeds, so you don't need to do anything in most cases. 

How long a single chain or cassette will last depends heavily on the riding conditions. For example, do you weigh 50kg or 150kg? Do you ride a road bike in fair weather, or a touring bike on salted snowy roads? If you're of average weight and riding in decent weather, you may find a single chain can last several thousand miles before it should be replaced. But you don't need to wonder, you can measure! Get a chain gauge like the Park Tool CC-3.2, and you can quickly measure your chain in a repeatable manner. Or you can use a ruler, if you don't mind a bit more fiddling. Once the chain is worn beyond the recommended amount, you should replace it to avoid undue wear on the cassette. However, you are right to observe that you could also "ride it into the ground," replacing the chain and cassette only at the last moment when they are no longer functioning properly. You'll probably need to replace at least one of your chainrings (up front) then too, but that's OK. You won't save money this way though, because the chain is the cheapest part to replace. And you'll likely end up breaking your chain (because in this line of thinking, why else would you replace it?). Having a chain break while riding is not only inconvenient, it's dangerous. 

A total spacer height of 30mm below and 5mm above is quite typical, and certainly nothing to be worried about. The most important thing, since you have a carbon steer tube, is to make sure you use the proper compression plug and the specified amount of torque when assembling it. Also make sure the top of your top spacer is just slightly higher than the top of the steer tube, because the top cap needs to rest on the spacer (or stem), not the tube. Don't forget you can achieve some bar height adjustment by flipping the stem, too. 

First you should make sure your "high limit screw" is loose enough. This may be marked H on the derailleur, or it may be one of two adjacent unmarked screws. By loosening this you allow the derailleur to travel a bit more outboard. Then, using some combination of adjusting the cable tension with the clamp bolt and with the barrel adjuster, set the tension so that the cage stays outboard enough (but not too much). On your particular bike the barrel adjuster is inline with the shifter cable near the handlebars. If your question is whether it's normal for there to be significant tension on the shift cable when the front derailleur is in the outer position, the answer is yes. This tension must overcome the (fairly strong) return spring in the derailleur. 

First, if you bought the bike new, take it to the shop. But if you bought it used and it's out of warranty, it should be easy to find a matching fork. Here are some that look relevant from RockShox now: 

For more details about that, see the page the image is from: $URL$ More seriously, yes, you could make wheels with "rope" spokes only. Why do the Mavic ones have the carbon sheaths then? I would speculate that the carbon acts as armor for the aramid fibers, which must never be nicked or they will fail. The carbon also stabilizes the whole arrangement, reducing lateral flex. As for your notion that spoke tension would always be even if continuous fibers were used, I'm not so sure. The problem is that to achieve self-evening tension you would need to allow the fibers to run freely through some turning points. And if they run freely they will abrade rather quickly if they actually move at all. So you're at an impasse: either the fibers move and wear out prematurely (and perhaps lead to collapse of the wheel even sooner because of unstable geometry), or the fibers in fact do not move and you have the same tensioning concerns as with conventional wheels. Finally, consider that spokes are thin and behave not like rods or struts so much as wire. So in a way we are already riding your wheels of the future today. 

Mavic has made some wheels like you describe, more or less. They're called "R-Sys" and they have aramid (Kevlar) spokes surrounded by carbon fiber sheaths. Here's an exploded view: 

The bike can withstand it. The question remains whether the ride can withstand it. As for the bike, there are a handful of issues that are more likely to arise on such rides: 

I have a full SRAM Rival groupset from 2011. Having used it in humid and rainy places for a while, most of the parts are OK, but the small button-head screws (or bolts?) in the QR pivot for the brake calipers are quite rusty. I guess the quality of these screws was somehow not up to the standard of the rest. To be clear, I'm talking about a single screw per brake, whose head faces forward on the front brake, and backward on the rear brake. Unfortunately, SRAM's maintenance guides do not call out these screws or dimension them in any way. How can they be replaced? 

I have a 2005 Trek 1500 WSD road bike with original Shimano 105 STI brake/shifter levers. I'm looking for replacement hoods for the brifters because the originals are wearing out. I believe the groupset model number is ST-5510. I also believe that ST-5500, ST-6500, and ST-6510 hoods should all be compatible (55xx = 105, 65xx = Ultegra, xx10 = Flight Deck). Can anyone point me to a source to buy a pair of hoods for these levers? I've searched and searched and come up empty handed. 

You need to measure your chain for stretch, it may be too stretched and no longer meshing with the gears properly. There are tools for this or you can do it with a ruler--one foot of ruler should exactly match the distance between pins on the chain; if the pins are not lining up with the marks on the ruler it may be time to replace. If you do replace the chain, cut the new one to length according to instructions rather than according to the old chain length, in case it was too long. Check your high and low limit screws on your front derailleur--perhaps they are set too far apart. Also try tightening the "B" screw of your rear derailleur to put a bit more tension on the chain. The "B" screw is underneath the derailleur hanger and can be screwed in from the rear of the bike. 

While proper cyclocross bikes typically do not have front suspension, you can find a few drop-bar bikes that do have it. The Cannondale Slate is one: $URL$ These bikes are usually called "adventure bikes." While most adventure bikes still don't have suspension, the term may help you narrow your search. You may find that a good quality, wide front tire is enough suspension. Any drop-bar bike with clearance for tires at least 40mm wide should be useful here. This opens your options up to a much bigger slice of the adventure bike market.