I would disagree with Tom Au's answer. The first examples of "modern warfare" engagements where both sides expected to prevail in battle with ranged weapons took place a few months into the US Civil War. The key is the development of the rifle versus the musket. Prior to that, firearms didn't have an effective range sufficient to counter an infantry charge. The effective range of a rifle was just under 1,000 yards, so an advance of infrantry would need to "absorb" three or more volleys of accurate rifle fire before hitting the enemy line. The result was slaughter and stalemate. The English did have a period where their longbow was a superior weapon that neutralized lesser-equipped archers and crossbowmen, but people fighting the English did not expect to win battles with missile weapons. In fact, the main objective of someone fighting the English was to avoid the bowmen! 

Communist or not, anyone invested with a significant, unchecked power will do whatever they need to do to preserve that power. If you've ever spent time around someone who is an "executive" in business or government, you can get a small taste of that -- the pursuit of power changes people. Decency, etc is a matter of perspective -- and people's perspective adapts to the surroundings. 

On September 3rd 1939, when UK and France declared war on Germany, both ordinary Polish people and government officials became enthusiastic. There were spontaneous demonstrations of support for the French and British allies. People truly believed that Germans will soon be defeated. And from what I see those thoughts were reasonable - if an allied offensive, no matter how poorly prepared, took place, the allies would soon be in Berlin. Hitler left only 23 divisions on Western front, while the allies had 110 divisions. And those Germans divisions were poorly equipped. The French had 4 to 1 advantage in artillery, 80 to 1 advantage in tanks and the Germans hardly had any planes there. During Nurnberg trial general Alfred Jodl admitted that the Germany would easily be defeated in 1939 if the allies helped the Poles. Hitler gambled and concentrated the bulk of manpower, as well as nearly all mechanised units and Luftwaffe on Poland. And it's not like it was just a logistical challenge of transfering those resources to the Western front in case of allied offensive - the Poles managed to destroy much of that equipment and that's the reason why Wehrmacht generals asked Hitler to postpone the invasion of France for next year. What exactly failed in the allied camp in 1939? Was it military intelligence? Poor strategy of supreme command? 

The key thing to consider here is that Britain was a mercantilist empire, and colonies were a means to bolster the wealth and power of Britain the state as well as the monarchy as individuals. The real money in the colonies was made in the classic "triangle trade"; that is shipping slaves to the New World, sugar and rum to Europe, and manufactured goods back to the colonies. Traders were licensed and each European country had a monopoly on trade to its colonies. The climate in North America wasn't suited to sugar production, so hot market here was the Caribbean. North America was a backwater -- so much so that the French traded all of Canada to England for the island of Martinique, which was a huge sugar production center. So in the short-term, the financial losses, while significant, weren't that big of a deal. The biggest impact was the loss of sales of manufactured goods, as Americans could buy tea directly from China, goods from France, Spain or domestic sources, etc. Long-term, it was disastrous for England, as sugar declined in profitability compared to cotton-based textiles. Losing control of the colonies meant that the great mills of England in the 19th century would face competition from the mills of New England, and the US would compete globally on the sale of fabrics and goods for China purchased in trade. 

Slate A whole book has been written on this subject. "Capital of the World: The Race to Host the United Nations", by Charlene Mires. 

Reference to the German State of 1939-1945 is implicitly a reference to the Nazi party. So it is natural to use the word Nazi in order to make a justifiably clear distinction between that government and it's predecessors and successors. However I don't think we no longer refer to Germans of that period as Germans. Most people know that not all Germans of that era were ever members of the National Socialist (Nazi) party. Many Germans would have been members of other political parties or of none. In particular, we do not, under any circumstances, refer to as Nazis those Germans who were members of persecuted minorities and many or most of whom were murdered in Nazi death camps. Many products of that era are referred to as German products and not as Nazi products, even when strongly associated with the results of Nazi policy. For example: 

Historically, the majority of the Chinese population have been extremely poor rural peasants. I'd be surprised if pearls or mercury were within the means of any but a tiny wealthy elite. 

Frederick II the Great, king IN Prussia 1740–1786 used to counterfeit currency of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth (PLC) on a large scale, for profit and to economically weaken Polish state. Officially PLC wasn't at war with Prussia but the only reason that this and other hostile activities of Frederick the Great were unanswered by PLC was the weakness of Polish administration at that time. (and that's probably the reason why he did it). Frederick obtained the dies for Polish coins during his raid on Saxony during the Seven Years' War (1756-1763). They were there because at that time PLC was in a personal union with Saxony. EDIT: Wikipedia piece about this particular episode of Frederick's activity points to those books in English as sources: Hamish M. Scott, The emergence of the Eastern powers 1756–1775 and Norman Davies, Europe: A History 

I'm not even attempting to answer the whole question, just want to give example of a country which managed to avoid the bloody religious wars of Germany or France ( other answer implies that it was the only way to reach religious tolerance ). That country was Polish - Lithuanian Commonwealth, which spanned a large chunk of Europe, and was mostly Catholic, with its kings being exclusively Catholic. The first codified example of tolerance in the kingdom of Poland was the Statue of Kalisz, announced in 1264. It not only guaranteed Jews the freedom to practice their religion, it actually went much further – one sample paragraph: 

My emphasis. So I don't think the premise is justified, people often use the adjective "German" to refer to people, organisations and products of that era. 

In December 1978 Deng Xiaoping an "open door policy" that allowed foreign companies to set up in China. Prior to that, foreigners were not allowed to invest in China. Foreigners mostly were excluded, even as tourists. China's Communist party essentially turned its back on central planning and state-ownership of all means of production and adopted a capitalist economic model while retaining a one-party political system under the control of the communist party. The availability of an extremely low-wage workforce, led to Western manufacturers transferring manufacturing facilities and knowledge to China. 

Source: UN A search of the official records of the UN security council didn't turn up anything relevant on Iran in 1953. 

Source: UN So far as I can tell, none of these mention the coup d'etat in Iran. If the subject was raised, it didn't result in any resolution. Unfortunately the online minutes of their meetings don't go back that far. 

Some steel for edged weapons would have been imported from places like India. See Wootz steel and Damascus steel (but ignore the irrelevant and misleading modern use of the term for pattern-welded steel) 

Poland had many foreign kings and in my opinion it does make sense to include them all into this discussion, even though only a few of them were ruling another country at the time when they accepted Polish crown. The sheer fact that they were foreigners heavily influenced their politics. In one extreme case it even resulted in moving the capital of Poland from Cracow to Warsaw. But it's impossible to generalize - each case should be investigated individually. And that would take way too much time so I will just write about the two kings you mentioned. Louis rule over Poland was pretty much uneventful. He had several lands to look after so obviously he wasn't present most of the time, delegating power to local lords. In 1374 however he reduced the tax duties of Polish gentry to buy himself some support and to secure Polish throne for one of his daughters. That was detrimental to Poland in the long term* One may draw the conclusion that he was more devoted to the idea of securing the Polish throne than to make royal power strong at the risk of losing that throne for his children. *But it's not all that simple. One may say that the appeasement of the gentry through bribery was detrimental to any future ruler who would truly care about Poland and would need the power to make adjustements. On the other hand, it also acted as a safeguard against a ruler who would like to blatantly pursue his own interests at the cost of the Polish agenda. Louis of Hungary didn't have a chance to demonstrate that to any meaningful extent. Regarding Augustus the Strong of Saxony, he was elected king of Poland through bribery, scheming and civil war. Russia was already a powerful country and influenced the election. Now, that doesn't mean he was poised to be a bad king of Poland :) Well, actually his rule marked a period of absolute disaster for Poland, but still, it's hard to say it was all his fault, or that it was caused by the fact that he was a ruler of Saxony at the same time. The Polish-Saxonian alliance had the potential of being beneficial for Poland since it was naturally aimed against Prussia. I don't think there was any conflict of interest. Augustus even changed his denomination to Catholicism. On the other hand, as a ruler of Saxonia, in cooperation with Russian tsar he started a war with Sweden that ultimately utterly devastated Poland. And he was bribed by Russian tsar to drag Poland into that war. He also used Russian army to deal with internal opposition in Poland. That looks very bad but that was just instrumental use of foreign troops and most probably he would turn against Russia after he consolidated power in Poland. If he had stronger royal power in Poland, his plans might have materialise and his rule of Poland could have been appreciated. Now, I'm writing this from today's perspective when we know that weak central power was the primary factor that contributed to the demise of Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. But in Augustus time, lots of Polish gentry hated his guts because of his royal ambitions. However, recently I came across information that there came one moment when Augustus gave up in his struggle for power against Polish gentry and instead planned to partition the country. If that's true then there is no excuse for that. 

More than 200 locations in the USA were proposed. But first there was a choice of continent and country 

We can speculate a little. From what little I've read, the US acted through the CIA, who provided funding to groups in Iran, created propaganda against Prime Minister Mossadeq and advised & encouraged the Shah in various ways. It doesn't seem that there was an overt use of US miltary force. Article 2 of the UN charter could arguably be interpreted as mainly prohibiting the use, or threat of, of military force by one state against another. Perhaps it could be argued that advice, propaganda and money are not (military) force. If the matter had been raised in the UN Security Council, the US or UK could have used their veto powers to block any resolution. 

Note. Not all members of the UN Security Council have veto powers. There are fifteen members, but only the five permanent members (CN, FR, RU, UK & US) have a veto. Wikipedia, UN. 

A song lyric from a modern western pop-band isn't the sort of place I would look for authoritative information about cultural practices in pre-communist China. There are accounts of such practices in Chinese death rituals (in Singapore) 

I'm not US resident, so that's a real question rather than pre-election discussion. Where I live liberalism never seriously changed meaning in public debate (yet) - it is still more or less faithul to the ideas of classical liberalism from XVIII and XIX century. As such it is an opposite of totalitarianism and socialism. (which doesn't necesarilly mean that liberals enjoy wide support). Bits and pieces of news from the USA lead me to believe that US "liberals" abandoned the idea of maximization of personal liberties and minimization of the involvement of state in various areas of citzen's life (notably economic activities). Is this a valid observation? Is this used in political debates to discredit "liberals" or did the public generally accept the new meaning of "liberalism"? 

The statue was later confirmed by kings of Polish – Lithuanian Commonwealth. In the next century, tolerance guarantees were given to Orthodox Christians, Armenians, and Muslim Tatars. In 1525 Polish king agreed to a plan of establishing formerly Catholic Duchy of Prussia as his Lutheran fief. In the XVI century protestant ideas gained supporters in Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth proper. As a result in 1573 Polish parliament passed Warsaw Confederation act, which gave the protestant denominations the same rights as Catholics. From now on, every newly elected Polish king had to accept those provisions. So, Poland avoided religious wars of Germany. Another result was that Polish – Lithuanian Commonwealth became attractive destination for “heretics” from other countries, primarily from Germany. It also harbored the biggest Jewish population in the world, and the most orthodox versions of Judaism developed there. I don't find any particular reason for the direction that Poland (it's kings, gentry and clergy) went regarding religious tolerance, except from pure pragmatism. But it's just an example country, perhaps someone with more knowledge will comment on the situation in Ottoman Empire and other European states.