Engraving of the first photograph of the Parthenon. Daguerreotype photograph taken by Pierre-Gustave Joly de Lotbinière in October, 1839. Engraved by Frédéric Martens. Published in Excursions daguerriennes by Noël Paymal Lerebours in 1841. 1848 - the Mosque now does not appear: 

The most notable continual use of the Greek language in Egypt was by the Patriarchate of Alexandria and the Orthodox communities that surrounded it. Estimating how large this community was throughout the middle ages is particularly difficult as few records exist in Arabic that document the community. You can find a list of patriarchs of Alexandria on wikipedia as examples of individuals who knew Greek in medieval Egypt. In the 19th century, Greek speakers both Muslim and Christian had migrated from elsewhere to establish communities in Cairo such as the neighbourhoods of Zouonia, Haret el Roum and Hamzaoui. Even a prime minister of Egypt, Rahgib Pasha was of Greek ancestry According to a 1907 census, 6,924 Greeks lived in Egypt. In 1940, it was estimated to be around 25,000. During the Egyptian revolution of 1952, most had already emigrated to places like Australia or North America. Today, according to wikipedia, 1000 Greek speakers are estimated to be residing in the country. 

There is a problem with answering this question, and it lies in the fact that Jewish sources prior to Jesus but after the translation of the Pentateuch into Greek are fairly sparse. There are some Greek texts from Qumran, but the number of Greek biblical texts is negligible. Emanuel Tov has an article on this, called "The Nature of the Greek Texts from the Judean Desert". In case you don't have JSTOR membership, I have downloaded it for you here. As you can see, all that the existence of Greek texts from Qumran can tell us is that people spoke Greek. Prior to the adoption of the Septuagint by the church, their using a Greek translation was hardly controversial. To the best of my understanding, it is generally reckoned that Greek biblical texts were very common amongst Jews throughout the Greek-speaking lands of their dispersion (particularly in Egypt), and there is no reason not to suppose that this popularity prevailed also in the land of Israel. Mel Gibson's movie notwithstanding, the lingua franca of the region at that time was Greek, not Aramaic. There were Aramaic translations of the Pentateuch as well, but they are understood to have served as supplements, rather than replacements, and (like Hebrew texts) were targeted at scholars, rather than the laiety. So far as the latter part of your question is concerned, you are entirely correct, but the displacement of the Septuagint by Jews happened over the course of several centuries. The earliest rabbinic sources without exception all present the Septuagint in glowing terms. In the Mishna, Megillah 1:8, Rabban Shimon ben Gamliel is quoted as having said that Greek is the only language, other than Hebrew, in which it is permissible to write Torah scrolls (sifrei torah). Assuming this to be historically accurate, the Gamliel to whom it is referring was either a contemporary of Jesus (and the person from whom Paul claims to have studied), or the grandfather of the same. Either way, his son Shimon (and the person to whom this quote is attributed) is a rough contemporary of Jesus himself. Commenting on this statement of his, the Jerusalem Talmud (Megillah 71c) says that the sages checked and discovered that Greek is the only language into which it is possible to translate the Torah with its exact meaning, while the Babylonian Talmud (Megillah 9a) presents an origin story for the Septuagint that testifies to the miraculous nature of its composition. This origin story is very similar to the earliest extant text that testifies to the Septuagint's composition: a pseudepigraphic Jewish letter that purports to be written by Aristeas, King Ptolemy's bodyguard. As you may be aware, the story involves no fewer that seventy elders, sequestered in seventy different rooms, with no foreknowledge of the reason for their being brought, animated by a spirit of prophecy and translating the Pentateuch identically to one another. (If you look up the passage in question, it presents a fascinating array of the changes they are said to have made to the text, and the reasons for those alterations). By the time we come to the composition of the minor tractate, Sofrim (perhaps composed as late as the 8th century CE), Jewish attitudes towards this text had changed rather dramatically. There, in Sofrim 1:6-7, it is explicitly said that sifrei torah cannot be written in Greek, that it is impossible to translate the Torah into any other language without changing its meaning, and that the day on which the Septuagint was written (by no more than five elders!) was as hard for the Jewish people as the day on which the golden calf had been constructed. The reason for this change of attitude lies in the fact that the Septuagint (which, in time, came to denote the translation into Greek of the entire Bible) was embraced by the nascent Church and used in anti-Jewish Christian polemic. A favourite in that regard was the translation of Isaiah 7:14, in which עלמה ('almah, "young lady") was rendered παρθενος (parthenos, "virgin"). By the time of the composition of minor tractate Sofrim, Christians had composed a number of anti-Jewish tracts that utilised the Septuagint for the purposes of demonstrating Jewish stubborness in their rejecting Jesus. Perhaps the most graphic of these texts was a 6th century text entitled Disputatio cum Herbane Judaeo: "Disputation with the Jew, Hurban". [The name is from the Hebrew word for destruction: likely a reference to the temple's eradication]. The author identifies himself as Bishop Gregentius of Tafra, in Yemen, but is only adopting that persona for the purposes of the text. In it, he attributes the following sentiment to his invented Jew, Hurban: Our fathers wrongly and capriciously translated the books of Israel into Greek so that you could take possession of the same and silence us. With such attitudes as these, it was no wonder that the Jews came to view their Greek translation as a tragedy, to rule it out altogether as a liturgical text, and to undermine the earlier texts that spoke of the miraculous nature of its composition. If you would like information, Martin Hengel's book is very good: 

The article does not list a source for this information and i cant seem to find any further information about it. Is there any evidence Hagia Sophia was built on the foundations of a pagan temple? 

Many surviving classical temples and palaces in the Levant and Asia appear to have been built by the Romans. Are there any notable ones that still survive today that where built specifically during the reign of the Seleucid kings (312 BC- 63BC)? 

I'm not seeking to supplant any of the answers here, since I think they are all excellent, but to bring a few other points to the discussion: 

Great question - but like all great questions, it's not an easy one to answer. Yes, the Talmud does testify to the belief that there had once been multiple versions of the Pentateuch kept in the Temple (bear in mind that the Talmud is speaking of a time that somewhat predates its own composition), and the Talmud also mentions an uncertainty as regards the spelling of certain words. And yes, where the Talmud quotes biblical passages, the quotes are sometimes incorrect - and sometimes are of passages that don't even exist! That happens more rarely, but it does happen; see, for example, Berakhot 61a, which quotes a non-existent verse: "Elkanah walked after his wife". So when did the text become standardised? Well, technically speaking, it never became 100% standardised, and differences (albeit minute) continue to exist between different texts. If you would like to see an example, consider the spelling of דכא / דכה in Deuteronomy 23:2. The two most ubiquitous Hebrew/English versions of the Pentateuch in print (the Artscroll and the JPS) both spell it differently to one another. That more differences don't exist is due to the work of the masoretes. These were scholars who flourished in the early Middle Ages, who were responsible for counting letters and words (the Hebrew for scribe, sofer, also means "one who counts") and for developing lists of rare words and phrases. These lists came to be represented in an abbreviated form as marginal notes to what are termed masoretic bibles - the oldest of which, in its entirety and bound as a book, are the Aleppo Codex of the 10th century and the Leningrad Codex of the 11th. There are also very old masoretic manuscripts of Prophets, and of the Pentateuch as a stand-alone work. Some of the paratextual elements of the Hebrew text (dots above letters, inverted nunim, raised letters, etc) also date back to this period, and in some cases almost certainly served as notations on the text made by masoretic scholars. They are still visible in handwritten Torah scrolls, such as are read liturgically in synagogues, despite these scrolls being stripped of the paratextual elements that people are most familiar with: the vowels and the accent marks (which function as a form of punctuation, amongst other things). The Talmud itself bears witness to some of these curious textual features, and provides homiletic interpretations of them. The work that the masoretes did went a long way towards standardising the text, as did the work of those who added vowels and punctuation - two features that also serve to disambiguate tricky passages, to break the text up into verses and to otherwise resolve disputed reading traditions. But the biggest impact on the standardisation of the text was made by the development of movable type printing, which allowed for the copying and transmission of biblical texts without the sorts of mistakes so commonly made by scribes. In my opinion, the best book on this subject is Emanuel Tov, Textual Criticism of the Hebrew Bible, but there are lots of others as well. I would recommend starting with that one, and if you want something more technical you can follow his bibliography. 

So it was Demetrius and Phillip's threat to Roman occupied Illyria and also to Italy itself which prompted the Romans to intervene militarily. 

photo taken from this forum So my question is, when was the Mosque inside the parthenon actually demolished? Do we have a date for it? Also a bonus question, do we know if the original photo taken by Pierre-Gustave Joly de Lotbinière in October, 1839 still exists? or has that since been lost? 

With many thanks to @Marakai, the review of Maria-Kühn Ludewig's book on Johannes Pohl answers my question. It can be found here, and suggests that the claims of Roskies, etc, might have been mistaken: Pohl never studied at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem. On the contrary, he spent three years at the Pontifical Biblical Institute in Rome, where he earned a doctorate in Biblical Studies. He then spent 1931-1934 at the Oriental Institute of the Görres Society (Orientalischen Institut der Görres-Gesellschaft) in Jerusalem, where he also worked for the German Association of the Holy Land (Deutschen Verein vom Heiligen Land). Anecdotally, having now looked at several of his articles in Der Sturmer (with thanks to @JohnDallman for the links), I have seen him providing translations for several passages in rabbinic Hebrew, but only very little in Aramaic. One notable exception is in the 1939 "Ritual Murder edition" of Der Sturmer, in which he mistranslates a passage from Tikkunei Zohar (but my guess, based on other "errors" in his works, is that the mistranslation is deliberate). This would accord with his having focused on Old Testament studies: despite the presence of Aramaic within Daniel and Ezra (+ a single verse in Jeremiah and two words in Genesis), it makes sense to suppose that Pohl's studies concentrated on Hebrew exclusively. 

According to the Public Record Office of Victoria website, the secretary of the Victorian Racing Club, R.C. Bagot asked for it from the Chief Secretary’s Department: 

With the alliance in place, the Romans would have to further stretch their forces and resources to the east so as to counteract any possible Macedonian offensive. The Macedonians had numerous things to gain from the defeat of Rome: 

To add to the first answer, there is no single registry of athletes who performed in the Olympic or various other pan-Hellenic games. I am sure though that there have been attempts by modern researchers to compile such a list. In Sparta today you can see on the main street a monument dedicated to all the past Spartan Olympic victors to the present day. I took a photo of it when i went there in 2016. Name of Athlete - Contest - Year (π.Χ is BC and μ.Χ is AD ) 

Most fixed installations to which persecuted peoples were taken and in which they were murdered were built originally as work or concentration camps. Auschwitz, which gained notoriety for its having had the largest number of gas chamber victims throughout the war, was built on the site of a military barracks and originally for purposes of concentration only. Most of the people murdered at Auschwitz were murdered there in the final stages of the war. While this is the case for most fixed installations, there were three that were purpose-built for murder, and all three were in the General Government of occupied Poland: Belzec, Sobibor and Treblinka. These three camps were part of what is known as Operation Reinhard, and were constructed with the intention of their being the place in which the entire Jewish population of the General Government would be eradicated. Belzec started operating in March of 1942. Until its eradication in the summer of 1943, it may have been responsible for as many as 600,000 murders. Only two people are known to have survived Belzec, one of whom was murdered in Poland in 1946. Modeled on Belzec, Sobibor began operating in April of 1942. Until its eradication at the end of 1943, Sobibor is thought to have been the site of some 160,000 murders. There were several escapees, most of whom broke out after the uprising of 1943. The largest and most efficient of these three purpose-built camps was Treblinka. From its commencement as a death camp in April of 1942 until the end of 1943, Treblinka was the site of approximately 900,000 murders. There were several survivors and escapees, partly as a result of the uprising in 1943 and partly as a result of the chaos that ensued in the earlier period when the camp was understaffed and overpacked with arrivals from Warsaw and its environs. All told, these three camps were responsible for the murder of most of the Jews living within occupied Poland, and were constructed for that express reason. As a result of these forays into fixed killing installations, gas chambers were added at other camps as well, like Majdanek and Birkenau, and even at the site of labour camps (like Mautthausen, for example). Note that gas had been used even prior to the construction of these sites - particularly in terms of mobile gas vans, such as operated in Chelmno and in Minsk, but also as fixed installations. Gas chambers had been employed, for example, as part of the T4 program, by which large numbers of people with disabilities were also murdered. By the end of the war, it is estimated that some 300,000 people had been murdered as part of the T4 program exclusively. 

Any medieval sources that mention "Macedonians" or a "Macedonian people" are doing so in a geographic context. You could have people who spoke Slavic, Vlach, Albanian or Greek in Byzantine Macedonia that could have been described as "Macedonian". 

From the death of Alexander the Great onward, the religion of the ancient Greeks steadily absorbed foreign elements creating new forms of worship and new deities. Some examples of newly worshipped deities include Serapis, Harpocrates , Mithras, Sol Invictus and so forth. Also in this time, influential philosphical ideas started to spread such as Neoplatonism, Alatrism, Neopythagoreanism and others. By the time of Emperor Constantine, was the worship of traditional Greco-Roman gods (Zeus, Athena, Heracles etc) by the general population as widespread as it was in pre-hellenistic times? Or had the beliefs in these old gods become out of fashion? 

This question might be a little broad, but I would like to know about child rearing practices in Mediaeval Europe. To narrow this down, the time and place that I am particularly interested in are those regions that today comprise France and Germany, and specifically from the 11th century onwards. The sorts of questions that I am interested in concern: 

In terms of this specific claim, you might also mention where the 4,000,000 number comes from in the first place. Rudolf Höss, who served as the commandant of Auschwitz from May 1940 until the end of 1943, testified at Nuremberg in 1946 to the effect that some 3,000,000 people were murdered in Auschwitz over the course of this time. This includes, according to him, about 2,500,000 who were murdered through the use of gas, and can be augmented with the large number of Jews from Hungary in particular who were murdered in Auschwitz after he was replaced by Liebehenschel. Obviously, Höss was wrong. We can now be certain that the number of people murdered in Auschwitz was less than half of what he had estimated. But rather than the original mistaken figure being the result of deliberate fabrication or obfuscation, as the usual people will claim, it actually derives from the testimony of a perpetrator who goes into great detail as regards the nature of his crimes.