If you are looking for a customized foldie, I would suggest Bike Friday, in Eugene, OR. They will make your bike with the options you prefer - whether a fixie, a 24 speed, or a hub. I see people doing west coast tours on Bike Fridays not uncommonly. (And I've also seen the tandem model and have heard about a recumbent model, too.) I also like the trailer attachment system they include which works with pneumatic couplings. 

I've commuted through two winters in the Pacific Northwest and I have learned how to be prepared for winter wet, snow and ice. In general, my advice: 

The answers that point out handling might also be weighed against some other practical qualities, like how you use and store the bike. As cyclists, we spend a lot of time picking the thing up, sometimes shouldering it, sometimes loading it down, sometimes carrying it up stairs or high curbs. I have a long recumbent, an Xtracycle, and a Trek 7200 road bike. I commute on all of these as my needs require. By far the lightest of my bikes is the long recumbent because it has smaller wheels, simple alumnium frame with a sparse number of weld points, and puny handlebars. Luckily I have a shed to store them in, and I hang them up on the wall by their front wheels. The recumbent is easy to rack. The Trek is surprising difficult because often I have light system batteries, wet tires and fenders and a robust pannier rack on it. The Xtracycle takes something more like a weighlifters belt in preparation to lift it the four inches to get to the hook. None of these bikes would be friendly for an apartment dweller that wanted to store their bike inside, had to deal with stairs or narrow doorways, or wanted to rack their bike on the bus. If I have to push the Xtracycle up a wet grassy slope, I'm praying my feet keep traction. And to conclude, more than once I've often considered retiring my domestic fleet for a single Brompton and utility trailer. 

I commute about 3600 miles a year and I am able to keep my gears adjusted pretty well. I do find that I get a lot of grime from rainy, muddy conditions, and I think I might be replacing my shift cables and housing more frequently than I should, probably twice a year. Would squirting some soapy water thru the housing and letting it dry before adding light oil to the cable housing increase lifetime, or is this not worth the effort? 

Better than a gift certificate, get them a membership to their local bicycle advocacy group, like their state chapter or the League of American Bicyclists. 

I've suffered from carpal tunnel due to keyboarding so bicycle ergonomics interests me. Finding a comfortable balance between an forward and an upright posture would depend on what task you're trying to achieve. I have 5-inch risers on my extracycle, but a 2-inch drop on my road bike sporting butterfly bars. From what I've read, basically your core strength and not your shoulders should be keeping you upright. Choose a sweep and grips on your handlebar that keep your arms reasonably straight, comfortable and neutral. If you're leaning on your wrists for hundreds of miles, you might be damaging yourself. On my risers, I choose ergonomic grips that I tilt to support the edge of my palm, and my brake levers are oriented to keep my knuckles oriented in a straight line to my wrist and elbow. An alternative to flat or riser bars that might provide some variety in posture are butterfly (aka touring) bars (like a figure eight). These can be fitted with flat-bar equipment or drop bar equipment (depending on what brakes you have, if you have V-brakes, that means you want cyclocross style long pull drop bar brakes). I ride a Trek 7200 with integrated brake-shifters from the original 1"-riser bars mounted near the back of the bars. I use the back of the bars to get a more upright posture, and the front of the bars for an aero posture. I can tell I need to adjust the brake lever angle on the butterfly bars, I'm flexing my wrists too far forward. In "It's all about the bike" by Robert Penn, the author is coached to set handlebar height to what angle he can hold his fingers lightly on for a time without leaning on the bars. Leaning on the bars could lead to shoulder, elbow and wrist strain. Having ridden almost only flat bars or butterfly bars, I am becoming more open to the notion of drop bars. I believe that "Dirt Drops" are wider and shallower, intended for less areo and more steering leverage as appropriate for cyclocross. Here's a page showing butterfly bars. Livestrong has a few good paragraphs on handlebar fit. Also, I find lots of discussion on handlebar sizing on bikeforums.net as well. 

I was chatting with the owner of a local farm of which I am a subscriber, and he mentioned that he was considering hauling boxes of veggies between work sites using a bicycle or tricycle. There is of course variety of cargo bikes and trailers in the world to choose from, but most utility bicycle equipment is oriented towards paved surfaces. Thus trailers with 20-inch wheels might not fair so well on unimproved trails. Are there styles of bike, trike, or trailer that are already in use on farms that you've seen or heard of? How much trail improvement should he undertake, since his roads are mostly driven by his tractor and delivery van? 

I keep extra socks at work, and typically turn my commuting socks inside out and place them and my shoes on top of my computer tower under my desk to dry them out. When the weather goes chilly, I adopt these techniques: 

I would agree with Kohi's answer. It would also depend on your level of skill as a cyclist. If you are not familiar with riding a Long John or other kind of cargo bike, getting one as a "congradulations!" present would not be appropriate, you have better things like...sleep...to consider. Securing the baby seat to the cargo area is important. Make sure you leave room for your diaper bag. 

Not shown in the attached picture is that there is also an umbrella she uses as a rain and sun-shade her baby. Also, as for vibration, the amount of vibration an infant can tolerate would generally match how much jogging, jostling and walking and dancing the mother did while pregnant. Motion tends to lull infants to sleep, and the sound of tires on pavement would be much like white noise. I cannot cite, but I have heard from a birthing instructor that the sound an infant is used to matches sticking your head under a tub spigot turned full blast. So I wouldn't worry about traffic noise. 

Besides considering leverage as the only advantage of bicycling in icy and snowy temperatures, I would also consider the aspect of familiarity. My first few rides in icy/snowy conditions were quite nerve-wracking: constantly sliding right off the shoulder into the chocolate mousse or the ditch. I soon learned to avoid the treachery of the road shoulder and ride in the plowed area with the most asphalt exposed. One of the things that I felt good about was that I knew my bicycle well, and I wasn't making flustered or nervous mistakes with hand placement. So, I would recommend focusing on keeping your hands and feet warm during the ride so that you are not impacting your ability to react or distracted by your extremeties. If it takes ziplock pogies and hand-warmers, or full-on BarMitts and Lake MXZs for your feet, being relaxed and perceptive to your conditions will make your ride safer than changing your ergonomics at the last minute. And if you do ride in icy conditions and don't have studded tires, I would recommend those, too. 

Keeping the brakes in good condition is worthwhile and important. If you don't feel confident about how they feel, seek some help. Having a front wheel misbehave can be quite dangerous. Best of luck! 

I have a medium sized Trek Mountain Track/Antelope with a seven speed freewheel. When I tighten the rear quick release, I have to carefully back off on the tightness so that the wheel will actually turn. This is not a brakes issue, I'm dropping the wheel in while the bike is upside down, and I can spin it freely when the quick release is loose. I don't believe its has to do with lateral rim alignment, because that would hit a brake pad in one or a few distinct areas. I'm getting even friction when the q/r is too tight. My first guess is that I have badly adjusted cones on the axle, and I'm guessing this because I don't know how else the dropouts would apply so much friction. What should I look to next? Update I adjusted the left hand cone looser and I was able to get it adjusted to take a normal amount of pressure on the q/r and it still rotates well. The cone races are kinda gravelly by the feel, I think I'll definitely keep this a light duty bike. 

If you have flat bars, tearing a hole in the corner of a ziplog bag to place over the handlebar grip gives you a mighty cheap pogie. I find that fleece gloves, especially fleece flip-mits with polypro liners below them, can warm up very well. Hand and foot warmth is highly dependent upon good circulation. Elastic around the wrists can make your hands colder by constricting your circulation. Also, increasing your core temperature is a good way to keep you limbs warm as well...so adding a fleece vest under your windbreaker can also be rather effective. Wool long underwear is easily as effective as polypro long underwear and doesn't get a sweat funk as quickly, and I would suggest this as well. 

If you tour with a load, I suggest at least putting in a 22T ring up front. On loaded tour going up hill, in the rain, you have the greatest range of low gears. If present cost is a factor, this also reduces your chances of having to replace the chain. If cost is not a problem, and you love to tour hilly country and you pack gear, the cost of a new chain, new cassette, and whatever it takes to get a 22T in front, IMO, is still pretty affordable. If your LBS has outrageous rates, they'll charge you more for labor than the approx $80USD in parts this new drivetrain will cost you. On my Xtracycle, I run a 42-32-22/34-11 and I am frequently in 22/34 when I'm loaded up or on a hill. I might be hauling 60 extra pounds, but that 22 in front keeps me from killing myself and I rarely have to stand on my pedals. I'm investing in a newer cargo bike, and I'm requesting it have a 9sp 42-32-22/36-11 setup. This is not a light bike, but I know I'll load it up. I could go lower if I wanted 10sp and get a 22/38T combo. 

I use resealable (like Ziplock) bags around things that a) I want dry and b) want containment if they break. So I tend to wrap my wallet in a resealable bag, and fold the opening end over a few times and wrap a rubber band around it to keep it tidy. If I take a bottle of juice or a container of soup to work with me, I wrap it in a resealable bag in case the it breaks on accident (bike falls over, etc). I tend to group items in bags to reduce clutter anyhow. So, if I have a bottle of sunscreen or ketchup, if it gets squished, I'm also well protected against having to scrub out the inside of my bag. Just because your bags are waterproof, doesn't mean the place you open them isn't blowing rain in, either. I've had my bike tip into a puddle with my panniers open and that's just a sad wet mess, of course. 

I keep two pairs of commuting shoes in rotation, to give one a whole day to dry out, to try and avoid fungus buildup. To keep feet warm, I keep my shoes laced loosely, and I avoid tight fitting socks. I want to keep as much circulation in my feet as possible. Your feet will feel colder if you pile on a lot of socks and constrict your circulation. My old (street shoes) are very old, hardly worth keeping now. I'm days away from getting some Keen sandals and sealskinz socks. I've read warm recommendations for fleece socks and neoprene socks (neoprene apparently wicks and blocks wind). 

Comfortable is very subjective. I hate to use a car metaphor, but someone in a trike might find it more like steering a station wagon than a bike when it comes to tight turning. So in one concern, you're replaced an uncomfortable upright posture with a possibly stressful steering style. I would search for recumbent videos and see how many you can find that show riders sliding sideways and flipping. Three wheels is more stable for an object at rest, but what a trike lacks that a bicycle relies on is the inherent meta stability provided by counter steering. Consider on a bicycle, your front wheel is constantly steering, even if subtly. This gives it remarkable "technical" navigation skill, which MTB riders must rely on. The length of your wheel base also has an effect. A tadpole trike, with longer wheel base, might make pitch sway over bumps less pronounced. However, you get more roll swap left and right than on an upright, because you have two wheels on the side that are hitting roots at different times. Trikes have different clearances for obstacles than bicycles. The tadpole recumbent trikes that I'm picturing only have about three inches of clearance under the seat. This is often due to smaller wheels and a road riding design. The diameter of the wheels affects bounce and shake as well. A 29er will ride a trail more smoothly than a 20 inch kids bike for obvious reasons. If you are looking for comfort, you want a trike with large wheels. This also has an effect on pedaling style - recumbents want a faster cadence to make up for a lack of standing-weight pedaling power. If you are going uphill over roots, you might feel like you are pedaling a lot faster and possibly going slower. I like riding my Rans Tailwind, it is comfortable, but I notice it's a lot jouncier on gravel paths because it's got 20 inch wheels. I don't get neck strain, but I really don't like hitting roots or potholes with it. If I'm on an upright bike navigating roots, I tend to be looking down and not out at the horizon anyhow, so I don't feel neck discomfort in those situations. Comfort is subjective. Your setting and riding style has a lot to do with what equipment you want to use. Update (As per Mac's point) In my experience, which excludes recumbent trikes but includes small wheel recumbent bikes, you are very unlikely to pitch forward if you hit a bump or root badly, so a recumbent orientation is much safer in that respect. The frame sag is noticeable to me, when I strike a root or pothole on my Rans, I notice that I slow down, possibly slide forward in my seat a bit, and my whole body jounces up and down. That also tends to make my steering wobble because I hold onto my (over the seat) handlebars tighter. I presume on a trike, you would feel a roll as one of the outter wheels hit a bump, possibly turning your vehicle towards the direction of the bump as the opposite side was now travelling faster, you might want to practice "steering out" of strikes. If you are riding a delta, you would want to be cautious of forward flipping when striking one rear wheel on a downhill, I suspect, you couldn't lean back to compensate. A one wheel strike on a tadpole could be compensated better by leaning forward towards the strike. (Please tell me to hush if I'm putting my foot in my mouth.) Is it more comfortable? It sounds to me like it could be but takes different steering techniques. I guess it depends on how much suspension you have for each wheel on your trike, too.