Since Ferdinand proved to be an able and successful ruler, it was quite obvious that he should retain the control of his territories upon Charles's retirement. In other words, the retirement just finalized and legalized the effective partition made ~35 years before it. (So far my answer is based on pp. 26-45 of the book A History of the Habsburg Empire, 1526-1918) by Kahn. 

Churchill's comments, as quoted before, are crass and certainly do tarnish his great reputation. However, I think they need to be placed in some sort of context as well. Churchill was hell-bent on winning the war, and winning it in Europe first. Therefore, he focused his attention on this, and actually bothered very little with Indian issues (or Australian issues , for that matter - Australia had committed most of its army to the British war effort in the Mediterranean, on the standard imperial assurance that the RN would protect it from the Japanese, only to find out that this did not quite work out as promised). A hugely telling quote is from Leo Amery's (the Secretary of State for India) diary for November 1944: 

Is there any historical truth in his account? EDIT: Specifically, I wonder if it's true that marble buildings were copies of wooden ones, with structurally irrelevant features included as atavisms from wooden constructions? 

Basically, a state is considered a republic if it has no king (or other type of monarch, i.e. duke, prince, count, atabeg, whatever). That's of course a narrow legalistic definition but that's the definition. As Drux has pointed out, there is no formal reason that the son of a ruler should succeed him, it just "happens", unlike in a monarchy where the line of succession is formally spelt out. 

As for the wider context, I think your question can be rephrased along theses lines: "Was reaching an accommodation with Hitler's Germany, based on mutual recognition of interests possible at that stage, as an alternative to fighting a war?". Such an approach had been called appeasement and that was precisely the previous British (and French) policy, culminating in the Munich Agreement of 1938. What transpired soon after was that Hitler broke the agreement, although previously he had declared himself perfectly satisfied in all his demands. In other words, it was impossible to make a gentlemen's agreement with one who was manifestly not a gentleman. Some, like Churchill, knew this all along. Others, like Chamberlain, needed the Munich fiasco to drive the point home, but by May 1940 nobody trusted Hitler. 

Well, this article/rant/blogpost is deep in "not even wrong" territory. I shudder to think of the miseducation its author must have received. 

In addition to Anixx's answer, check out Andreas Palaiologos - the oldest newphew of Constantine (the last emperor). Looks like he sold his "rights" to the Byzantine throne twice, both to France and Spain. And his younger brother sold them to... gasp... the Ottomans. Well, they had to get some money for high living. Which brings us to another aspect: Mehmed II claimed that he actually was the new Roman Emperor, or Kayser-i Rum as he called it, by right of conquest. (He did have a point there). I know that Suleiman the Magnificent called himself so as well (in a letter to Charles V) but wikipedia, linked to in "claimed" above, a ssertsthat later sultans dropped the title. 

Interesting question and highly creative conjectures but ultimately the answer is no. The trade routes didn't play much of a role: Russian trade remained oriented on Western Europe; as for the great Russian music, it was the product of the 19-20th centuries and followed and developed, once again, Western patterns. So, to sum up: I can't think of any positive influence the Mongol overlordship had (it's a more accurate term then occupation, in this context). The negative legacies are legion. EDIT: I was asked to provide references. Right now on the fly I found this chapter (in Russian) from a recent (2001) book called "Ten centuries of Russian mentality". I'll quote a bit in the original: 

Julius Lippert was a Nazi top functionary (mayor of Berlin till he was demoted and fell out of grace) and a convicted war criminal. However, wiki tells us: 

The shift was indeed gradual and it was in the interests of the regime, when it was still taking root, to dissimulate that the Republic was intact and the emperor was just the first among equals. Augustus was a past master at this sort of game; Tiberius tried to play it too but with ill results. Later emperors felt less need to do so. In fact, I am in favour of an early dating, i.e. I think that the Romans have wisened up to the change in the rules of the game quite early, by Nero's succession the very latest. Probably, already by Gaius's succession, as @TylerDurden has argued. In any case, we have a very safe terminus ante quem in the form of Pliny's Panegirycus and his letters. Here is his first letter to Trajan: 

Over-expansion and hubris. This needs almost no elaboration. One point will suffice. The 30 Years War pitted Catholics against Protestants; but it is illuminating to recall that the Protestant cause was supported and seconded by Catholic France, led by Cardinal Richelieu; more strikingly, the Pope himself was giving covert support to France against the Catholic champions, the Spanish & Austrian Habsburgs. This is not really surprising as the Pope was also a temporal prince, hemmed in from all directions by Habsburg dominions in Italy and anxious to diminish their preponderance. 

As far as I know, the Romans never practiced deportation as a punitive measure against provincials. Simply killing off an offender was the expedient and simple Roman way. P.S. A citizen under trial could go into voluntary exile before the verdict was handed, to escape forfeiture of property but that was (a) under the Republic (b) applied in practice only to a handful of relatively prominent individuals (e.g. Verres or Rutilius Rufus) who were indicted for political reasons, whether guilty or not. 

The short answer is: no. Egypt formally became a British protectorate only in 1914, but de facto already in 1882. It's all (briefly) told here. 

The question that puzzles me is: why was this such a secret? There was no shortage of male Romanovs for a succession so even if the Tsesarevich died of his illness the future of the dynasty would not be in jeopardy. Was there a particular reason to keep this secret or was just the usual Russian preoccupation with secrecy? Quoted from wikipedia. 

In Chapter 3 of the Prince Machiavelli offers this advice to the prince who would hold a newly acquired territory: 

An easy terminus post quem is October 31, 1939, which is when Molotov delivered a fine speech to the Supreme Soviet, containing the following lovely passage: 

Furthermore, this fact had as its corollary the great political power of the common folk in Athens. One is almost tempted to say that Athens was democratic because it had such a huge fleet, rowed by free citizens. (Of course, it's more complex than that, but there is a sizeable kernel of truth in this statement). An ancient author had already pointed it out (quoted from here): 

Nice question, but you've got the premise a bit wrong. Roman slaves could not be called by their master's name, not ever. But freedmen were, as a matter of law/custom. This applied to all cases, and wasn't the whim or fancy of a particular nobleman. Of course to differentiate, the slave would append his old, "barbarian" name as a cognomen. So if one Marcus Gavius freed his slave Plato, then the freshly-minted freedman would be called Marcus Gavius Plato. Anyway, the guy you have in mind is likely to be Publius Clodius Pulcher who had a notorious gang of slaves at his beck and call. Here is Plutarchus telling us about his conduct in his biography of Cicero: 

I know that each Soviet Republic X had its own Communist Party of X. Question is: were members of these parties also members of the CPSU? I am interested here only in the formal side of things - I'd like to know if there was a formal dual membership (entailing two documents the member had to possess) or if each CP of X was considered a collective member of the CPSU. Or other arrangements I haven't thought of, perhaps. Also - which normative document defined these things? As far as I remember, the Constitution of the USSR only mentioned the CPSU, not the CP of X parties, and (again, as far as I remember) the Republics did not have their own constitutions (thought they did have separate penal codes). So did the CP of X parties exist in a juridical limbo? P.S. Curiously, the only republic that did not have its own separate party was.... Russia. Once you think a bit about it, it makes a lot of sense, actually... :) 

The Taaffe family is rather remarkable for having held both an Irish/UK and Austrian peerage. However, it is not clear from the wiki pages whether they (for example, Count Eduard, who was Austrian prime-minister for a while) really maintained tangible ties to Ireland. Some questions for example: 

Saladin abided by a code of chivalry, for which he was renowned among Muslims and Christians alike. While in the short run this could sometimes look unwise (as in your example), in the long run this insistence on warrior ethics was very beneficial for Saladin who acquid a reputation of a just ruler. This meant for instance that his enemies could surrender to him with honour, instead of fighting to the last. 

Well, at least the drop during the "Cultural Revolution" is easily explained. Setting hordes of young, largely semi-literate, thugs to torture and maim the productive and educated members of society will do wonders for the economy. Here is a long quote from wikipedia: 

However, Torjussen goes on to review work by later scholars, Willamowitz and Linforth in particular, who, according to him, demolished some of the more far-fetched claims of the Macchioro school (pp. 41-44). It's actually quite fascinating reading, Torjussen does a very good job summarizing the debates. I hope it answers your question! P.S. Although I am not an expert by any means and can't even begin to evaluate at present the evidence of the allegedly Orphic tablets which seems to play a large role in this whole business. However, I'd like to throw in my own two cents: that early Christianity was influenced by Neoplatonism is well-known even to laymen like me, but I've always assumed that the influence comes from a stage a few centuries later (say, Origen). The attempt to backdate this to Paul is, in my eyes, a bit flimsy, because Paul was a Jew and could hardly be directly familiar with Greek rituals and mysteries before his conversion. So to posit that Paul was influenced by Orphism, one has to postulate some intermediate link, such as the Essenes - which lifts the whole thing to the rarefied realm of almost-unverifiable conjecture. But that's just my two cents, they could be total piffle, read Torjussen anyway! 

The other source is a recent book by a philologist who argues from literary analysis that Attila was actually murdered. See $URL$ for a sympathetic review of the book. However, the review also points out some of the weaknesses in Babcock's theory. Since no new evidence is likely to come up, the jury will probably have to remain out on this on. So it is quite understandable that the Britannica chose to apply Occam's razor to this question. 

General Dyer thought that the Amritsar massacre would secure British rule in India for a long time. Instead, it contributed a lot towards shortening that rule. 

Do not underestimate amazon's user reviews. One must exercise caution and Quellenforschung there, of course, because some of the reviews are written by bigots and ignoramuses; others are written by good people who were perhaps looking for a different kind of book. Nevertheless, there is a lot of useful information there. For ancient and medieval subjects, Bryn Mawr has great academic reviews which a simple google scholar with the name of the book + Bryn Mawr review will usually bring up. Looking up citations in Google Scholar can sometimes help to evaluate a book as well. 

So apparently somehow "Let's not have dinner" morphed into "Belgrade will be like this table"... EDIT Just to make it clear - I did not randomly select footnote (6) for verification - this was the specific footnote to which the whole (fictional) conversation that @Anixx is asking about is referred. Once this was found to be a fabrication, there is little point in poring over the rest of the article's references. 

This question is the subject of a lively debate among professional historians (non-professionals are also pitching in, but I'd rather not discuss their contributions at this stage, as per my impression they range from thought-stimulating cherry-picking to outright hackery). There is a recent (2009) review paper by Robert R. Dykstra: Quantifying the Wild West: The Problematic Statistics of Frontier Violence. Alas, I cannot access it now. The first page of another article by Dykstra is available for free and I'll quote a bit from it to indicate some points: