And finally there are the philosophers. Unlike mathematicians or logicians, the philosophers seem to not evaluate the truth by a fixed set of commonly valid formulas. Instead, a truth is something more subjective and personal. It may conform to specific rules of the society, mathematics, physics, logic and even religion, but still it is the individual's interpretation of the facts. A truth for one may not be a truth for someone else, still both could be right as this is their own subjective belief. It could be possible for a particular person to change his beliefs, so something that s/he considered once true is now not true. One's personal experience may influence the evaluation of his/her philosophical truth. In addition, the philosophical truth is the result of the individual's attempt to explain (for himself) paradoxical or unsolvable (for him) matters. For instance, a religious person may explain many of the phenomenon s/he may witness as caused by the divine intervention of God. One with sufficient knowledge may not, as s/he could explain the same with scientific knowledge. So, both will have their truth that helps set their minds at peace and not wondering how some event or observation was possible. In regard to psychology, this is a convenient way of the consciousness to adapt to reality and not to waste an individual's energy for thinking about non-essential matters and keep attention focused on important ones (like once survival was for the early human). An aside from the above, the truth can be itself an interesting topic when regarded as a philosophical term. It is often viewed as eternal, single for all of us and fundamental for our existence (spiritual and conscious), but is yet too obscure and a subject to the individuals to reveal it according to thier understandings. 

Chance governs all. In a world of opinions, how do you decide which one to listen to first? Ultimately you still rely on your own senses to decide whose opinion on what is relevant is relevant. According to Neil Postman, words of mouth or gossips are most relevant; next to that are printed words; last of all is TV news because the far-away events it reports have virtually no impact on your day-to-day life. How many people were inconvenienced by the 9.11 attack, even though most would admit it was a major event in their lives? Nevertheless, regarding printed words, a Russellian would prescribe adventure during one's soldier period before everything else. The reason behind this is that words have no meanings before experience. In order to make sense of words, one has to have some experiences first. Take a perfectly good word such as "pineapple" for example, it is basically destitute of meanings to you unless you have smelled, touched and tasted one. Every one has his soldier period during which he is brave and adventurous. If a person spends a good portion of his youth on gaining life experiences, chances are he will judge well later in life. On the other hand, if a person spends his youth in an ivory tower where he thinks he is learning words of wisdom when he is supposed to be smelling roses, braving thunders, flying high, diving deep, making friends and fending off adversaries, by the time he comes to the age of "full of wise saws and modern instances," he is mostly likely to be full of s***t. Again, this is the view of a Russellian who believes that sensations are more fundamental than "abstract ideas," not the other way around. 

In conclusion, I'd say that logicians and mathematicians define truth in a similar fashion, as both rely on a set of rules that they use against given circumstances in order to determine the truth. It could be valid to say that they attempt to measure it. The philosophers, on the other hand, would attempt to categorize truth according to commonness of individual beliefs, rather than directly measure it. They are also more liberal in terms of that an individual is allowed to have his own and different truth, so the real truth remains abstract and obscure. 

I found this Euler diagram representing a definition of knowledge problematic. First, propositions should only express beliefs. When there is no belief, there should be no proposition. But the diagram shows that some propositions are not beliefs. Secondly, there should be pre-verbal beliefs that have not been expressed in propositions, but the diagram shows that all beliefs are propositions. Finally, truth should be a property of beliefs. There should be no truth independent of beliefs, but the diagram shows that some truths are not beliefs. The source of this diagram is wikipedia. I wonder how widely accepted this definition is. 

This is my answer according to my fields of knowledge and personal beliefs. I hope it appears objective enough. 

Considering the above, a truth for a mathematician would be something that can be verified as being correct via axioms and theorems. In computer science, which can be viewed (in regard to your question) as a subset of the discrete mathematics (especially the binary algebra), a truth is defined by two values and , respectively and . These are the basis of various mathematical and computational models which can be evaluated or used by the computer to make decisions. Most of the constructs and operations used by logicians are re-used by this area of mathematics as well as computer science. In this context, truth would probably be an expression that evaluates to , which is a quite technical definition. 

祿 : Official's salary, promotion, rank or "climbing the ladder." Source: $URL$ This is a keep-your-head-down-and-make-no-waves advice on how to prosper in a hierarchical organization. 

Modern lawyers are probably the closest things to renaissance men, in the sense that there are increasing demands for them to quickly pick up any subject, be it environmental, financial, industrial or commercial. Law is no longer as boring as it used to be. A middle-aged engineer who is losing out in office politics and is stuck in a dead-end job is a perfect fit for a high-end lawyer. Not only that his past experiences are extremely useful, but also that his primitive desires for knowledge will be abundantly satisfied. 

A logician may define the truth as a fact. In logical propositions we have constructs as predicates which are evaluated against certain conditions (or circumstances) and produce a result which is either true or not true. So, we have a clear separation of both states (truth/untruth). Logical constructs such as deduction or induction represent operations that determine if certain circumstances are true, based on an existing result, or deriving the circumstances themselves knowing that a result is true or not. Logicians make use of logical operations (such as conjunction or logical AND, disjunction or logical OR), which are rules for evaluating and combining predicates in order to produce a statement that is true or untrue. 

The reason I think this question interesting is that it eventually asks what the word "understand" means: what does a person feel when he understands a situation? When an object-word is understood, the listener's mind forms a mental image similar to the one which that word expresses. If that word is "fragrant" but the listener has no sense of smell, the listener will not understand it - i.e. he will not associate a noise with an olfactory sensation. To understand how a steam engine works, a series of percepts are necessary, and mental images are the ultimate results. It follows that mental images - feelings, sensations, desires, etc. - are most likely the ultimate results of understanding. To understand another person's problem presupposes common feelings, and common feelings are the ultimate results. If a person has no sense of smell, he will never be offended by BO and will not understand why BO is a huge problem in the office. It follows that, if a person has no sense of smell, his opinion on BO is much less weighty than that of a person who can smell. Similarly, the mother will never understand why the son is so attracted to a certain woman while the father virtually agrees with the son on every aspect. It follows that a mother's opinion on the son's girlfriend should not be taken seriously. It follows that men's opinions on issues particular to women are very likely to be less credible than women's own opinions. Being unable to understand does not necessarily imply lacking concerns for the sufferings of others. Civilized western men's attitudes towards women are nothing but admirable. Being able to understand does not automatically imply compassion. An evil man is capable of exploiting your vulnerabilities for his sadistic pleasure; he may justify it by some karma yoga philosophy, which only reminds you of the kind of fine phrases used by a 20th-century saint to excuse himself for sleeping next to naked young girls. 

In regard to your comment (I am not a mathematician, but I feel quite close to the subject), I would agree that the mathematical truth is eternal, as it would be valid as long the appropriate circumstances are present. So if you take a proven theorem, it would always evaluate true whenever its conditions are satisfied. In this case I am seeing the truth not as an always valid fact, or the fact itself, but rather as the reliability of the conclusion - the conclusion will always be valid for valid circumstances and always not for invalid ones, so it is forever trustworthy in layman's terms. 

No matter what ethics one adheres to, the dark master is always his emotion. Morals or ethics have always been the servants of their dark master; they have never been the guidance to anyone's action. Simply by looking at a person's ethics, one can gain some insights into the heart of this man The ban on cruel and unusual punishment is a very recent thing. Less than two hundred years ago and in the most civilized part of the world, people brought picnics to watch criminals being drawn and quartered and would be hugely disappointed if the criminal was pardoned or quickly put to death. Nowadays this sort of thing is unimaginable in the civilized part of the world; there was definitely a change of heart among the wider populace in the past 150 years or so. A Russellian scholar would try to find the cause of this sudden change of heart in economic conditions and in nutrition and diet: numerous account recorded that the English in Elizabethan time ate well - beef, mutton, veal, lamb, kid, pork, cony, capon, pig, deer, wild fowl and a great variety of fish, just to name a few; they will look into climate, evolution, the spread of literacy, the rise of science, the prevalence of art and literature which was made possible by the abundance of leisure, and, most important of all, in a small number of individuals of transcendent ability - this was the circumstance in which the smooth-tongued Shakespeare was born and raised. What impact did Shakespeare have on the English sensibility? This is a very interesting subject. The person who can accomplish this task probably needs to speak several European languages, which I do not. American moral fervour is disgusting, not only because it tries to justify the sort of thing that pleases savages, but also because it cultivates muddleheadedness. Almost every philosophy club in the US is about "morality"; no sooner a meeting starts than a patriarch-figure in a deep voice begins to moralize, which makes you want to puke. To have a taste of how a moral person reasons, let's take a look at the honoured George Marshall: In 1946, immediately after WWII, Marshall tried to broker peace between Chinese nationalists and communists. Seeing that the Chinese genuinely wanted to kill some more Chinese, Marshall decided to step aside in order to preserve his personal integrity and that of the US government. Marshall was probably genuinely weary of war - he was in the mood for medals, ribbons, awards and prizes, and he was more than ready to opine the kind of majestic opinions professed by victorious Roman generals that he hated war ... of course the deaths of millions of Chinese were of very little concern. The rest of the story is history: the world repaid a hundred fold in blood and toil and misery for Marshall's moral squeamishness. The period between the end of WWII and August 29, 1949 was probably the only window of opportunity in human history in which war could be eradicated just like smallpox was eradicated. Truman and Marshall, two of the world's most mediocre men in high place, wasted it. If there is a lesson to be learned from this episode, it is this: be very sceptical about the abilities of those who rose to prominence in hierarchical organizations. Hierarchical organizations favour docility more than anything else - if a house dog has a human shape, he would rise among the ranks like a hot air balloon.