Have you talked to Alice privately? Praising her in front of the team could help, but only if the cause of poor performance is one of a small number of things (feeling under-appreciated, insecure, generally demoralized, etc). Getting to the root of the problem first should help you understand how to boost performance. 

Raise standards of performance back to what they were. In team meetings, focus on the achievements of the team, not the individual. In private meetings, focus on where you want the team member to be, and the next steps to get there. And don't gloss over a backwards slide -- acknowledge you've noticed a change, reassure them you want to help improve their performance, and ask how you can help. 

If most developers don't have a formal title then why should you? If it's not in your company's culture or infrastructure, then there isn't really any reason to want it or request it. If it is, then it should come with a pay raise and increase in responsibility as "Senior Developer" implies a certain level of professional experience and professional responsibility. Most Senior level positions I have seen require 3 years experience minimum and that is only if you are an amazing candidate. If you get this title and underperform, it will be a hit to your credibility at best, at worst you could get fired and take the hit to your credibility and you probably won't survive the resume weed out phase for the next company you apply to. 

First of all, at my company, you must first talk to your manager before applying for another internal position, so check to see what the rules are. Also, why not have a talk with your manager about your current position and state that your preference is to do more programming? Ask if it's possible in your current role, and if not, what steps do you need to take to transition to a role in the company where you would do more programming? A good boss isn't going to keep you just because he needs you, a good boss will be more than willing to help you move to the role that you desire. Having said that, you may need to give your current team a little bit of time before you transition to another role. I don't think it would be out of the ordinary for them to ask you to stay in your current role for a month while they hire someone else. Regardless of what you decide to do in this situation, I think you should talk to your boss (or future boss) and state your desires to do more programming. One thing that I've learned recently at my job is that if there's something you want, you need to let that be known. 

I am a software developer at a large company. I was recently moved from the project I was hired on to to another project. Part of this was because the development work on my old project was drying up. I basically had my choice of project to move on to because I was very successful on my old project. I got special recognition awards and had a very positive performance review. I picked this project because the managers came highly recommended and the work seemed interesting. Fast forward 5 months: Apparently, upper management was not satisfied with the progress that was made on the most recent build of a product I was not involved in producing and that is having a trickle down effect, mostly on me, because I'm the "new" guy. I am pretty incessantly being called into status meetings, on top of sending weekly status emails. I keep being told that I need to ask questions when I need help (I do) and every time I say "I need to talk to X person about this" they interpret that as "I am not getting the help that I need". I honestly know my stuff. I don't constantly need help but it feels like they seem to think I do. Because of the nature of the work that I am doing, my boss's boss doesn't sit with us in our area. She has a stake in this development work but it feels like she is projecting her insecurities on to me, even though I assure her that I am on schedule, adequately tasked, etc. This is really negatively affecting my morale and causing me a lot of stress. How can I convince my boss's boss that she can trust me to do the job she hired me for? Update: I figured I would give an update post to this. I feel I didn't explain this very well (I was writing emotionally), but the criticism of the work I was receiving was based on work that had been delivered three months before my hiring. But either way, I realized via several performance meetings that there was a culture and expectation clash in that group and that I wasn't doing work that I wanted to be doing. So with the blessings of my former supervisor, I swapped groups and I am enjoying it. 

I'm hoping to get a job in management. Currently my only management experience is leading a special project at my current company. This project was a part time thing. I had about fifteen people working on this project, and everyone was expected to put in around 10% of their time for project related tasks. My regular job at this company had very little to do with this project. How should I list this on my resume? I worked on the project for a year and a half, and it was a high profile thing for my company. I never had a title change for this project, and my regular title would not indicate any management tasks. I feel that I should prominently display this on my resume, but since it accounted for a small portion of my other job, how do I account for it without making it seem like it was a full time thing? 

The best advice I was ever given, was to make a resignation letter short and sweet. Start with the fact you're resigning, then take a sentence or two to say something positive, and finish off with any important details. Even if you left in bad spirits, leaving saying positive things keeps potential future options open for you. Sounds like you're going for this approach. To respond to your specific example: 

That specific sentence loses some of its weight because it sounds overly emotional and hyperbolic. Would "nobody else" really hire an entry level programmer? Of course not, just nobody else that you applied to. It would give more weight if you play up the potential risk to the company and make it more personal, or even leave the last bit out. Such as: 

Here is my situation (and from what I gather this is a common worry, at least with this recruitment company): I went on a recruitment company's website and applied to a couple of their positions. I got a call from the recruiters for the positions and they sent me information on the companies and said they sent my profile to the companies. This was last week. Since then I have not heard from anyone at either of the companies, nor have I heard anything from the recruiters. Now after having applied through this recruiting company, I have read some rather unsavory rumors about this recruitment company, most of them having to deal with them scraping online job postings and sending resumes unsolicited. So now I am a bit worried that my resume may have been sent to the companies unsolicited and that my reputation may be tarnished with them, but I am also worried that they may have sent my resume solicited and if I apply directly with the company it will portray me poorly or "look bad" in some other way (recruiters often warn me of this). My question: how do I approach a company to see if they are contracted with a recruiting company? And if they are not, would it be possible to explain the situation in such a way as to not tarnish my chances at an interview when I apply directly with the company? 

I've heard of a company requiring users to stay on a certain browser (IE8, for example) because the company purchased some software that was written to work in that browser, and the company hasn't updated the software to a newer version that supports newer browsers. 

There have been several rumors going around that my department is about to have a re-org. I'm a strong performer and have been trying to find a way to get a promotion. With the re-org coming up, it seems that now is probably the time to make it happen. I've been having talks with my manager about what I want and why I think I deserve it. I have also talked with HR and a few other managers. I was hoping to come on this site and find some tips for the things that I should be doing in anticipation of the re-org. Edit: It's worth mentioning here that my company has never had a layoff in it's nearly 50 year history, so I'm not expecting one now. The rumored re-org is mostly to address our issues that stem from growth over time. Another department just had a re-org and they ended up with a new layer of management, which is what I'm anticipating with my department. Perhaps re-org is the wrong word? 

It's impossible to know what the hiring managers were thinking. However let me tell you a story. I was once in a position in a small IT department that had recently had some turnover. There were two vacated positions outside of the team I ran, and my boss and I agreed that the best approach would be to absorb those positions and their respective responsibilities into my team / team's service portfolio as a whole. So I posted the positions, and scheduled a round of interviews for the first round of applicants. I was in the middle of interviews when my boss told me he changed his mind. Instead, he was going to form a new team with these two positions, reporting to him, and the responsibilities would be shared differently across the two teams (meaning the skillets for the openings no longer matched what I was recruiting for). So I had no choice but to call up strong candidates, one of whom was 2 hours away from his scheduled interview, and tell them that the position was no longer going to be filled. I wanted to say more, but giving more detail would have reflected poorly on the organization. Point is, sometimes plans change without warning, and sometimes potential employers can't give much detail why.