The Hebrew Bible is among the early texts mentioning Susa (under the Hebrew name of Shushan which is the same world as a lily) but there exist somewhat older, Sumarian documents that mention Susa, e.g. Enmerkar and the Lord of Aratta where Susa is quoted as a place obedient to Inanna, a goddess of love. This text is from the 21st century BC but similar Sumerian texts going back to the 25st century BC may exist. The Sumerian civilization probably existed 4,000 BC and could have used the "same" words. They began to write around 3,000 BC. Susa comes from the name of the local deity, Inshushinak. Conveniently, this word "works" in English. God Inshushinak was "in Shusha". Most sources logically say that the relationship is the other way around: Inshushunak "means" the lord of Susa. The Sumerian language – the most ancient known written language – was a language isolate which makes conclusions about the relationship of their words to words in other languages particularly problematic. (Can the beginning "in" of the deity's name be identified with "in" in English, for example?) It is hard to claim that its words are related to words such as "six" if linguists don't even agree to which modern languages Sumerian was closer. It's easy to get carried away and propose relationships most of which are almost certainly coincidental. For example, šuša could be claimed to be related to the Czech word "šuškat" (whispher) or "šiška" (conifer cone) or "sušák" (dryer) or "sušit" (dry) or "sušenka" (a dry cookie) or even "šůsovat" (slang for fast direct Alpine skiing) but is there any reason to think that the similarity is more than a coincidence? Most of such short combinations of sounds are being used in every language. The Sumerian word has affected lots of names in the Elamite culture. The Elamite language was another language isolate, however. 

Leon Trotsky in 1918 was head of Red Army, so we can safely assume that many of high-level commanders were his supporters and proteges. He was also main opponent of Stalin, and Lenin named Trotsky as "most capable man" to replace him (Lenin) in Lenin's testament. He was also brilliant public speaker and agitator (unlike Stalin), so again this could win him supporters in army. Trotsky and Stalin had multiple disagreements during the war, where it can be argued that Stalin's mistakes and failures to cooperate with Trocky led to losses (like Battle of Warsaw see "Second Phase"). Likely, many of the purged commanders were aware of Stalin's mistakes, and had to be eliminated to cover the tracks. Lenin died 1923, Stalin-Bukharin faction blocked Testament's publication during 1924-1927 while Stalin consolidated power. 

Another reason for attacking Stalingrad was that Japanese considered attacking Russia (opening the second front) if Germany could cross river Volga (or take Moscow). Sorry I don't remember the source. BTW German strategy in WWII was not verdun-like, just the opposite: blitzkrieg (highly mobile attack, avoiding and bypassing enemy's defensive strongpoints and encircling them instead). Cities like Stalingrad are especially bad match for blitzkrieg strategy, which was not lost to commanding general Chuikov. 

The official story is that the inscription is taken from Jefferson’s Notes on the State of Virginia, with the last two sentences being from a letter to George Washington. A manuscript. The quote isn't some black-and-white assertion against slavery. Thomas Jefferson had complex and evolving relationships with slaves. He owned lots of them (inherited some 135 of them), had a romantic relationship with one of them after his wife died (including kids), waived various fees, and was the key politician who banned importation of new slaves and then slavery itself in numerous states. It's just wrong to assume that a politician in the late 18th century should have behaved and acted like a radical social justice warrior in the 21st century. There is no contradiction between Jefferson's life and the inscription and Jefferson was an amazing politician and president who has improved the U.S. society dramatically. 

You can't expect any stable shape of the distribution throughout the Bronze Age. Just look at the distribution of age in the recent 110 years: 

You asked for a . My answer doesn't reflect a cultural difference but a political one. If you follow the link Gesamtergebnisse der Wahlen zum Reichstag und Mandatsverteilung you find maps with the results of the elections of the Weimar Republic. The map for the KPD (communists) shows a strong area in the east of the later GDR. 

I try to identify your specific Schwedenschanze. There is a Schwedenschanze on Googlemaps,robably this one: $URL$ 

Your assumption is wrong, there was the Uprising of 1953 in East Germany And the Fall of the Iron Curtain was also initiated by the East German mass protests. 

There may be differnet reasons. An extract from the German Wikipedia article about German gold reserves: 

The German Wikipedia contains a list of all towns of the Volga Republic, there is also Dreispitz mentioned. Some informations of the town are also available at cu-portland.edu and lowervolga.org 

I think hunting restrictions existed during the complete history of mankind. Totems or Totemism seems to be one of the oldest religion element of mankind. 

Please note that above analysis is Russian military research. Above link suggest that Germany lost the war because of a single strategic mistake: As panzer armies were closing to Moscow in August 41, Hitler redirected his panzer armies south to Kiev, then moved them back, losing time and operational tempo. In August, defense of Moscow has only 26 new untrained divisions (facing 60 veteran German divisions). Continuing on Moscow (which was most important transportation and communication (telephones) hub), Germany would split railroad transportation and communication, and Kiev defenses would collapse anyway. It is entirely possibly that if Germans would take over Moscow in August 41, Japan could attacked USSR during battle for Moscow (or possibly Stalingrad), opening second front from Manchuria, instead of attacking USA in Pearl Harbor (or delaying that attack for few months). When Soviet spy Richard Sorge find out in mid-september 41 about no imminent plans of attack of USSR, it allowed Stalin to move divisions from Siberia (used and trained to winter warfare) to (soviet) western front, defend Moscow. This was real case when a spy changed history (and paid for it with his life). Especially close to collapse (best time for attack) was first war winter, when industry just moved to Ural (production was not restarted), and German submarines ruled North Atlantic, sinking much of the supplies to Murmansk. There were 3 routes for supplies from Allies to reach USSR: