its a pretty straight forward question. facts only please, no opinions, and i request that only an experienced and well practiced zen buddhist answer this question (to avoid speculation). thanks. 

ask questions... but Monks are essentially people also, Your practice isnt dependent on theirs, same for your progress vs. theirs. If you are getting opinions, know that they are simply opinions. if you are getting textual facts... a well studied monk is the place to go. If you are just curious of opinions... this is more appropriate than a Monastery. but more directly... - they dont usually ask for things, so please offer anything you may think could be useful for them. - They do live according to the Vinaya Pitaka. - What do you mean by bless?... their knowledge is available to all, they dont generally reguard people by economic status and if they do it tends to be focusing on the less fortunate in a helpful way (in my experience). The rich (who are involved) tend to bless them actually...with various things. 

Living in present is the phrase used by Buddhists to refer to mindfulness. Mindfulness can be something like "When we walk, we walk. When we eat, we eat." Mindfulness can also be non distraction, being here. 

Samsara exist because there is enlightenment- free from Samara. Just like wealth exist because there are poor. Only if one is free from Samsara can one see Samsara. If everyone is in Samsara, then how can one see Samsara? That is what Buddha is here to teach 

To progress along the path, to realise what the Buddha did, we need a vehicle. If the vehicle uses imagination as a method, then imagination becomes the path. Imagination is not mindfulness, but is used to train mindfulness. 

Yes it is asking for opinions, which i will investigate further on my own. opinions would be helpful in this particular circumstance. 

i recently went to a meeting with some bhikkhus, and they served the monks a small dish with butter slices and little chocolate squares... i think it was dark chocolate if that matters. So anyway, i was suprised to see it and was wondering other views on this. and the underlying point to the question... i am obviously looking for loop holes for a snack-ish type thing before bed. 

no an arahant learns from a buddha, a buddha discovers the path on his own. ive also heard that buddhahood has additional powers, its not just nibbana attainment and thats it. i coukd be wrong on that. 

Renunciation! There must be renunciation from the bottom of your heart before you can be easy on your meditation. 

Buddhism is about non-attachment. The more we are attached to bliss, the more there is no bliss. The more we look for bliss, the more bliss cannot be found. Practice renunciation. 

In some schools of Buddhism, everything is mind. Even the random effects are created by mind, which is karma. In other words, the random effects do not exist outside the mind. Which means, since the random effects exist within the mind, it does create experience. 

There are many types of suffering and stress, anxiety, fear etc are mental sufferings. Thus wanting to be free from suffering is natural and knowing the path is the right view. 

if you are offered a seat that seems luxurious, and simply using the seat available, as opposed to seeking out "the best seat" your intention is appropriate. if you hear music someone else is playing, its very different from intentionally seeking out music to listen to. these are very useful opportunities to meditate on the nature of such phenomina and your reaction to them. like, if your mind tries to attach to the other persons music, or if you experience gladness about being stuck with a nice seat. others conforming to your lifestyle is not necessary (and may be inappropriate, especially if you impose your beliefs on them) no one else can violate your precepts for you. understanding things in this way may be helpful. one example... if someone has to go out of their way to accommodate a low seat (a specific preference) then that seat becomes (in a way) a phenomenon of luxury. 

You got it somehow. True self or true nature of the mind is luminous, reflecting everything as it is. It is the buddha itself. Everyone has this true self and everyone can follow the Buddha's path to realize the true self. 

No self does not mean disappearances. Acknowledging Anatta means we are mindful of others more than self. If I'm driving a bus, I'm mindful of the safety of all my passengers, not just myself. I don't disappear and let the bus drive by itself because it is reckless to the passengers. Disappearing is not Anatta. 

If the patient is a devout Christian and saying "may god bless you" helps him to recover, by all means say "may god bless you". If the patient is a BUDDHIST, saying "Namo Amitabha" and remembering the three refuge can be helpful.. 

If you do not follow (or know) what the Buddha taught, yet seek and reach enlightenment on your own, you are working on buddhahood. So in a sense yes. Though not meditating can also be a state of not doing the actual practice that the buddha taught. Considering the theory of rebirth even without meditation one can start down the path as they noted above and develop kammic building blocks for the next round. 

yes. well theres a couple of ways... 1- you could study more about the stages of insight and enlightenment, and 2- you could practice with a monk regularly and ask for help. Im sure there are other ways (and feel free to explore them) but these are traditionally how progress is made and verified in buddhism to he best of my knowledge and really, if you want to know how you're progressing on a buddhist path... theres only one type of person likely to be qualified to evaluate you (though not all monks are valid choices). Here is a video my teacher made on the stages of insight through vipassana though for a short run down so you can make a general assessment. $URL$ 

Remember the Heart Suttra. In emptiness, there is ...no eye, no nose, no ear, no mouth, ... Thus in emptiness there is no soul. The concept of man and woman are created by human beings. 

A person can choose between being a layman or a monk, but not both. Layman has to work to earn a living. Monks have to focus on the practice and uphold Buddhism. Both have complementary roles to play. Layman work to support the monks community. Monks pray for peace, harmony and success of the working community. 

Some people perceive impermanent as self, some perceive permanent as self. Both permanence and impermanence are self. The idea here is when the self perceives a permanent "impermanent" or permanent "permanent" then there is suffering when permanent "impermanent" becomes impermanent "impermanent". To be free from suffering, one must realize everything is impermanent - even have to realize that "impermanent" is impermanent.