I have had that happen when the freewheel body inside the hub has completely disintegrated and a shard of the broken metal jammed inside the hub. The solution then was to buy a new wheel - it wasn't worth fixing (and that was with an extremely expensive Tune hub - :-( ). Sadly, I think something similar has happened to you. As Daniel commented, it sounds like your hub has seized/jammed and you are only enabling the wheel to turn by partially undoing the nuts (which makes me think that you don't have quick release - is that correct?). I have to point out here that THIS IS DANGEROUS. If you ride the bike in that condition the spinning wheel could either a) undo the nut completely, thus enabling the wheel to come out, or b) do them back up again and the hub could jam again [imagine if that happens in traffic...]. Please take the bike to your friendly local bike store and ask them to check the hub out. 

And it also tells you it has a pressfit bottom bracket. So I suggest you buy a SRAM X01 crank. I don't know where you live, but you can buy that online, e.g. $URL$ (also found by Googling BTW). 

There is a lot of material online about the causes of speed wobbles, but I haven't seen spoke tension as a common cause. It usually something created by, and stopped by, rider position rather than anything on the bike (I know you didn't want to read that). Just a thought though: wouldn't uneven spoke tension show up in the wheel not being "true"? In any case, look up Jobst Brandt's book "The bicycle wheel". It's the definitive text about this subject, written by a very meticulous engineer and cyclist. $URL$ $URL$ 

Assuming that the shoe is still attached to the cleat.... Can you not just keep turning the shoe to a wider and wider angle until it forces the cleat to disengage from the pedal? You'll scratch the sole of the shoe, and possibly slightly widen the screw holes in the shoe, but it shouldn't break anything. Note that it's quite hard to get a shoe & cleat out of SPD pedals using your hands - even when the cleat is screwed on correctly. It's much easier to do when you are wearing the shoe. I'd recommend trying this whilst wearing the shoe, sitting on the bike, but leaning against a wall or fence (or having someone hold you upright). 

Have a look at the spec sheet for the RD-6700. In the table in the table in the centre it says that that largest sprocket for the RD-6700-GS is 28 tooth - so I don't think the RD-6700-GS will help you. Instead you might consider a Tiagra RD-4700-SS which can fit up to a 34 tooth sprocket. 

Stans No Tubes and other tubeless systems with sealant will provide you much greater resistance to both "puncture" flats from glass, nails etc, AND from "pinch flats" or "snakebites". The sealant will seal holes from quite large nails or other debris and the tubeless tyre can't really get a pinch flat because there is no tube inside it to pinch. Having said that, if you hit a bad enough pothole or rock, at really high speed, you could still tear a hole in the sidewall - but you'd have to be trying quite hard to do that. A few notes on making tubeless work: 

Perhaps its obvious, but maybe the tube has a leak? Is it an old tube that has perished and is just letting air out as fast as you pump it in? Perhaps try taking the tube off the wheel, put it in a bucket/tub of water, and then pump. Can you see bubbles somewhere? 

Try re-pairing the 510 with the speed/cadence sensor. It seems like it's not connected and the speed data is coming from the GPS rather than the sensor. As suggested by others, the alignment of the speed/cadence sensor is important, but it must be close since you seem to get a little cadence data before it drops out. Perhaps it's too close and your crank or spoke magnet has actually bumped the sensor and pushed it away? I did have a similar thing happen with my Edge 500, and re-pairing the sensor seemed to fix it. 

A 25mm tyre can be run at a lower pressure with the same rolling resistance, thus giving you a slightly more comfortable ride, and slightly better grip in wet conditions or on a dirty surface. If you take that reduction in pressure too far, you'll get more pinch flats, but you'll be very comfortable just before you stop to fix that flat. :-) However, if you inflate to the appropriate pressure then you'll get a better ride, better grip, with minimal difference in rolling resistance - the downside being weight, and possibly an increase in frontal area causing a little more drag. So why don't the pro teams use a 25mm if there are all those advantages? There's some indication that they have been starting to over the last few years: 

I have used stans no-tubes sealant with various tires and rims on my road bike, mountain bikes, and cyclocross bikes for 5+ years and I'd never go back. 

I suggest you try Googling Trek Slash 9 2014 to find out what it has: I did, and I found this: $URL$ It says: Crank 

It's not the cranks or bottom bracket (though it sounds like the BB might need replacing anyway) if the chain is moving normally. The crank is fixed to the chain rings with bolts, so that can't slip. It's much more likely that the ratchet mechanism in the rear hub is broken. Older ones work on 2-4 small spring loaded "palls" that engage a ramped gear. If the springs or the palls themselves rust and break, then the hub will no longer engage and you'll get that "no resistance" feeling. The grinding you are feeling is probably bits of pall, spring, freehub body and possibly bearing moving around in the rear hub. The lack of "tick-tick-tick" is because those palls are not being clicked into the gear by their springs. Unfortunately, this probably means a new rear wheel. The freehub body is probably ground down into pieces, and those pieces will have damaged the inside of the hub itself. Technically, you could buy a new hub, and get your bike shop to lace that onto the existing rim, but it will probably be cheaper to just buy a whole rear wheel. 

There are none that have 11sp and 3 chainrings. But looking at the spec of the bike that I think you have: $URL$ It appears that it's 2x10, rather than 2x11 (it says 20 gears "SRAM X5 20 speed"). Can you check if it's really 11sp that you need? If you need 3x10, then you'll need to change the crankset and the left shifter - and possibly the front derailleur - though you can probably get away without it. You can find a matching X5 SRAM 3x10 crankset online pretty easily e.g. $URL$ Note that going to 3x10 does not give you easier gears. It just gives you smaller jumps between gears. If you want easier gears, then there is a much simpler and cheaper solution: get a smaller small chainring, and/or a cassette with a larger big cog.