Such solipsist positions are logically unassailable. That's the point when I reach for my copy of Marx's Theses on Feuerbach: 

Most people's interpretation of seen colours can be mapped perfectly or almost perfectly into the interpretation of other people. I cannot know exactly what you call "red" (it certainly isn't the wavelenght or the frequency), but I can be quite confident that the set of things that you say to be "red" is very similar to the set of things I say to be "red". 

Western writing systems - the Italic, Greek, and Cyrilic alphabets - are written left to right. It is usually supposed that this has a practical reason - when writing with ink, the right hand moves to the right without touching the still fresh ink of the recently written words. And most humans are right-handed, for reasons I ignore (and I suppose science ignores too, albeit this pseudo-scientific evil conspiracy called evolutionary psychology probably having its two cents of illogical and unfalsifiable pseudotheories about the issue). But Arabic alphabet is written right to left, and it doesn't seem its users actually have a problem with messing the ink with their right hands. So it might be merely contingent; if you flip a coin, it will give you either head or tails, and there is no use to speculate on the "reasons" why it ended with tails up ex post facto. Two of the issues you point - the order of years in timelines and the order of books in shelves - are directly related to the way we write. I do not know if timelines or shelves are organised differently in countries that use the Arabic alphabet, but it would be logical, and I suppose that if it is not the case, it is probably due to Western influence. As for the order of the keys in a piano - and other keyboard musical instruments - it seems to follow from the fact that our musical tradition puts more emphasys in the higher voices(1). We hear the soprano, the violin, the flute conducting the main melody, while the baritone, the cello, or the bassoon, play a secondary role, providing harmonic support for the main voice. In a keyboard instrument, consequently, we are to expect that the higher notes will be melodic and involve more complicated hand movements, while the lower notes will provide harmonic support. As most pianists, organists, etc., are right-handed, it makes sence to put the lower note keys to the left. (1) "Higher", here, in a merely acustic context, as in, "higher wave frequency", not implying any superiority. 

But I am not sure 1. is trivial. This is a "statement about statements", or a meta-statement (to be precise, a meta-statement of level 1), so I am not sure it is valid to call it a "statement". If it isn't, then it is false, because 1. above is false. Of course, one can argue that 

Of course the timing of political assemblies or court trials is incompatible with detailed formal analysis. By the time you end the formalisation and calculate the truth values and contradictions, you have lost the vote or the lawsuit. You may prepare like this previously, imagining what arguments your opponents will rise, and searching for inconsistencies there. Or you can do it if an event is postponed, in which case you can analyse the arguments made in the previous meeting, in preparation for the next one. But during an actual discussion, you do not have the time for this. But a good debater (and a formal training in Logic won't harm one's ability to debate, and maybe will allow one to make simple formalisations and propositional calculus mentally) is able to detect inconsistencies (real or otherwise) in the discourse of an opponent, and to expose them in a short, cutting way, that leads the audience to dismiss the attacked argument ("Build a wall on the Mexican border? But there are not enough stonemasons in the US for a work like that; we would need Mexican immigrant stonemasons for the job, so your wall would increase immigration instead of reducing it"). But then this belongs more to the swampy territory of Rhetorics than to healthy mountains of Logic. 

No. Either the defendant is innocent or guilty; there is no Schroedinger cat here. Either the defendant committed a crime, or s/he did not commit a crime. That we know, or that we do not know, which is the truth, is a different problem, that does not create a third, intermediate, category between guilt and innocence. If the defendant is innocent, s/he will be acquitted; if s/he is guilty, s/he will be sentenced (to prison, to death, to a fine, etc). S/he cannot be neither imprisoned nor not imprisoned. So a decision has to be made: either the defendant must be acquitted, or the defendant must be convicted. And that within a reasonable lapse of time, for an unterminable process amounts to making the defendant suffering a penalty while not being convicted. And so, the sentence should be read as meaning, "if the prosecution cannot demonstrate the defendant's guilty beyond reasonable doubt, then the defendant must be acquitted, as if s/he was innocent" - even if we don't know that for sure. 

Which is basically begging the question: "1. is true because 1. is true." Which is a different fallacy. The general could however have answered: 

Which would seem at least a not completely negative appreciation of it (true, it would be even more positive had he not completed it by his even more famous, It is the opium of the people. But anyway). 

Well, anyone can do whatever they wish, including arson, murder, and jaywalking. So the question is, can they legally do this? And the answer is no. If John sells himself to Joseph, this is a fictitious contract. Any time John wants to be free again, Joseph cannot enforce his supposed "property rights" upon him. The State will not enforce such rights for him, and if he tries to do it by himself, he is almost certainly committing a crime. This is true in New York or Berlin, Moscow or Jacarta, Ryiad or Stockholm, and is only less true in those parts of the world where no State authority is able to assert itself. Contrary to the libertarian fiction, rights only exist where the State upholds them. 

A false dichotomy would be something of the kind, "either someone is rich, or someone is poor". It is false because while one cannot be rich and poor at the same time (if we define "rich" and "poor" correctly), someone can be neither poor nor rich. But this has nothing to do with what is asked in the title of this question, which is whether saying that there can be no rich without the poor is a false dichotomy. This is an independent issue, and I would say that such proposition is not a false dichotomy. It isn't even a dichotomy. Let's apply this to another relation. Let's say that the issue involves slavery: "there can be no slavemasters without there being slaves". The truth of it is obvious: if there are no slaves, no one can own slaves, and consequently no one can be a slavemaster. It is still true that "either one is a slave, or a slavemaster" is a false dichotomy: most of us, living in the 21st century, are neither slaves nor slavemasters. This is not true for all kinds of relation: for instance, it is false to say that there would be no Black people if there were no White people (perhaps nobody would notice skin colours in that case, but that is a differente issue). So the issue is to determine whether the poor-rich divide is of the same kind as the slave-master one, or, on the the contrary, it is of the Black-White kind. As material wealth is both limited and quantifiable - as opposed to melanin - it would seem that one can only amass a significant amount of material wealth if others don't, and so that if someone is rich, then others are at least comparatively poor. Unless we define wealth and poverty differently, of course. 

While we can verify that black swans exist, or conclude that unicorns must not exist because their existence would contradict what we know about the structure of the universe, or that God doesn't exist because its description is self-contradictory, a sentence that refers to the psyche of an individual is much problematic. The faithful in question could be lying, or could have not given enough thought to the issue of God to really hold a significant faith - and we may not have any actual means to confirm or dismiss the claim. Besides, this seems to in some way break the idea that existence is "objective". Whether someone's faith in God exists or not, that certainly depends, at least partially, on that person and her beliefs - and we can't demonstrate that such existence is self-contradictory; while the belief in itself can be absurd, people do often believe in impossible things. In that sence, it would seem that the beliefs of a person - be them religious or not - do not "exist" in the same way that Finland exists. We can perhaps assert that certain symptoms of the existence of the belief exist, and that they may indicate the existence of the belief (whenever John is going to cross the street, he looks both sides first, which indicates that he may believe that cars exist and are dangerous) - but is that the same thing? This lack of objectivity is, of course, part of the problem with 

refers to actual snakes, or to Brazilian soldiers in WWII, or something else. So, the meaning of a sentence seems to be an emerging property, that is not contained in the mere sum of its parts. 

As far as I understand, he opens PhI by exactly criticising language acquisition by ostensive definition in the case of children. In fact, it seems to me that he strawmans a remark by Augustine that has no greater ambitions than recalling a first childhood that has actually been forgotten into a whole "philosophical theory of language" that doesn't seem to match any actual body of philosophy. 

The "left" as we understand it is about equality. It makes little sence to be in favour of economic equality but for some reason be against the rights of Blacks, women, gay people, etc. It makes also little sence to defend equality between gay and straight aristocrats, or equality between poor men and poor women, but be against eliminating the inequality between the poor and the rich. "Big government" only relates tangentially to the fight against inequality (the moderate left usually believes the State can be instrumental in lowering inequality levels - which is true in the short term). But many leftists are against any kind of State, even the "minimal" State of neoliberals. I fear that Left Hegelianism faded into unimportance too early to have any relation to what you call "cultural left". The only Left Hegelian who seems to still attract some reading and discussion is Max Stirner, and while his followers may or may not partake the "cultural leftist" mores, they are hardly important in that context. The others seem to me to only retain a historic, academic, interest "Cultural Marxism" is an invention of the far right (of Olavo de Carvalho, I think). It has nothing to do with reality, rather deriving from a very incompetent (mis)reading of either Gramsci (who never said or wrote anything similar) or Marcuse (who was a Frankfurt School member, though way more radical than Adorno or Habermas, but whose views of the "sexual revolution" of the sixties are quite critical - he was the coiner of the expression "repressive dessublimation", after all). Evidently, "the left" never gathered in some kind of congress to decide, "hey, political revolution isn't working, let's turn everybody gay and transex, this way we are going to sneak into power". The whole idea is indeed quite reminiscent of conspiracy theories of the "Learned Elders of Zion" kind and quality, to be honest. 

is ambiguous, and one of its meanings is false. It is raining. Why? because water has condensated in the cooler upper atmosphere in the form of clouds. That's the reason why it is raining. It is not, however, the purpose of rain. So let's assume that you mean "purpose as the reason for which something exists" as the intent why something exists. It is raining. Why? Because God has planned it so that the plants won't die. That would be the "purpose" of rain. Now, back to "objective". What is an "objective purpose"? Again, this is ambiguous. John intends to study Astronomy. This is a purpose. It is "objective" in the sense that it exists as an artifact of the real world; it makes John plan for taking courses, reading books, buying a telescope, etc. It is "subjective" (ie, non-objective) in the sense that it resides exclusively in John's volition; should he change his mind and decide to study pharmacology instead, the purpose ceases to exist. If you intend it like "it is objective because it exists in the material world", then virmaior's answer applies. If you intend it like "it is objective because it is not subjective", then no; there is no purpose, no intention, without somebody's volition, and so, there is no such thing as an "objective purpose". In other words, there is no such thing as a "final cause" outside of subjectivity. If we say that "the purpose of rain is to avoid the death of plants", we are either attributing a mind to natural phenomena (clouds, water, air, wind) or, perhaps inadvertently, creating a fictitious mind ex-nihilo (gods, devils, angels). 

This points to a very different point of view; it is not the case that opposites are identical, but that opposites coincide. This isn't contradictory with the law of identity, which is also often misstated as: 

First, there is a contradiction here. Lets call the largest number "N". Then the half of N is N/2 - which is obviously less than N, and so it is not the largest number. Then there is a number that is N/2 + 1. Such number is also less than N, unless N is two (and, since we have five fingers in each hand, and five is larger than 2, it seems quite easy to assume that N is larger than 2). But now we have a problem. For all numbers equal or smaller than N/2, it is true to say that all numbers can be multiplied by two: (1 X 2 = 2, 2 X 2 = 4, 3 x 2 = 6... (N/2) X 2 = N). But N/2 + 1 cannot be multiplied by two, for that would be N + 2, which is larger than N, and consequently is not a number, for N is, by definition, the largest number. And so, some numbers can be multiplied by 2, and others cannot. Or that they can, but then the result is not a number (what are they, then?). This will make any mathematical system inconsistent. Second... I don't believe in circles. And while you cannot prove that there is a largest number, I can even prove that circles do not exist. If matter is made of atoms, then any circle that has x atoms in its radius must have a circumference of πx atoms - which is impossible since π is irrational. So, circles don't exist. Yet, I pretty much know what a circle is, and when and why to use such thing. It is an abstraction; as Chris Sunami puts it, it is a useful concept. You can't have modern mathematics without it; but, worse, you can't have Euclid, or even Pythagoras, without it. And so, I think this is the problem: Physically, it is possible that there "is" a largest number in the universe: the number of the smallest particles, or of the smallest possible length, or area, or volume, that exist in the universe, or the multiverse. But any mathematician, or even a pesky layman, can then say, "that number... plus one", "that number... times two", "that number... squared". And while such numbers are larger than the number of countable "things" in the universe, they are still numbers, for any of the commonplace arithmetic operations can be performed to/with them. Mathematics is not a "science" in the sence that Physics, Biology, or Sociology are. It is a method, and a method that can be applied to things that exist, and also to things that do not exist. Four unicorns are still twice as much as two unicorns. 

If I was to respond to this, I would reject the question: the precedent is very doubtful (who says that Marx's notion of justice is not egalitarian, and under which definition of "egalitarian"?), and the consequent is probably even worse (the main problem with the extraction of surplus value is not that it is unjust, but that it is unsustainable, as it destroys the conditions for the production of value in the long term(1)). But rejecting a question is perhaps more difficult than anwering it, and, depending on the professor and his/her way to deal with dissent and critical reasoning, diplomatically complicated. (1) There is, of course, a way to address Marx's criticism of capitalist exploitation from a merely ethical point of view: that capitalists buy one commodity (labour power) but acquire another, which is different both in nature and in value (whatever final product their company is intended to sell). But in this precise aspect, it would be difficult to deny that Marx's notion of "justice" is no different from bourgeois "egalitarianism": the exchange is "unjust" because one side gets paid pro quo while the other pays for quid, so it is an unequal exchange.