There must be some kind of "free list" or "sell list" where you can give away stuff in your area. Maybe you can find someone that has a stove that is compatible with these things. Perhaps the local outdoor store can help, although they see these free canisters as offsetting sales of new ones. A outdoor club would be a good place to ask. It's probably not a good idea to take them backpacking due to their condition, but maybe the person with the compatible stove can use the stove in his back yard for some types of cooking, or whatever. That way the propane and butane, and the energy it took to refine them, aren't completely wasted. The use of these canisters should, in theory, offset other energy use. 

I don't know of a site that lists all trails in the US. This is probably because trails are managed by the same patchwork of authority that manages the land. There are various federal, state, regional, town, and private groups that manage land that contains trails open to the public. The best I can advise is to pick a small area you are interested in and drill down to find trails there. Just because there is no easy place to find a listing of all trails in the US, that doesn't mean they don't exist. You would get completely the wrong impression simply by comparing the 5k versus 250k numbers of listed trails you found. There are some long thru-trails many people will have heard of, like the Appalachian Trail, the Pacific Crest Trail, and the Continental divide trail. Then there are regional ones like the Long Trail in Vermont, the Arizona Trail, etc. But the vast majority are in local networks of trails scattered an many places. In terms of total miles, these local trails exist in vast numbers compared to the few well known long ones. The town I live in (Groton MA) is about 34 square miles and has over 100 miles of hiking trails. You're unlikely to find them on any national web site. And, we're just one little town. Nearby towns don't have quite as many, but they all have some local trails and conservation areas. We also have a few smaller regional trails just in this area of New England, like the M+M, Midstate, Wapack, Bay Circuit, and a few others. Are any of those on your list? Probably not most of them. 

The cause of the itch can be quite different. For mosquito bites, the itch is due to a allergic reaction to the mosquito's saliva. The strength of this allergic reaction varies between people, and it is possible, usually after enough exposure, to develop immunity. That means your body no longer over-reacts to the mosquito spittal. Tick bites usually itch for long periods of time (it can take a month or more) because often a piece of the tick is left in your skin. The body attacking and breaking down this foreign stuff stuck in your skin includes processes that can cause itching. There are various kinds of spider "bites". Some spiders actually feed on your skin. In that case the itch is similar to when a scab heals. It's part of the body's process of re-generating and healing tissue. Such spiders have evolved to inject anesthetic so that you don't feel it when they are feeding. Other spiders inject venom. Different venoms can have different effects, from itching to resparatory failure or paralysis resulting in death. 

I have no idea what "sounded like wind chimes" is supposed to mean. No animal that I know of makes a metallic clinking sound. The closest would be several frogs, but that doesn't fit at all with everything else you said. Ignoring the useless description of the sound, everything else points to coyotes. It would be helpful to be more specific than "not far north of Boston" so we can at least know the nature of the general surroundings (houses and pavement, open field, a large wooded area, etc), but coyotes are now all over New England, even in some urban areas. Coyotes don't exactly congregate in "packs" like wolves do, more like family groups. Several of them together is not unusual at all. The screaming animal you mention was probably a neighborhood cat. Cats usually scream loudly as a last resort, and coyotes are known to prey on house cats sometimes. It is also consistant with coyotes that they stayed around for a month or so, then moved on, particularly if this was not late winter when they have pups in a den. I live in Groton MA with woods all around the house. We have a group of coyotes in the general area, and twice now their den has been on our property. Mostly we hear them, especially when they howl back at trains honking at a nearby crossing. I only see a coyote on our property maybe 2-4 times a year, but pick them up routinely on a trail camera in the woods. 

I don't know how this works in California, but here in Massachusetts, the Fish and Wildlife folks might want to know about it. Something unusual is going on. Maybe there is some disease going around. Maybe there is something locally that is poisoning the birds. Do there seem to be sufficient blossoms around for the birds to feed from? Do you notice anything different about flowers in your area than previous years? What about the existence or lack of humming bird feeders in your area? Was there a recent unusual weather event? Again, the people from the right state agency probably want to know about such a unusual occurrence, or maybe already know about this particular problem. If you don't know how to get hold of the right state people, try asking local people involved in conservation. Is there a Audubon sanctuary near you? A birding club? These people might know about the issue already, or they can probably tell you how to contact the appropriate state people. 

You need the right balance of air pressure. Both too much and too little can reduce comfort. This can be seen by thinking about the limiting cases. With no air, you're directly on the ground. If you could put very high pressure into the mattress without it exploding, the mattress would itself be hard, and you're effectively back to being on hard ground. You want something in the middle. The best for distributing your weight over the most body area is when the lowest point on you body just touches the ground. That is usually the hip when lying on your side. With the hip not quite touching the ground, you don't feel the hard ground, but the mattress is selectively squished and conforms to your body up to the depth of the mattress. I've got one of those inflatable pads that's maybe 1 inch or a little more thick, and I have found the above works just like the theory suggests. I usually over-inflate the mattress when setting up the tent, then let a little air out when I lie down. I do this while lying on my side since my hip in that position is the first thing that touches the ground when the mattress is under-inflated. 

There is no standard for the color and shape of blazes used to mark trails in the US. Generally, trails are managed locally, so at best a set of blazes follows a pattern in a particular area. A few longer trails have well known consistant blazes the whole length. The AT, for example, uses a vertical white rectangle that has a speficified width and height. Generally, any one trail will be consistant, but there is no higher level standard or plan. 

I suspect that tree grew with something else twined around it. That something else has meanwhile died or been removed. Bittersweet is a likely candidate for what might have wound around the tree earlier in its life. There is more information on bittersweet in this question. I can't tell exactly what type of tree it is without seeing the leaves. However, it is a hardwood. The leaves we can see appear to be maple, but it's hard to tell, and they don't look like they are from the tree in question. 

This answer is "you shouldn't", since it appears from your description it's not your land and you have no authority over it. Unauthorized private modifications to public land can be a serious problem. Not only can you get into trouble doing it, it may make work and cause problems for those who are in charge. If you really want to see this trail marking changed, find out who owns the land and who has authority over the trails (may not be the same people, committee, etc), and make a request to them. When doing so, make it clear you are willing to help as a volunteer to perform any work. However, you should not take it upon yourself to make modifications to something that's not yours without the proper permission. I can tell you for sure that if you came to my town and started modifying markings at trail intersections, we'd take a very dim view of that. If you came to the Trails Committee instead with a proposal, we'd kick it around and evaluate the idea with the benefit of the general public in mind. There may also be various restrictions and deals made about trails on that property that you are not aware of. Those may proclude a certain type of use, or even a certain type of signage. Yes, both of these restrictions, and a number of others, exist of various parts of our trail network. Added in response to comments Wow, we have a tough crowd here. The main objection seems to be that this answer doesn't apply to the OP's location. Maybe it doesn't, but there is no way to know since the OP never mentioned a location. If you want a answer that is specific to a location, you need to specify that location in the question. I just checked, and the OP is in Bulgaria according to his profile. I don't know what laws and customs are like in Bulgaria, and of course we don't know if that's where the OP is actually asking about either. In any case, this answer is still correct for significant parts of the world, including where I am, which is in the US, more specifically New England. Around here, even in a city, someone will own the land and have authority over it. While walking on it is generally OK as long as it's not specifically posted "No trespassing", making any modifications without permission of the land owner is not OK. This would include trimming branches to make a trail, or to deliberately obfuscate a existing trail. It would absolutely include putting up a swing and installing benches. To take this even further, in some cases modifications, even just clearing a trail, may take more permission than just the land owner's consent. There can be various ordinances in a city governing vacant property. Here in Massachusetts anything within 100 feet of a wetland requires permission from the local Conservation Commission in addition to consent from the land owner. So all those quick to downvote because they assume it doesn't apply to the OP's particular sitation need to consider that it does apply to many such situations in many parts of the world. I don't really care whether this answer ultimately helps the OP or not. However, it is something anyone else contemplating something similar should consider carefully since it may apply to them. Downvote as you see fit, but I'm leaving this here because it is in line with the Stack Exchange stated goal of building broad and long-lasting repository of questions and answers. 

I'll weigh in on the Gatorade part. No, you don't need Gatorade, or any other drink with the right salts in it. However, you do need to replace the salts somehow. I use Gatorade because it's convenient (I have to carry the water anyway), the amount of electrolytes I need to replace is well matched to the amount of water I need to replace so having them in your drink makes it easy and so you can't forget, it makes a warm drink on a hot day actually seem OK, and it adds a little taste that helps get you to drink it. I use Gatorade specifically instead of other sports drinks because I'm familiar with it and know how much to use and how it works for me. I expect most properly forumulated sports drinks would be fine. For me Gatorade works and it's widely available, so I don't feel like being a test pilot. Remember why Gatorade was developed in the first place. The powder is something you can take into the desert and not have to worry about it spoiling. Mixed Gatorade does spoil after a day or so, so I only mix up what I need at the time for whatever hike I'm doing. I bring only mixed Gatorade on a hike. It doesn't spoil so fast you have to worry about that. While I'm in the desert, that's what I drink, even when I'm back in the car or camp. When it's hot out, replacing electrolytes along with water in the right proportions is a good safe thing to do with no downside I've found yet. Yes, it does have some calories. First, I don't mix it full strength. 1/2 to 2/3 of what the directions say seems to be about right. If I remember right, it's only a few 100 calories per gallon as I mix it. That's really pretty little considering you can hike all day on two gallons. You're still spending more calories hiking than the gatorade provides. Don't worry about it. A little sugar when you're exerting yourself can even be useful. I find that I don't feel hungry much when it's hot. The little bit of sugar in the diluted Gatorade is enough to make me not want to bring food, which actually makes a few things simpler. I find I can hike pretty much all day with the only calory intake being from the diluted Gatorade, and I feel fine. I usually go hiking in the morning and don't eat anything until I get back in mid to late afternoon. I know some people don't like Gatorade due to the taste. First, it's not about the taste, get over it. Second, there are various flavors. I don't like the original bug juice at all, but if that's all that's available I'll use it. I find the fruit punch flavor really not that bad at all. I wouldn't drink it just for the flavor, but it's good enough that it's a positive instead of a negative, and it helps (for me anyway) to drink warm liquid when it's hot. I found out the hard way once that there is such a thing as reduced calorie Gatorade. I was having a hard time finding a tub of powder, and could only find these packets. I didn't pay attention enough in the store to notice it was reduced calorie. Even though it was the fruit punch flavor that I think isn't really bad at all for the normal stuff, this stuff was vile. Yecch. I had nothing else, so I ended up doing a 10 mile hike on a hot day and went thru a gallon of that stuff. I made myself drink it whenever I got thirsty, but as soon as I got back to the car I found a store that carried the normal stuff and I tossed out the low calorie packets. Yucc. I shudder again just thinking about that.