If you want to look at why this happens in the real world, it's resource extraction. You see this in the European era of colonial (a lot), but even in modern times with powerful countries such as the United States backing regimes they don't necessarily like (such as Saudi Arabian Royal Family), against their rivals in the region because Saudi Arabia ensures them access to oil. Similar dynamics played out in Colonial India, in the "New World" with native tribes, in Africa (are playing out even today in Africa). Why does this happen? I mean, if the Aliens are more powerful, why not just wipe out humans to get to their resources? Well the United States Armed Forces definitely have the capability to wipe out every country in the Middle East and "take the oil." There are several reasons we don't. The biggest is probably that public opinion just wouldn't support it. Nobody in an educated and open society (or at least very few people) want genocide and or national piracy openly committed in their name. LONG SIDE NOTE: You could argue that in war time it would be accepted, or even in the wake of a 9/11 scale terrorist attack, but the world is too globalized now, too instant, too visible. What kind of support would the "moral bombings" of WWII had had if there videos in full color of charred bodies streaming live on youtube at the time. But anyway, unless humans attack your aliens, this whole side note is a mute point. The next more cynical reason is that dead men make terrible laborers. It's just a more efficient use of resources coerce or pay people to work than kill them, and if they are trying to kill each other... well backing one side is an excellent way to get them to work for you under threat of annihilation without actually having to even threaten to annihilate anyone yourself. The believability of this really depends on the aliens themselves. If they are James Cameron Alien type monsters or Invasion of the Body Snatchers single mind ends just means no regrets type aliens, it falls apart. However, if Alien society resembles our own with shifting political dynamics, value of individual life and limited resources: totally believable. Becky Chamber's novel "The Long Way to a Small Angry Planet" (which I'd recommend as fun read) actually revolves around this very dynamic. A powerful Galactic inter-species Federation(? forget exact term she uses for governing body) admits a faction of a new race into the federation (which gives this faction a defensive treaty) even though they are at war with other factions of their own species to gain access to resources within this species' territory. As far as which side the Aliens choose to back: it's either going to be which side the higher ups perceive as being in a better position to begin with (nobody wants to back a loser); which is more willing to work with the aliens, or aliens think would be more dependable to work with; which is percieved as the good side in the realm of alien public opinion... probably some combination of the three. 

How can a medieval civilization create an educational system that allows the monarchy to use these mages in the battlefield? Something I missed. Almost all are young (12-18 years old, when prana starts to activate) 

As @Dent7777 stated, materials like oil are organic based so it's almost impossible to find in other celestial bodies. If you're talking about an inorganic material then I feel like the 'planetoid from an unknown solar system composed of X material crashed with the planet in its early years' like the Theia hypothesis would work. 

This is easy: Assume an individuum would transport itself off a planet. Where does the (now larger) potential energy come from? My suggestion: From its thermal energy. Thus transporting to a place further out the gravity well of a planet will freeze the individuum, transporting to a place further down a gravity well will cook it. This also gives rise to an easy solution to the problem at hand: Once caught (poison, knock out, whatever) transport them (in the usual way) to an orbital space station. Transporting down on the planet will kill them, transporting in the void of space (due to the usual reasons like lack of breathable air, pressure, ...), too. If a space station does not fit your story, how about: 

As part of my magic system, the 'life force' is mostly a common 'supernatural' energy produced by most lifeforms (and some minerals can stock/deflect it). This energy allows humans and other human-like beings to control/create magic/summons and increase their stats to superhuman levels, however not all people can withstand the energy consumption of enhancement due of their low 'life energy' levels, causing a multi organ dysfunction syndrome and potential death since they can't regenerate the amount of energy faster enough to continue their normal metabolic processes. This life force mostly flows in the blood like oxygen. 

If you really want to be on the safe side, and places like the poles, deep forests and caves are ruled out, then I'd say that it's impossible. Because if we assume that you can neither know nor control the weather, then if that traveler is paying close attention to its surroundings then the ISS or one of the many visible satellites will give it away pretty soon. Coming from a place and time roughly like our 14th century, that traveler (being a traveler... and probably with some naval experiences) will surely know that it's possible to use stars to determine one's location. Moving stars is surely nothing that's easily done with magic. 

Actually robots will never replace humans in a lot of jobs: nurses, teachers, and other social based jobs will always require human contact or that 'touch'. maybe a mix of terminator-paranoia and humans being social animals so they can't just stay in their houses doing nothing, they need to make social groups. 

Some people born with higher prana pools and regeneration, and there are a few special persons in the world that have a potential unlimited prana growth, almost predestinated to overcome gods (that's why they're hunted as demons). But the main topic is not about their powers, but how can I create some common diseases caused by prana problems, like low flow in a limb, or even parasytes, how can I make this life energy affect the biological aspects of human physiology? One of my ideas is a prana rupture, when an attack hits in a way it cuts the flow and the body starts to lose energy towards the enviroment, but people with higher prana flow would suffer its effects in a higher way. 

So from what understand they want the most militarized weapons, but also the easiest to hide --which is contradictory. I think what you are looking for is some sort of collapsible semi automatic long gun, It would probably have a stock which is folding, extendable or detachable, the barrel would have to screwed on (or assembled in some other means) perhaps be in two or three parts when carried, and the clip would kept in a separate place on the body (probably the boot and one clip in each). Maybe even a detachable grip. Thus the largest part of the gun is the the trigger apparatus So the gun would take some time to assemble, at least 30 seconds. That's not so much a problem though (could even provide some great story suspense that actually meakes sense). If you make it a 22 caliber rifle say (which would be all you need), you could get the individual parts down to size of about an adults man's hand and have say a trigger and chamber, folding flat stock, grip (that maybe expands from the width of finger to two or three inches long (still the height of a finger, a barrel that probably collapses into two three pieces like a blind man's cane, and the magazine(s). Hide the trigger/chamber in the small of the back, magazines in one boot, barrel in the other, grip probably in the sleeve and the leaves the very thin collapsible folding stock probably under an armored Kevlar breastplate 

They're practical and almost everybody can buy one, compared to curved swords, thrusting a monster would be way more destructive than slashing them. EDIT: or use pikes/spears if range is a problem. 

In League of Legends there's a champion called Rek'sai. She's a voidborn (an alien from a different realm) and can 'swin' in the ground. She makes the ground vibrate enough to move freely through solid terrain but she also creates portals to travel faster. She's more like a cricket mole but she moves like a shark in the ground. She's a feared monster in Shurima's desert who can eat expeditions like nothing: $URL$ 

With this means that for every meter height difference the transported mass has to change its temperature by approx Kelvin. This is really limiting their transportation ability. You thus might want to: 

Physics: Assuming a species whose bodies consist to a significant part of water, we set their specific heat capacity to 

This also makes for a nice "escape story" ... either taking an ice bath or cooking oneself before transporting. 

You might like to read "How to spin a planet" from Paul Birch. The basic idea is to accelerate (or decelerate) some large mass against the planet's surface. Due to the principle actio = reactio you'll accelerate the planet in the opposite direction, causing it to spin / change its axis. Note that IMO the concept presented in the paper (yes, that's a paper!) above is a bit too complex for your case, because changing the rotation axis means you'd need to dynamically alter the path of the reaction mass / high velocity projectiles around the sun. A simpler setup uses an acceleration ring (think a hyperloop track) around the planet. Energy comes from (lots of) solar panels. The correct placement of that ring is crucial and requires good knowledge of the inertia of the planet. Using multiple rings could be an option here. Correctly placed they'd allow for free definition of the planet's rotation axis (and speed of course). 

As part of the new deities plan, they must bring down the elder gods in their world to create enough chaos to 'starve' them. The religious focus is simple: 

Most fish have swim bladders that allow them to control their bouyancy so they can sink without losing energy swimming 

So your animal would be almost a living balloon rather than a sentient lifeform, something like an air jellyfish. It can probably develope toxins or defensive traits to help it survive, but it would be too easy to catch.