I suspect that his estimate of mutational target size is the upper bound for what is reasonable. He started by included every gene that could conceivably be said to be involved in intelligence (though he did moderate that assumption by focusing only on the fraction where the intellectual deficit has been shown to arise from loss-of-function). He also assumes that all "deleterious" mutations to these genes would decrease intelligence. Perhaps most importantly, he assumed that each gene had a major impact on intelligence, and that mutations had cumulative deleterious effects. While he did make a brief argument to justify these assumptions, his evidence is very indirect and his model conflicts with much of what we know about the typical functioning of biological systems. He seemed to assume that the only selection acting on these genes was for human-like intelligence, even after he described how these genes are found in non-human animals and these "Intellectual Deficiency" disorders often arise from the disruption of core physiological processes and include massive developmental abnormalities. He acknowledged the possibility of pleiotropy, but did not incorporate it into his calculations. He provided absolutely no evidence that the strength of selection on these traits has changed, just a bunch of hand-waving arguments about how difficult it was to be a hunter-gatherer and how easy it is to reproduce in modern society. The closest that he came to offering a plausible explanation for why selection on intelligence may be reduced was to reflect on how living in large societies must have increased selection on our immune system (which then reduces the effectiveness of selection on other traits). However, communicable disease is no longer a major selective pressure, as indicated by the CDC's charts of the cause of death. Indeed, the main causes of death for people in their reproductive prime (15-34) are accidents, homicide, and suicide -- all of which can be influenced by cognitive and emotional capabilities. If Crabtree thinks that throwing a spear is cognitively difficult, he should try driving a car. He emphasizes how ineffective natural selection can be on intellectual traits, but does not even assert that this has changed between prehistoric and modern populations. He never mentioned the immense expansion of the human population and the elimination of geographic structure in our modern population. Both of these factors increase the effectiveness of selection in a population. So even if the selection coefficient on cognitive traits has decreased, we could still expect to see the preservation of these traits, and possibly even additional evolution of these traits. Recent studies have actually measured this increase in the effectiveness of natural selection in humans. 

Source Former Arizona Rep. Gabrielle Giffords was shot in the head on January 8, 2011. She survived. From The New York Times (January 14, 2011): 

Of course, just because a waiting period is not required doesn't necessarily mean that one can't be imposed. But I haven't yet found a state that does so. Examples: From the Washington State Attorney General's Office: 

However, Vincent Egan from the University of Leicester, says different and debunks beer goggles in his study: 

How seriously should one take Weekly World News ? Well, you'll have to judge for yourself, but here are two sample covers: 

I don't really see a reason why dentists should be more suicide prone. There are certainly more stressful professions (physically more demanding, longer hours, more responsibility, ... ) My question: Are dentists more prone to commit suicide than the general public? 

Mark Frank - Lying Is Exposed By Micro-Expressions We Can't Control ." "I want to make it clear that one micro-expression or collection of them is not proof of anything. They have meaning only in the context of other behavioral cues, and even then are not an indictment of an individual, just very good clues." 

YES, apparently that number is in the correct ballpark. Accoring to the American Pet Products Association the estimated number for 2011 is $50.84 billion. 

Human intelligence is probably still increasing There is no evidence that the genetic foundation of intelligence is eroding The essay in question dose not provide a solid reason to speculate that the genetic foundation of intelligence is eroding. 

So even the original proponent of this idea admits that human intelligence is probably increasing. While he suggests that this increase has plateaued, he is apparently discussing wealthy, Western nations. Globally, childhood malnutrition (measured by growth stunting) has declined substantially from 1990 to 2011, from which we could predict that human intelligence is continuing to increase globally. Crabtree is discussing a process that occurs over thousands of years, and we can only speculate about the impact that medical, economic, and cultural changes will have on human intelligence over that period. Crabtree dismisses some of this increase of IQ scores as being the result of increased levels of education, which cause the students to develop the cultural traits that produce high test scores and therefore do not reflect true intelligence. This brings up another thorny question -- how exactly can we measure intelligence, and is there even a unitary intelligence? This has been debated ad nauseum, with one classic debate being centered around Stephen J. Gould's The Mismeasure of Man. This is not a topic to delve into here; Crabtree is relying on the literature relating to X-linked Intellectual Disability, and one of his sources is available free online. This appears to focus on severe mental disabilities, so those subtleties are probably not important. Is the genetic foundation of human intelligence eroding? Now that I have addressed the issue of average intelligence, as such (and our risk of developing into Idiocracy), let's now examine the core issue of this theory -- is the genetic basis for intelligence eroding? Crabtree openly admits that he has no evidence that this is actually happening. In fact, the entire purpose of this essay seems to be to propose a human population genomic study that will test for patterns of relaxed selection on genes that are associated with cognitive and emotional variation (Part II, Figure 2). 

Christie Wilcox explains in a Scientific American article how the get a DNA fingerprint and that nowadays it takes only a few hours. 

But there might be caveats with this study, since core temperature possibly varies due to things like age, level of fitness and menstrual status [1, 2, 3, 4] This study did a "Comparison of thermoregulatory responses between men and women immersed in cold water": 

IATA (International Air Transport Association), which represents some 240 airlines, has a 398 pages thick Standard's Manual (from December 2011), but there is no mention of free flights for new-borns. IATA Medical Guidelines for pregnancy: 

John Soloninka (one of the violinists who took part in the study) however speaks positively about the study: 

That people are less willing to lie in a handwritten message suggests that they regard it more highly than an email. It seems like there is more of a 'human connection ' with handwritten letters. 

Scientific American: ," says Susan Han, a professor in the plant, soil and insect science department at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. A little bleach kills the bacteria without damaging the flowers. 

This happend in 2006, but the story resurged in 2007 and then again in 2009. But according to the reporter who wrote the original article for the Waco Tribune the later retellings overplayed what happened: 

Is human intelligence declining? No. Is the genetic foundation of human intelligence eroding? This has not been shown. Are other factors influencing the genetic component of intelligence? Probably. 

I think this hits the core points of our question. The only issue left to discuss is if Crabtrees' argument is at all reasonable. I think there is good reasons to believe that it is not reasonable, and I'm sure these are discussed by the published responses to his original essay. I see the following weaknesses: 

Are other factors influencing the genetic component of intelligence? A central tenet of both Crabtree's essay and the popular science reporting on this topic is that modern (and future) humans lack the genetic foundation of intelligence that their ancestors had. Crabtree's "use it or lose it" model of mutation pressure does not capture all of the genetic processes that influence traits such as intelligence. For instance: Inbreeding depression: Loss-of-function mutations like those discussed by Crabtree tend to be masked by heterozygosity. Therefore, inbreeding can result in more individuals exhibiting these intellectual problems, as has been documented for populations such as Ashkenazi Jews (Canavan Disease) and North Indian Muslims. Over the past few centuries, homozygosity in the human population has probably decreased as a result of population growth, inter-continental migration, and urbanization; however, I cannot find measurements of this effect. Likewise, I cannot find any broad study of how these changes in homozygosity levels might affect the distribution of intellectual capabilities. If Crabtree is correct about how common these loss-of-function mutations are, then we might expect them to be common throughout the human population. Crabtree argued that the developmental genetics of the nervous system are such that loss-of-function intellectual deficiencies may be evident in heterozygous individuals, which would make inbreeding less important. Increasing heterozygosity has been proposed as a cause for the Flynn effect. Assortative mating: Charles Murray, in Coming Apart, has proposed that humans are increasingly mating with people of similar intelligence, which may greatly increase the variation of intelligence within the human population (meaning more very smart people and more very stupid people). 

From Scientific American - Fact or Fiction?: Urinating on a Jellyfish Sting is an Effective Treatment: 

Due to the large variety of species it's hard to make a general statement about how well "a cockroach" would fare in the aftermath of a nuclear war. But it seems they have a better chance at surviving the radiation and they are less picky eaters than we humans. More: 

Unless a spider is so small that it wouldn't realize that the "hole" is the mouth of a large predator, it's probably unlikely that a spider would crawl into it. 

(I'm guessing he is talking about "civilian firearms ") From Wikipedia - Number of guns per capita by country: 

on Saturday Night Live ? [1], [2], [3], [4]. My question: Does (or did) David Hasselhoff have more fans in Germany than in other countries? 

Is it indeed just a myth that Orson Welles' radio broadcast caused a widespread panic? What are the most realistc estimates of how many people actually paniced? 

My question: How much truth is behind this lore? To what extend, if at all, did the porn industry contribut to VHS winning the format war? Further reading material: Cracked.com - 5 Ways Porn Created the Modern World