In my experience, zen and tibetan buddhism do not claim that the self of an enlightened one can be completely non existent. In fact a zen master when asked this question might answer "Uncertain." or "yes" or "no". Ask for definite answers is a limiting factor in an unlimited universe. The following article discusses your question in far more detail than I can: $URL$ 

Page 55 of this books tells a story about why no garlic $URL$ The text is from the Chanyuan Qinggui - the stories there are that the nuns were allowed to pick 5 heads of garlic a day but one day picked all of them. The Buddha then banned the use of garlic. Another story tells that people who use garlic were not allowed near the Buddha when he was giving his sermon because of bad breath, body odor and possibly flatulence. This seems more plausible to me if you have ever been around someone eating lots of garlic. Onions, especially sweet onions, do not exhibit these same symptoms after eating. 

There are multiple meanings of curiosity. Wanting to know the 100 versions of the Diamond Sutra could teach you more about it of it could get you weighed down in facts. Looking at a worm crawling across the ground and seeing life as the worm sees it could be an awakening. Both are a type of curiosity, but the first is intellectual curiosity that could be helpful or harmful. The second curiosity is imbued with innocence like a child. I see only positive outcomes with that. 

I interpret the question [before it was edited 10-2-14 to mean that how does one build and maintain an individual practice whose goal is nibbana or nirvana (same term different language) which some interpret to mean enlightenment. This then poses a problem because what is going to experience nibbana or nirvana, the individual? Here is one interpretation of nibbana or nirvana "to be blown out" or "to be extinguished."[quoted text below this paragraph] Here is where the goal of nibbana could be in conflict if one conceived of attaining nibbana. Nibbana is rather an erasure or elimination or disappearance of an appearance of a self that is now seen to be a phantom or dream. $URL$ 

You could speak of your spiritual practice. It depends on how much you are identified with a particular sect of Buddhism. Maybe it is better to be cautious - why expose your jewels to someone that may be just trying to nail you up against the wall. In the office everyone asks how are you, but no one really wants to know. So I tell them fine and they feel they have fulfilled their obligation. $URL$ 

There are so many areas of Buddhism and sects and circles within each sect that to find a universal belief in every sect of Buddhism is doubtful. My primary concern is does the primary area of my practice hold this to be true, or if nothing else do I hold this to be true. My own practice confirms to whatever degree possible what Dogen says from his ultimate experience. 

Here are a couple quotes attributed to the Buddha that imply what Buddha thought most important, cessation of suffering and Nibbana. $URL$ 

All of these reasons but especially 4, 5, 6, and 7 indicate that breathing should be natural and unforced, effortless and done in a relaxed way. So the emphasis is not on trying to make breathing to happen in a certain way, but allowing it to happen natural. If the nose is blocked from mucous then the mouth is the only option. But on the same page are many variations of how breath can be integrated in meditation: $URL$ examples are counting, following, listening to noise. Observing and turning away. Walking meditation can also use breathing in it. 

The Tibetans think of Padmasambhava as the second most important person for their lineage. $URL$ Here is a sample from the link above - more is available for your reading or study 

So there may be evidence of your particular Buddhist sect deriving the tradition, but if your question is where was prostration first introduced there is evidence that others preceded Tibetan traditions. 

As far as I can see any thing is impermanent. What is impermanent defies description or conceptualization. Here is more info on the subject. $URL$ 

Can their be rebirth or death if what one believes will be born or die turns out to be a deception? Being under the influence of karma and this deception of identity is a result of believing in a self that one believes is an aggregate, that is born into form, that grows and changes, that dies and decomposes. Attachment is not to matter, but to a belief that we are matter or we are in matter and must get out of it, or we are somehow under the influence of matter and must get free of that. If you have a dream that you are a child lost in the wilderness and you are starving to death, what happens to that child when you wake up? Does it go away or does it disappear because it never had any existence in the first place? That is what karma is. Of course there can be seeds from previous interactions. I am not saying that one can just say a magic word and karma has no effect. But when we do not feed it on a daily basis, it withers like a weed that is without water. Zen practice of Dogen diminished the role of death as of little importance. 

Zen Mind Beginner's Mind by Shunryu Suzuki might offer you the perspective that goes beyond words to intention. If we aim at beginner's mind, then just sitting or zazen or meditation is aiming at beginner's mind. The intention of the person sitting is the most significant factor. There are times I have fallen asleep sitting. Perhaps I was tired or my intention was not clear. Other times when intention is clear the sitting becomes the bow, the awareness the arrow and intention the one drawing the bow. When intention draws the bow, the arrow cannot miss the mark. Here is a copy of the book. Sip a page or two at a time and report back in a year - me saying words will not draw the bow. $URL$ 

Since the one who keeps track of where we are in time and space, the question really is asking what happens if I forget myself. Here is how Dogen answers this question $URL$ 

Some suggest that as long as we are aware we meditate. We do dishes aware, we walk aware, we shower aware. Certainly we have meditation practice but to expand that beyond a ritual and a routine is the opening to an extraordinary life. 

Another example that Shakyamuni Buddha reveals his lack of concern about death is under the Bodhi tree before his realization. $URL$ 

In Zen, Shunryu Suzuki talks about enlightenment as beginner's mind www.arvindguptatoys.com/arvindgupta/zenmind.pdf Over and over he says enlightenment is not something we attain, but when we stop trusting in false senses of self, then who we are and always have been and already will be apparent. It is necessary to stop trying to achieve or attain, but we must keep practicing or the goal slips further away. It is not easy to talk about, read the book linked to or a hard copy. Roshi Suzuki's words will do far more for helping you drop the mask and see what is here right now than I can possibly hope to. 

"So in our practice it is important to resume [revert] to our original mind or inmost mind which we, ourselves, even we ourselves do not know what it is." So if you feel like your practice does not bring you wholly aware in beginner's mind, let us just accept where we are right now. It is not something we must attain, but we must experience cessation from the samsara or worldly mind, then the Buddha mind or beginner's mind is self apparent. 

Buddha practiced all the religions of the day and could not find awakening from suffering. The Hindu faith rests more on ceremony and ritual than some methods of Buddhism. Buddhists do not have to believe anything or worship anything, just wake up. Disclaimer, I am not a Hindu, but they do have many rituals and ceremonies. If you find a path that works for you, follow it until it is no longer usable, then find the next leg in the journey, even if it means becoming a lay practitioner. 

What the Buddha said and encouraged may not be totally clear from reading the texts based on oral traditions that were eventually written down. Perhaps they were all recommended by the Buddha at one time or another and the ones that were most comfortable in a particular Buddhist tradition became emphasized over time. Why not say Buddha encouraged Zen? Some Zen practitioners say Buddha was the first Zen master from the text of the Flower sermon. $URL$ the Chan tradition may have invented or written down the flower sermon. $URL$ 

Well there is a link to a book of etiquette that says "Hindu hosts are ..... waving fingers." www.read-write-now.org/UserDir/Documents/Cultural%20Etiquette.pdf A Chinese tradition for shaking hands involves waving hands up and down $URL$ 

Beginners would benefit most from having an attitude of being a beginner. According to the Zen tradition of the Soto branch, the object of practice is not to achieve great knowledge, powers or concentration but to discover and weed out things that block the experience of what Shunryu Suzuki calls beginners mind. He is not talking to Soto Zen students. He is talking to Buddhists everywhere in all traditions. Every Buddhist tradition can lead to that fresh perception of reality that awakening reveals. If a tradition only provides you with a set of beliefs and does not point the way to awakening then keep looking. Everyone has the right to choose their own path, and if it serves its purpose or does not help you, move on. www.arvindguptatoys.com/arvindgupta/zenmind.pdf I ask myself daily, am I ready to be a beginner. There are no advanced students in Buddhism. We are all beginners. Some beginners have walked the path longer and are aware of the inner mysteries to a greater degree. The Buddha never said I am enlightened and you are just mere mortals. He recognized the Buddha consciousness in all. When I came to Buddhism I attended meditations in as many traditions as possible. Sometimes I clicked when I read a book but did not click at a local meditation. It does not matter what path you choose as long as it is one that is in harmony with your inner self and one that you practice every day in your meditation and in your living. It is a path of yielding and melting away any sense of separate self so we do not need to attain or accomplish great things "just flow like the river going to the sea, flow around every bend and turn Until all that's left is eternity." 

The greatest attachment that any human experiences is to their own sense of identity. That is why the path seems so long. It is easy to give up candy and coffee and physical intimacy, but giving up my treasured concepts of myself. Oh not that! But the world acts to take away through events of suffering that gradually make our personal identity less and less a treasure. In a poem that came to me after meditating for many years, there was an aha moment that speaks to this place of growing non-attachment. "just to be... that's enough for me... not some silly human drama... just one taste of reality!" The awakening to non-attachment is to realize that the one who is grasping, trying to make things or people or activities permanent, is not who I really am. Buddhism has many ways of saying who we are not. Only by seeing without the grasping mind can we see clearly what is here before us now. 

"I am awake" he said. In modern terms it is not a long stretch to say I am consciousness. Well if I am consciousness or I am awake, is there any historical figure the Buddha would point out to us? Is it not probable that those who are trying to establish historical figures waking up have missed a fine point? It is not the historical figure that changes, it is their state of consciousness. One who has thus gone would then be one who has gone out of the awareness of the world seen as things to a state of seeing all as an expression of consciousness. We are all potential Buddha realized beings so we are all potentially "One who has thus gone." The spiritual preparation does have steps of purifying intentions and disciplining an unruly sense of self. But the emphasis is more on realizing awakeness than on categorizing our unpolished diamond nature. So for me the question is what can I do to know in my heart without wavering or doubt that "I am awake." No more illusions then. Perhaps that is the going beyond, going beyond illusions. More than that is difficult to say with certainty. 

There are other sources that support the notion that there is only one mind or consciousness in all that is. Here is one such source $URL$ 

Since this answer is based on research and my other answer was based on my experience alone, I am starting another answer in the hope of avoiding confusion with all the previous comments. The following posits that the original approach to sunyata is positive. $URL$ 

Not disputing the validity of the possible fakeness of the sites mentioned, but I would like to introduce the possibility that Jesus and Buddhism are somehow linked. His short history has big gaps where he could have caravaned to India or communicated with Buddhists somewhere along the route. The reason I think this is worth bringing up is because of the Gospel of Thomas. It could be mistaken for a book of Zen koans and in some places Buddhist text. It may not be a way for those firstly in Buddhism, but for transplants from Christianity, the Gospel of Thomas makes some crossovers to Buddhism and suggests some alternative history of Jesus who came 500 years after Buddha. $URL$ Of course studying any other religion could open the mind and instill compassion for the obstacles they face and for the contribution that religion makes to the advancement of human consciousness. 

While reading this morning 9-12-14 MOUNTAIN RECORD OF ZEN TALKS by John Daido Loori pg 187, I was struck how this spoke to the question about bypassing: 

My main concern about mindfulness, that some describe as meditation without the Buddhism, is that is construed to be a physical tool to make people happier. Without the practice of compassion for others and dedication of one life to some degree to helping others, mindfulness can degenerate to a feel good thing. But I do not condemn it. It is a start that can lead those with real inner yearnings to a meditation practice. It is baby steps, but there are so many babies in the world, it certainly has its place.