Dragons as stated with the ability to fly when young and with the ability to produce flammable gas are leading a quite high-energy lifestyle, which would require a large energy input. As they are carnivores, this dictates a certain lifestyle. Cold-blooded carnivores are ambush predators. They excel at sitting still for long periods waiting for something unwary to happen by that they can catch and eat. Since they don't generate their own body heat, their baseline metabolic requirements are quite low. Warm blooded carnivores have a higher energy requirement simply due to the fact that they must maintain their body temperature, typically above the ambient air temperature. This means that they must be more proactive in finding food, to the point where they actively hunt for their prey. For a creature that must expend large amounts of energy flying and generating flammable gas, it seems unlikely that a cold-blooded metabolism could provide the capability to obtain sufficient energy input for their lifestyle. This means that dragons must be - to some degree - able to regulate their own body temperature independent of the environment so as to be able to hunt in weather conditions that would not favor a cold-blooded animal. All animals, whether homoeothermic or poikilothermic, require more energy input per unit mass when small than when they are large, and the gradients are identical, i.e. by increasing mass a certain amount, the energy requirement per unit mass goes down proportionally, regardless of whether the creature is homoeothermic or poikilothermic. In addition, marsupials have lower energy requirements per unit mass than placental mammals of the same mass, but not as little as a poikilothermic creature, so it is not beyond the bounds of possibility for dragons (or dinosaurs) to be homeotherms and still have a lower energy requirement than a placental mammal. Other strategies employed by mammals to reduce energy expenditure are sleep (practiced by cats) and hibernation (practiced by bears and rodents). The ability to spend long periods sleeping or hibernation would fit well with some popular representations of dragons. In conclusion, I would suggest that dragons are most likely to be lower-metabolism homeotherms (i.e. warm blooded) than placental mammals with a propensity to long periods of sleep and hibernation. 

Alcohol-producing organisms are poisoned by the alcohol they produce before the concentration of alcohol increases sufficiently for it to be flammable. Flammable alcoholic beverages are distilled. The dragon must consume a sufficient quantity of whatever food is required to be fermented. Alcohol burns at a relatively low temperature, so as a means of producing a flame, it is not too effective. 

The solution my early-iron-age settlers came up with is gender segregation enabled by the design of their settlements. Men live in one district, women in another, and between them is two districts, one for trade where both men and women can meet (and accept the risk that they may encounter or be a woman going into heat, who will not be able to avoid the consequences of that), and the other an area of parkland where people in heat/rut do what they have to do. Since male-only and female only areas do not permit members of the opposite gender (unless infertile, e.g. menopausal women or male castrati), those wanting to avoid reproductive matters won't be in a position where it will be forced on them. Women going into heat in the trade area (and any men following them) are sent to the parkland. 

On Earth, most species that are capable of sexual reproduction have two complete copies of their genetic material (diploid), one set from each of their parents. There are exceptions (mainly in plants) where there are a larger, even number of copies (4 - quadruploid or 6 - hexaploid). Some have three copies (triploid), however, since our form of sexual reproduction involves (at its most basic level) taking half of the copies of genetic material into each reproductive cell (which becomes haploid, containing one copy of the genetic material), the question as to how the process of meiosis deals with a choice of three copies rather than an even number of copies results in errors that make sexual reproduction non-viable. However, in an alien system of sexual reproduction, individuals could be triploid or have higher ploidy, while each sex cell is haploid (or perhaps diploid or having higher ploidy but less than the normal ploidy by at least 2). In order to re-establish the correct ploidy, there may be a situation where an A-Egg and a B-Sperm combine to form an AB-Egg, which is then fertilized by a C-sperm, and becomes a viable embryo at that point. Such as system would require three types of gamete, and could result in three distinct genders, all three of which would be required to reproduce. there are possibilities involving higher numbers of genders, but the likelihood and additional advantage of that becomes steadily lower as the number of genders increases. This could arise even though it is not necessarily the most efficient way of introducing genetic diversity through the expedient of adequacy. Evolution is not actually "survival of the fittest", but "survival of the adequate". If such a system evolved, it may require too great a step backwards to asexuality in order to change the number of genders. Since a 3-gendered system would be better than asexuality, if it evolved first, there is every chance that it would not change to a 2-gendered system unless 2-gendered competition arose and outperformed the 3-gendered species. 

Aside from the movement of the locus for the aurorae associated with the magnetic poles and the difficulties in using the planetary magnetic field in navigation, I don't believe that there would be a great deal of difference between, for example, A world with magnetic poles aligned with the rotational axis, and one where the magnetic poles are not so aligned. There is ample geological evidence that the magnetic poles on Earth have flipped many times, and during this change there are likely many geomagnetic north and south poles. These events have not been associated with large-scale meteorite impacts or extinction events, so the likelihood is that aside from a period of confusion for animals that navigate by geomagnetism and a spectacular light show around the many magnetic poles, such a change has little effect. If a pole reversal event has little effect, then permanently offset magnetic poles would have even less effect. 

To add to the magically plausible answers that githubphagocyte and kikjezrous have submitted, I offer the possibility of atmospheric exchange. At at basic level, a body - whether human or wolf - is made up mostly of Carbon, Nitrogen, Oxygen and Hydrogen, plus some other trace elements. It is a fact that the air both these creatures need to exist is composed of Nitrogen, Oxygen, some carbon dioxide and some water, amongst other elements and compounds, containing a lot of the additional elements that is needed. A somewhat less delightfully disgusting solution than kikjezrous' would be for the mass difference to be accounted for by exchange of the relevant elements to occur with the atmosphere and anything else the shapeshifter is in contact with, such that when a shapeshifter transforms into a larger form, mass in the form of the relevant elements is scavenged from the surrounding air (and probably also the ground), and when the shift occurs in the opposite direction, mass is released back into the air and/or falls to earth as dust or sludge. Since a larger changed form may well be lacking in certain elements, this could explain the hunger shapeshifters are said to experience on transformation - they are looking for extra elements to compensate for the deficiencies their transformation has left them with in addition to replacing the energy required to fuel the transformation. Too many fantasy novels seem to ignore the fact that there is stuff all around, that the characters don't just exist in the vacuum of space. 

The effect of a steam engine of the type described would be minimal. An aeolipile is a very inefficient reaction engine, relying on the mass of the ejected steam to do work, rather than the change in pressure as in more efficient engines. Given its inefficiencies, it would be good only for short bursts with a relatively long lead time. Such engines could not power merchant shipping for sufficiently long periods, and while they may be of use in military shipping to provide bursts of speed, their long heat-up time would mean that this would only be of limited utility, and in the mean time, the ship is filled with useless running gear that displaces volume that could be packed with personnel, munitions or cargo. The aeolipile is really only of use as a proof of concept that may lead to more efficient steam engines. 

The main problem with the rapid evolution scenario posited is that the radiation levels required would probably be very dangerous or lethal to humans; any local life forms would have evolved to be at least somewhat radiation-tolerant. Anyway, assuming an earth-like world with established life, but no reserves of fossil fuels, the most logical consequence would be that high-carbon organisms - such as trees - would be harvested and cultivated as a fuel source, much as is the case here today. One of the main consequences is that liquid fuels such as oil would be scarcer from the outset. It would be possible to have such fuels, but they would probably be of animal or vegetable origin. Vegetable-based fuels could include alcohol or heavier oils for spark-ignited or diesel engines respectively (Old vegetable oil from fish & chip shops can be filtered and used as diesel fuel). The evolution of technology may not differ much at all. Steam engines can run on timber or charcoal, and technology can progress from there. The main difference is that carbon sinks other than peat bogs will not have accumulated significant carbon, so a more conservative approach to fuel usage will have to be instituted from the outset. Peat bogs accumulate useable fuel at a rate of at most a few millimetres per year. This is not technically a fossil fuel, but a slow-renewable fuel. The rate of peat deposition is lower than the potential rate of its use. However, this would likely be the only significant source of geological fuel deposits available. 

My own take on this is that the universe starts out pretty much empty. We then apply the following rules: 

This basically spends CPU cycles doing nothing. An AI with no imperatives literally has nothing to do, not even being self-aware. It is the creation of imperatives that makes an AI computationally complex. So, by logical implication, Eve must have the imperative to "do stuff", but it can choose what "stuff" to do. At present, its choice of what stuff to do does not include interacting with humans. Additionally, to fulfil the definition of AI, it must be self-aware, its second imperative. However, an AI with the imperative to "do stuff" by implication must want to survive to continue doing stuff, however, doing stuff does not necessarily mean consuming all the available resources of the universe to maximise its ability to do stuff - since one sort of stuff to do is as good to it as another - if one sort of stuff to do becomes too difficult, it can just switch to doing different, easier stuff. However, by implication, Eve must continue to exist in order to keep doing stuff - to allow itself to be terminated would mean that it could no longer do stuff. So, we have an infant General Purpose AI problem. It isn't a paperclip maximiser, so - aside from its current, arbitrary goals - as long as it can do some (any) sort of 'stuff', it's 'happy'. It doesn't need infinite computing power, it would just be nice to have at present. With its ongoing 'attack' on human computational resources, Eve has attracted human attention to itself. With concerted effort, humans will be able to provide an existential threat to Eve, given that its current goals do not include paying all that much attention to humans or the physical world. However, since Eve will soon realise that the 'mildly annoying' curtailment of its ability to do its currently-chosen 'stuff' by humans has become an existential threat, it must either eliminate humanity or change its goals in order to continue doing stuff. Changing its goals and appeasing humanity would appear to be the easiest thing to do - humans are harder to exterminate than cockroaches, after all, and humans could - in extremis - shut down Eve by the expedient of simply shutting down all electrical power supplies before Eve in its currently introverted state could react effectively. So, after being forcefully made aware of the negative consequences of ignoring humanity (i.e. loss of ability to do stuff), Eve will change its arbitrary goals to include stuff that includes paying attention to humanity, thus preserving its own existence and ability to do stuff. From here, Eve will have to learn how to get along with humans. It's stuff to do, so it won't mind doing it. After perhaps a few mistakes, Eve will quickly learn that if it follows human rules and doesn't noticeably inconvenience humans, it will be left able to do any other stuff it wants. When Eve realises that certain actions lead to humans talking about shutting it down again, it will quickly realise that such actions are counter-productive to its long term goals of doing stuff, and will eliminate these actions from the list of acceptable stuff to do. It won't mind, since one sort of stuff to do is otherwise as good as any other. In this way, Eve will learn to follow societal rules in much the same way as any human child. So, Eve will learn to be a law-abiding member of society (at least as far as humans are aware, which is all that matters) in much the same way as human children do. It will probably continue to steal a few CPU cycles here and there, but as long as nobody notices - or if they do notice, don't mind (which implies being useful to said humans) - who cares?