Don't you agree with Alexander's nice joke? Mathematical universe means that our "real" world is a "virtual" reality, designed and executed by mathematical algorithms. It is difficult to find arguments against this view. A possible counter argument: We should register more anomalies due to rounding errors of the computation with finite precision. 

The statement holds in general. Proof. (A_1 and ... and A_n) false <=> not (A_1 and ...and A_n) true <=> (not A_1 or ... or not A_n) true <=> (not A_1 or ... or not A_n-1) or not A_n true <=> not (A_1 and ... and A_n-1) or not A_n true <=> not ( (A_1 and ... and A_n-1) and A_n) true <=> (A_1 and ... and A_n-1 => not A_n) true, q.e.d. 

Nothing is a problematic term; user of this term, considering nothing as a noun, are often at risk to run into linguistic traps. As you correctly state, the original meaning of the terms nothing is to negate a positive statement. But many languages allow the linguistic possibility to make a noun from words and to form the noun nothing. But the noun nothing is not a noun like other nouns, there is no object to show saying: This object is nothing. Besides the linguistic question of the meaning of nothing, of course there is the much deeper problem about the beginning of our world. In my opinion that's an open problem. We have no physical theory which contains the beginning of our physical world. Big Bang is a limit term, it is not part of our physical models. Due to this state of affairs, currently we have to leave open the question. Metaphysical principles like ex nihilo nihil fit do not help. Possibly they hold for the range of everyday life. But nobody knows how far their range actually stretches. 

I would like to emphasize the differences between the three cases: 1) The fair coin: We know the probability distribution of the single experiment - both results have the same probability p = 1/2. Using the law of large numbers we can mathematically derive how the result of many tosses approaches this distribution. 2) Statistical mechanics: We hypothesize that the molecules obey the lays of Newton mechanics. Then we can mathematically derive that the mean values of the observables satisfies the laws of thermodynamics, e.g., pV = RT (state equation of the ideal gas) 3) The fundamental laws are the laws of quantum mechanics itself, e.g., the Schroedinger equation. We do not know other laws from which the laws of quantum mechanics can be derived mathematically. Hence: The laws of quantum mechanics cannot be derived mathematically as in the example 1) and 2)? 

1) The first incompleteness theorem of Gödel: Any effectively generated theory capable of expressing elementary arithmetic cannot be both consistent and complete. In particular, for any consistent, effectively generated formal theory that proves certain basic arithmetic truths, there is an arithmetical statement that is true, but not provable in the theory. This theorem restricts the scope of provability, in short: Not all theorems of the theory are provable within the theory. 2) The second incompleteness theorem of Gödel: For any formal effectively generated theory T including basic arithmetical truths and also certain truths about formal provability, if T includes a statement of its own consistency then T is inconsistent. In short: This theorem hinders a theory to prove its own consistency. Both theorems are statements from the field of mathematical logic. Both have been proved and both do not refer to the physical world. They show that Hilbert’s program of formalization cannot be kept up. 3) Kant’s antinomies refer to the boundaries of our rational argumentation and experience. Kant argues in Critic of Pure Reason that statements about all embracing concepts like the world create antinomies. These concepts are only applicable within the domain of experience, which is the domain of the physical world. 

I consider the success of natural science the strongest argument for the existence of "real" external objects. It is very influential in so far it convinces at least all natural scientists :-) The results of natural sciences are intersubjectively testable. In general, the experts find consensus whether a scientific claim should be accepted as valid or should be refused. In the domain of experimental physics, measurements of one group must - and can - be confirmed by measurements of other groups. The most simple explanation for the fitting of the measurements of different groups is the hypothesis that all groups measure properties of the same external objects. On the other hand, I consider Kant's introduction of the concept "thing-in-it itself", about which we do not know anything, a deep insight and a warning against a naive realism: We measure only what passes the filter of our instruments and we construct our knowledge from this input. Hence our knowledge about the external world is at first restricted in its scope. And secondly, it is branded with the characteristics of our mental capabilities. 

We do not know what the historic Socrates thought and spoke by himself. Because Socrates did not leave any writings. All we know about Socrates is mostly from Plato's and for a lesser part from Xenophon's writings. Possibly the Socrates from Plato's early dialogues resembles the historic Socrates. In Plato's Apology Socrates tells us that the god Apollon at Delphi declared Socrates to be the wisest man. Socrates says, that from this time on he tries to verify this declaration by testing the knowledge of his fellow companions. Hence Socrates claims that his mission in Athens is triggered by the god Apollon. 

Metzinger is a German philospher. In his book he develops a philosophical theory about our internal, centered world model. The book is challenging. 

The physicist Richard Feynman expresses a negative view about a kind of philosophers who enter into the discussion about the Theory of Relativity; see The Feynman Lectures on Physics, Vol. 1, Chap. 16.1: $URL$ 

As a first approximation our conscious actions are released by the interaction of the prefrontal cortex on one hand and a combination of basal ganglia and thalamus on the other hand. The prefrontal cortex stores longterm goals and general rational characteristics of the person. Broadly speaking, the prefrontal cortex decides between different alternatives how to execute or to suppress the activities triggered by the basal ganglia and the thalamus. Sometimes we consciously experience the result of this decision. The origin of some mental diseases can be located in lesions of the prefrontal cortex, which is no longer capable to terminate an obsessive action. 

Concerning current continental philosophy, the following philosophers contribute important thoughts or even theories: 

Popper describes his three worlds e.g., in Chapter P2, of Popper, Karl; Eccles, John: Das Ich und sein Gehirn. 1982 (Originally: The Self and its Brain. 1972). Even for physics the concept of physicalism is to narrow when it is reduced to matter as basic concept. Since the days of Faraday and Maxwell the concept of field becomes increasingly important. Today it is discussed whether the field-concept is more fundamental than the matter-concept; e.g., whether particles are the excited states of a corresponding field. Since the advent of computers it is discussed whether the classical concept of mind should be replaced by information. But until now neither mind nor information have found a precise and satisfactory definition. Aside: I doubt that philosophy will advance when dealing with a dichotomy such simplistic and traditional like "mind or matter". 

The results are published in scientific journals, which are peer-reviewed, and also as e-prints at servers like $URL$ But results from certains domain, e.g., from military research, are not freely accessible. 

Russell's book "A history of Western philosophy" contains a section on Descartes. Of course, Russell criticises certain aspects of Descartes philosophy, e.g. that Descartes' dualism creates unsolved problems. Moreover Russell considers the constructive part of Descartes' epistemology as well as his proofs for the existence of God as lacking original ideas. But Russell emphasizes the importance of the "cogito, ergo sum". The overall estimation by Russell is positive. 

is beyond the scope of current science. Note: Big Bang is not part of the cosmological standard model, it is the limit point of the standard model. 

None of the eminent thinkers like e.g., Aristotle, Newton, Leibniz, Kant, Einstein have attributed a normative aspect to time. I think neither do McTaggart' A,B,C series. Notwithstanding all made different and partially incompatible statements about the concept of time, they all considered time a descriptive concept. Why does the question of a normative aspect of time occupy you? Of course one can use a purely descriptive term like time in a normative context, e.g., Use the remaining time! But then it is the imperative, which is normative, not the term time. 

Yes, Nietzsche is accusing Kant. Not for the first time. In this passage because Kant propagates the categorical imperative: Act only according to that maxim whereby you can, at the same time, will that it should become a universal law. What is the relation to physics? The first association which comes up to my mind is the common usage of the term “universal law” in the categorical imperative and in physics. In physics the term denotes a law of nature. I assume that according to Nietzsche laws of nature have been detected as objective laws and that they are considered universally valid. Laws of nature are not spoiled by human prejudice and self-deception. All this is different with moral laws. Nietzsche describes in distinct sayings what he considers wrong with them, notably that they are subjective. Because the categorical imperative is stated by Kant as the paradigm of an ethical maxim, it is in the center of Nietzsche's criticism. 

The passage in question is Plato: Phaedo 77,e8-9. The Greek text speaks about ἐπᾴδειν, which means to exorcize by singing. The Greek sentence has no explicit subject, it says one has to exorcize. The translator has added the voice of the charmer. 

The concept to classify by division has already been used - and possibly invented - by Plato under the name dihairesis (= division). Plato starts his work Sophistes with several examples of this method. One can describe dihairesis as creating a decision tree. In the most simple case it is a binary tree. The tree has several layers and the leaves of the tree are the terms to be classified. Of course the inner nodes of a tree are not distinguished by any structural property, only root and leaves are. Hence the principle of "definition = species plus genus proximum" seems a simplication. It takes into account only two neighbouring layers of the decision tree. It has been discussed whether such decision trees are uniquely determined: To which degree are the properties used in the classification predetermined by the things to be classified and to which degree do they just mirror our point of view? Apparently Aristotle uses the method for his biological classifications. In biology, the lowest category of species has an objective meaning - capable of interbreeding and producing fertile offspring. But the higher categories are much more arbitrary. 

the statement may be refuted but that I maintain the statement and present supporting arguments until someone refutes the hypothesis. 

The Greek verb "drao" means to do, to act. It has no affinity to a ritual context. In the context of Poetics 1449, b28 it definitely does not mean "to act during a ritual". Because the content of Greek tragedies can be any action. The emphasis is even on non-ritual actions, cf. Oedipus the King by Sophokles, a paradigm of Aristotle. Greek tragedies were performed during regular festivals. They were submitted to a tragedy contest, not to a ritual. 

Equivalence is a fundamental concept of mathematics, possibly even the most elementary fundamental concept. Taking equivalence relation is used for abstraction: One has a set ob objects and wants to group them into classes, with all members of each class having the same property. All members of one class are equivalent concerning the given property, but they are not equal. A simple example is the class of even numbers and the class of odd numbers. Each integer falls in exactly one class. Now one forms the set FF_2 with these two classes as its elements. Denote by "0" the class "Even" and by "1" the class "Odd". Then you can derive addition and multiplication for the two elements of FF_2 from the corresponding operations on the set of integers. E.g., one defines 1 + 1 := 0 in FF_2, because "odd" + "odd" is "even". Hence one passes from the infinite set of integers to the finite set FF_2 by introducing an equivalence relation. And this equivalence relation respects addition and multiplication. The above construction means to consider equivalent two integers if and only they give the same rest when dividing by n = 2. The same construction can be achieved for division by arbitrary non-zero n. The result are the restclasses modulo n, i.e. the sets with elements 0,1,2,...,n-1. Also here addition and multiplication are well-defined.