This is not really a physics or astronomy question, but I reckon that when you model the Earth as flat, the stars and the Sun are merely minor objects and their motion is governed by heavenly spirits rather than regular orbits. So, rather then the flat Earth tilting, the Sun's trajectory changed with the seasons. Btw, what I find more concerning is how the (infinitely extended) flat Earth can be reconciled with the Sun rising in the East after setting in the West: how did it get there? 

The reason that Mercury is not locked into a 1:1 spin orbit resonance is its eccentric orbit. In fact, the 3:2 resonance is the result of weak tides in conjunction with the orbital eccentricity. This is in fact mentioned on the Wikipedia page. 

So for now one can say that we and the sun are not part of any binary star system which has been (if it exists) undiscovered till recently 

Since every object in the known universe which has mass has an infinite gravitational field every object in the universe affects one another. Every star in our surrounding affects Our solar system but the relative proximity of the sun masks these effects to us. However if the sun would be a part of a binary system of stars 

Our planet should have been affected by it because a star is a much larger mass when compared to the planets. Since the star and our sun interact with each other they would produce a noticeable wobble. Any such star would definitely be very close to the sun so as to be able to influence it and hence easily visible yet no evidence has been found for this. 

I've read that Uranus has a lower surface gravity due to its lower density than Earth. However, does this mean Uranus has a weaker pull on its moons than Earth does for the same reason? 

That's a really good question. I'll explain as best as I can, there are about a number of ways this can happen. 

I know that a a planet or moon's rotation will slow down or speed up until it is tidally locked with a body, is Pluto's rotation being affected by the sun or is it being forced by Charon just to to be tidally locked with Charon? 

Yes, that is what it means. Pretty much each star in the Milky Way that does not orbit another star or object revolves around the SMBH. All planetary systems (solar systems) in our galaxy revolve around that point. It'a likely that most galaxies have supermassive black holes at their centers, so usually each system orbits the SMBH(s) at the center. There actually may be more than one at the center, and in that case, the the stars and other objects will revolve around that system of supermassive black holes. But however, the SMBH isn't enough to keep the galaxy together. It also needs some of the gravity from the stars, nebulae, planets etc. that make it up. 

To add to Dieudonné's excellent answer, I'd like to say that spiral arms are only really prominent in the blue part of the spectrum (massive stars tend to be blue and short-lived), while in infrared wavebands, for example, spiral arms only appear as mild over-densities of 10-20%. Some galaxies have clear arms winding for almost 360$^\circ$ or even more (grand-design spirals), but most spirals arms much are shorter and less clear. Many galaxies in fact have only so-called flocculent spiral arms, which look like short pieces of spiral arms all over the galaxy, but which cannot be linked together into one large coherent spiral pattern. The situation for the Milky is not so clear, as we don't have an external view and measuring accurate distances to objects within the Milky Way is notoriously difficult. The hope is that ESA's Gaia satellite will give us some more accurate picture. 

After doing research it said that nebulas are made of gas and dust. Are they actually gases and solids, or are they plasma? 

I asked a question previous similar to this, but I'm wondering, can a star make a moon move closer to its planet or further away? How? 

Fragmentation, as the protostar forms, the disk may fragment under its own gravity, or like the method listed below, it may rotate enough until some of the mass breaks off so another star may form. Accretion, another object in the system may "steal" matter from the forming star, and when it's mass reaches a high enough point, a second star may start to form. Breaking up, if the star rotates fast enough, it may split apart into two separate stars. But like HDE 226868 said, it is no longer favored. Normal formation, when the stars are forming, both may acquire enough mass without any of these effects to form a binary system. Capture, a nearby star may capture another so that they orbit each other. 

During the early days of the solar system there was a high abundance of matter in the early solar system. Easily enough to form the planets and a lot of matter to spare. Also during the initial stages of formation of the solar system matter was distributed very densely when compared to what the density is today. At that point there were lots of asteroids and other small bodies very close together therefore at that stage local gravitational fields played a major role in formation of the planets. rather than the sun As for the asteroid belt. It cannot form into a planet because the matter density is very low and its proximity to the giant Jupiter makes it very vulnerable to its gravitational field. The gravitational fields between the asteroids are simply not enough to coalesce them together into a planet due to very large distances (between the asteroids) involved 

I have to disagree with the accepted answer. The terms Planets, moons, asteroids, planetesimals are generic and are not implied to mean objects in the Solar system. So, these terms are completely correct when dealing with the generic objects. When specifically emphasizing the fact that a certain objects is not in Solar system, then you may want to add 'exo' for disambuigation, but this should be reserved for this purpose only. A planet is a planet no matter where. Same with a house, which is a house no matter whether it's in your home town or elsewhere on the Earth. 

These are in contradiction with a Solar binary nature: a viable binary has a large orbital velocity that would put the Sun outside of the typical velocity for local stars. This contradiction can only be temporarily avoided if the current (but not in $\sim1000$ years) orbital velocity and the velocity of the massive binary companion add up to a typical stellar velocity. This is an unlikely chance. Binaries with a stellar-mass black hole always form from an ordinary stellar binary, with one of the stars going supernova. Often, such binaries are quite compact. All this is ruled out for the Sun. Finally, black holes of intermediate masses (100 to $10^5$ M$_\odot$) haven't (yet?) been detected unambigously (though there are several objects that have been claimed to be such intermediate-mass black holes also IMBHs). 

Keep in mind that there are probably more ways for binary stars to form. Also, a collision isn't very likely to form these systems. 

Yes, you are correct. Since Alpha Centauri is four light years away, you see it as it was four years ago. For example, if the sun was to suddenly disappear it would take eight minutes for us to see it disappear. The reason is that light takes eight minutes to travel from the sun to us. Also, the Moon is nearly one light second away, so were are looking at as it was one second ago. 

This may sound a little bit confusing, but I will try to explain. (I have done research on this topic already) I have looked at the temperatures of planets and I was wondering, is there a point where a planet is at perigee and it's temperature cannot reach any higher? Let's just say the planet is tidally locked, and is currently at perigee. Would the planet be at a point where it's temperature can no longer be increased at the current distance from its star? 

The universe started according to the big bang theory and if we take it as true it gives us a near infinite radiation density. We could measure the expansion and try to estimate the age but it is still hazy as we have no way knowing the initial density of the universe. There is always an uncertainty in any measurement. and measuring something so far away(The edge of the universe) will have a lot of uncertainty. 

These measures of today may still have a huge margin of error but they are the best we have till date. And to narrow the error down to about even a few years would take us a lot of time and tremendous development in technologies. So basically we have a very slim chance of determining the precise age of the universe in the foreseeable future 

I have been researching this on google, and I think there is a process. What is this process called? I have forgotten. 

I was looking at a wikipedia article ($URL$ and I came across an interesting aspect that said pulsars turn off from rotation. What I don't understand is why emission of EM waves would slow a pulsar down? 

If I understand correctly, red dwarfs consume all of their hydrogen and will eventually shrink into helium white dwarfs, whereas the higher mass stars will consume a fair amount of their hydrogen fuel, not necessarily all of it. Correct me if I'm wrong. 

The best way to tell the difference between planets and stars is: (From here) Early astronomers were able to tell the difference between planets and stars because planets in our Solar System appear to move in complicated paths across the sky, but stars don't. That is, if you observe the sky night after night, the stars will all appear in fixed positions with respect to each other. They will rise and set a few minutes earlier each night (an effect that is due to the Earth's motion around the Sun), but otherwise nothing will change. This is why the background stars are sometimes referred to as the "celestial sphere" -- from our point of view, it looks like the stars are "painted" onto a gigantic sphere that surrounds Earth and therefore are unable to move with respect to each other. Planets, on the other hand, are observed to move in very complicated paths with respect to the background stars, sometimes even appearing to go "against the grain" and reverse their directions. Therefore, they are easily distinguishable from stars if you look at the sky night after night. Although ancient astronomers did not have a correct explanation for this phenomenon, we now know that the complicated motion is just a projection effect -- it is due to the fact that Earth and the other planets are physically moving in orbits around the Sun, so the planets' relative positions as seen from Earth (with respect to the fixed background stars) change as time goes on. There are other observational differences between planets and stars too, by the way -- such as the fact that planets almost never twinkle. Like the text said, if an object doesn't twinkle, it's most likely to be a planet. If you observe it every night, and it appears to change its position more than stars do. Although stars also change their positions, they don't change their positions in the sky as much as planets throughout the year. Stars maintain positions relative to one another, constellations are a great to tell the difference between planets in stars. What I mean by maintaining their positions is that each night they are usually in the same pattern and usually the same distance apart in the night sky.