Relax. Keep looking for new stuff to do when you run out of assignments. You'll never worry about why people are asking again (even if you didn't really need to before). 

Are you very nervous at these things? Do you come across as younger than you look on paper? Are you giving careful consideration to what they're telling you about the more general problems they're having and trying to give examples of how you've dealt with those in the past? Do you feel content to be perfectly honest about every question or do you try to guild the lily a bit in areas where maybe you haven't been strong or have as much knowledge as you'd like even though these aren't necessarily important to the role? Are you maybe applying for work at the wrong sorts of companies where they've got an exciting household name but aren't really good at anything, especially gauging and challenging talent? 

Then yes, you will see me suppress a laugh, because it's just patently absurd, and absurd is funny, but Suzy's days are numbered if you told me right away because it's not hard to tell if somebody is drunk on the job and no, I can't have drunk employees, especially ones that randomly pimp-slap people for no reason whatsoever. That's just two great reasons to fire somebody that go great together. But neither version of this story is really that simple, is it? Or you would have told somebody about it right away. And there'd be a lot more details in the question. If you're not sure having all the facts of this incident laid out in front of a manager is going to advance your career at this place of employment, I'd let this one go and hope that Suzy does too. Maybe make a learning experience out of it by really soul-searching on what it was you did that could have pissed her off if she isn't just one of those very rare crazy completely irrational drunks. But if you think really, really hard about it, you might find that the one that's owed an apology is not you. And maybe it's not even her either. This looks to me like there were bad mistakes made on all sides. When that happens everybody is probably better off if nobody asks for justice. 

There is nothing that will save a job necessarily, if the terminating party is bullheaded enough. But email, if forwarded to an account you retain access to after being terminated can serve as powerful evidence in follow-up litigation and for that reason alone, it can save your butt in a situation where they say one thing and you have another in writing. Because while yes, printed emails can be faked, hacking Gmail's servers to inject fake emails is considerably more difficult, making any hanky-panky with the email database on the employer's end a lot more obvious. It might not be super-hard to fake an e-mail from a given IP, but usually the timing of a critical communication can give it some veracity, especially if it agrees with what's been found on other servers, so forward anything you think is important sooner rather than later when you get the sense trouble is brewing. For nipping problems in the bud at work before it comes to an actual risk of termination, however, any email evidence of bad behavior on the part of a coworker or good behavior on your part that refutes what's being said about you should be reported to your immediate manager or whoever is over their head if they're the source of your problem. And do it promptly, because it's sad but true, a lot of people respond more to a narrative that's been formed about you than evidence you present that counters all of it if they've been writing a story about you for long enough. If you can always provide evidence in writing and do so promptly on every attempt at under-bussing that you are aware of (keep that in mind), the narrative that starts to form will be about the weasel and not you. As a developer at a fairly hectic/chaotic "fast-paced" ad agency, I'm personally very careful to make sure any promises I make are both stated and ideally acknowledged in email in case somebody tries to rewrite the narrative when it turns out something needed to be done much sooner or differently than it was handled which tends to happen a lot, often out of ADD shenanigans more than any real malice. And learn to keep an eye on anybody who never wants to commit or acknowledge anything in email. They might just hate typing. Or they might be slippery weasels. Sadly you can't ignore politics. I tried for years. If you conduct yourself professionally the best defense is to preemptively strike the crap out of any attempt at sullying your reputation. Using email well provides plenty of ammo for that. 

You have to be able to spell out the consequences very specifically in a single sentence. "I've seen/been-trained/have benefited from best practices that say otherwise in the past and I'm worried that if we continue down this road it's going to result in a maintainability nightmare because specific thing X will happen to specific aspect of code Y which could result in us working weekends to do specific horrible kludgey thing Z." If that doesn't provoke conversation then I'd personally be a bit offended and start looking for new work if the situation is actually that severe. Just make sure you know what you're talking about and you're not blindly following some best practice he might be convinced is snake oil. 

Why is it that the first idea management scraps from scrum, agile, etc... is always the advice that you not have the standup first thing? In programming it takes a while to ramp back up to the full awareness of all the details and issues you're dealing with on a given problem. When you do standups first-thing, your devs aren't going to have their heads completely screwed on. Standups are critical to communication and improving efficiency, not something you just do first thing to "get out of the way." 

IMO, you really don't need somebody to tell you that you screwed up. I suspect you knew but wanted to have the scales balanced by hearing that your work situation isn't great. It doesn't sound like it is. But all you really proved by walking out because you didn't think anybody would say yes when you asked permission, is that you don't really love or care about this job. That's okay, but it's easier to find the one you might eventually with decent recommendations. So try to remember that even if you're frustrated with your circumstances that there are in fact people who need you for what you know and not all of them necessarily, are total assholes, and you never know which of those might end up somewhere you'd like to be. Learn to value and be helpful to the people who make it possible to do the things you enjoy doing to the extent that you can and treat the parasite-types like problems to be worked around. They never go away. You have to learn to sidestep. 

No. That's just practical best-for-self/company interests he's looking out for there. People are correct in asserting that how he knows doesn't make him a jerk for holding you back with the information he has. I do however, think that you would be in the right to ask your boss how he knows since him knowing has in fact screwed your career prospects at that company. Failing that, I would call the people you applied with and ask them how they think he knows. This is important information to have because if the idiots called your CURRENT EMPLOYER for a background check for a job it takes them 6 months to make a decision on, that's a level of incompetence and callousness that typically requires organization-wide saturation of buffoonery to be made possible. So let me guess. It's a government gig, right? Are you sure you want it? Either way, I don't see how your boss is ethically wrong here. I don't see that you've done anything horribly wrong either. If the prospect is the reason your boss knows, they are definitely in the wrong but are probably completely unaccountable for their actions which is why they would do such an obnoxious thing in the first place. I think the only thing you can really do here is appeal to his sense of fair play and point out that responding to interest doesn't necessarily mean that you have one foot out the door and that you're actually kind of alarmed/turned off that they were dumb enough to call your current company as a part of their evaluation process (if that is in fact how he knows about it). Furthermore, I'd also point out that anybody spending 6 months on the process, is putting 6 months worth of whatever it is they call effort into finding a reason not to hire you. You'll be lucky if they don't lose your contact info in that amount of time. Even if you really wanted the job which you definitely decided you didn't when they told you it was going to take that long to decide (that doesn't have to be true for you to say it), your odds of getting hired there would be very low. Still assuming that it's their fault, and that you're as pissed at them as I would be, I would call them and politely ask them to call your current employer back and explain to your boss that you've actually asked that they not consider you for the job because you weren't actually that interested in the first place and the thing where they did a background check at your current place of employment made you doubly certain of that. Regardless, he'll probably wait 6 months before considering you for anything just to be sure. You need to suck it up and play the hand you've been dealt and wait, or find a better job where they just look for qualified people and then put as few obstacles between them and hiring a candidate as soon as they think they've found a good one. I highly recommend one of those employers. You can tell a lot about how completely bat!@#$-insane a culture is going to be by the sorts of things they put prospective employees through. Six months? I stop taking people seriously when they ask for my urine and that only takes like a minute until they point out they didn't want it right here and now.