Mix it all together and fry it a bit then put it into oven(with a pan that can handle the oven heat) or just fry it, doesn't matter.Add a bit cheese at the end(when in oven) Tastes awesome in my opinion. You can upgrade it even more with different spices like basil. Eating healthy can be very easy, you just have to get creative. Also, enough rest is very important. Try to get a good night sleep every night. I personally try to sleep at least 8-9 hours daily. 

Try some of those things. Number 4 would definitely help you. Combine it with the others and I am sure you will reach your goals. To be honest, 4 liters a day seems a bit much, but I might be wrong. I personally drink 3 liters a day and I weight 92 kg. This article even states that women should drink a bit less than men. But at the end of the day, it is your choice. Good luck 

Just to recap our discussion. At your weight and height, you are not obese. I would highly recommend exercising and following your macros, that can be calculated here A very good site, to track your macros is myfitnesspal If would also look into something called intermittent fasting But, since you said your family has a history of diabetes i would strongly recommend talking to your doctor about this before hand. I have followed this life style for over a year now, and i love it. Also, it is very important to remember, that carbs are not the enemy, sugars are. There are many different carb sources that are healthy, like oats and different greens. Your body needs carbs for energy, without it, no energy, no muscles. The rule of thumb is to consume at least 1 g of protein per 1 pound of body weight, this has worked for me, for thousand of others and it will work for you too. Every other day you can do some cardio after your weight lifting workout, but take it easy in the start, see your limits, do not injure yourself and most important, have fun. As for protein sources, try to get everything from whole foods, if you can't then turn to protein powders. They help, but they can't replace a good meal. When buying protein, it is important to get as much protein per serving as possible and keeping sugars low. After a workout you have 24-48 hours(depending on your body) to consume your proteins, so don't listen to supplement companies about fast releasing or slow releasing proteins. An ordinary Whey protein will do the trick. Veganism is a burden, and depending on how hardcore you are your sources of proteins will shiver. Egg whites are the best out there. 1 egg white = 4 g of protein. Chicken is also a very good source of protein. As a vegan you could get your protein from nuts,beans,soy(However, since you are a man i do not recommend soy to you, as a matter of fact, i would stay as far as possible from it). and of course, the best bodybuilding meal out there : oatmeal. 

Well it is very easy actually, use some calorie calculator to find out how much of calories you need. Then find a proper macro balance, that you think will work for you. For example, mine is 40% protein 40% carbs 20% fat. As a person who does stronglifts you might not find it good for. Good sources of carbs: oatmeal,buckwheat,greens(spinach,broccoli),fruit(kiwi,banana etc.),sweet potatoes and a lot of other whole wheat things. The easiest way to find good carb sources is to check their glycemic index. Good sources of protein : Egg whites, some protein breads, oatmeal, beans, meat(chicken,tuna) dairy and if you think you can't fill your daily needs, protein powder. You can't replace food tho so only as an last option. Good sources of fats : Tuna, dairy, nuts I personally like to combine a lot of different things so for example one of my meals looks like this : 

Reducing your caloric deficit even more, by a few hundred calories. This is a sure way to lose weight, when you feel you are stuck Carbohydrate cycling. It is a little bit on the side of bro science, but I have done it, and it does work for me,it might not work for you, who knows. The link I provided is an example. There are many different plans for this. Find the one that works for you. Carbohydrate backloading. Also a bit on the side of bro science, but also works, for me. Check it out, try, you might like this. Intermittent fasting. This is more like a life style, which I personally love. I combine this with Carb backloading to get some nice results. It also makes my life a lot easier since I wake up at 7 am. to start getting ready for work, and thus not really feeling like preparing breakfast. Using this I lost 1 kg per week, while I was still building more lean mass(Was measuring). Add some green tea to the diet in the mornings and in the evenings and it will be perfect. (Green tea, and black coffee won't break the fasted state) 

You are worth your name. Your regime looks pretty strong, but you could try a few things to make it more effective. Firstly, as you said yourself, try to get more sleep. Rest is critical if you are working out this hard. I had significant results when I started sleeping for almost 9 hours. Secondly, your diet looks pretty good,but you could try a few things 

Use some calculator to calculate your macros, a simple one like this There are three major macronutrients, or macros for short : Protein, Carbohydrates and fats. Using the macro calculator you can calculate how much of each do you need daily. Fill those needs, and you will lose weight, if that is what you want. Use a site like myfitnesspal to track your macros. It is just calories in vs calories out. Let's say your maintance caloric need is 2500kcal. You simply reduce your intake by, lets say 200, and later 500. So instead of 2500kcal you eat 2000kcal. You have to simply try what works for you. Just an example tho. Use the calculator to find your needs. There are some more sophisticated calculators that require more information. You can find them easily when googeling "Caloric calculator" or "Macro calculator" Losing weight is simple, if you track your macros. If you like the workout you do, keep doing it. From whatever you calculate your macros to be, i recommend consuming at least 1 g of protein for 1 pound of bodyweight.(If i remember right its 2g protein / 1kg of body weight) and build your other macro needs around this. Keep eating clean. Get your vitamins from veggies etc. If you want to cheat build that day around the cheat meal you have chosen. For example, you want to eat a pizza. Find the pizza you want in myfitnesspal and add other foods around it, so you could still get your daily needs. Use some healthy fillers, like borccoli and spinach. And also, don't forget your fats. Fats are important. My calories come from 40% protein 40% carbs 20% fat. In grams it looks like this(for example) 200g of protein, 200g of carbs, 80g of fat. THIS IS ONLY AN EXAMPLE. This is what works for me. You are lighter than me so following those macros would not help you lose weight.