As I understand it, you want to expand beyond the "power stroke" and consider pedaling in a "full circle". Starting just past the top of the stroke around 1:00 you would drop your heel slightly then gradually extend you foot somewhat during the power stroke, then extend it further at the bottom, sort of "flicking" the pedal across the bottom. Then, you would pull with your hamstrings during the "back" of the stroke, driving your knee up and pulling your toes up slightly as you go to prepare for the next power stroke. At the top you would flick your foot forward then repeat the whole cycle. It is easier to understand if you attempt each of these while pedaling a bicycle. If feels pretty natural after a small amount of practice. I would not necessarily say this is the "most efficient" way to pedal, but that it is the method that produces the most output. When Mountain Biking I use the full circle to accelerate or climb short hills. On a long hill I alternate emphasis from the power stroke to the back stroke to shift the load around while climbing. On a mostly level road I pedal full circle to maintain the maximum sustainable pace. You can read a lot of detail here. 

I agree with others who have commented that you have to target fat loss all over. While exercise can be somewhat helpful, fat loss is probably 90% diet so you should focus your effort there. Many have had success with relative ease using Tim Ferriss's Slow Carb Diet so I would recommend that you give you that a try. 

Although there are muscles in your hands themselves, most of them are in your forearms. As an awesome example, check out rock climber Adam Ondra at 4:02 in this video, where he's traversing the ceiling of a cave by gripping stalactites: $URL$ . You can pretty clearly see that because of the kind of grip he's attained, his forearms are huge compared to his upper arms. But training isn't just about muscles. You're also building the strength of your connective tissue, and there is a lot of that in your hands. 

The basic answer is that although there has been quite a bit of medical research on this kind of thing, research does not strongly support any specific advice for avoiding injury as a runner. People used to say that it was important to use good running shoes that provided a lot of cushioning against impacts, and to replace the shoes frequently because they could lose their cushioning ability. This conflicts with the fact that humans evolved to run barefoot, and the recent popularity of barefoot running and minimal running shoes has also raised questions about this belief. Kong et al. found that cushioning affected comfort, but not injury. Studies with accelerometers have found that people subconsciously adjust their style to avoid the discomfort associated with large impact forces, and this is probably the reason that cushioning is not beneficial. It then seems reasonable to expect the same to hold for running on hard versus soft surfaces, and although I don't have access to the paper, apparently there is a 1992 paper by van Mechelen (cited here) confirming that softer surfaces don't help. People have claimed that feet were normal, pronated, or supinated, and that you should buy shoes that were matched to your style. The classification is not supported by evidence. A study falsifies the theory that you need shoes to correct your pronation. People have claimed that to avoid injury, you shouldn't increase your mileage by more than 10% a week. Only one study has been done of the 10% rule, and it found no difference in injuries between those who followed it and those who didn't. In general, the evidence does not support claims that mileage is correlated with injury. In fact, there is some evidence that running very long distances is safer, possibly because the runners tend to go slower at those distances. People will tell you to stretch, but static stretching before going running doesn't seem to change the injury rate, and static stretching has a neurological effect that inhibits muscle from stretching more later. Keep in mind that for most sports, running is considered a warm-up. 

For the goals you state, I recommend focusing on reducing your body fat. Most reasonable healthy people have a nice six pack but it is hidden under body fat. Adding mass will not do much to make those abs more visible. By far the most effective tool for doing this is your diet. I recommend a high protein, low carbohydrate diet - basically a variety of meats and vegetables, avoiding starchy vegetables like potatoes. A good diet might be Tim Ferris's Slow Carb Diet. Of course you should continue working out, but I think diet will be a much more effective tool for your goals. 

I would guess that by running exclusively on a tread mill you developed a stride that relied on the forgiving surface. I run exclusively in minimalist shoes (Vibram Fivefingers) on pavement with no complaints now but I ran in traditional running shoes for over a decade and had occasional knee or plantar fascia problems. I also spent about five years running almost exclusively on gravel and during that time I had pretty severe knee pain any time I ran on pavement. It is clear to me now that my old stride included very hard heel strikes while the stride that I learned running in minimalist shoes does not. I can take off my shoes and run the same way barefooted with no discomfort (until the abrasion gets to the soles of my feet :-) Learning to run in minimalist shoes would probably require more of a commitment than you would want to take on, but I recommend visiting this Harvard web site on the biomechanics of foot strikes to get an idea of how to run with a forefoot strike, then practicing that with the shoes you wear now. If you can modify your stride you will likely relieve much of your pain. UPDATE: I just noticed the additional info you added. Running down steep hills definitely generates the hardest impacts so you should avoid them as long as you are experiencing pain. You could also consider walking down steep hills. Also, take plenty of time to recover between runs, perhaps several days. If you do not want to skip exercise for that length of time substitute walking between your runs. UPDATE 2: I should have linked to this video originally. It gives you a nice overview of the information you will find at the Harvard Barefoot Running website. 

Scientific studies do not seem to support the seemingly commonsense idea that cushioning in your shoes protects you from injury: $URL$ . When you run with less cushioning, your brain apparently subconsciously adjusts your stride to keep the forces the same. This suggests that you save your money and keep using a pair of shoes until it wears out. 

If I run a fixed number of miles, is there any solid scientific evidence on whether running at a faster speed makes me more likely to get injured? I'm a physicist, so my tendency is to try to make models based on mechanics. Presumably injuries like plantar fasciitis are caused by strain that exceeds the elastic limit of the tissue, and strain should be proportional to the square of the speed at which I run. This suggests to me that injury should depend critically on speed: if my speed is below a certain threshold, then my tissues never go past their elastic limit, but once I get past that threshold, I suddenly start doing damage. So speed kills -- true or false? Is there any good evidence-based medicine on this topic? The following is the only thing I've come across that seems possibly relevant: $URL$ This is a newspaper article describing research that seems to show that running very long distances may be, counterintuitively, less likely to cause injury, possibly because the greater distance forces the runners to go more slowly. On the other hand, people often do get plantar fasciitis even when all they do is stand or walk around. 

I've been running in Vibram Fivefingers for about 4 years, first in a pair of KSOs then in a pair of Bikilas. My typical run is 4 - 6 miles. I agree with Mike but wanted to add my experience to this question. When I switched from KSOs to Bikilas the pad over the Achilles tendon on the Bikila irritated my skin. The upper of the Bikila has a good deal more "structure" to it and this made the rubbing even worse. Even after my skin toughened up it would still be irritated after a run. For this reason I prefer the KSO, though I am still running in Bikilas. I wanted to get the Bikila LS but they are designed for wide feet and mine are narrow so I had to pull the two sides completely together to get a snug fit. My next pair will probably be a brown pair of KSO Treks because they will look better when I feel like wearing them with jeans. Learning how to run like a human is key to running in minimalist shoes. You can find some really good information from Harvard's Skeletal Biology Lab" barefoot running page. There is also a great video summarizing this work on YouTube. I used to run a mile or two barefooted each time I ran just to improve my form but I quite doing that last year. My feet never seemed to toughen up enough for regular 4 to 6 mile runs on concrete and asphalt, though I could run the occasional 5K barefooted without issues.