In the earliest years of the newborn Christianity, scribes wrote on single sheets of papyrus, formed into scrolls, or birch bark sheets. Towards the end of the 1st century a.d., parchment, made of animal hides (the best type known as vellum, whose root is shared with veal, or calf). While papyrus did continue to be used perhaps as late as the 9th century, by the 4th century a.d., parchment had taken over as the writing sheet of choice. While the scrolls had sufficed in the beginning, as the tomes grew in size, it was discovered that many sheets of vellum could be bound into a codex, or book. As Europe descended into what is called the Dark Ages, illiteracy took hold throughout Europe. Even the leaders were mostly unlettered. Only the monastery remained truly literate, with monks acting as the scribes. Parchment, or vellum, was chosen for the books due to its durability, as compared to the much more brittle papyrus. 

When White men came to mainland North America, there were an indigenous population already here. I will refer to that population as North American Indians. Africans were brought to the Americas (eventually) as slaves. Talk to an average White man in the South, point at a group of Black men (African Americans, Negros) and he could be expected to think "slaves". Why didn't America (or the English before the American Revolution) think of (or write laws to the effect that) the indigenous North American Indian population as slaves? NOTE: I'm not asking why didn't they enslave American Indians, just why didn't they view them as (think of them as) slaves. 

Originally, everyone in the area claimed the Oregon Country: the British, Americans, Spanish, and Russians. Why did Russia give up its claim to the region? What did they get in return? 

During the Pequot War (1634-1638), the Pequot built a fort near modern Mystic, Connecticut. This fort was overrun by the English settlers in 1637 who massacred most of the inhabitants. What type of defenses did the Pequot fort have? (Stone walls, ramparts, ditches, wooden palisades, archers on towers, gatehouses, etc.) 

During the "Heroic Age" of Antarctic exploration (roughly 1890 to 1920), did any expeditions use coal as a fuel or heat source? I'm not just asking what they carried while walking in the interior, I'm interested in what they used at their stationary encampments on the coast as well. Comparing the success and failure of different expeditions, methods of transportation and keeping warm are believed to have made quite a difference. 

Reading an interesting article in Forbes, I was dumbfounded by the idea that Ted Kennedy might have sought out Yuri Andropov's help to run for president against Ronald Reagan in 1984. A relevant summary from the article: 

The Soviet navy played an auxiliary role throughout the entirety of the Second World War. The Baltic fleet was mainly locked in by German and Finnish mines, while the Black Sea fleet mainly participated in evacuation operations (Odessa and Sevastopol) and after the Germans retreated in 1943, attempted to gain control from German and Romanian forces. The Navy also participated in numerous landing operations in the Black Sea (Malaia Zemlia) for which Tsezar Kunikov is famous, and Brezhnev, who took credit he didn't deserve. Furthermore, Soviet Naval Infantry participated in numerous battles once their ships were disabled or there was a need for manpower. From Leningrad, to Odessa, Stalingrad, Sevastopol, Novorossiisk, and 'special forces' operations (mainly conducted by naval recon troops), Soviet navy personnel made up a significant and important part of many Red Army operations. The Germans nicknamed them 'The Black Death'. 

All three had specific reasons for appearing in military uniforms if and when they did (keep in mind that they did not regularly or always wear them). Stalin utilized the victory in the Great Patriotic War to establish his demi-God status throughout the Soviet Union and portray his actions in the 1930s as necessary for the war's outcome. He used the war as a tool and himself, or rather the idea of 'Stalin', as the ultimate genius behind the victory over Nazi Germany. Khrushchev allied himself with the likes of Zhukov when he was attempting to take over after Stalin. It was under Khrushchev that the first military memoirs about the war were published (Stalin refused to allow much to be written about the war for fear of anyone asking the wrong questions). Khrushchev was a commissar but never really held any position of importance. Finally, Brezhnev jumped on the 'War Cult' bandwagon because he tried to use the war to excuse previous failures and attempted to utilize the deeds of that generation to inspire the current and future generation(s) by having veterans visit schools to talk with students, by making May 9 a national holiday (it took 20 years for that to happen), etc. He was also a commissar during the war, lower ranking than Khrushchev, and his claim to fame was 'Malaia Zemlia'. This was an operation in the latter part of the war where a diversionary operation was so successful that the main operation was called off and all the forces earmarked for the main offensive were instead switched over to Malaia Zemlia (it was an attempt to liberate Novorossiisk in 1943). Brezhnev never played an important role, but if you look at the literature from the time period, he was apparently pretty damn important. And in that picture, you can see that he was only one of 4 people in the entire Soviet Union to receive the coveted 'Hero of the Soviet Union' Gold Star three times (the other three were Zhukov and two of the highest scoring aces in the Soviet Air Force). 

Beat to quarters is what has become General Quarters in the modern navies. It was the call to ship's company to prepare for action/battle. All crew would prepare for action, depending on the reason for BtQ. (BtQ would be called during storm preparation as well as battle prep, for instance) The cannon crew would ensure their cannon were properly tied for the action, and pulled all the way to the rear of their lines. Water would be laid for the swabs, the linstocks would all be lit, the balls stacked close at hand and the gunpowder readied. The rates would scamper up the ratlines to stand by for maneuvering changes to the sheets. Extra rigging would be laid out, out of the way. The marines would take their positions, and light their linstocks, or prime their flints. The ship's surgeon would prepare his table and instruments in the mess, while the cooks would heat water (for fire control and for the surgeon). Finally, the dinghies would taken down and lowered into the water and taken in tow. This was done to clear the decks for combat. They would only be in the way of the marines and would be in more danger of being holed or destroyed from cannon fire (from the enemy). These were some of the main things that might happen during a BtQ for combat. Many other items would be done as well, however. 

Whether or not they were dictators is a separate question and one that does not necessarily relate to what they should or would wear. 

There are some things you can be sure about and some that you will never know for 100% are true/false/accurate. Facts throughout history are easier to understand and list, such as dates, people, events, etc. We know they happened, especially within the past 100 years when the world has been exposed to photographs and television. The bigger issue is understanding the underlying context and analysis. Why did things happen is something that we will never know for 100%. That is why so many controversies and debates exist within history, because you can have a hundred historians studying the same subject and looking at the same sources and they'll come away with 100, or more, different interpretations based on their own specialization, understanding, background, interest, and knowledge base. There is no absolute way of avoiding misinformation because for that you'll have to look at all the information the historian or author you're reading looked through, and that's impossible. And if somehow that were possible, your interpretation might easily differ from that of someone else. But that doesn't mean either of you is wrong, it simply means the world is not black and white and events unfold due to so many reasons and factors that it is truly impossible for any one person or one study to objectively encompass them all. 

Let's say you were from the Middle Ages, 1200s England or Germany, and you got thrown back in time to the Iron Age. It's still the same place, but it's 400 BC. Apart from the language, what would you actually notice as being different? How was everyday life any different in the Iron Age than in the Middle Ages? (Yes, this is a rather fuzzy question, but I'm hoping to get some good insights from people.) 

Is there any truth to this? It seems like a pretty blatant attempt at treason to me, which is why I find it so surprising. 

In the United States, the government is expressly forbidden from punishing people for disseminating their ideas, even if those ideas are stupid. Neo-Nazis are fools and brutes, but they're free to share their ideas. 

In 1893, the famed explorer Fridtjof Nansen set out on an expedition to reach the North Pole. The plan was to sail a sturdy wooden ship, the Fram, into the ice north of Siberia, then drift, frozen in the sea ice, across the North Pole, coming out years later in the North Atlantic. After almost two years in the ice, Nansen could see they weren't drifting far enough north to reach the Pole, so he and a single companion (Hjalmar Johansen) set out on skis. After a month of skiing north, Nansen realized they weren't going to make it, so they turned around and headed south. Since there was no way for them to find the Fram, they had to get home on their own. It looks like their plan was to ski all the way to Svalbard, then board a ship headed for Norway. 

First thing you need to look for is the bibliography and endnotes/footnotes. Archival research is a must for professional historians when they are writing their dissertation, which eventually becomes their first manuscript/book. As well, they have to discuss and incorporate theory and methodology. Later in their careers they can, if they so choose, write books mainly based on secondary literature. Such books can do one of two things; they can challenge an accepted narrative/paradigm or simply create a general history for those interested in a specific subject. Most authors who write about history but have not been educated at the graduate level in history will not have a good grasp of theory and methodology and will, unfortunately, add little to nothing to our understanding of specific historical events/ideas/people/etc. that they choose to write about. 

No. Knowing how 'close' they were would mean knowing what variables would be needed to bring them over into collapsing. Only conjecture exists in the form of taking Moscow in 1941 or the Caucasus in 1942. Comparable is the idea that the Germans were defeated before the war even began due to their lack of planning and foresight, as well as their failure of securing the encirclement at Smolensk spelled their eventual defeat. 

There's a place in Alberta called Fort Assiniboine. Today it's a small village, but in the days of the fur trade, it was a fort and trading post for the Hudson's Bay Company. The Assiniboine people are an American Indian / First Nations tribe from the Great Plains, but all the maps I've seen of their territory don't come anywhere near Fort Assiniboine. 

For a long time, the South Pole was one of the last great targets of explorers on Earth. There were a number of expeditions to explore the region, but for some reason, everyone who tried to reach the pole did so from the Ross Sea (towards New Zealand), rather than from the Weddell Sea (towards the South Atlantic). Why did all the South Pole attempts use the Ross Sea instead of the Weddell? 

Do we still know what beehives looked like in ancient Mesopotamia? Are there any contemporary images or descriptions? I'm looking for anything from before 500 BC. I've found an image of ancient Egyptian beehives, though it's hard to tell much about them from the picture. (Article on beekeeping in ancient Egypt) 

Professional historians would never attribute something as complex as the development and unfolding of the Second World War in Europe to 'kill ratios'. That's history in a vacuum since you're leaving out all other aspects of the war and concentrating on pure ratios and math, thus leaving out context. 'Kill ratios' are in effect a reflection and form part of the result(s) of what historians study, research, and write about, they are not the main theme or area of concentration. 

First, the Soviet Union and Germany never agreed to attack Poland or share it. They agreed on spheres of influence, which would come into play with 'border changes'. Said 'border changes' did not mean an invasion. Hitler had accomplished much without war and there was little reason for him to think he would not get away with victimizing Poland with no real consequences from the western allies, especially if he could get a pact going with the Soviet Union. Secondly, the Soviet Union, or more specifically Stalin, had no idea that Hitler would be invading Poland. They waited to see what would happen knowing that if territory did start getting detached and passed around, they would get theirs (similar to how Poland received a piece of Czechoslovakia). Now, in the case of no non-aggression pact with the Soviet Union, German plans for an invasion of Poland were already 'set in stone'. The invasion would have commenced with or without Soviet 'cooperation'. Hitler was a gambler, he would have gone ahead with the invasion betting that the western allies would do nothing of worth against Germany. 

They weren't trained how to just stand there and look good, but were given training in multiple weapons and armor. While each was allowed to fight in the armor of choice, if today's exhibition required one 'side' of the match to use daggers and tridents, with the other using swords and spears, then that's what they used. If you had never even picked up a spear before, you'd fail miserably in the entertainment, be booed, and perhaps get the 'thumbs down'. 

That was it. At all times, out of the harbor, they operated in war time conditions, which meant submersed most/all of the daylight hours, and at night, 5 men above decks. 

According to FM23-95 Basic Field Manual, 75mm Tank Gun M2 (Mounted in Medium Tank M3), the amount of traverse to the left and the right, are actually 14° 0'. Turns of hand wheel to traverse through maximum travel (28°) is 25½. One turn of the hand wheel was 1° 6'. Note that the link above is to a PDF which may download to your computer, but opens in Firefox directly in my own. 

The Thule people, ancestors of today's Inuit, are said to have migrated or spread from their homeland in Alaska all the way to Greenland in the far east. How long did this migration take? Was it within a single lifetime? Did it take many generations? I've seen various articles for laymen that claim this migration took anywhere from as little as two years to as much as two centuries. What's the current academic consensus on this one? 

They're described in the article as clay cylinders, which is quite different from all the types of beehives I've ever seen. 

It's been eight years since this article was published. Has the scholarly community gotten anywhere with this? How likely is this pre-Viking contact looking? 

Usually the original names for Antarctic features have stuck, but this feature now has a different name. How did this happen? Who renamed it? When did the new name take hold? 

With those in mind, let's get to the answer. Native American technology had enormous variation, both in level of development and in the environment it was adapted for. In some places, living was easy enough that very little technology was needed. In harsh environments, survival was only possible through specialized technology. In other areas, cities and empires rose up, and technology with it. In Old World terms, I'd say you had everything from Paleolithic hunter-gatherers to Bronze Age city-states and empires. Specialized Survival In the far north, the Inuit had adapted very well to life in a place where no crops grow. They had developed excellent dogsleds and ocean-going kayaks, and were skilled at hunting whales, walruses, and other large and dangerous creatures using things that could be made in that harsh landscape. Their materials were mostly animal parts (like ivory, bone, and hide), but they made as much use of meteoric iron as they could. Their Arctic survival technology was very good, but given the climate and the low population, they didn't have much else. Plentiful Food, Low Tech Some areas had less technological development, like California. The Ohlone lived in an area where acorns were plentiful, the air was warm, and very little else was needed for survival. Unsurprisingly, their technology stayed at a low hunter-gatherer level. Cities and Empires At the other end of the scale, there were massive cities and empires in the Americas. The city of Tenochtitlan had a population of around 250,000 people at its height, with enormous stone buildings, streets, bridges, and marketplaces. The Incan Empire organized a massive feudal labor system to build over 20,000 miles of paved roads, from Columbia to Argentina. The Mayan city-states developed a complete writing system, recording kings, wars, stories, and impressive astronomy. In the more urban parts of the Americas (like around the Mississippi), vast trade networks developed to carry goods over long distances. You could find copper working, paper books, irrigation, and many other technological crafts. Things to Read Next As you can see, this is a huge range to explore. If you'd like to learn more about Native American technology, you'll have to get more specific. First, take a look at how you can divide up the Americas into similar culture/climate groups. As always, any division will be a crude one, but it helps you get a handle on what things were like. If you read about one southwestern pueblo, you'll have a better picture of life in the other pueblos, but it won't help you understand the people living in the Andes very much. Next, remember that the Americas were not static. Like in the opposite hemisphere, tribes wandered, traded, and conquered over very long distances. Where you find a tribe on a map might just be where they lived at the moment of first contact by Europeans -- they might have lived there for thousands of years, they might have just moved into the area, or they might not have existed as a tribe for very long. All that moving around and interacting means that technology (along with culture, language, genetics, etc.) spread along certain routes and not others.