Kinlochleven - Has a good Coop Supermarket. I stayed at the Macdonald Hotel's camp site. Good and cheap. Fort William - Has a large supermarket. Backstreet Hostel, good for town centre. Calluna Hostel - further away but a bit nicer. Midges - get a midge head net. Creams will keep away a few. The burning coils keep away a few. But when there are lots (as there will be in July at sunset and sunrise) you'll need a head net. 

One problem with hemp compared to wool is how it conducts heat when it is wet. Wet hemp conducts heat very well when wet which means your feet could get freezing cold. Wet wool is a poor heat conductor so even if wet they will not be as cold. 

Summit of Beinn Eighe with wild camping tent (green). In England it is not allowed anywhere apart from a small patch of Dartmoor. Anywhere there is too much population and people would jump on the tent. A couple of weeks ago a homeless man in Manchester was murdered in his tent. In England you can camp in the Lake District out of view. In France wild camping is not allowed officially but I often camp in the Pyrenees. In the National Parks there are "Aire de Bivouac" where you can camp with the tent up from evening to morning. Many of the refuges allow camping nearby too. In Spain wild camping is not allowed but the Spanish are very relaxed about their laws. I did the GR11 across the Pyrenees and had no trouble camping all the way but a few times I chose to stay in an official campsite or refuge to get food and a shower. One day I asked someone for water and they invited me in and gave me wine and food and let me camp in their field outside. There are areas where camping is allowed above a certain height. 

One disadvantage of the instant pop up tent is that it does not pack very small. Approximately a 1m disk. When backpacking carrying one of these on the back it has to be on the outside of the rucksack. It can easily catch the wind and it is difficult to walk in a strong wind. They are single skin tents. So suffer from condensation and quite cold in winter. Another disadvantage not apparent at first blush is that they are not very waterproof and the reviews rate them very poorly. Even though they are 1/10 the price of a quality backpacking tent reviewers say they are a waste of money. Some are even sold as "festival tents" and are very cheaply made to the discarded after one use. 

Naming of objects. One player says the first letter of the name eg "I spy something beginning with G." The other players have to guess what it is, eg "Grass". The one who gets it right then takes their turn. 

If you want to go on walking routes then a good option is $URL$ they will post walking guides internationally. Many of the guides include maps for the routes. The routes are also waymarked which is a large advantage as well. Even if you are not very good at Spanish it is worth getting the books because they are a lot cheaper than the maps. I walked the GR11 last year and their guide book is very good. It has all the maps. Many English only users get this guide book along with an English guide book. ps The books are also available from Amazon, oddly cheaper from .de than .es If you want the Pyrenees you can also get French maps which cover both sides of the pyrenees, the IGN Rando Editions. The best walking maps are Editorial Alpina Walking Maps but these are quite expensive. 

It is very safe to walk alone in England. The standard walks will have lots of others walking along them. Wild camping is frowned upon in many places. Procedures: leaving gates as you find them. Carrying your rubbish to a dustbin. Look in the right direction when crossing a road. On roads, walk facing the traffic. In the countryside you should say "Hello" to everyone you meet, but not in the cities. 

It is best to put everything away in the same order. the chance of the folds being along the same lines is very low. I find with modern tents the groundsheet wears out, (the very thin layer of waterproof that is on the woven nylon). I count the pegs and put them in the peg bag, the pole in the pole bag. The peg bag in the pole bag. Then fold the tent flat so the outside is outside. Make sure the strings are all in the right place (so that when opened the strings fall to the correct side) (There is one string that goes under my tent, if this ends up on the top it is not noticed until the tent is half up and then the tent has to be taken down again the pole removed, the string moved to the underside, then the pole put back in and the tent put up again.) Then roll the tent around the pole bag and put the lot in the tent bag. (Stuffing a tent in a bag also means that it is harder to get in, it increases the volume, some parts of the tent will be under high compression.) Putting stuff away in a fixed order means that pieces do not get lost. (This does not just apply to the tent) Folding it up neatly means that you can put the tent up quickly in the dark when stealth camping. (Using the head torch to the minimum as this projects a beam of light like a lighthouse that can be seen from miles away) Also if you have to put the tent up in the rain the inside of the tent is protected from the rain. (I usually keep the inner and outer tent clipped together. But if I do separate them then the outer tent is wrapped around the inner tent. If it's raining the inner is tent put somewhere (eg in the rucksack) out of the rain, while the outer goes up. 

Stuff is first put into plastic bags according to type. I use different coloured carrier bags so I can tell what is in each bag easily. There may be bags for small things within a larger bag. The pack is fully waterproof and only has an opening at the top. First goes in clothes. Underwear and socks. (For a soft landing when I drop the bag on the ground.) A different bag for dirty clothes. If I am walking in the sun two wet socks will often be attached to the outside of the pack to dry. If I am walking where there aren't many people I will also attach wet underwear to the pack. Next goes in hard food such as pasta (vermicelli/cheveux d'ange cooks fastest), couscous, porridge etc. Emergency soya etc. Then a cooking stove (MSR Whisperlight), which goes inside a pan. The pan will be in its lid wrapped in their own plastic bag. Inside the MSR Whisperlite's bag will be a lighter and the pan handle. Next there are big things, the tent and sleeping bag. Between these, near my back will be the bottle of petrol. Heavy maps and maybe a guide book go in a pocket inside the backpack which puts them near my back. They will stay in there all the time. I then push in a silk sleeping bag liner and a NeoAir mattress. Near the top will go fresh and soft food. Like bread and bananas/apples etc. This is for easy access for a snack. Heavy stuff at the top and near the back. Softer food the highest. On top will be a waterproof coat. The lid of my backpack has two pockets, one inside, a larger one outside. In the inside pocket goes my passport, medical kit, toilet paper, toiletries and other small things. In the outside pocket goes my head-torch, GPS (only used in emergencies), camera accessories and waterproof trousers. On the outside of the backpack will be the sponge mat (=earthmat), and one or two water bottles. These are 2pint plastic milk bottles with hoops that go through the straps. One at either side, then the mat horizontally behind the backpack, or one on one side and the mat vertically on the other side. (Sometimes one bottle may be used in an emergency inside the tent. When I get to a shop I will throw it away and buy another bottle of milk.) If in Europe I may also have a baguette on the outside of the pack, maybe in the mat. (I have a NeoAir for inside the tent, and a sponge mat (=earthmat) for sitting on while resting and then putting underneath the tent as a protector.) If it's raining and I put on my waterproofs this makes space for the camera if necessary.