I'm looking for recommendations of works that argue for or against vegetarianism primarily from an ethical (rather than health or religious) POV. Rather than Epicurus, Pythagoras, et al., I'm interested in "modern" views on this. I realise that this is a little open-ended. But I'm interested in all angles (from both sides) on this: animal cruelty, plant vs. animal sentience, in vitro meat, etc. 

Descartes' argument for god includes his idea of "objective reality", id est, clear and distinct perception implies existence. Considering his own scientific bent of mind, I'm curious to know what he thought about phenomena such as mirages, refraction, or perhaps stuff like gravity hills. What did he mean by "clear and distinct"? (Descartes' time was pre-Newton and therefore before modern optics.) 

One of the arguments against the existence of god is the problem of evil and specifically, the death of innocent children. I'm curious to know if the concepts of reincarnation and a karmic carry-over from past lives are how Buddhism, Hinduism, and other Eastern philosophies which employ these concepts, address this specific problem. If not, how do they? 

Your question is common. Just do a Google search for "what's the meaning of life?" and you will find many answers from many authorities, from the religious and the secular, humanitarian, self-fulfillment, relational, and on and on. And every successful person will be asked to tell news reporters what makes him or her tick, why he or she did what he or she did, and how happy they are. And the tabloids are plastered with stories of how sad some of these movie stars and sports figures are later in life when they're no longer "the talent"! The choice of what will make you happy is personal. There is no scientific research that will make this decision for you. But there are many people who will tell you how to do it... because that's what will enrich or empower themselves! People differ and it would be impossible for the public to idolize and enrich the best person, since nobody knows for sure what the best is, so I do not suggest seeking recognition as a life-plan. Being able to discern what is good and what you want is a major benefit of clear thinking. And those who can't see clearly can at least ask their friends for help. 

I'm going to go against the grain here and say that no, there is no coherent sense in which science necessarily depends on philosophy in and of itself. By the definition of scientific pursuit, when science has become sufficiently robust we will not need philosophy or religion to understand any facet of reality that we encounter. We will simply design an experiment that allows us to test conjectures about the behavior of the facet under consideration, confirming or denying various properties of it until we have answered our question empirically. Physics today is very far from being able to do this for questions like "what is consciousness", "what is the mind and how does it differ from the brain", "where does the law of gravity come from", etc., but it is an error of pride to claim that because we currently require philosophical conjectures to patch over scientific ignorance we will always need these philosophical patches (even if we cannot currently conceive of a way to do science non-phenomenologically). It is possible that the nature of reality and its link to our consciousness fundamentally precludes us from being able to answer certain questions, but we are nowhere near being able to claim this with any certainty. If we do reach such a point we could reasonably say that our understanding of science requires some philosophical conjectures, but I still believe it is incoherent to claim that science itself depends on philosophy. 

Nobody really believes that there's a magical transition at birth, when the unperson inside becomes person. So the expression, "if I had never been born" has a simple and well-defined meaning: if I had died in utero or during birth. 

In Judeo-Christian scripture there is an ancient text that seems to start in just the same way your question starts: "Everything is meaningless!!!" Here is an excerpt: 

Unfortunately, if there were such a right as the right to dignified death by assisted suicide, it would inevitably come into conflict with the right of doctors to practice medicine according to their personal ethic. In the US, many doctors make a ceremonial oath when they begin to practice which is called the "Hippocratic Oath". It has changed from time to time since it was written in the days of Plato and Socrates, but its core is the same: "First do no harm." Every doctor either does or does not call it "doing no harm" to assist a person who wishes to kill him- or herself. In your example, if no doctors were available who see it this way, who has the authority to force some doctor to "do harm"? 

What do you mean by 1, what do you mean by 2, and what do you mean by +? This is really the key question here -- if you're just taking a naive view of numbers as 'objects that count how many things I have' (these are really cardinal numbers), then of course 1+1=2. If I have one object and I then gain another object I have two objects total, and we have picked the symbols 1 and 2 to represent these notions with the symbol + to represent the aquisition of more objects. But what if we are keeping track of the number of particles in a quantum system? Say we shoot 1 proton at 1 other proton at about 99% of the speed of light -- do we now have 2 protons? Not so! In particle physics we have found that if you produce enough energy to replicate a given particles rest mass and you confine the energy to small enough of an area, the particle can come into existence in exchange for the energy (this is a very rough outline). The particle collider over at CERN takes advantage of this fact to study some of the most fundamental physics in our universe by slamming two protons into each other* with a bunch of extra kinetic energy (hence 99% LS), at which point literally hundreds of new particles are created and tracked using magnetic fields and photomultipliers and many other complicated devices. So if 1 and 2 and 3 and so on are counting the number of particles we have and + represents putting them together with great force, then 1+1=500 or something like that. We could instead choose to use numbers for keeping track of the scalar quantity we call energy throughout the above process and argue that this number does indeed follow regular addition laws, but then you have specified entirely what you mean by 1 and 2 (and +)! This is really the heart of the answer -- 1+1=2 whenever the quantities you have defined to be 1 and 2 together with the relation + satisfy this equality. *the protons do not actually collide -- they are forced to within incredibly small distances of eachother, at which point vector bosons can mediate short range interactions between the momentum states of the protons to effectively produce a 'collision'. 

Without knowing anything more about your life, I would agree with you that your life has many of the external features of "good life": you are busy, you are fit, you are productive, your relationships don't cause you drama. In the terminology of Maslow, all the bricks in your pyramid hierarchy of needs are in place except for the ones at the very top. What could fill that top place might be called "meaning". I agree that meaning can be hard to find. At work, meaning is obtained by satisfying the objectives of your boss. At school, by satisfying the objectives of your teachers and the administration. But without an authority on your personal life, this is a vacancy. Authorities on your personal life can be formed in any way you wish. For some, the urgency of preparing for a comfortable retirement feels like an authority on day-to-day decisions, or preparing for college education for children (requiring a lot of money to be saved-up). For some it's environmental concerns, political concerns, the desire to accomplish athletic, artistic, or organizational things; the desire to travel, to collect, or to have the best home and car; learning, debating, or even trolling... this list goes on and on. I think that the most worthwhile thing is to help other people. Doing this is probably what more people call "rewarding" than any other thing you can do. I hope that you find yourself thinking clearly and taking action decisively! EDIT: I noticed that you said your father "pressures" you on studying. Now that you are 22 years old, you may find it less meaningful to satisfy your father's intentions for you that when you were a child. Or perhaps other things you do have cut off the possibility of satisfying your father as your personal authority; in my thinking, this would produce a vacancy in "meaning". 

Is there a term that encompasses the belief that there is no awareness in death and that it is not to be feared? Is such a belief peculiar to Epicureanism? If not, which are the other philosophies or religions that share it? 

I've been reading some of the wikis about the uncontacted peoples of the world and the often repeated attempts to establish contact with a a number of them even after being rebuffed (sometimes violently). Should these peoples have a right to complete privacy and isolation? Or is it unethical to not integrate them into modern civilisation? Edit: As a corollary question, take for example a completely isolated island in the middle of a vast ocean where an uncontacted tribe resides. Should an offer of contact even be made to them? 

In another question, a commenter noted that karma and rebirth are fictional concepts. Is there a difference between a fictional concept and an abstract one? Can something be both? Conversely, does an abstract concept imply that it is real? In the case of karma, or going further, god, theologians would probably consider these constructions abstract; would philosophers (presumably those without a theological bent) consider them fictional? 

In order to have a really coherent discussion about these things, it is difficult to avoid some usage of mathematics -- the thoughts involved are very precise and esoteric, and mathematics is good at expressing such things without ambiguity. We typically model "spacetime" as a manifold; a collection of points together with a bunch of rules (coordinate functions) for assigning each point to some point in (usually) Euclidean space. In string theory, we can use 'compactified manifolds' which themselves have other manifolds packed into each point on their surface to model a 'higher dimensional' reality in which many of the dimensions (all but three) have been packed into these extra manifolds. The question of whether spacetime is continuous or discontinuous, in this context, amounts to a question of what coordinate function domain we want to use on the manifolds. If we use coordinate functions which map into the real numbers (or Euclidean space as above) we can determine 'what the manifold' looks like by checking its Gaussian curvature, looking at the local metric for spacetime represented as a tensor, so on and so forth -- this is largely the domain of general relativity. We can have the coordinate functions map into some other space, however, and this will produce fundamentally different types of manifold. These structures have points with nothing 'in between' them if we choose the correct coordinate domain besides the reals -- consider that for any two real numbers x and y such that x < y, there is always some third real number z such that x < z < y. If we move to the integers instead of the reals, however, for any integer n there is clearly no other integer between n and n+1. This is how we model the notion of nothing being 'in-between' two points in space time -- we pull the coordinates for our space time from some place with an ordering structure that permits two objects to have nothing ordered in-between them, then look at the corresponding objects on our space time manifold. The question of whether or not there 'is space' between two orbits can be asked clearly in this context -- we ask whether the coordinate functions for our space time are pulled from Euclidean space (so there is space between the orbits which is just inaccessible to the particles traveling on the manifold), or whether they are pulled form some discretely ordered space (in which case there is actually 'no space' to occupy in there). Hopefully this can help answer your question of how to think about the problem, as this is a an open problem to date in physics and as such has no widely accepted answer. 

In his new-ish book "A Peculiar Glory", Christian author John Piper says that without reading any scripture, a person can identify many qualities of God/god. Theologians sometimes call this kind of insight "general revelation." Here are a few qualities that Piper thinks a person can find out about God without reading or hearing about the Bible: 

The most famous speech given by Jesus is the "sermon on the mount", which is recorded in the Gospel of Matthew chapters 5-7. In order to provide the best authoritative insight into what perfect behavior is, Jesus analyzes boundary conditions for well-known commandments, such as "do not murder." He demonstrates that the intent to commit murder, or even a person harboring ill will toward somebody else, is contrary to the commandment. Jesus finishes Matthew 5 by commanding, "Be perfect, as you Father in Heaven is perfect." This is an impossible standard. Because Christians have an impossible standard, they must depend on something other than their own perfection in order to be accepted. The Apostle Paul analyzes this tension in his letter "to the Romans", chapter 7: 

The set theory example is a very good one in my opinion (I am biased), and can serve as a proxy for many other versions. What are we doing in our heads when we 'form a set'? Naively and intuitively, we are collecting together some objects (possibly an infinite number of them) and trying to consider them all at once. So when I say 'the set of all real numbers', I would like to consider all real numbers together at once as opposed to some individual real number. Similarly, when I consider 'a real number' I am actually considering an infinite subset of rational numbers, since each real number is isomorphic to a Dedekind cut of rational numbers. It turns out that we can naively form sets like this for a long time without much issue -- this was what mathematicians did prior to the revolution in set theory that occurred in the 20th century. But at a certain point, the collections we're considering become so large that paradoxes are foisted upon us if we do not explicitly create a new notion of 'forming a large set' in our head that is distinct from the 'forming of smaller sets' we were intuitively doing earlier. This is the basis for a distinction between a 'proper class' and a set. In MK class theory, a prominent set theory capable of handling and predicating upon proper classes, we say that all collections are classes -- sets are those classes which are already members of some other class, and a class is a proper class whenever it is not a set. This seemingly technical process allows us to legitimately avoid paradoxes like the one you mention -- the class of all sets which are not members of themselves is not a member of itself and not a set. We don't actually have to stop here though; we can then define a notion of 'super-classes' which contain proper classes as their members, and 'super-duper classes' which contain super-classes as their members, etc. This is all legitimate, however if we prove a statement A true for all sets that does not make it true for any proper class a-priori, and proving it true for all proper classes does not make it true for any super-classes, etc. All of this business is driving at the idea that we can sometimes create solid and rigorous notions of objects which are not well defined when approached naively, if enough care is taken. That being said, I would argue that we cannot coherently discuss objects with properties that are true and false at the same time in the same sense. If we try to form the set of all sets which do not contain themselves, then it is not a member of itself which implies that it is a member of itself which implies that it is not a member of itself... This object is incoherent in my opinion and accordingly ineligible for rational discussion, as is the class of all classes not members of themselves, and the super-class of all super-classes not members of themselves -- the super-class of all classes not members of themselves, however, is probably a well defined object. Some objects are only 'non-existent' as a result of our poor decision making for the logical context in which they are defined, like the class of all sets not members of themselves or unicorns or Harry Potter (in our universe). There are particular objects, however, which essentially do not exist outside of my ability to ask you to consider them and as such are actually logical red herrings, like the set of all sets not members of themselves.