My experience as a bicycle mechanic in the Netherlands: don't mess with it. If it is an Shimano, it will probably run >100.000 km. If it is a Sturmey Archer, SRAM or any other well known brand, it will mostly do >50.000 km as well. If there is a small hole for lubricant, only do this once a year or so, with some thin grease, but not oil. Oil is to thin. If it doesn't shift well, first look at the cable. You probably only need to adjust the tightness of the cable. If this doesn't work, de-attach the cable. Every hub must work correct in the smalles or biggest gear without a cable attached. If this still doesn't work, the hub is broken. (Happens almost never.) If a 3-gear hub is broken, it is easy to take apart and build together again. And finding which gear or bearing is broken isn't difficult either. Finding a bearing balls is easy to, but finding a spare gear is probably not so easy. Main point: leave it as it is. 

In fact, using a cloth to wipe clean the bike dirt are quite eco-friendly. You might use less water if doing it properly. It also reduce the risk of splashing water into bearing,etc. For heavy dirt like mud, first use gardening spray lightly spray to wet up dirt in order to remove them. Just be careful when dumping the waste water, toilet bowl is a good idea compare to bathtub drain. For greasy part, spray grease removal/solvent and use paper towel instead of cloth. Don't feel bad about "saving the tree" on the paper towel. Though cloth are "reusable" ,you will waste water and pouring those greasy dirt into your drainage, which is more harmful to the environment. 

Under suboptimal condition, tyre will lost traction and slide even under slow walking speed (4km/h) when you apply brakes. Ironically, you need to release the brake in order to regain traction, quickly re-apply it to slow down. And this is how Anti-lock Braking System(ABS) works. Few people are trained to deal with rear wheel slide : most of us went panic and apply the front brake, cause both wheel locked up and the weight shift just throw us out. Unfortunately, "ABS simulation" is not an easy skill to acquired. What we can do is slow down to walking speed to reduce the impact damage. 

It is possible. But also mind that your tires are perhaps more worn down than a year ago and/or they are not sufficiently pumped up (or whatever it is called in english)? A good new tire with 2-6 Bar (or 6-9 Bar with racing-bikes) of air pressure has less chance of being punctured than an older tire or an tire with less than 2 bar of air pressure. 

To really know what is wrong we need more information. But to give you some help: If you don't know how to re-adjust the gear to shift correctly: - Clean the derailleur (which pushes your chain to another gear). - Push the cable back and forth a bit, and if possible, oil it a bit. If this didn't work and you don't know how to adjust your gears to work correctly, bring it to a bicycle mechanic (such as me!). Because you can't do much more without disassembling the cable. If you do know how to re-adjust the gear, this works better: - Disassemble the cable. - Clean the derailleur, and put some grease on the spring. - Take out the inner cable, and spray a lot of oil in the outer cable - Assemble the cable inside the outer cable. Check if the shifter works correctly by pulling the cable and shifting. - Assemble it al again. edit: it took me 2 edit's to correctly write 'inside'! 

Since you mentioned fast and comfort, it seems a mid-drive motor pedelec ebike fit you requirements. It also help you to train and maintain your cadence. 

Too much padding doesn't mean comfortable as mentioned by Sheldon Brown, as the padding will press against your seat bone. People start long distance cycling tour recommended to use "hard" leather saddle such as Brooks flyer, where the leather slowly break in to follow the sitting shape. 

Material fatique does happens, it is not caused by time, but due to excessive stress on usage, and/or manufacturing process and/or design fault. If all done under optimal condition, no over stress(e.g. a 120kg person ride it without suspension and under inflate tyre), a aluminium bicycle may last forever. A bang, a fall, can generate impact that stress the frame weak point. If you are not using it for long time, then the stress is little to none, discounting the stress from introduced from bolts/screw/welding joints/mounting temperature contraction/expansion. If you search around stackexchange on the same topics, there is advice that you don't put your bike under the snow : i.e. a concern about welding material contraction different than the frame. But this shouldn't be an issue as long as you didn't move the bike from very cold place to very warm place (i.e., temperature different ~ 20 degree Celsius). Consumer association with loaded funds, such as the German Stifftung Warentest, does indeed test consumer bicycle from time to time, especially for Ebike, due to ebikes are more susceptible to weight stress (the additional motor and battery weight). As some report I read, in 2013, series of ebikes are not satisfied due to the stress test. However, in 2016, many pass the stress test, with exceptional of one bike that with a cracked aluminium seatpost. So it is all about how the manufacture learn to build the bike better. In addition, it is a myth that titanium will fair better when put on stress : it is all about manufacturing process and design. 

User6527 is wrong there. You can not use derailleur shifters due to the different cable length that is pulled or pushed to shift to another gear. You can not use other brands' shifters either for the same reason. The shifter you mention yourselve is available in black and silver, and both with and without integrated brake lever. There is also a 'cheaper' version: SL-3S41E. I thought there was a retro alternative as well, but I can't find it. Not online, and even not at our bicycle parts wholesaler. 

These crancks are still very common on Dutch vintage bicycles. You can order them from many Dutch websites starting at about 6 euro's. All Dutch bicycle shops can order such a cranck at every wholesaler. Many even have such a cranck on stock. You may want to look for a Dutch website which is willing send it to the UK before you replace everything. This cranck is called a 'cranck met spie' (cranck with spie) in Dutch. If you find one, make sure the lenght and thread are the same as yours. Edit: there you go: link. Still check whether the length and thread are the same though. And buy a new wedge from the same website, don't use the old one. When mounting such a cranck, don't try to get the wedge further in the cranck by screwing the nut tighter. Grease everything, and use a hammer to get the wedge in the cranck. (I don't know if wedge is the correct word. Is gusset or forelock better?). 

Sensor just too complicated and not cost effective. Rear view mirror is sufficient to let you notice the failure at night, human eye is sufficient to detect the red light patch on the road at night. If you can't see the red patch, it is either fail or the light angle are wrong : you are not suppose to beam the light to the driver level. As a backup , - attach a battery operated LED light on the seat tube, facing left or right. There is one hacks beside the mirror : lay a cheapo optical fibre cable at one point pointing right on the rear LED light, another point tie on your stem. So you will see the red light in front of your stem end when your turn on the LED. If anyone insist some home product DIY fiber optics, checkout this youtube video use a transluscent silicon cable as fiber optics cable 

If you'll be in the Netherlands any time soon, many used bikes are sold via www.marktplaats.nl. There are also a lot of addvertisements from shops, including these to: Advertisement 1 Advertsiement 2 The second one has some 2013 M6R Black bikes. I don't have experience with these shops. I do often use marktplaats.nl. 

I don't know whether the v-brake replacements fit in. However, normal cantilever brake pads are very easy to find. When you don't find a replacement insert, just order some entire brake pads. You will probably get just as good braking pads for the same price. Edit: Perhaps ask these guys: $URL$ 

If you really want to be sure the bike isn't stolen: The Dutch Police also has a tool called Fiets diefstal register (fdr). All bikes that are reported stolen to the police are put in this register. You can either search for a chipnumber which can be found on higher quality locks (long number starting with 999 or 975), or you can search for the framenumber, which all Dutch bikes have (mostly under the bracket). If the bicycle is not in this database, it is not reported as stolen. If you wan't to buy a good and cheap bike, but you don't know a lot about bikes: buy a bicycle from marktplaats.nl, and stick to the quality brands (Dutch: Gazelle, Batavus, Sparta; or international: Giant, Trek, etc.).