There is a big difference between a 'non-profit' organisation and just doing something on a casual basis without asking for payment. Obviously if you are advertising your services in any way then there is a good chance that you would be considered to be a business regardless of whether you ask for payment. Note that in most jurisdictions charitable and non-profit organisations need similar public liability insurance to businesses, although they may be able to get it cheaper. They key legal difference is that if you are acting in what might be construed as a professional capacity then you will have a clear duty of care to anybody that you are instructing and as such would have a clear cut liability for anything going wrong. In your case where you are very clearly just offering advice and company to a casual acquaintance there is still no guarantee that you won't face any legal liability but it will be much less well defined and the chances are that consumer protection law won't apply and it will just be a case of having to prove personal negligence. In the case of minors there are a whole other set of issues to do with child protection which go beyond the specific safety aspects of the activity and here is it probably best not to undertake any kind of instruction of a minor unless it is a properly organised activity and you have consulted their parents or guardian. 

The problem is that baking generally requires heating a large volume of air to a fairly high temperature and so is not very fuel efficient if you aren't already using a wood fire for other purposes (ie heating and boiling water) If you really want baked-ish food on the trail with a stove then thin foods like pancakes and flatbread are your best bet as these can be cooked in a shallow pan fairly quickly, although when fuel is at a premium these will never be as efficient as boiling or re-hydrating foods like cous-cous, pre-cooked rice or per-packaged stews etc. Bear in mind also that pre-coked cookies, flatbread ect will last for a good few days so you don't need to cook them fresh every day indeed packaged flatbread can last for weeks. You can get reasonably lightweight camping ovens and it is certainly not impossible to improvise one from natural materials at your campsite but fuel is the real problem. 

Similar knots are the Autoblock aka French Prusik and the Klemheist Inevitably there is some debate about their relative merits but both are defintely a bit easier to tie than the prusik. They are also a handy way of providing adjustable tension for a tarp ridge-line etc 

Another very important consideration is that an ad-hoc rescue team don't become casualties themselves. While passers by may be keen to help the rescue leaders need to take responsibility for their safety as well and at the very least they should be competent, fit and equipped to carry out any tasks assigned to them. Similarly individually going off on their own may do more harm than good and a rescue organiser should establish proper channels of control and communication from the start. As an extension of this lightweight high visibility vests, torches and chemical lights and IR markers are a very useful (and inexpensive) part of centralised rescue kit as well as the more obvious portable radios etc. Similarly setting up a temporary base with shelter and hot food and drink for rescue workers is a big asset and this can be a very useful role for volunteers of uncertain experience. 

It depends a bit on the system used. If you are being supplied with air or oxygen via demand valve then your consumption will depend on your rate or breathing rather than the amount of oxygen biologically needed by your body. So clearly in this situation being able to control your breathing rate will help a lot. Humans, like most animals have a natural response to danger to breathe deeper and faster, this is based on the 'assumption' that there is plenty of air available and you want to suck as much through your lungs as possible to prepare for 'fight or flight'. This is fine when you are on the surface of the earth where humans evolved but is not the best response when you have a finite supply of oxygen available. Clearly there is no simple answer to this but it certainly makes sense to keep your level of activity stable and as efficient as possible. It is a bit different though if you are breathing from a closed system eg a space station or re breather. In this case any exhaled oxygen is still available to be used as long as the carbon dioxide concentration can be kept within safe limits. In this case your oxygen usage is directly linked to your metabolism so anything you can do to conserve effort will help. The third scenario is that oxygen is supplied to a semi-open mask at a constant rate in this case there is little or nothing you can do to conserve it so you are best off breathing as much of it as possible to store it in your blood (to the limited extent that this is possible) before it runs out. Clearly here understanding of your specific equipment and the way your own body responds is vital to getting the most out of it. It is also worth adding that the human breathing reflex is based on Carbon dioxide concentration in the blood rather than oxygen and this can lead to counter intuitive problems in some situations. For example if you are exposed to high concentrations of inert gas like argon you can suffocate because you 'forget' to breath. 

Water resistant is often used where water resistance is quantified usually in terms of static pressure head. An obvious example is watches which have long been classified by water depth in metres of pressure in bars or atmospheres. Also fabrics for jackets, tents etc will be specified by the head of water which they will resist. In many ways a specified level of water resistance is more useful than just 'waterproof'. Waterproof is generally used for clothing and means that it won't be penetrated by rain, this is also complicated by the fact that breathability is also very significant in terms of keeping dry. Similarity some fabrics, like ventile, have some overall performance advantages in some circumstances in terms of durability, breathability and comfort. Equally there are systems like Buffalo which focus on overall warmth and comfort rather than absolute waterproofing. 

One of the most important skills is to make friends with skilled mountaineers and have the social skills to make them want to take you along on their next expedition. While this may sound flippant what it really means is find a club with people you get on with and integrate yourself into it. Obviously getting some basic competency with sport and outdoor rock climbing is a good first step as this tends to be more accessible and will teach you some of the fundamental safety skills in terms of using ropes an other gear and there will clearly be a lot of social and technical overlap with winter climbing and mountaineering. 

A Pragmatic way to approach this is to suggest a 'warm up' where you both have a couple of goes at deliberately dropping off the wall just above the ground and then go to a few metres. This will give you some sense that your partner knows what they are doing and is in any case a perfectly sensible way for both of you to get your eye on the ball and gain a sense of each other's weight which not a bad idea no matter how experienced you are. I have certainly had problems belaying a random climber who just shot up off the wall simply because I had no feel for how much they weighed and they decide to fall off 3m into the route I was perfectly able to catch them but its was a bit abrupt because it was a reaction to the fall rather than a premeditated assist. similarly you want to tell people that you want to communicate when you are attempting something difficult and might fall as opposed to cruising up an easy bit where you want plenty of slack. The other side of this is new partners who magically expect you to know both when they want slack and also be able to catch them instantly if they fall off. It is also fair to say that partners who don't know each other well won't have the same sense of when the climber is likely to get into trouble and need more or less slack quite apart for actually falling off so a controlled practice before any serious climbing makes perfect sense. 

There are two options. First you can sharpen it with a single bevel (per side), this requires sharpening with the wide bevel flat to the stone. Alternatively you can sharpen with a small second 'micro bevel' at a slightly steeper angle than the primary bevel. this makes it much easier to give the blade frequent touch-ups but you will still need to regrind the main bevel periodically when the micro bevel gets too wide. 800 grit is a bit on the coarse side but should be OK for general use, for something like woodcarving you would want to go a bit finer. 

Emergency kit : kept in a military type rip-off trauma pouch this is for major injuries which I think I have some chance of treating. Obviously this is more for longer trips in more isolated areas. If you're within sensible range of normal emergency medical cover this can be stripped back a lot. 

Unless you are properly trained in rope rescue techniques I would not advise attempting a rescue unless it is pretty clear that the casualty is in immediate danger. The issue here is that a sprained ankle is not going to immediately kill anyone however a botched attempt to winch them up a cliff very well could. As soon as you start they are in a significantly more dangerous situation than they were at the bottom and if they suddenly deteriorate it is much more difficult to stabilise their condition. You could also set yourself up for legal liability. If someone is climbing they take responsibility for the fact that they are undertaking a dangerous activity. By contrast in an amateur rescue attempt the casualty may not be in a position to give informed consent for what you are trying to do. Much better is to make sure you have the equipment to contact the emergency services reliably as well as satellite phones there are various beacon systems designed for exactly this sort of situation. Similarly up to date first aid training and equipment to stabilise a casualty untill help arrives is probably a better investment of effort. Even if you did get training in rope rescue techniques, unless that is backed up by a degree of experience and regular practice there is a good chance that you will make a dangerous mistake in the heat of the moment. Probably the worst case is that you have a casualty with a suspected spinal injury (which seems a distinct possibility in the scenario you describe) in which case you don't want to move them at all unless it is to get them out of real imminent danger It may be that the local fire or ambulance service can give you some more detailed advice which takes into account the facilities available in the area. 

The big difference is that you will be able to get a good quality fixed blade knife for much less money than a folding equivalent. Once you are in the mid-market the practical differences are really more about personal preference. Ease of access is a bit of a moot point, a fixed blade knife doesn't need to be opened they take up more space when sheathed so you need to find a convenient place to carry them and unless you are going for an out and out emergency rescue knife with a dedicated quick release sheath this is a debatable advantage. There is also the converse argument that if you are upside down underwater a folding knife is less likely to accidentally stab you. In terms of durability and reliability there is less to go wrong with a decent fixed blade knife as it has no moving parts. There is also the consideration that virtually all folding knife locks can potentially fail if they get excessively dirty which is potentially dangerous. In terms of utility folding knives are a bit compromised by the need to fold which places limits on handle and blade shape. Another consideration is that most folding knives are made from stainless steel as he folding mechanism is inherently more vulnerable to corrosion. The choice between stainless and plain carbon steels is largely one of personal preference but in general stainless blades are harder to sharpen and so carbon steel is often preferred by people who use their knives often, although stainless has obvious advantages if you are operating around water, especially salt water. 

It is also worth mentioning that there are other ways to obtain absolute position references by using astronomical observations. Most of these are centuries old and of course, are not anywhere near as convenient and in most cases not as accurate a GPS however they do have the advantage that they don't depend on electronics or batteries to work. The modern traveller also has the advantage that watches are now very cheap and reliable as accurate time measurement was a major obstacle to astronomical navigation for a long time. In most cases these methods are, in practice, rendered obsolete by GPS but at least trying the out might add an extra element of interest to a desert trip especially with some historical research beforehand to put them into context. Similarly it is always worth doing at least a bit of research into alternative methods of navigation in a new environment as, again, they add an extra layer of interest an immersion to a journey and could make all the difference in an emergency. 

In practice what is permitted will depend very much on the attitude of local law enforcement and your perceived intention. Clearly camping without permission is not the crime of the century but if you do it as way to get around a bylaw where camping is posing a persistent nuisance then expect trouble on the other hand if you sleep in your car because you are stuck overnight you would be very unlucky to get more than a warning. In general where camping is prohibited you should just accept that regardless of your personal feeling on the matter. If you feel the law is unreasonable then write a letter to your democratic representative. If you are in a foreign country then, tough you're a guest there and should respect their laws. In fact the best advice is to be conservative in complying with local laws as pushing them to their limits may land you in trouble. If you are in your own country and want to challenge the local laws then that is up to you however I would suspect that while a blind eye may be turned to sleeping under a tarp in many cases, rolling up in a 4x4 might well be considered to be taking the mickey. If you feel that you are sufficiently stealthy not to get caught then that is your decision to make 

If you are only carrying a knife for emergencies it is unlikely that you are going to need to sharpen it over the course of a few days, assuming of course that it is properly sharp to begin with. However as studiohack rightly points out a diamond file is so lightweight and a sharp knife is so important that it does make a certain amount of sense and you can buy unbranded ones very cheaply. If you are going on any kind of expedition where a knife is an everyday tool then it is a different story and a basic sharpening kit is essential. All this of course assumes that you know how to sharpen knife effectively. 

There are a couple of specific areas to look at : 1) Knowledge : you should make yourself aware of the basic skills that you need to travel safely in the wilderness. This includes things like basic survival skills and an understanding of the weather conditions and terrain that you will be travelling in. Before trips to an unfamiliar area you should also take the time to research and particular hazards or problems associated with that area and season. If nothing else really key skills are how to find safe water, how to camp safely with both a tent and improvised shelter and the basics of lighting and maintaining a fire. 2) Experience : don't bite off more than you can chew for your first trip. In particular it is wise to try out any new kit or techniques in a safe environment before you rely on them to survive. For important kit like boots, pack or tents give them a shakedown trip in circumstances where you can bail out if you discover a problem. Even a short afternoon walk can show up a lot of problems which are much easier to fix before you set out on a proper trip. 3) Navigation : regardless of whether you have the latest GPS kit or are walking on well marked trails you absolutely need to be confident and competent in navigating with a map and compass. 4) Selecting equipment : It is not necessary or even desirable to buy the most expensive kit you can find. Start with cheap but well recommended kit and use that as a starting point to experience for yourself what will be an advantage for you personally. Don't accept sales hype at face value. In fact there is a lot to be said for starting out with minimal, cheap kit as this will help you focus on what you really need. The one exception to this is that it is always worth spending what you need to on boots (and socks) which fit well and are comfortable, but again don't assume that the most expensive ones are the best.