What is good and bad according to Buddhism? Is there good and bad? What is it's cause? What defines good and bad? Why some people think "this same X is bad" and others think "this same X is good"? What's the cause of this difference in thinking "this same X is bad" and "this same X is good"? Are there any suttas talking about all this? 

Why do you have a much easier time doing mindfulness when you're curious and aware of everything arising? What bothers you when you're re-focusing on the breath? Answer it yourself and you'll know what you should work on. Nonetheless, when you see something arising, you should note it, and then let go of it by re-focusing back on the breath. Note and let go by going back to your object of meditation (in your case the breath). You should train your mind like that. With practice, you'll be able to be focused on the breath without interruptions. You'll need this level of concentration later to see the main cause of phenomena arising in your mind (in your case, for example, anger and pride). 

When attachment is ceased desire is ceased. When desire is ceased, suffering is ceased. This should be understood correctly. The statement "When attachment is ceased desire is ceased" does not mean that a person devoid of attachment, has no desires. Desire is still present, but the person can freely choose what he wishes to desire. His desires are not conditioned by past kamma anymore. So, when he notices "oh this is suffering", he simply frees himself from these desires which cause this same suffering, to the point when he is completely liberated from suffering. Desire without attachment can still lead to suffering, but this suffering is short lived, because a person with non-attachment can easily free himself from this same desire. That's how a person free from attachment identifies desires that cause him suffering. By seeing and knowing desires that lead to suffering, he acquires wisdom about his own suffering and stops it completely. An enlightened being is free from all desires that cause him suffering. He could choose to be unwise and desire to suffer, but he chooses not to because he knows "suffering creates more suffering". Thus, because he doesn't want to create more suffering, he chooses to completely stop suffering. By seeing and knowing "suffering creates more suffering", he acquires wisdom about his own suffering and the suffering of other beings and minimizes it as much as he can. 

They do what is right. If they have family to support, they support the family. If they need money to survive, they work. If they are hungry, they eat. If they need a car, they drive a car. etc. 

Ignorance is the cause of birth and death. Birth and death comes from craving. Craving comes from desire. Desire comes from wanting pleasure. Pleasure comes from avoiding suffering. When a being comes to this plane, it comes because it's ignorant of who it is. That being starts to learn. While learning, it does many mistakes. It invents birth. It invents death. It searches for pleasure. It avoids suffering to find pleasure. It does so many many many many many lives. When a lion came to this plane, it came because it was ignorant of who it was. That lion is learning. While learning, it did many many mistakes. It was born. It wanted to live. It searched for pleasure. It avoided suffering. The more it found pleasure and avoided suffering, the more it learned. The more it learned, the more it knew after death. The more it knew after death, the more it knew after rebirth. Positive kamma was building up many many many many lives. When that being was reborn into this plane, it was reborn because it was ignorant of who it was. That being has learned. While learning, it did many many many mistakes. It was born. It wanted to live. It learned that by avoiding suffering, pleasure will come. By avoiding suffering and searching for pleasure, that being learned good-and-bad. The more it learned, the more it knew after death. The more it knew after death, the more it knew after rebirth. Positive kamma was building up many many many lives. When that being was reborn into this plane, it was reborn because it was ignorant of who it was. That being has learned. While learning, it did many many many many mistakes. It was born. It wanted to live. From differentiating good-and-bad it learned to avoid suffering. The more it avoided suffering, the more it knew. The more it knew, the more it renounced suffering, pleasure, desire, craving, death and birth. Positive kamma was building up many many lives. When a being comes to this plane and renounces birth, death, craving, desire, pleasure and suffering, that being is liberated. It knows: "Oh, ignorance! Ignorant I was! I did many many many many many mistakes. That's the reason for all this mess." By completely eliminating suffering, pleasure, desire, craving, death and birth, ignorance ceased. When ignorance ceased, it learned who it was. By learning who it was, kamma was found. By finding kamma, kamma was unwinded. By unwinding kamma, knowledge about previous lives arose. By arising knowledge of previous lives, that being knew: "This is suffering. This is the cause of suffering. This is the end of suffering. This is the end of all this mess". 

It cannot. Where there is ignorance, there is consciousness. Where there is wisdom, there is no consciousness. It's because you don't know what is consciousness, that you are bewildered by my answer. And what is consciousness? It's a fabrication. It's made up. It's fabricated with mental and physical activities. That is consciousness. It is you fabricating this consciousness. Now ask yourself, who is that "you" that I'm referring to in my answer? No matter where you'd look, you would not find this "you". So, who is ignorant if there is no "you" that can be found? You is ignorant. It's because you don't know who you are, that you are bewildered by my answer. Find out who you are. Meditate. You will not find this "you". It's when not being able to find this "you", that you are seeing who you are. Once you see, examine how it works and truth will be realized: from ignorance arises fabrications, from fabrications consciousness, from consciousness birth, etc. 

As long as "I" arises, the view that a "soul" gets into a body can arise. Does a "soul" get into a body? Given the right conditions, it does. Does a "soul" not get into a body? Given the right conditions, it does not. Does a "soul" exist? Given the right conditions, it exists. Does a "soul" not exist? Given the right conditions, it does not exist. Does a "soul" exist and not exist? Given the right conditions, it does exist and does not exist. ... There are many views. Neither of them lead to nirvana. The letting go of all views is the path towards nirvana. 

There is neither man nor no man. There is neither house nor no house. And what are the man and the house? Sankhara. And why is there a man and a house and how is the man building houses and eternally traveling from house to house? By volitional activities. And why there are volitional activities? You make them because of ignorance. What ignorance? One or more of the following: 

Just do what you're doing. When you notice your self, don't fight it. Your sense of self is there for a purpose. The purpose is to find out the cause. Once the cause of self is found, the cause is removed. When the cause is removed, self ceases. When meditation is done gently, spontaneously, peacefully, one becomes absorbed in meditation. When one is absorbed in meditation, thinking ceases. When thinking ceases, self ceases. 

Source: $URL$ Thus, to claim that there is self after death, would be in contradiction to Buddhadasa's and Buddhist teachings, because Buddhadasa's and Buddhist teaching teach us "there isn't anyone to die". On the other hand, to claim there is no self after death, would be again in contradiction to Buddhadasa's and Buddhist teachings, because Buddhadasa's and Buddhist teaching teach us "there isn't anyone to be born". Thus, both statements "There is self after death" and "There is no self after death" are incorrect. Now, this was claimed by Buddhadasa, a venerable teacher, an arahat. We should listen to him and study his teachings carefully. He doesn't teach by using faith. He concentrates on this life. He doesn't do that because he believes there is no self after death, quite the opposite, he knows that to claim "there is no self after death" is in contradiction to the Buddhist teachings, thus he doesn't claim it, but rejects it as being incorrect! Furthermore, he also knows that to claim "there is self after death" is again in contradiction to the Buddhist teachings, thus he doesn't claim it, but rejects it as being incorrect! 

Friend, you are asking the question of all questions. Even if I would be explaining to you in eternity how this material world came into existence, you would not know how this material world came into existence. Even if I used the most profound poetry of all the universe and you would be listening to this very same poetry in eternity, you would not know how this material world came into existence. There are times when the mind is confused with research: "I'll try to find out how this material world came into existence." and the answer is never found. There are times when the mind is confused with wrong view: "Oh I know how this material world came into existence!" and the answer is never found. If I were to give you an answer, I would just confuse you. In confusion, you'll never find the answer to your question. That's why the answer to your question must be silence. Nothing else but silence. There is a path which will lead you to the answer you're seeking. And what is this path? It's the path leading to the cessation of suffering. When suffering and its cause are fully known and this very same cause is removed, everything is known, even the answer to the question you're seeking. 

Please bear with me in this answer as it needs a longer introduction in order to understand properly the main issue regarding your question. In most cases, people who study Buddhism and interpret it in a secular way (by denying rebirth) are incapable of adopting the Buddha's middle way - they must (unknowingly) either side to one extreme ("self exists") or to the other extreme ("self does not exist") (which is in fact same as the first extreme ('self exists'), because there is a self who denies the existence of self). The avoiding of extremes regarding self ("self exists" or "self does not exist") is clearly stated in this sutta: 

Drinking without becoming intoxicated is acceptable in Buddhism. Anything, that you do without craving and clinging (suffering), is acceptable. Drinking without becoming intoxicated falls within that category. 

When a person steals he is under the power of illusion. The illusion I'm talking about comes from ignorance. Really believing the object is solid is ignorance. Really believing the object is something they need is ignorance. It's because of this ignorance that the fabrication/decision of "stealing" arises. This ignorance comes from absolutist thinking: "I am", "I exist", "This universe exists" and thus creates kamma with more potential for stealing. On the other hand, really believing the object is not solid is ignorance. Really believing the object is something they don't need is ignorance. It's because of this ignorance that the fabrication/decision of "avoiding stealing" arises. This ignorance comes from nihilistic thinking: "I am not", "I do not exist", "This universe does not exist" and thus creates kamma with less potential for stealing. On the other hand, seeing the solidity of the object as it really is and seeing the need for the object as it really is, comes from knowing what ignorance is. It's because of knowing what ignorance is that the fabrication/decision of "stealing" does not arise. This knowledge of what ignorance is comes from seeing reality as it really is. Only then, one can really speak from compassion: "Beings are ignorant about the solidity of the object and beings are ignorant about the need for the object. Beings suffer because of this ignorance. How can I show them the truth?" and thus creates kamma with no potential for stealing. 

Correct, but it needs explanation: while the arhat is still alive (in Samsara), he generates kamma, but only wholesome or neutral kamma. No unwholesome kamma is generated by the arahat. Still, he must bear the bad fruits of extinguishing of his kamma (diseases, aging, bad events, death), but free from suffering. Once the arahat dies, all his remaining kamma gets extinguished, thus he enters Nibanna. In essence, because he does not generate unwholesome kamma and he does not suffer from his unwholesome kamma extinguishing, it can be said that he generates no kamma, because only unwholesome kamma gives fuel to future rebirths. 

Yes. Now I ask: Is there an I (a choice maker) that made the choice? No. Is there a choice? No. Is there a question? No. How could that be?! Firstly there is an I, there is a choice and there is a question. Secondly, there is no I, no choice and no question. How could that be?! With decision (volition) there arises the I. With decision (volition) there arises the choice. With decision (volition) there arises the question. That which arises with decision (volition) is not truth ... is like a dream ... like a lie. It is like taking clay and forming a vase claiming "This is a vase", and not seeing that it is not a vase but just clay. How can I prove that? I cannot. How can I explain it to you so that you will see this? I cannot. It is like you asking me "What is below the basement of my house?" and me replying "There is immense gold. Hundreds and thousands of gold, emeralds, coins. Tons and tons and tons! So immense in value that the whole universe could be made wealthy with it!" and you not even digging under your house to check my claims. How can I explain what the "clay" is? I cannot. It is like you asking me "What is the taste of this fruit?" and me replying "Delicious! Soo good!" and you not even taking a bite to taste the fruit yourself to see the taste yourself. EDIT: Praj침캐p캐ramit캐 sutra: 

What you're describing is one of the many superpowers you can develop when practicing meditation. In the Kevatta sutta $URL$ the Buddha describes the superpowers: 

The arahant would not kill the killer. A Buddha would not kill the killer. Even if by killing the killer, lives would be saved in thousands, the arahant or a Buddha would not kill the killer. Even if by killing the killer, lives would be saved in millions, the arahant or a Buddha would not kill the killer. Even if by killing the killer, lives would be saved in billions, the arahant or a Buddha would not kill the killer. Why is that so? Because the action of the arahant or a Buddha killing the killer would lead to more suffering. Why is that so? If by killing the killer, one life would be saved, what would the consequence of killing the killer be? The thought "It's ok to kill killers" would sprinkle in people's minds. If by killing the killer, thousand lives would be saved, what would the consequence of killing the killer be? The thought "It's ok to kill crazy people" would sprinkle in people's minds. If by killing the killer, millions lives would be saved, what would the consequence of killing the killer be? The thought "It's ok to kill evil people" would sprinkle in people's minds. If by killing the killer, billions lives would be saved, what would the consequence of killing the killer be? The thought "It's ok to kill destructive people" would sprinkle in people's minds. And what does a delusioned mind, seeking liberation from pain, permeated with pain and the thought "It's ok to kill killers, crazy people, evil people and destructive people" think? "It's ok to do evil for lesser evil" When a delusioned mind, seeking liberation from pain, permeated with pain, thinks "It's ok to do evil for lesser evil", that mind, to liberate from this same pain, because of its delusion, will do evil for more evil. And the seed of suffering would spread. Thus, the action of "justifying killings", leads to more suffering. When an arahant or a Buddha abstains from killing any living creature in any way, what would the consequence of such action be? The thought "It's not ok to kill no matter what, even if it needs to be for lesser evil" would sprinkle in people's minds. When a delusioned mind, seeking liberation from pain, permeated with pain, thinks "It's not ok to kill no matter what, even if it needs to be for lesser evil", that mind, even though he is delusional, because of that same thought, to liberate from pain, will not do evil for more evil. And the seed of wisdom would be spread. Thus, the action of "always abstaining from killing no matter what", leads to less suffering.