According to tradition, as in the Nagara Sutta, Buddhas all discover the path to enlightenment and teach that same path to their followers: 

Forgive yourself or the other completely. Hindrances occur in the space between the awareness and the object of awareness; put lovingkindness or peace in the space between the knower and what is known. 

I'm looking for a sutta in which the Buddha is recalling past lives, including, I believe, lives as the great Brahma, and asks himself on account of what actions he ascended to a position of such great power; he investigates and answers that it was because of three things. I remember two--abstention and giving--but can't remember the third. If anyone knows what passage I am talking about it would be much appreciated. 

My general opinion is that this would be one way of reflecting on the drawbacks/dangers of the object--namely, the sense-object perceived as beautiful is subject to aging and decay. This would be one way of attending to the sense-object that is producing lust as 'unattractive' and as not being ultimately satisfying. That can't be wrong. Also, I assume that you would do this in order to counteract lust; so, the question is: is it effective? If it actually reduces lust for that object then it is the right thing to do. It may be that it is not in line with some specific practices that are called 'vipassana', but I don't see why this would matter. 

I am looking for a translation of the Suchiloma Sutta other than the one I have found through searching on Google or some insight into the Pali. In the story, the Demon Suchiloma wants to test the Buddha and 'strikes him with his body' whereupon the Buddha withdraws his own body. Here is the passage I am interested in: 

Sure. Meditation is a mental activity which means it can be done anywhere at anytime. It doesn't matter if you're on a bus, in your room, or in a deprivation tank. So is a deprivation tank valuable? Sure! People today and in ancient times have always used sensory deprivation techniques to further their mind. Today, people still use ancient forms of sensory deprivation techniques such as retreats into caves, living in dark rooms, living underground to avoid sound and light, sitting in one place for a pro-long length of time, etc... The only downfall for deprivation tanks is that you can't live inside them. Otherwise, I could see it being beneficial. Though long-term sensory deprivation techniques should NOT be used by beginner practitioners. Your mind will begin to hallucinate after 2 - 3 days of continues deprivation. If you're not trained to handle the mind under these conditions it can be scary, strange, and confusing if you're not prepared to face it. The only kind of teachers I would trust in doing such an extreme meditation practice (myself being a zen practitioner) would be the Buddhist Lama's living in Tibet. They are very intelligent, hard-core, and specialize in matters concerning the subconscious mind. Here is a video of a group of men and women Hallucinating after a few days of visual sensory deprivation. 

The Realm of Devas (Deva-Gati). This is where the heavenly beings reside. The Realm of Asura (Asura-Gati). This is where the Titans (not like those found in Greek mythologies) reside. The Realm of Hungry Ghosts (Preta-Gati). This is where the ghosts reside (very painful and miserable). The Hell Realm (Naraka-Gati). Where the wicked go for a period of time to be cleansed. The Animal Realm (Tiryagyoni-Gati). Sentient beings are born as animals. The Human Realm (Mausya-Gati). The most desired realm to be reborn as. 

The Buddha makes predictions about the future in the suttas and, in one case, if I recall correctly, takes action to prevent a disciple from having a bad rebirth; it is a female disciple who is a weaver or something if I am correct. If anyone knows what I am referring to, please do leave a comment. 

In other words, Buddhists claim that harm in this world arises because of greed, hatred, and delusion; they seek to eliminate these sources of harm within themselves and to educate others so that they may do the same. So, on this view, Buddhists are addressing the root causes of suffering in themselves and others and helping people in this way--the most effective way. As the passage above implies, an ideal Buddhist is far from passive internally and, although she may appear to be so externally, one could argue that she is simply skillful/technical in her approach to the suffering of others. In summary, Buddhists want to use wisdom, rather than money and power, to help others. According to them, this is the most effective way to do so, and the only way to get to the cause of the problem; using power and money to alleviate worldly problems can be a temporary, palliative solution at best. The Buddha often compared himself to a doctor, treating the causes of suffering rather than exclusively treating the symptoms. 

Partial answer: I was told on a vipassana retreat in the tradition of S.N. Goenka that at first one may not be able to feel sensations in all of one's body, but being able to feel sensation in every part of one's body is a milestone that practitioners should reach as they advance in the practice. This seems to accord with my experience as well, that after prolonged practice one's sensitivity to the body increases. Also, in that tradition, one does a body sweep from the top of the head to the feet as you say you do. Hope that helps somewhat. 

Of course this is not recommended for most meditators, and it shouldn't be practiced without having a trained teacher. But this does sound like your body was beginning to fall asleep. Tips on how to handle the anxiety? 

Realize that if you were born with their body and mind, there would be no differences between you and them. Their lives would be your life. You would go through the same experiences they've faced in life. You would have the same name, health problems, mom and dad, struggles for acceptance as a teenage, etc... And eventually, you would become a police officer just as they did. And guess what? Their mistakes are also your mistakes too. How? Because everyone is only an extension of yourself. They only appear separate because they live in different bodies and minds, but ultimately, it's only you living under the many masks of life. Remember that at one point everyone was your mother in a previous life. This means that the police officer who is giving you a ticket is simultaneously your past mother. Keep in mind that at one point she was worried sick because you didn't come home until midnight. Sometimes, she even lost sleep because she worried about how well you were doing in school. And sadly, it's even possible she may have been the mother who buried you because you died at a young age. Just remember this is the very same person who only wished for your well-being and happiness. And although the officer may not remember his/her past life; at least we do. Finally, remember your Bodhisattva vows! You're purpose is to bring joy and happiness to world. Here is a Bodhisattva vow written by st. Shantideva, 

This technique has been used ever since the beginning of Buddhism. The Buddhist monks and nuns are notorious for walking into Battles just to bless, pickup, and bury/burn the dead. It can be hard in the western world to find a morgue that allows people to do community service. Partly because it can be dangerous working with dead bodies, as well as strict religious protocols based on the religious background of the person who died. Morticians are required to have education in both theology and biology for this reason. So what are possible substitutes you can use if your denied opportunities to work at your local morgue? 

Great question...I would say consider the fact that his calmness and slowness might be characteristics you want to absorb/emulate 

In the Aghatavinaya Sutta, there are five antidotes given for arisen ill-will(āghāto). I am puzzled because one of these is to develop equanimity ("upekkhā tasmiṃ puggale bhāvetabbā") and another is to reflect on ownership of kamma, which is used to generate (/is the cause of) equanimity as I understand it. I don't understand what is intended by having these separate. Full text follows. 

Thus I have heard...a monk got drunk and pointed his feet at the Buddha (a serious sign of disrespect in the Buddha's culture). At this, the Buddha banned the drinking of alcohol based on the fact that it can cause such serious lapses in mindfulness so as to lead a monk to show an extreme lack of respect. 

I am looking for a pair of earmuffs to wear while meditating that are effective at reducing noise and comfortable to wear for at least 2 hours. Does anyone have any recommendations of brands that they have actually used? Note: I would like to preemptively state that I am in no way interested in any answer that has to do with noticing my aversion to noise or doing vipassana; anything along these lines does not answer my question and will be down-voted. 

Leigh Brasington Leigh Brasington and some others teach a 'soft' version of the jhanas insofar as the level of concentration and absorption is much lesser than the 'hard' jhānas taught by Ajahn Brahm, Pa Auk Sayadaw, and others; this method involves focusing explicitly on the feelings of pitisukha; his instructions are as follows: Instructions for entering 'soft' jhāna 

Also, here is an article on the benefits of lovingkindness meditation according to science that may be of interest. Not sure how I feel about all the scientific research on meditation to this point but worth a look.