In a recent article in the The Times bemoaning modern dietary guidelines the author reports new evidence on the affects of alcohol on the brain (my highlights): 

Another fact putting dioxins in perspective has become apparent as analytical techniques have improved: they are natural compounds not just evil byproducts of the chemical industry. In fact we have been exposed to them since we invented fire and the natural world has had some level of dioxins in it since plants first burned, long before people appeared. This happens because wood and plants always contain some chloride (wood is 0.2% chloride) and, when material containing chlorine and carbon burns, dioxins are produced in small quantities. It may even be that people are particularly resistant to dioxins compared to some animals as we have been exposed to higher levels than most animals ever since we started using fire to cook. Summary While some animals are exquisitely sensitive to dioxins, the best evidence suggests people are not. And, while some dioxins cause nasty human diseases like chloracne, there is little evidence that any cause other conditions even when exposure is chronic. They are not near the top of the list as human toxins. 

The conclusion is interesting but there are some caveats. It was a study based on perceived pain tolerance (which isn't nothing but is harder to assess than, say, reducing the effect of a burn). And it was a small study with only a couple of hundred participants. But the essential point that the apparent effect of a placebo is equally present when you know you are taking it, seems notable. 

Common opinion seems to believe that the most popular female porn stars are blonds with big boobs. For example, this site from 2010 has Jenna Jameson as the most popular and she fits the description. So is the stereotype true? PS I know that the internet is awash with stories about this right now (feb 2013) but I couldn't resist posing the question so the answer can be recorded here. I'm happy if someone else posts the definitive answer before I do. 

The popular view of the Battle of Britain is that one of the critical factors that enabled the British to win it was Watson-Watt's invention of Radar. The History Learning Site, for example, summarises like this: 

There is some evidence from state to state comparisons that gun control laws and gun ownership show some relationship to deaths from firearm use For many observers outside the USA it seems obvious that the lax US attitude to gun control is a major contributor to the high rate of death from gun use in the USA (the USA is an outlier in death rates at least among developed countries). But these international comparisons are always going to be subject to many confounding factors. However, different states inside the US have very different rules about firearm ownership and control so this might offer better, less confounded an more relevant, evidence for whether tighter control is useful in the US context. A recent piece of research in the journal JAMA Internal Medicine analyses the internal state by state legislation and its relationship to death rates. The study concludes: 

So the first wave didn't make anyone any money. The second wave could be argued to start in 2001 with this (from a 2005 article looking back on developments): 

So it isn't just a claim about the situation in the UK. Can we confidently claim that austerity has caused 120,000 deaths in the UK and can also be shown to harm mortality in other countries? 

The surgeon and writer Atul Gawande became so convinced that he wrote a whole book on the topic of checklists where he examined their history and value in areas such as aviation and sought to explain why they work. The book is The Checklist Manifesto and it is well worth reading for further examples and some convincing rationale. 

This is large enough (perhaps 20m americans) to generate a lot of anecdotes to feed scare sites and generate plausible stories. And the absence of any statistical analysis at all doesn't make a case that the problem is bigger. There is also the issue that many people not suffering from coeliac disease (that is not exhibiting the immune response that characterises it) may have some sensitivity to gluten. This is controbversial, but possible. Web MD summarises the whole situation well (my emphasis): 

Those skeptical about the science of global warming have frequently alleged that the surface temperature record has "paused" since about 1998 and showed no significant warming trend (see this recent wattsupwiththat post as a representative example). The mainstream climate science community has responded to this in several ways (see my italics in the quotes below highlighting the different claims). Some deny that the pause exists or argue that recent extensions to the record show it to be a data error, see this news story from the Independent claiming: 

In this video of a presentation given at a climate-skeptic Heartland Institute conference, Don Easterbrook presents his view of recent climate history. He compares his own projections of future climate with IPCC forecasts and claims them to be superior since about 1999. This comparison has been debunked (see this SkepticalScience post) as a misrepresentation of IPCC results. But, more interestingly, Easterbrook also presents paleoclimate reconstructions based on oxygen-isotope analysis of ice cores which he claims show both much higher and much lower temperatures in the past 15,000 years than other, more widely accepted paleoclimate reconstructions (the key discussion starts around 3:32 in the video). In particular he claims that the ice-core data are better at showing the well-known medieval warm period and the little ice age than tree ring proxies for temperature but also show periods over the last few thousand years that are significantly warmer than present. This is clearly a contrarian view compared to the current mainstream consensus on historic climate (often dominated by tree-ring temperature proxies for the last millennium-ish). So are his ice-core based temperature reconstruction credible? and if not, why not? NB please let's keep the discussion to the question of O2 isotope analysis of ice-core data and not get diverted into ad-hominem attacks on Easterbrook's other opinions. 

If air is warmed in a closed room the amount of water won't change but the relative humidity will since warm air holds more water than cold air. So the air will feel dryer. Unfortunately the question specifies absolute humidity (or the total amount of water) and just heating does nothing to the amount so the answer is no, heaters don't dry the air. But i'm prepared to be generous and allow that electrical heaters will make air feel dryer. This is in contrast to oil or gas heaters which deplete oxygen and give off water and carbon dioxide (and some monoxide if not well maintained). In a sealed room you will eventually suffocate from lack of oxygen and presence of carbon dioxide. In a ventilated room an oil or gas heater will leave higher humidity than an electrical heater because they do release water but the electrical heater does not. 

Yes, faster speeds will increase accidents, but not by much if they are restricted to motorways A BMJ editorial has now joined this debate with arguments similar to those described in the first two answers given above. It concludes: 

The tone of the article, especially that last point, suggests that the right standard is not harm reduction but absolute proof that e-cigs are completely safe. The critique also made the strong claim that some of the evidence relied on by PHE was based on studies containing serious conflicts of interest (CoI). In responding to this critique, David Nutt, a renowned expert on harms for legal and illegal drugs said (my emphasis): 

This idea is clearly counter to the belief that government R&D is good for the economy (British scientists are currently campaigning for more money, for example, largely on the grounds that government R&D is important to the economy). So who is right Ridley or conventional wisdom? Is Government R&D demonstrably beneficial to economic growth? 

Nicholas Nassem Taleb has argued that many systems become more robust when subjected to random shocks (a property he calls Antifragile in his book of that name). One of the systems he applies his thinking to is human bodies. He argues that we are adapted to have a very variable diet (including some fasting as well as varied sources of nutrients). He argues that a steady diet is worse for the body than one involving regular fasting (both complete fasting from all food and regular fasting from some food groups especially meat). This idea has gained some credence in the 5-2 diet. One interviewer summarises his idea thus (my emphasis): 

Conclusion One of the possible reason why the studies differ is that the French study has not accounted for possible confounding factors. If the nature of the sample has changed over time (eg because those seeking fertility treatment represent a different mix of people by socioeconomic class over the long time period of the study) then this will not be a good random sample from the same population. The Danish study is more likely to be a random sample so may be better. The Danish study also showed that there are a lot of people with poor sperm counts or quality. If people are now more concerned with fertility than they used to be, that would explain many other (less careful) studies showing declines: the results reflect not actual declines in the same population but increasing concern among those with poor fertility. This is speculative, but possible. The general lesson is that in statistical studies where the underlying variable is known to show wide variability among individuals, you have to be really careful to avoid confounding factors. And, not enough studies achieve this. It is also worth noting that the studies you hear about are far more likely to be the worrying ones, not the ones proclaiming that there isn't a problem (they don't make such good headlines).