Your reading of the poem makes sense. It might help to know that the dark trees are symbolizing the future in this poem. The second line tells us that these trees rarely show a breeze. This means that we cannot predict the future. In the fourth line, Frost expresses his wish that those dark trees in the first line were stretched away to the edge of doom. This means that he hoped that the future is stretched far away. So, the edge of doom means here far away (in time). This seems consistent with your view, since it is also used in that way in the sentence you quoted, "Our marriage will last unto the edge of doom". Based on: Analysis of "Into My Own". 

First, the Ghost breaks the earth-shattering news that Hamlet's uncle killed his father. Then, he tells him not to be rash, nor let this taint his mind. But it clearly does taint his mind. After all, Christian values teach us to forgive, not to take revenge. The Ghost is advocating revenge. And that is the chief ambition of the Devil. So, if the Ghost is Hamlet's father, then he is certainly not purifying himself by coming back as a spirit and enticing his son into revenge. That's called temptation. It's fair to question whether this really is Hamlet's father. But I think the play rightfully does not focus on this question. Instead, it focuses on Hamlet's agency, given what he has heard. In summary, the Ghost speaks truthfully about the murder of Hamlet's father, but it's ambiguous whether the Ghost actually is Hamlet's father. It could be some demon, or the Devil himself. I think it's worth asking why the Ghost says what he does, and advocates what he does. But ultimately, the play is about Hamlet's struggle to find his way out of the maze he ends up in. To revenge himself seems wrong, but not to revenge himself seems equally wrong. He has a hard predicament, and it's enlightening to see how he finally achieves peace. 

Why does Die Verwandlung have autobiographical aspects? What similarities are there between the life of Gregor Samsa and the life of Franz Kafka? 

Probably not very wide, although there are more works than you might think. Some of these works, especially older works, were non-fictional. I will list a few works about Japan that were published in the USA and/or written in the USA or by American authors. Maybe more (non-fictional?) works can be found in A Collector's Guide to Books on Japan in English, Joseph Rogala, 2001. Japan as It Was and Is (1855) This was written by Richard Hildreth, who was, according to Wikipedia an American journalist, author and historian. However, it is non-fictional. Japan in American Fiction, 1880-1905 It looks like there are at least two books in the series "Japan in American Fiction, 1880-1905": 

The serpent metaphor invokes the Devil. It also makes you wonder whether it could be the Devil speaking to Hamlet. In the same way that Claudius pours poison into his brother's ear, the Ghost might be pouring poison into Hamlet's. And now this last speech is a little unfair. 

One of Vronsky's comrades, probably an officer, admonishes him to pay attention to his grooming. Wise advice! But does Vronsky really mind this advice? I don't think so. Because later on we learn that Vronsky never got that hair cut. 

Fathers often tell their sons or daughters what to do, and the Ghost is acting no differently. The Ghost puts quite a lot of pressure on Hamlet when he says this. In case you don't know, Lethe is a river in Greek mythology that, when drunk from, eases one of all their memories and sufferings. By making this comparison, the Ghost is goading Hamlet into action. Now, consider the rest of the speech. 

In one of the Poirot books he mentions that though clues are often small he once found a four-foot long one. Unfortunately I can't remember in which book he mentions this. Does anyone know which book he did find the four-foot long clue in? 

As I am reading Anna Karinina I notice how as the story continues Vronsky is going bald. As characters meet him it is noted how he tries to hid his increasing baldness. For instance when Dolly goes to Vronsky's estate it is stated that he has taken to combing his hair in a way that hides his bald patch. Characters before and after this also note his slowly increasing baldness and how he tries to hide this. Am I right in thinking that his state of baldness may be a way of showing how the affair and love between Anna and Vronsky is slowly growing old and the way both are trying to hide this from themselves? 

I think this repetition is not by accident. Early on, Anna wonders whether Karenin's ears stick out because of a hair cut. Later on, the narrator observes that Vronsky's hair has grown "half over his ears". I think this attention to ears and hair cuts is a little symbolic. Perhaps Karenin's ears stick out because he hears everything, and listens to everything he hears. His hair is short (which we may infer from the above passage) because he cares about appearances. On the other hand, Vronsky lets his hair grow out, and toward the end it is reaching his ears. Vronsky is aware of the chatter about his affair, but he chooses not to listen. He cares less about appearances. Vronsky's hair serves to conceal, whereas Karenin's serves to uncover. Vronsky conceals his bald spot by brushing back his hair (pt. 5, ch. 7). Karenin's short hair uncovers the awkwardness of his ears, and the awkwardness of the whole affair. The idea of a bald spot as a blemish in his life of which Vronsky thinks too lightly, makes it the perfect symbol for his affair. Although it might cause other men insecurity, it doesn't make Vronsky insecure. He is far too confident for that. He is careless and cheerful about what other people notice and attend to. It's also worth pointing out, in the passage from pt. 2 ch. 20, the juxtaposition of the bald spot and the mare. 

I don't believe the men are actually 'forced out' or mysteriously disappear. This line (I believe) refers to Gentlemen in the social life of the class focused on in Cranford. These men do not then actually have to be gone to have 'disappered' they just have to be socially inactive or unimportant. As most of the women are elderly it is likely that most of the men have died off (naturally) as at that time it was quite common for men to marry younger women (and so they often passed away before their spouses). If meomory serves me Cranford is a sort of retirement area, few young people (of the class focused on) live there and so this explanation seems the most likely to me, especially as time stretchs in Cranford and the men may take a year or more to 'disapper', and still be thought to do so. They may also simply suffer from some age-related illness and so not 'go out' and thus not be seen in social life. Added to this, as I understand it, the women simply dominate. The men in the town do not really participate in social life because it is a women dominated area and the younger ones probably do soon leave to find better prospects. The older healthy Gentlemen probably go off to their club, or stay with friends frequently because their is not much social life for them in Cranford and so are not seen much. While their wives are seen because they do enjoy the social life in Cranford. 

Notice how his hair has grown "half over his ears". This recalls an image of Karenin that we encounter early on. 

I think there is indeed symbolism in Vronsky's bald spot. One of Karenin's chief characteristics is his ears, which is often the first thing people notice of him. Ears are meant for hearing—hearing rumors, gossips, scandalous affairs. Whereas a bald spot is something that people often conceal. It could easily symbolize an adulterous relationship. Consider this scene at the military camp, in which an officer calls to Vronsky as he leaves his Finnish hut. 

This is a dodgy question as I have few details about this book, however: I am trying to find a book that was already around in the 1990s and famous enough to be translated into Dutch. (It wasn't a Dutch book but was read in the Netherlands, in Dutch, around then). Its main character was a clock keeper who spent his time keeping many, many clocks running in a large old house. I believe the genre was mystery and I think there was a murder. I know it's not a lot to go on but does anyone have any idea what book this could be? Edit: I believe the house was very large and had many clocks which had to be wound and looked after. The period was probably Victorian, maybe later but before battery operated clocks. The man looking after the clocks was probably employed by the owner of the house and the house was very large (probably an aristocrat's house). 

What do you think the Ghost might be lying about? Claudius definitely murdered his brother, which we find confirmed in the play-within-a-play (act 3 scene 2), and by Claudius's own confession (act 3 scene 3). However, it's true that the Ghost might not be Hamlet's father. In that case, it would still have to know the details of his father's death, and the details of his father's life. Perhaps it is some infernal spirit who has this knowledge. This is actually a very interesting question. I think there is no definite answer to this question. It's ambiguous. But it is worth asking questions about the Ghost's intent. Consider these words from the Ghost.