This is not a definitive answer but a few points from someone who has spent some time with remotely sensed temperature data. I guess your best bet to get high spatial and temporal resolution surface air temperature would be to get reanalysis data from weather models and augment it with weather data from ships. Purely satellite retrievals of surface air temperature are not very reliable as this is a rather indirect measurement. Consider Level 2 AIRS 50 km (approx. 0.5 deg) Surface Air Temperature data layer ($URL$ The spatial resolution is much lower compared to surface radiative temperature products. This is in order to compensate for the uncertainty in the atmospheric state and for lower resolution of the sensor that needs to balance its very high spectral resolution with lower spatial resolution to achieve usable SNR levels in each spectral channel. Speaking of the reanalysis data the NCEP Global Data Assimilation System has 1 deg (approx. 100 km) spatial resolution. However depending on the region of study you might get higher resolution from regional weather models provided by local meteorologists. So you could start with the NCEP data spatially interpolated from 1 deg to 0.01 deg as an initial approximation. 

First, let us try to understand how precession affects climate: The precessional effect on climate is caused due to two factors:- (1) Axial Precession (2) Apsidal Precession The precession of the apses doesn't cause a change in climatic state by itself. However, this motion is in the same sense as the axial precession (gyroscopic motion of the earth's axes). This effect reduces the period of precession from 26kyr to ~21kyr. Combined, the two effects cause what is known as the precession of the equinoxes. If you consider this a cyclic process, the two extreme precessional configurations are shown below: 

See NH++. In this configuration, NH summer is at perihelion. Thus, during NH summer, earth is closest to the sun, and therefore Northern hemisphere has a strong summer. During NH winter, earth is farthest from the sun, therefore Northern Hemisphere has a weak winter as well. Thus in this precessional configuration, the earth has extreme seasons in the Northern Hemisphere. Now see SH++. In this configuration, SH summer is at perihelion. Thus, during SH summer, earth is closest to the sun, and therefore the southern hemisphere has a strong summer. During SH winter, earth is farthest from the sun, therefore southern Hemisphere has a weak winter as well. Thus in this precessional configuration, the earth has extreme seasons in the southern Hemisphere. Now coming to your question of how landmasses affect climate. If the earth was symmetric, even then ice-ages would have occurred at same times in the earth's history. However, their intensity would have differed due to the Northern Hemisphere land bias. 

The last three values are clear, while the meaning of the climatology value is somewhat non-intuitive. I have selected a crop field and calculated NDVI for all pixels clear of clouds or cloud shadows during one vegetation period and observed the following: 

It seems that results with low aerosol quantity (green points) match well with the results obtained with the complex rating algorithm used in the standard NDVI MOD13Q1 product. While the data with climatology state (orange points) seems far off. What does the climatology attribute mean and how to treat it? 

That is bands 1 and 2 store and components of the wind speed at the boundary layer. parameters make up the product definition section identifiers. The first kpds number can be mapped to mnemonic GRIB identifiers, i.e. number maps to . The unit is and the data representation is 64-bit floating point. The latter piece of metadata can be extracted from the GRIB file itself e.g. using . 

This file is in GRIB-1 format. Each band corresponds to a GRIB message. The band names can be found in an INV file on the same server. For your example check out the corresponding inv file . Another option is to use with option. The band names and offsets for all 315 bands can be obtained this way, e.g. for band 2 

"Does that mean the earth's sea-level was much lower than it is now? If this is true, then are we experiencing a lower level of gravity?"\ There were indeed periods in the Earth's past when sea-level was was lower than what it is now. One of the main reasons for this is the Earth's glacial-interglacial cycles. During an ice-age, there are huge ice-sheets on the continents. The water for this ice comes from the oceans, thus the sea level gets lower when there is a lot of ice on the land. 

The precessional effect on climate is caused due to two factors: (1) Axial Precession (2) Apsidal Precession The precession of the apses doesn't cause a change in climatic state by itself. However, this motion is in the same sense as the axial precession (gyroscopic motion of the earth's axes). This effect reduces the period of precession from 26kyr to ~21kyr. Combined, the two effects cause what is known as the precession of the equinoxes. If you consider this a cyclic process, the two extreme precessional configurations are shown below: