The bulk composition of the earth by weight is mostly, iron, oxygen, silicon and magnesium, in that order, with all the other elements making up only about 5% of the earth's weight. Most of the earth's iron is in the core, which is about 85% iron. The rest of the earth is dominated by oxygen and silicon, primarily in the form of silicate minerals, which consist of $\ce{SiO4^{4-}}$ tetrahedra linked in different ways and with different cations filling in the gaps. 

The oldest (fairly) definitive fossils date from about 3.48 billion years ago (Ga) and consist of sedimentary structures associated with microbial mats living in coastal environments.[1] Beyond this there are is no known direct fossil evidence so instead we have to rely on geochemical evidence. As the OP mentioned, the oldest known sedimentary rock, the Isua greenstones, are dated to 3.8 Ga and contain isotopically light graphite which may indicate a biogenic origin, although this is hotly disputed. Recently another paper has pushed the date for potentially biogenic carbon back even earlier to 4.1 Ga.[2] The authors analysed 10,000 zircons from the Jack Hills metasediments from Western Australia and managed to extract one which was uncracked and contained what they believe to be primary, isotopically closed graphite inculsions. The zircon has been dated by U-Pb dating to 4.10 ± 0.01 Ga and so the graphite inclusions must be at least as old as this. Isotopic analysis was done on the carbon and the δ13C value comes out at −24 ± 5‰. This is consistent with carbon which has undergone isotopic fractionation by enzymatic carbon fixation, which has an average value of δ13C = -25‰ over the past 3.5 Ga. Therefore the 4.1 Ga graphite may be evidence of biological activity at this very early stage in Earth's history. [1] $URL$ [2] $URL$ 

The most common software for creating and modifying maps is ArcGIS (commercial but you can get free trial for a month) or QGIS (open source). 

The parallel layers suggest that it is a rainbow obsidian. Obsidian (aka volcanic glass) forms when molten rock material cools so rapidly that atoms are unable to arrange themselves into a crystalline structure. The rainbow is created by light reflecting from minute inclusions of mineral crystals, rock debris, or gas. The stone is semi-precious, I remember paying several quids for an unpolished piece. 

That looks like a pebble of sandstone with some iron oxide (red layer). Other option is limestone and you can test it with acid if it fizzes. 

The glittery part of the rock is mica. Mica is a class of minerals which belongs to sheet silicates. As you can see, crystals form sheets, which forms layers in the rock. Crystals tend to grow perpendicular to highest stress direction during deformation event, so that indicate metamorphism in the past. The presence of micas also indicate the composition of rock - it had to be aluminium rich before it was affected by heat and pressure. It is difficult to tell about the size of crystals but lack of other higher grade minerals or deformations suggests it's mica schist. 

Several things can indicate that a seismic event is an explosion and not an earthquake. Firstly, the depth of the source. The shallowest earthquakes tend to have a hypocentre that is at least a couple of km below the ground surface and some earthquakes in certain parts of the world can go down to about 700 km. Artificial explosions on the other hand, will be very shallow, with a hypocentre that is essentially at the surface. Secondly, and more importantly, the P-wave radiation pattern (and S-wave as well) for an explosion is fundamentally different to that of an earthquake. This can be investigated by plotting the polarities of the first arriving waves of a seismic event on a stereonet, with the position on the net being determined by the azimuth of the source from the receiving station and the outgoing angle of the wave from the source. Earthquakes radiate P-waves in four lobes, with alternating polarities. This is called a double couple source and it produces a fault plane solution with two positive and two negative quadrants. An explosion, radiates P-waves equally in all directions and so produces an isotropic pattern. You may have seen reports of a second seismic event after the nuclear test which has been interpreted as a tunnel collapse. This also has a distinctive focal mechanism, called a compensated linear vector dipole (CLVD). 

Quick googling shows that Cherokee county is dominated by metamorphic rocks. The rock looks like mica schist. The roundish minerals look like garnets but I am not sure about traces of elongated ones - might be kyanite or staurolite (or something more exotic), cannot tell from this photo. 

It is a quartz crystal artificially coated in thin layer of metal called aura quartz or rainbow quartz. They come in various colours and often can be found in new age shops. More information on the topic can be found on wiki: $URL$ 

Three layered ones look like either sandstone or limestone with a bit of iron oxides. You can put several droplets of acid and check if they fizz. If they do, that is limestone, but I have seen limestone in that colour only once and think that is more likely to be sandstone. 

Quarz veins come in different sizes - starting from milimetre scale ending with several meters (if not more). Quartz veins form from aqueous solution and in most cases that is associated with high hydraulic pressure (be that because of deformation or volcanic fluids). It is highly unlikely that you could identify veins from satelite images because of their size and vegetation. On the other hand that might be possible using drone photos. I suggest looking at Cabo de Gata (cape of agate) satelite images as an example of volcanic region with plenty of silica veins and very little of vegetation. The veins there usually smaller than 1 meter so I don't expect you to see them but you can see some cracks in the rock, which occasionally are refiled with silica (coordinates 36°46'57.3"N 2°06'02.8"W) (source: I did mapping there)