The climbing that kills me when mtbing are the explosive short climbs, not the long grinds. If that is the case with you, I would suggest some sort of interval training. This sort of training should help your recovery speed. Also, make sure that you are taking nutrients in while exercising. Low to moderate exertions can be fueled by body fat, but high intensity needs to tap into your carbo reserves, and I find that mine get depleted quickly without having some sort of replacement ready. 

If you are sure that you do not want gears ever, you can get a dedicated single speed frame for pretty cheap, like this one: Nashbar SS Frame This type of frame is nice because you won't need to run a chain tensioner, making it simpler to maintain. From there, just search for deals on the rest of the parts. If you can, you might want to look for either a carbon or steel fork, they tend to dampen vibrations better than aluminium. You can also surf ebay and craigslist for used stuff, or join a local biking club where someone always seems to be selling something on the cheap. 

I own a Surly Steamroller, and although I haven't done it myself, many other Steamroller riders put a Surly Disk Trucker fork into the Steamroller frame. With the exception of the fork altering the geometry ever so slightly, it's a pretty like-for-like switch. It's also a fairly inexpensive option. You can pick the frames up for sub £200 and the forks for a good way under £100 in the UK. Then build up with whatever parts you fancy. 

I'd say riding outside is always better than a spin class or turbo-time. I ride a hilly commute to work throughout the winter 10x 30mins each way, but do intervals too - and ride fixed gear for extra effort. Commuting through winter gets a bad rap (depending on where you live). Sometimes, here in the UK, the weather can be pretty crap, but you do get some absolutely wonderful mornings. Better a bad journey on the bike than a good one in the car. I'm much happier out in the real world than on Zwift or in a class - although there's certainly benefit to those. If you think that's the most realistic option for then do that. I have no car, so I have no choice. With that being said, it does keep me in good shape for the season. TL;DR: Commute. Makes you fitter, stronger and more road-aware ready for the season. 

Pro-Pedal provides bob resistance when on, 1 being lowest. Try this. Pull out the numbered knob and position it so that "3" is in line with lever. That will give you the most Pro-Pedal. Now, try riding up a hill with it off and again with it on. You should notice markedly less bob with it on. If not, I might take it to a shop to make sure that it is working. 

Pushing pins out and then jamming them back in are bound to cause a certain amount of strain on the links. Buy a connector link and replace one of your links with it, creating a "quick release" chain. Make sure that you get a link that is the same width as your chain. Even better, buy a few of them. I actually keep one with me, that way if I break a chain it makes repairs so much easier. 

I have been using carbon handlebars on my mtb for two years now with any issue. Even did a race that was so cold that my drink tube froze before I even started! 

I'm sure greater knowledge will make itself known here, but for me it's more about the quality of the hub rather than the noise which draws many bikers (roadies included) and 'quality' hubs tend to be louder when freewheeling. I'm thinking specifically of Hope and Chris King hubs here, I think the noise is a side effect of the components, but I have no idea why they are louder! 

I'd suggest thinking less about 'locking your legs', and instead think more about pressing down hard with your trailing leg. I find that if I put too much effort into pulling up my leading leg I end up pulling the muscles in my groin. You'll still need to pull up a little and lean over the front to initiate the skid, but focus on the push to make it easier on your legs. Also, practicing in the wet makes it much easier to get the rear wheel to slide. Anyway, install a front brake for when someone pulls out on you or jumps out from the pavement so you can stop it quickly, and practice skid stops in more controlled environments first :) 

Should be perfectly safe. I actually did a similar thing on my road bike to allow a little more cushion in the rear, for my rear. The only hassle I can see is if you have to carry two different tubes. Can't remember off the top of my head if you can get some that span those two sizes. 

Since the headtube is at an angle, it will not raise the bike as much as if it was perpendicular to the ground. How much height that would add will depend on what angle your headtube is at, probably something around 70d. Now, adding travel will cause your bike to have slower handling. It will make it more stable in a straight line, but more effort will be needed to change direction. It will also move you farther back in the cockpit with may make it lift the front wheel more on steep climbs. Also, by adding this travel, it will probably void the warranty on your frame because it is putting stresses on the frame that are outside what it was designed for. There is also a possibility that you could stress the headtube to where it breaks, but 20mm probably wouldn't do it. 

The Planet X EC-130 'Rivet Rider' was extremely well reviewed by Cycling Weekly last year and you can get them new from Planet X at around that kind of money. Other than that, direct to consumer brands such as Canyon, Ribble and Rose may offer a few different options for around the 1k mark. If you're happy to look used you can get a lot of bike for 1k, up to Dura-Ace/Super Record/Red groupsets on high end frames, just make sure you do your research and you should be fine. 

I agree with Kibbee. Would also recommend going fixed for the ultimate in simplicity and weather-proofing as I don't suppose they'll be any shelter for it parking on the street. 

I'd get a brake on it and make sure it's serviceable then ride it for a while and see how you like it. Riding fixed takes some getting used to, so get some miles in before making your mind up! 

Well, Al will be lighter, and I think I read somewhere that steel rims get really slick when wet (this is assuming that you are using rim brakes). 

Do you have access to an elevation map of the area? I believe on that type of map, the closer together the lines are, the steeper the grade. 

Make sure the tension is low at first (should be a little screwn on face of pedal). Generally you will get to a point of looseness where you are popping out unintentionally, go just tigher than that. Cleat placement also can be a factor. The closer to the toe it is, the easier it tends to be to get out. Be careful about moving too far from the balls of your feet, it could end up with achy toes! Lastly, see if the sole of your shoe is interferring with the pedal. If it is dragging, you can get little spacers that go between sole and cleat. Don't worry about damaging the cleat, you will do more walking around on concrete. Also, you will probably fall at least once while getting used to them. It is almost a rite of passage. 

Lots of answers already here, but a quick one to remind you of the tools you'll need to build your own fixed gear. It may be cheaper to source the parts but you have to have specific tools to properly assemble it. You may have them already, in which case I defer the the above answers, but if not a lockring removal tool and chain whip from a reputable maker like Park Tool will set you back $30ish each and you'll want things like a pedal spanner and a good 15mm to adjust your rear wheel to keep chain tension. This can get pricey so while you may want these later down the line anyway for maintenance I'd go pre-made, or even better, go to your LBS and ask what they can do. As an aside, I'm pretty biased as I own one, but I'm a big fan of the Surly Steamroller for a no-nonsense fixed gear for regular riding. 

I have not looked into this but my first inclination is to avoid it. Your fork already has oil on the inside and seals that are supposed to keep elements on the outside. So, for this lube to make much of a difference it would have to soak into the seals, which means the seals aren't that sealed! I would also think that putting lube on the stanchions would attact grit and grime, something I work hard at keeping away from them. If your fork is sticking or otherwise not moving smoothly through it's travel, you may want to look into getting it rebuilt. Just my two cents. 

I think that is question can at least be partially answered by whether or not you can tolerate food in your stomach. While having a big heavy meal would probably be bad, having something in there, plus doing some refueling along the ride will help you keep from bonking and also make sure you are not running on a deficit for the rest of your day. I find that if I have a light breakfast and then add to that energy gels about every 45 minutes I am pretty good. My riding buddy, on the other hand, eats a McDonalds McMuffin and hash browns which would make an explosive exit if they were in my stomach. 

You can ride any bike in a race, provided it's in good enough working order to get you over the line. Regarding gears, it looks like the cost to add derailleur style gears may be prohibitive, as I assume this bike's rear wheel is single-speed specific and the dropouts aren't vertical (which isn't the end of the world but not ideal). I'd probably either look at a geared road bike, or rebuild your rear wheel around an Alfine/Nexus internally geared hub. If this is your first race I'd probably just ride what you have to see if you like riding competitively before spending money on upgrades or on a new bike. edit: This 'race' appears to be a 200km audax - I'd be incredibly reluctant to do that kind of distance as your first race. Have you ridden over 150km in one hit? If you're super fit, or not bothered about your time you could do it on your existing bike, but a specific road/audax bike would do it quicker and more comfortably. Maybe build up slowly to that kind of distance - that's a very long day in the saddle.