Using my two Garmin devices, I lay down for 30 minutes watching a film. Both recorded an average heartrate of 60 bpm. The 810 gave 35 kcal, the 910xt 45 kcal So 70 - 90 kcal per hour : 1680 - 2160 kcal per day. It looks like the BMR is included in the figures, so that I have to subtract 100 kcal an hour or so to estimate my additional expenditure. Garmin Connect shows the same figure as the device. Syncing the data over to Strava, it turns out that Strava doesn't estimate Calories without a GPS track or power data. So it looks like I'll have to try the next experiment in the garden. Upate - I've finally gotten round to sitting still in the garden for 10 minutes with the 810 and a heart-rate strap. The result - Garmin Connect shows 16 kcal - my BMR, whereas Strava showed 0 kcal. So it looks like Strava only shows work based on the track data. Update - I freewheeled down a 4 minute descent with my Vector pedals measuring no power input. The Calories consumed as displayed on the 810 did not go up at all. So it looks like the Garmin is inconsistently not including BMR when it has a source of power data. 

Most of the bicycle chains are made using some form of steel/steel alloy. Nickel is an essential element in forming stainless steel, the reason to add Nickel is to retain the austenitic structure(a type of crystalline structure) for wide range of temperatures. Stainless steel has the appearance of a nickel-plated chain, but will still retain the look when old and used(kept clean of course). Unlike steel; the nickel-plated chain's plating may get worn off due to use and appear as though paint has chipped away. You may also see some chains that have special electro-plating of chromium/nickel, a.k.a dripping chrome trying to be aesthetic. Nickel plating on metal is known to provide corrosion resistance and has lubricant effect. 

I've not done the maths, but angular momentum is proportional to the radius of the circle. So those big wheels benefit a lot from mass reduction, but the relatively small turn around your chainring much less so. Overall I'd think that the chain mass can largely be considered just another part - if it's much cheaper per gram to save weight there than your saddle or bars go for it, otherwise your money may be better spent elsewhere, especially as the chain is a consumable part. 

I bought a new road bike with Campag Athena 11 speed in March last year. To the end of Jan it had covered 9000km. In all that time I hadn't changed the chain because I don't have the Campag tool, and the KMC chain was not available. I finally got a new chain recently - unsurprisingly the old one was very stretched - so I bought a new cassette as well. The thing is, the new chain on the old cassette runs very smoothly, and even dismantling them and comparing the cogs I can't see any change in shape or size! I don't know what Campag are making them out of, but it's fantastic stuff. Everyone I've spoken to is convinced that after 9000km on one chain the cassette will be useless, but the prevailing advice is also to change the cassette when there are issues, and there just don't seem to be any. 

Another cause for the noisy brakes is the brake pads not being fully tightened. In my experience such noise is more commonly seen in cantilever brakes whose mechanism is well explained by Jay Bazuzi's response. 

If the saddle is too high and the handle bars are not positioned appropriately, you may be exerting a fair amount of weight on your hands. Check if the handle bars are centered. Check if you are sitting properly centered on the saddle, slight lean can cause uneven distribution of weight at your hands. Are you left handed and use computer mouse often? Above mentioned are the things I would check. In any case, don't neglect it. I would strongly recommend that you consult a doctor. 

Where can I find free online spinning or turbo classes? Ideally videos, but just audio or even an annotated playlist would do. 

I need to remove the bottom bracket bearing cups from my 2010 Athena groupset. Do they both unscrew anti-clockwise, or is one side different (and which one)? 

It looks like I burn 100 Calories per hour on average. Do activity trackers report the extra burn due to the activity, or the total including the base. To put it in other terms, if it says 800 kcal for an hour's ride, can I eat an extra 800 kcal or only 700? 

I have an Athena 11 speed group set, but can get a good deal on the Shimano 9000 chain. Does anyone know of any reports of issues combining the two? 

A good safe biking distance is the distance that one can enjoy the bike ride to work, get there a few minutes early to clean up or shower and after work enjoy another bike ride home and still spare some time to spend with family/ loved ones/have a life besides work and the commute. I limit my bike commute to about an hour each way. 

I recently replaced my clip-in pedals(SPD) with regular flat pedals on my commuter cycle with the hope to avoid wearing shoes with cleats on my commute. I want to wear my water proof boots to work when cycling. The problem I face is that my feet are not positioned properly, I usually find that one foot is farther or behind the other foot. 

In my experience any road accident fast enough to hurt will injure you through any clothes you are wearing. I've ended up with badly gashed shoulders and haunches where my shorts and jersey have just been scuffed. The thing that I took away from my last big crash (35km/h onto rough tarmac) was the importance of a helmet obviously, but also how mashed my fingers were, and how bad my palms would have been if I hadn't been wearing mitts. 

I have had one fail, but it was on a second-hand bike and I've no idea what its provenance was. It was sudden, but not catastrophic - I was riding down a 5 mile hill and felt the saddle start to wobble. When I stopped I found the post had cracked in a spiral up its length. The ride home out of the saddle was hard work, but I'd be far less worried about failure in a seatpost than forks or bars. 

I recently came across belts made out of used bicycle tires. Wiki article on how to make a belt using bike tire tread 

I considered adding a cage on the flat pedals but I cannot fit my boots in the toe clip. I tried booties on my cleated shoes with clip-in spd pedals, but it is too much effort for commuting, the booties wear out fairly quickly due to frequent stops/walking and I feel that cleated shoes/booties are good for long rides on the weekend. Pedals with SPD on one side and flat on the other still poses the same problem, alignment of foot when using the flat side. 

If you're training your muscles - for strength or endurance, I would eat. But if you are training your energy transport and metabolism then there is a lot to be said for not eating. Training on an empty stomach will force your body to burn fat earlier. By spending longer burning fat your body will adapt to this mode and increase its efficiency at doing this, so that your endurance past your stored-glycogen limit will improve. 

Degreaser or brake cleaner should be just fine on the disks. I've had success with just rinsing pads in boiling water - the heat drives off the oil. 

Overall it was a hoot, and I heartily recommend it, but you do have some major cons as well as pros compared to a normal bike. 

In addition to items listed in previous answers, I think it would be very beneficial to bring a couple of small (9 ml) packets of Chamois cream and re-apply as needed at the rest stops. This will reduce a lot of chaffing. 

I think using a stem raiser may bring your handlebars to a position where you can ride upright. I used the a stem raiser on my cycle with road-style drop bars. This helped me achieve more upright position. This is applicable to the cycles that you have, just make sure the stem diameters match the fittings. An alternative solution would be to use an adjustable stem, here is an example. These options are cheaper than getting a new handle bar setup, unless you are specifically looking to change the handle bar style. The links above are used as example only, I am not affiliated to mentioned organizations. 

I commuted in all weathers for about a year on a recumbent trike in the early '90s. From what I remember: 

I have an Ortleib Office panniers. It's quite heavy, but totally bombproof, and large enough for me to drop my whole laptop bag plus shoes and a change of clothes into. It unclips easily and comes with a shoulder strap. 

I have an 11 speed Athena chainset, and I've stripped one of the chainring bolts. It's £40 for a replacement Campag set! Can I just buy Race Face at £4.70 and expect them to fit? 

For English-threaded Ultra Torque, the right (chain) side cup unscrews clockwise, the left one anti-clockwise. For Italian, both unscrew anti-clockwise. It's most likely that you have English. I don't know how you could tell for certain though without asking your bike maker, measuring the size, or seeing which way they actually unscrew. For the reason why the English is 'correct' see the link in the comment below.