Starting towards an answer... The cells in the taste buds actually renew far more often RENEWAL OF CELLS WITHIN TASTE BUDS: 

Put together, I think fatal attacks may be treated as surrogate markers for severe aggressive incidents - under the usual caution you need with any kind of surrogate marker. (more literature to come when time permits) 

As a last thought, do not forget that over the last decades, the concepts of the laundry cycles have evolved a lot. E.g. a laundry machine from 1980 did maybe 400 or 600 U/min for spinning while nowadays 1600 U/min is usual. Duration of a washing cycle has probably tripled (1 h vs. 3 h), and there are spinning cycles in between now, whereas there used to be only a final one. These changes mean higher mechanical demands. On the other hand, temperature went down - which is possibly easier on the electronics. The study above cites findings where older and newer laundry machines are directly compared, and machines from the 70s and 80s needed about 4+ times as much energy (and also much more detergent powder and water) to achieve the same cleaning results as a machine from 2004. 

According @Sklivvz' reference, vitamin C is typically the least stable vitamin. I found a Study on the Kinetics of Vitamin C Degradation in Fresh Strawberry Juices that reports halflife for storage at 8 °C of 4:47 and 5:36 h for juice prepared without and with additional sugar, respectively - I assume that the former number is more relevant for people thinking about healthy nutrition. This means that after 24 h (5 halflifes), you'd expect about 3 % of vitamin C remaining. Degradation is slowed down by cooling (the paper gives kinetics also for 28 °C). 

They cite Miele engineering their machines for 5000 washing cycles or 20 years, while e.g. Whilpool, BSH and Electrolux use 2000 washing cycles and 10 years. 

Here is one particular type of cancer where (under certain conditions) the risk may be reduced by oral intake of hydrogencarbonate: Carbonates are sometimes given in order to control the pH of reflux. Chronic damage (inflammation) of the oesophagus epithelium due to stomach acid can lead to Barrett's oesophagus which is a pre-cancer stage. The idea of controlling the stomach pH as prevention has long been around. Updated Guidelines 2008 for the Diagnosis, Surveillance and Therapy of Barrett’s Esophagus say that there is indication that pH control helps preventing dysplasia, but there's a lack of prospective studies that conclusively show that this in fact reduces the cancer risk. (This may have changed meanwhile, but I didn't find a paper about that that I could access). Here's the link to hydrogencarbonate: abstract of a recent paper that claims that pH can be controlled by hydrogencarbonate for some patients that did not respond to the usual medication. (Disclaimer: I'm no medical doctor. I just put together some bits and pieces I learned at conferences with a quick pubmed search) 

So if those 10 exposures take 6 months, there you are... About carrots: Here's a PhD thesis about bitter taste in carrots (in German). This leaflet about the project said that rather freuently intense bitter taste in carrot-based baby food leads to reclamations, and the project identified some substances but concludes that still not all precursors are known, so it is still difficult to measure the potential of the carrots for developing bitter taste. 

A pubmed search did not turn up useful material. However, I found out that in the EU, EN379 regulates automatic welding filters (behind paywall, I don't have access). Two things that are for sure dangerous with the automatic filters are: 

From a statistical point of view, the problem is that the differences would need to be huge in order to be significant with these sample sizes. The 95% confidence interval for the proportion of 15 dogs with inadequate aggressive behaviour of a total of 415 dogs is ranges from 3 to slightly above 7 % (point estimate: 4.8%). 1 out of 70 golden retrievers: 1.4 % (0 - ca. 7 %). The point estimates are more than a factor 3 apart, but it is not significant (p is about 0.10). Or, huge numbers of dogs need to be tested. Significantly less aggressive animals at 5% niveau would mean: finding a breed of which 1 of 141 show aggressive behaviour vs. 20/415 (χ² test - that is an approximation that should work OK for these sample sizes). The breeds with highest proportion of inadequately aggressive dogs were the dobermans (5/56) and Am. staffordshires (8/93). That is almost every 10th and 11th dog showed inadequately aggressive behaviour. Pooling these two breeds (for which I don't see any particular reason) would give 13/149 as reference for highly aggressive breeds. Significance at 5% niveau is reached with 0/105 or 1/134 animals. Compared to the Am. staffordshires, the proportion of inadequately aggressive golden retrievers was about a factor 6 lower (8.6 vs. 1.4%). Sample size estimation at β=20% and α=5% (i.e. 1 out of 5 such studies missing the fact that another breed shows only 1/6th of the proportion of inadequately aggressive dogs) needs about 200 animals of the other breed. Or 134 dogs if there were (truly) a factor 10 between the different proportions inadequately aggressive dogs. Now, the dissertation IMHO is a large study (considering the "experimental" effort). However, it is clear that the sample size per-breed is too low to detect reasonable differences in breed specific behaviour. 

So cells in the taste buds change much faster than the claimed change in taste. However, there are known examples of tastes that change over the lifespan, e.g. the perception of sweetness (Sweetness intensity and pleasantness in children, adolescents, and adults.). But "complete change every 7 years" is too simplistic. Moreover, not every taste perception changes for everyone (Age modifies the genotype-phenotype relationship for the bitter receptor TAS2R38) They looked at variations of a particular bitter reception, and found 

Side note: I understand "inherent" as the average level of somethin and not as "despite" but as "independent of" something else. Main answer: As the influence of training is widely accepted, determining the inherent level of aggression for different breeds would need a study where the pairing of dog and owner is properly randomized because a strong positive correlation between certain types of owners with agression levels is to be expected. I don't know proper literature about this. And I don't think it likely that anyone puts up the money for such an expensive study of a question that is mainly academic, because the practical danger as a function of the breed is probably of far more practical interest, and I think that is answered far more easily (see below). I did find a few studies about breed-specific aggression levels 

Besides the (trivial) fact that almost everyone eventually needs glasses I think that glasses help only in very special cases of welding-related eye damage: AFAIK types of eye damage are typical for welding are (eye damage info by the Institute for Occupational Safety and Health of the German Social Accident Insurance): a) arc eye (photo-keratitis) is a damage of the cornea that is usually reversible (though very painful) and heals within a few days. Possible link to glasses: I could imagine that scarring can occur with bad burns (as it can happen with other "normal" burns of the cornea). Scars of the cornea can lead to a wrong curvature which may be corrected by glasses. b) cataracts: long-term exposure of the eyes to UV can lead to cataracts, this damage is irreversible. Here's a link to glasses: cataracts surgery removes the lens of the eye. Nowadays in industrialized countries, the lens is replaced by a plastic lens. Before these were available, people had to use very thick glasses after the surgery. c) VIS light can lead to retinal damage (thermal or photo damage), which is also irreversible. Glasses don't help against this. Now for the main claim: 

Here's an example, where the further studies did not find sufficient evidence to hold up approval, and in consequence the drug was taken off the market again for that cancer: The FDA explains: 

Long version: The claim in question may be quite directly refering also to Ames BN, Gold LS. Pesticides, risk, and applesauce. Science. 1989 May 19;244(4906):755–757: 

suggests that they apparently did not understand the meaning of dose given as amount per kilogram of body weight (1-2 mg/kg BW is independent of the body weight). According to the numbers given above, 200 apple seeds contain 0,32 - 1.06 mg cyanide. So this could explain the discrepancy (assuming the lower end of fatal dose range, and a comparably high estimate of amygdalin content in apple seeds). 

The concerns of the claimant are IMHO valid in the sense that one needs to be careful that the described situation does not arise. However, one step further from the theoretical predictions they do would be to actually test whether the FDA does weed out placebo applications. This is in principle not difficult (scientifically), just expensive (but then, proper research is often expensive): they'd just need to take a number of placebos and go through the approval process. Another indication that the weeding out of useless drugs does work may be gathered from the difference of possible drugs described in the literature to drugs applying for approval. 

There's a study by the Umweltbundesamt (German Federal Environment Agency). They find that 75% of laundry machines break at their first owner, and for those machines the average age went down from 12.5 to 11.6 years from 2004 to 2012/13. The fraction of laundry machines that breaks within the first 5 years has increased a lot (6 -> 15% of those that break, i.e. 4.5 -> 11.25% of all laundry machines). They explain that early failures are typical for issues with quality control. In contrast to that, they also cite findings of Stiftung Warentest that indicate that overall laundry machines last longer (in terms of runs/cycles) now than 10 years ago - but that there are huge differences between cheaper and more expensive models. 

Personal experience (no long time experience with automatic mask but with a conventional helmet, and only hobby welding, though): 

Additional "anecdata": This agrees well with a labwork practicum experiment in analytical chemistry I used to supervise where the students consistently found substantial loss of vitamin C in orange juice standing for a few hours at room temp compared to both the freshly prepared juice and juice prepared from peeled orange sectors that were left at room temperature (though I don't have the values at hand). 

In general, googling news for sure isn't proper research. In the particular question of fatal dog attacks, however, 

The whole section seems to come literally from the linked web page (scroll to practical applications). Also: if turning is an option (i.e. both surfaces are the same - which is the case anyways for the one-sided Möbius version) you could turn the belt (periodically; like changing front and back wheels of a car). That gives the same benefit of wearing both sides, but without the strain of twisting. Edit to Sefan's question: sure you can make them layered. But the layers are only of indirect importance here, I think. The important consideration is that you can avoid the wear due to the twisting. And you can make more lasting constructions if you don't need to twist. One example (without layers) where this is immediately clear are hinge chain conveyors, that can basically just go straight (if you look at how curves become possible, you'll see that the constructions are inherently weaker). The other thing is: turning the belt meant that both sides could be worn down without the strain due to the twist. If the wear of the surface did limit the life of these belts, then this other option