or an adapter claw (e.g. SunRace Rear Derailleur Adaptor Claw) . (Pictures from Sheldon Brown's site) But your bike doesn't have horizontal dropouts -- it has forkends. So, you could try a chain tug with a derailleur hanger on it: 

You can't just take a cog off a 10 speed cassette and put it on a 11 speed cassette -- the big one is attached to the spider, so you can't really remove it and use it to build your own cassette. There are a few options (choose one): 

My main question is "why is side visibility so important?" If you're riding on a road and you have a good tail light and headlight, you shouldn't have side impacts unless you're running stop lights or stop signs or something. However, there are some options. Scotchlite tape is a fantastic thing, though passive (but with a decent range of angles with visibility). I'd say use one of the multitude of tail lights, reflectors in your wheels, reflective sidewall tires, or one of the many side lighting systems that are now being sold may be useful. Do note that you shouldn't have enough lighting on the sides to be distracting (like those people in the second picture). 

As a general rule, we don't go shopping on bicycles.SE, since that information goes out of date quickly. The first problem with building your own bike is fit. If you don't know what measurements you already need from the frame and stem and handlebars and saddle a priori, its going to be hard to gauge which size is right for you. Your LBS may be able to help you in this area, or if you have a similar type of bike as to the one desired, you may be able to move the measurements to some other part set get close to whats right for you. Picking parts is hard enough as it is when things are approximately known already! The second problem is part selection - brands, budget, functional differences and if they go together (e.g. do you want a wheel with a flip flop hub, or just a fixed gear? What gear ratio should you pick? Do I shell out for the Chris King headset instead of the cheaper Cane Creek one? Will my crank go together with the bottom bracket I selected? etc.) For example, if you have a bottom bracket which is too narrow, you may get some knee pain. Specific to the case of fixies, Sheldon has some advice on selecting gearing and converting old frames to fixies. Also, your frame should have horizontal dropouts. Finally, theres the problem of putting things together. You may need some help here, as you may not have all the tools on hand for it and the investment in these specialized tools may not be worth it. For example, you may need a bottom bracket tool, cassette tool, chain whip, cable housing cutters (If you run a brake, you can get away with rougher cutting than for shifter cable housing (which fixies don't have), but its still a PITA to cut without the proper tools) etc. Also, if you need to cut your fork at home, its a lot nicer when done by the bike shop instead of pulling out a hacksaw at your house since they typically have nice guides for cutting the fork (with a hacksaw). Sometimes you can borrow these tools from a bike shop or a bike co-op and save yourself some of the expense. Also, you need some expertise to put the bike together in the first place (i.e. some knowledge on how the parts go together and how to adjust them properly, such as chain tension, which is critical on a fixie). Also, you'll make some mistakes (hopefully not forgetting to grease some thing or cross threading things), so you also need to allot time to deal with that. Even once you get the parts put in, you have to tune it to your riding style, so it could be a decent amount of time to put the thing together. If you are interested in doing this still (instead of buying a bike which you essentially like, and tweaking it, or having a conversion of an old frame done by your LBS), I suggest you go to your LBS, talk to them about what you want to do, take a bike which is similar to what you want, and get them to help you select which parts work for you (and you can have them install things which you don't want to buy the tools for or don't have access to, and have them check the wheel tensioning and stuff). The amount of time it takes you depends generally on mechanical aptitude, access to tools and luck in how close you get to getting something close to right in the first place. Sheldon Brown's site is useful if you want to do this, as is the Park Tool site (Park Tool makes some excellent bicycle specific tools, but if you're purchasing tools, you may want to go with a cheaper set since they do not need to be so long lasting). There are also various books, such as "The Bicycling Guide to Complete Bicycle Maintenance and Repair" by Todd Downs, "Big Blue Book of Bicycle Repair" by Park Tool and "Sutherland's Handbook for Bicycle Mechanics" among others which may be of use (the last one is designed pretty much for shop mechanics though). Finally, a note on money: If you want to do this, note that you'll probably end up paying more than a similar bike on the market due to the fact that you're buying 1 of each part rather than a ton of each part like a complete manufacturer does. And you have the cost of your labor or LBS labor in putting it together. Finally, a note on safety: Despite it not being "cool", I firmly believe fixie should have front and rear brakes (or at least a front brake at the least). 

There are a lot of things that could be wrong and a picture of the bike might help confirm this, so I'll just make a list of some things to check and what they need (this is by no means comprehensive): 1) Brake pads -- if they're old, they've likely dried out. Replace them. Needs a hex key. Make sure they're also hitting the rim and not rubbing anywhere. Also, clean the rims with rubbing alcohol (or if you're a student, vodka). 2) Brake cables -- these can rust or the lining of the cables can be worn out making them not work properly. You need a housing cutter/dremel + awl + file to do this. 3) Adjust the brakes. They look like single pivot sidepull brakes from google images, and you can find directions to adjust them here. You need probably a hex key and maybe a screwdriver. Also, make sure the caliper is secured to the frame. 4) The judder could be lots of things -- theres a certain amount of judder on all bikes. Could be a loose headset (is the fork moving when you hold the front brake and try to move the bike?). Or it might go away if you fix 1-3. My suggestion is that if you don't know much about bikes or don't have someone to help you is to take the bike to a bike shop to get it checked out and see what needs repair, since you may not have all the tools you need to fix it or the expertise. You need both brakes in case one fails. 

If all those have the answer of "No", you have to fiddle with adjustments (the indexing in particular). Unfortunately, Tourney grade parts are infamous for not really staying in adjustment or being properly adjustable since they're so damn cheaply made. As always, Sheldon and Park Tool have good resources. 

Its quite tricky with a derailleur geared bike, due to well, the derailleur having to move. A common solution to this is either to: 1) Run single speed 2) Run an internal gear hub Both options can be run with a chain case which can cut down on some of the maintenance (but does make things like changing the flat or occasional lubrications a bit more annoying). Belt drives can also be run in configurations (1),(2), and are supposed to have less maintenance, but you need a more special frame since belts cannot be cut to be installed. 

As Criggie notes in the comments, you might be referring to a road bike with 2 chainrings and 5 cogs in the back like this: 

The markings on the tires for the pressures can be essentially ignored. They're a combination of marketing and legal departments coming up with essentially arbitrary numbers. Find a set of pressures that works for you so the tires are properly inflated -- it should prevent pinch flats, but keep rolling resistance low and absorb road hazards and irregularities to some extent. The tire will deflect a bit when properly inflated. There are charts which you can use as rough guidelines, but you'll need to play with it. If the tire is over or under inflated, it can damage the wheel and/or compromise handling and/or lead to flats. Sheldon Brown has a good explanation. Often, you want to run different tire pressures (for example, the rear tire has more load, so you may want to go 10% higher in pressure or whatever, even if the tires are of the same size). If you're running different sized tires (which is not uncommon, either for lower weight, better handling or comfort; your front and rear clearances for tires are often different), you'll usually be running different pressures. Chances are the new tires you ordered are essentially the same as the old ones, so you should start with the old pressure combinations you were using, and make adjustments from there. 

Bigger tires means that you can run them at lower pressures while avoiding road hazard damage and increasing cushioning to give a better ride. They may be a bit less responsive or feel slower than some thinner tires, but this will not matter on a commute. Bigger tires also do better with heavier riders (23's require pretty high pressure for "heavy" riders to avoid pinch flats). The balancing on a thin tire is a non-issue -- what you're probably having trouble with is the twitchier steering of the bike you're using compared to what you're used to (which is a function of the geometry of the bike). It would be a good idea to move up from 23's, but not all frames can clear decently large tires these days -- I suspect a lot of newer road frames can clear a 25, but a 28 may be a stretch. You need some clearance (at least 3 mm) from the frame/brake caliper to account for tire deflection and prevent rubbing of the tire on the frame. I doubt newer non-cross/touring bikes/commuter/etc. will have tire clearance for a 32. This is especially true if you have fenders on the bike (which most wet weather commuters will want, but most non-cross/touring/commuter bikes don't have room for). Note that also you don't want to put a narrow tire on a wide rim or vice versa, but this is likely something you won't encounter due to clearance issues. Look for a tire with a kevlar belt for puncture protection, and read some reviews on comfort and durability. For road use, you don't really want tread patterns (you want a smooth tire). Either measure the actual size of the tire you have on now and then see if a 25 or 28 will likely clear the brakes, or better yet, go to a bike shop so you won't have to guess on what size tire will clear the brakes and you'll get a tire which works well for most people in the area. For the reason of clearance (and the fact that we generally don't do product recommendations on this site) which has to be measured, I don't want to recommend a specific tire. Another issue is that tires are sometimes mislabeled in sizing (despite Sheldon's claims that this has abated, it is still there). 

(Image from Sheldon Brown) Note that this is a hack, so its YMMV/at your own risk. A real drop bolt looks like this: 

According to the Bicycle Blue Book, this thing shipped with 700c wheels and 700x38 tires. So, you need 700x38 tires (or something similar, e.g. 700x35) and a tube which is rated for 700x38 tires (these are sold by ranges, e.g. 700x38-45 tubes). 

Most lights are not designed for this, and it will not work. Anyhow, even if you had a light that this could work for, its not a great idea to get into the habit of. Why? Phones take a decent amount of energy to charge. With a battery the size of a bike light, you can easily end up draining the battery by trying to charge your phone (especially as the battery capacity degrades). And then, you're stuck in the dark, without a light. And that ain't good. Its well worth carrying some usb charger instead. Small ones which are good for say one charge of your phone can easily fit in a saddle bag or your pocket. 

A lot of manufacturers (or reasonably common manufacturers) make steel road bikes (usually, they are touring bikes but Jamis, Bianchi, Surly and some others do all sorts of bikes which are steel). Jamis (lots), Bianchi (lots), Surly (everything), Trek (520), Specialized (AWOL/Tricross steel/allez steel/etc. are still on shelves), Raleigh (lots), GT (some), Kona (some), Soma. There are also a lot of smaller manufacturers who do this as well as house labels/low cost labels (Planet X has the Kaffenback among others, Novara from REI has some, BikesDirect has some steel bikes as well). I don't really buy the roads wrecking decent aluminum frames though - certainly, it should be much worse than the Paris-Roubaix terrain... and not avoiding obstacles... If you're looking at just framesets instead of complete bikes, a lot of the smaller brands do that (Soma, Surly, etc.) quite well. 

They do. Connex (Wipperman) sells bulk chain, as shown by this link, and these people also buy it by the spool. This is likely what bike manufacturers do, and I've seen it in a bike shop or two. I'm sure you can also get it at some place like McMaster-Carr or Grainger if you ask for ANSI #40 roller chain with the appropriate width (possibly by special order). The only bikes which use bigger chains than a standard chains are custom, longtails, tandems or recumbents -- its just more convenient for 99.999% of the people to just get a standard length chain [and many of these are pretty close to just taking multiple chains joined together]. As for the few extra links "waste", they come in useful sometimes when you need to do a repair. And in net, its probably cheaper to just pick up a little plastic box which has a slightly larger chain than going to the LBS and asking the girl to break the chain to the exact number of links you need (remember, she needs to get paid and do the daunting task of counting/comparing the # of links in your old chain to the new chain provided you actually brought the old chain in. if you didn't do that, she has to assume you didn't muck up the # of links in the chain and you wont complain if your new chain ends up too short). And its quicker.