There are many causes for price difference in bikes. There are others reasons than these listed below, but they tend to fall in line with one of these four categories. Brand Branding is always a premium. As in every industry I can think of, some brands have a reputation that to some extent justifies a premium price. This reputation is based off a multitude of sub factors, such as warranties, customer care, recognized build quality, athlete association and such. Top brands such as Trek, Giant, Bianchi, etc. have built up a reputation over the years of their existence that people deem worthy of a premium price. Materials Materials used in the frame (and also components, but more on that later) affect the characteristics of the bike, but due to the nature of high-tech processes, these come at a price. For instance, high-modulus carbon fiber performs better than cheaper carbon types. The pricier stuff is lighter, stiffer, stronger, more durable or some combination of the above. Likewise, carbon has superior performance properties compared to aluminium or lower still, steel. Within the scope of any one material (carbon, aluminium or steel) there are many sub-classes that will perform better or worse - and have a price to match. The two bikes listed exemplify this point - both are made from aluminium, but the more expensive bike is made from a higher grade (7005 as opposed to 6061). The more expensive option also has a carbon fork - an expensive but potentially worthwhile investment. Components Bikes most commonly come as complete units, with only super high-end models available as frame only builds. This means your money is covering all the components on the bike as well as the frame. Components make a big difference to the bike's performance, from weight or strength to durability or aesthetics. The componentry of your bike directly influences the way you use it. For instance, clipless pedals (such as Shimano's SPD system) determine the way you pedal. The bike listed have some important differences in componentry: The cheaper of the two has gear shifters separate to the brake levers. This is common on cheap road bikes, but in my opinion is incredibly annoying. Purists may argue that old bikes were made this way, but honestly, I find them almost dangerous due to the necessity for hand position changes every time you go to change gear or brake. Perhaps just a personal opinion, but worth considering. The other big component difference is the gruppo - the drive-train, gears, etc. On the dearer model we have a FSA Omega compact BB30 Crankset. While not the top of the line, I would assume that this particular set would be more reliable or better built that the otherwise unnamed model from the cheaper option. Finally, before we get bored of details, the wheels are an important component to consider. More expensive options are sometimes made from carbon, but stepping down from the elite we still see performance features such as flattened spokes or radial spoke arrangements. The Equation R's on the Diamondback have radial spoke lacing, but the Vilano does not. Customization In the realms of the super elite, performance gains become harder to achieve, and the associated cost increases drastically. There appears to be some sort of law of diminishing returns at play - the price difference between a 20kg bike and a 19kg one may be $200, while it could well cost you $2000 to save a couple of grams of paint (not kidding - check out Trek's Project One customization site, specifically the 5gm Vapor Coat Paint. That's pricey!). Essentially, we reach a point in the spectrum of bikes that performance is so good, that other factors such as custom paint or gram savings through carbon brake levers and spacers become the only avenues for improvement. This uber-rich world of cycling is almost exclusively for the professionals and hence self-funds through sponsorships and such, but it is available for anyone lucky enough to have deep pockets and exorbitant taste! So those are the main reasons for the price discrepancy. Hopefully that should educate your purchasing decision! Good luck! 

One may assume that you're a rider somewhere between 5'9 and 6'1. The best gear ratio for *SPEED will depend on your ability for a) high cadence and b) power in harder gears. Since I'm predominantly a roadie, I'll provide an answer based on road cycling / TT alone. Let me know if this is the incorrect context. Since we are talking about speed, I'll start with the harder gears (big ring in front and the small gear in the back). A lot of bikes ship with compact chainsets (a fairly recent trend have brought back doubles, 52s) which are a 50-34. That means that the big ring will have 50 teeth on it. For every pedal stroke, you will feed 50 gear linkages through your rear cassette. Thus for SPEED, for the fastest riding, you'll want your chain on the smallest gear in the back, which would typically be an 11 (or a 12, but let's assume an 11). So, if you're on the 50, for every pedal stroke you will force 50 chainlinks through an 11 tooth gear, which will turn the wheel times. If it's a typical 700c wheel with 23 road tyres, that's usually around say metres per turn, or metres per pedal stroke. Get that to 100 cadence (100 pedal strokes per minute, and you'll be cruising at over 57kph) ... ; But, unless you're a pro, you'll probably not be able to do that on the flat. Cadence. Cadence simply is the name for the number of pedal strokes you can do per minute. If you are better able to pedal at a high rate than at grinding a difficult gear, then you might get your bike above the same speed mentioned above, by spinning a 50 chainring through a 16 gear at about 147 cadence. I know of track riders who ride fixed gear 48 on 16 and in sprints can get to 180 cadence, which is over 75kph. *SPEED: Assumes the fastest speed you can ride the bike. 

So, unless you really really know your abilities very well, and want to fine-tune your bike to be specifically fast for your abilities, I would recommend you look no further than perhaps the simple basic compact (50-34) on a 12-28 cassette. You'll be faster up hills once you build your strength, and you'll hardly ever spin out your hardest gear once you've built your cadence. 

While gym and spinning are good complementary activities to cycling, I would recommend that you also look at adding an element of riding on a real bike (like the dark knight said in his comment). For long distance road riding, there are a number of things you need to practice. In my honest opinion, the two things that need the most practise are: 

Sitting down in your saddle for a long period of time - 200 to 300 km will see you sitting down anywhere between 8 and 18 hours (depending on ability and terrain). That is a VERY long time in the saddle even for an experienced rider with the best type of shorts / saddle. Nutrition - One does not simply ride for more than 3 hours without a tried and tested nutrition plan! Your body usually stores around 90 minutes worth of glycogen (at Tempo effort). This means that around that time, you should have already eaten and digested food, ready to be burnt up by your muscles. You should top up these reserves as often as possible, so that you do not go into a minus and become hypoglycemic (bonking). I usually eat a bar every hour on the hour, sip carbohydrate drinks every 15 minutes (700ml an hour) and I top up in between with gels. A typical 4 hour bike ride for me burns 3500 calories. Pro-riders easily go through 8000 cals a DAY! 

In addition to the above, it's very important that you have a bike that fits you properly. I'd recommend having it professionally fitted because you feel all sorts of pains after sitting in the same position all day! If the weather is really as bad as what you say, then you could consider getting yourself a turbo-trainer or rollers. You'll get used to sitting on the bike you'll be riding, and provided you have the time, you could also practise your nutrition and eating and drinking on the bike (if required). 

In my mind/opinion, flats, cages and cleats (using terminology that should have been invented years ago...) have distinctly different purposes, and their strengths for each application should not necessarily be crossed over to other uses. Let's start with flat pedals. Flats come either with or without pins. (Here's on with pins. $URL$ I used these for several years with the longer pin set-up) Flats without pins are usually low end stock models such as the ones you might see on a kids bike. By adding pins, flats develop an new purpose - the increased grip and hence control that they offer makes them ideal for intense cycling, such as free-riding, downhill, bmx or street trials to name a few. What makes them so good for these disciplines is the ease and speed of connection - put your foot on, and it grips. More importantly, releasing your foot from the pedal is achieved with ease. This enables speedy ejects in accidents or easy releases for hardcore bike tricks. Cages, aka toe clips, straps... are in my mind mainly there to prevent accidental foot release that would lead to smashing your shin or calf. They are not particularly effective at transferring power on the upstroke, but can be used in this manner as well. The other use for cages is to adjust foot position in a kind of set-and-forget way. This is another reason they are so well suited to touring bikes. Finally, cleats, aka clipless, SPD... These pedals offer a large degree of control and unparalleled power transfer in up and down strokes. This alone makes them ideal for road and race bikes. Nowadays, with xc riding and MTB racing gaining popularity, MTB cleat systems are becoming widely acceted. The benefits are the same, better control and power, but that comes at the price of "bailability". Despite the learning curve, accidents still happen to masters, so it is a question that each person should address on their own terms. Long story short, choose whatever system works for your interests and riding style, and stick with it to see if you improve and make progress. Follow that, and it should be all good! 

I have been riding my Trek Fuel Ex 8 for a few years now, and as I have improved, I have been attacking more challenging terrain. I have started to notice a problem in my rear mech - the link arm screw that holds the mech to the dropout seems to slip and cause the whole derailleur to swing forward until the cogs are sandwiching the chain against the sprocket. Now I'm no doctor, but I can easily say that sort of cramping is bad. On the trail, where this mainly happens, I have been able to repair the system by pulling the whole mech back as far as it will go (there seems to be some sort of physical block or stop in place, so I don't think I'm going too far) and tightening the screw that is allowing the slippage. Now that seems like problem solved, right? My question is this. Firstly, is that the correct procedure to reposition and fix the mech, or am I doing something wrong? Secondly, how tight must this screw be? Wrenching it as hard as I sensibly and safely can with a park tool only holds for a while, and then the problem repeats. Also, how would you measure tightness? (I feel like there is an obvious answer there that I should know already...) Finally, given the problem occurs on the trail, and specifically I think on landings and rough patches, is there something in my riding style that could help prevent damage. Advice is welcome, but I'm not an absolute beginner. Thank you for any help on this 

It is certainly true that adding bulk to your helmet has some drawbacks in crashes and such, and consequently warrants some concern. In the incidence of a crash, solid, small objects that are fixed to a specific area of the helmet increase the distribution of force on mounting area, instead of spreading it away from the impact site. However, my justification has always been this: a light can prevent just more crashes than not having a light will save you once you have crashed. Essentially, by using a head mounted light, you have more freely accessible light and can therefore be more aware of your surroundings. Equally, your surroundings will be more aware of you. These two facts combine to reduce the likelihood of crashing in the first place. Also, I like to think that landing helmet first with a light attached is just like landing helmet first into a branch or small rock. These are also likely occurrences in MTB riding, so I would assume helmets are designed with at least some thought on this sort of situation. It mightn't be the case in reality, and I haven't confirmed this with standards, but hopefully saying this will give you peace of mind. So yes, as far as personal experience has told me, a fixed light on your helmet can potentially do some harm in the event of a crash, but in the rest of the time spent riding, lights make helmets safer, and therefore makes riding safer. Seems like a good idea to me!