If, after ranking the teams based on the criteria described in A, B and C, there still at least two teams that are equal (i.e., there is no distinct winner of the group yet), those teams then need to be compared further to determine the top team in the group. Example: Team 1, Team 2, Team 3, Team 4 are in a group, After the group stage finishes, you evaluate all four teams against A, B and C. If the criteria of those three rules has not determined a single group winner -- say Team 1 and Team 2 are tied based on A, B and C's criteria -- then the teams (Team 1 and 2, referred to as the teams concerned) need to be further evaluated by d, then E, then f, then g, if necessary. 

There is also the fact that, in the general case, football is a relatively open-ended sport. Baseball is a statistics-friendly sport because there is only a relatively small number of things that can happen, and mostly they are the kinds of things that statistics is well-suited to study. In football, you have many more options at any given point, and often you have to pick one very quickly (e.g., the ball is coming to you! do you play it on the first touch? do you control it and then play it? do you pass it immediately or carry it forward on your own? which foot are you going to use? whatever you do, is it a good decision taking into account the state of the game and the position of other teammates/opponents?). Statistics is much harder when you don't have clearly staticizable data. To give you an example, Real Madrid's president let Makelele go in summer 2003, on the grounds that he didn't have good statistics ---i.e., he didn't score goals, he didn't provide assists, he was too short to be dominant in the air, he mostly played short easy passes, etc. This happened even though his teammates constantly pointed out that he was the one key player that made everything happen as it was supposed to (a largely unquantifiable ability). After his departure, Real Madrid went from being one of the most dominating teams in Europe to not winning anything at all for three whole seasons. In contrast, Makelele's next team (Chelsea) went on to what is probably the most successful 5-year period of their history. 

Is it permitted to place the fielders other than the standard fielding positions terms in international cricket match? To be more specific, can a fielder be placed in 

This can be easily done in slow/medium pace deliveries. Consider a batsman getting bowled in a no-ball or a free-hit ball and the ball remains near the batsman. Is it allowed to hit the ball with the bat/leg by the batsman to get runs? 

We can see many times, the captains and the players of the bowling team were suspended for slow over-rates. 

Bowling strike rate means number of balls needed to bowl for a bowler to take a wicket. We can only find the bowling strike rate of that bowler after he takes a single wicket. So, the bowling strike rate is undefined. It will be mentioned as in his carrier profile. For example, take a look at Hashim Amla's profile. His bowling strike rate and average for test matches is mentioned as . He bowled more than 50 deliveries without taking a wicket. 

It used to be the case that the winner of the World Cup qualified automatically for the final stage of the following edition, but that's not the case anymore. France was the last team that this rule applied to, qualifying for 2002 by virtue of winning in 1998; afterwards, Brazil had to go through the regular qualification process for 2006 despite winning in 2002, and so did Italy for 2010, Spain for 2014, and now Germany for 2018. What was the rationale for this rule change? 

Which competition (or team, if relevant) was the first to print each player's name on the uniform? Was there a specific reason given to do so? Both questions are independent of specific sports. The first one I'm asking out of historical interest. The second is because I see little point in printing players' names when they already have identifying numbers (other than selling replica uniforms, which is, as far as I know, a practice that postdates the introduction of named uniforms). 

If you are playing against anyone experienced, there is never anything wrong with serving it hard at them, they should expect it. 

How many do play in the NHL? The roster consists of 25 players total for the Russian Men's National ice hockey team. Of those 25 players, 16 of them are in the NHL. The remaining 9 play in the Russian Superleague (KHL). 

See this page with Table Tennis rules. Specifically there are two rules to be read here. First, a legal serve is defined as: 

Other articles referencing 15 yards: [1], [2], [3] But the main point: Yes, if this were to actually be implemented, 2 point conversions would remain the same. As far as faking from the extra point spot, as @Duncan says, as far as the rule states at the moment, nothing else changes really besides the yard you hike the ball from for an extra point. So of course, if you were going to go for 2, you'd make it clear and hike from the 2 rather than trying to trick them and starting 13 yards further back. I do see 20 yard extra point hikes referenced in a few articles, but generally it's 15 yards. Since this is just an experiment, I'm sure the NFL was rumoring several different distances they might consider. 

Many languages make use of characters outside the standard English A-Z set, and these characters often make it into family names, e.g., Özil, Fàbregas, Čech, Szczęsny, and so forth. Surprisingly (to me), kit manufacturers often produce shirts where the player's name has a special character replaced with the closest approximation within the English A-Z set, e.g., 

The difficulty of this classification lies on the fact that you have to figure out how many club level goals have been scored at international matches (and here I am assuming that international match means a match in an inherently international competition, so that it includes e.g., goals scored in a Champions League match against a team of the same country and excludes goals in national league matches against teams from just across the border). Luckily, some other people have done some of the work for you, but even there you have to work with care. For example, you list Romário as having 105 international goals. When one checks his career statistics on Wikipedia, he gets credit for 55 goals with Brazil plus 50 goals in "continental" competitions at the club level. So far so good. But then, next to the "continental" column, there is an "other" column claiming 44 goals, and a note indicating that these goals correspond to a variety of competitions ("includes UEFA Super Cup 1988, Intercontinental Cup 1988, Dutch Super Cup 1991, 1992, Supercopa de España 1993, FIFA Club World Cup 2000"), only some of which are international. So the 105 figure is, if anything, a lower bound. If you go and investigate the listed competitions, you'll find out that Romário scored at least 4 goals. Bringing the figure up to at least 109. Were all other 40 "other" goals scored in domestic competitions? I don't know, since the relevant note doesn't claim to exhaust all of the relevant competitions. That's something for someone with more time than me to go and figure out. tl;dr : there is some opacity in the domestic/international distinction at the club level that makes claims of "best international goalscorer" inherently unreliable. The only solution is honest, time-consuming detective work on individual players' careers. 

I often see a thing in the cricket match broadcast, that the captains are on the pitch with a match official(commentator) and the toss would be done. Then the two captains will talk about the pitch condition, weather and mainly about playing eleven(who are all in and out). Then the playing 11 from the squad will be listed.(As I saw in the match television broadcast). I want to know, 

I can't understand the above concept clearly. Please, provide the exact formulas(ie, explain clearly) for calculating the net runrate in IPL with authentic references(with examples). 

Yes, it is allowed to wear inner gloves and there are some players(like Nasir Hussain, Alec Stewart and Rahul Dravid) having the habit of wearing them. See the below image, 

The umpires will find whether the ball is tampered. They shall make frequent and irregular inspections of the ball. If the umpires together agree that the deterioration in the condition of the ball is greater than is consistent with the use it has received then they will apply the Law 42.1 on this action as an unfair Play. 

It is illegal for the keeper to pick up the ball if a player on his team kicked the ball to him. On the other hand, he can pick it up if the player headed the ball to him instead. Combining these two, if a player were to flick the ball up to himself, and then head the ball to his own keeper, can the goalie pick it up, or would that still be considered a backpass? 

Does the player who delivers a corner kick to the box get an assist if the ball is scored directly from the kick? If not, how come they don't get an assist? 

There's not going to be anything really governing 'serving hard' as ethical or not ethical. I played volleyball for 6 years, so I eventually had a pretty good serve as well. In PE class, or at parties (4th of July, etc.) that tend to have a volleyball net up, I would rather do Float Serves instead of just a power serve/ jump serve. It's less cocky looking, and when done right can really mess with your opponent a lot more than a brute force serve -- think of what it looks like when a knuckleball pitcher fools the batter. Not many people in PE classes or Parties have played volleyball a lot, but rarely you can identify your "rival" (someone else who plays volleyball :P), and you and that person can set up the teams so you serve to each other. Plus, people who don't know how to properly bump the ball will start to get really painful forearms: redness and sore arms - which is kind of mean. Of course, underhand serve, or overhand bloop serve it to people who: 

Shorts above the knee are more comfortable for them but, what is the rules of football say about this? 

The only benefit that the batting team can gain is the batsman's wicket. But, there is a chance for them, if the ball was given crease no-ball in the review, they will get one run and an extra ball to chase the target. 

Stump cameras were first used in 1992 cricket world cup, a tournament of several innovations in modern cricket like colored player clothing, white cricket balls, black sight screens etc. Source. 

It is an action in which a fielder illegally alters the condition of the ball. It'll make the fast bowlers ease to swing the ball in the air. So, it is easy to bowl reverse swing with (early overs)new balls. 

The logo is missing due to the contract between Star India and BCCI. According to that contract, the star India logo will only be shown on the arms of the jersey for Asia cup. 

The amount of calories you need to burn to cover any given distance is the same regardless of whether you haul ass or you take a leisurely stroll (roughly 70-80 per km, depending on body weight). Properly, you burn more the slower you go, but that is because it takes longer and you have to spend extra calories on bodily functions not related to moving; but unless we are talking about time differences in the range of hours, the difference will be negligible. The extra weight of shin guards is also negligible. That said, soccer is physically harder that running a given distance at a steady pace, because soccer involves things that put a greater strain in the body, e.g., many accelerations to short sprints, jumping, pushing and being pushed, occasionally being kicked in the legs, etc. Then you have to take into account that just running is not mentally demanding (when I run, I usually go thinking about random stuff and snap out of it when I need to cross a road or something like that), whereas playing high-level soccer requires intense focus over long periods of time.