You did not have to cancel. You chose to cancel. You can't have your cake and eat it too. One thing you like is advanced schedule but then you cancelled. If you are going to sign up for job to lock in some days you should honor. Cancel because you got a better contract is not a valid reason in their mind. It does not need to be in the policy manual you received. Apologize and tell them you realize it was wrong to not meet your commitment and ask for another chance. When you cancelled you should have considered a possible consequence was them taking you off the schedule. Understand if everyone would cancel for better pay it would kill them. 

That is not a reasonable purpose. If the code was ready to commit then you would have committed it. If he wants to commit the code then he should do it under his name. I get maybe an emergency build but not accepting this should happen on a regular basis. It is company equipment so in US probably legal. It would not pass any legitimate IT policy. A user not in IT to have Admin rights is not common. For developers some times they are in IT and some trusted developers are given Admin rights but they are expected to not use those writes to change passwords and log in as that person. 

Even silly I bet the client meant block a cell phone physically not just block usage. A serious security audit would have items like 

What is the nature of the tasks? Do you work on 1 or more at a time or finish one and move on? If you you have a scheduler or resource manager talk to them. If neither project manager is your boss talk to your boss. Things will hopefully go fine with the project managers but if not your manager will at least have a heads up. I would write an email with the tasks and projections for when you expect to finish. CC your scheduler / resource manager / boss. 

Yes it is retaliation. Based on your question history you have made multiple harassment charges and many include children. 

I would think it depends a lot on the event. It would be ironic if this was a team building event. If this is more of a feel good event that is considered a perk then for sure I would think it is OK to ask not to attend. If this was enough for you to feel socially isolated/boycotted for 6-9 month and lay low even today then that is a big deal. You don't have to name names. Just tell your boss someone is there that had bullied you in the past and you would prefer not to attend. If this is more direct work thing like a project management exercise then maybe you need to suck it up and attend. If you are cool with your boss then maybe tell him / her that person X had bullied you in the past. I known that may not come off good for you but worse case let's say that person uses this event to bully you again. You need your boss to be aware so he / she can observe first hand and hopefully take appropriate action. 

A key component is the agency moved. Rather then offer a pay cut consider offering to work 1 extra hour. In reality you could just skip lunch break and eat while working if you are at home. Or taking customer support calls on a set range of off hours. 

OK sounds like a bad design. A new security design is not a Workplace question. How to simplify is not your task (as I understand the question). If it is your task to re-design the security then I suggest SO Security. Communicate the impact to your company 

Resentment is the wrong term and wrong objective. They could be happy for you and still sue you for the total you would have been paid. Or they could be very mad and not sue you. Explain the opportunity and ask them if there are any terms that you can resign and they will release you from compensated for the "non-compliance". 

The customer should have a support agreement. If support is provided on the weekend then need to have a support plan. In a small startup with 4 employees a support plan is the CEO's responsibility. CEO cannot just expect a group of developers to auto support 24x7. Even if you rotate that is on call one weekend a month. People are going to want something in return. CEO can expect a lot of things but things. If this is a team with equity positions then they are going to be more motivated. If it is just a base fair salary then giving up one weekend a month is a big deal. You are going to need to give up something for being on call and some reimbursement for hours worked. Burn out a small development team is not a good long term plan. And you know who should be the last on call on the call out - the CEO. Sounds like development is support and there is no formal support plan. As a company grows you need to separate support from development. Is this a first time CEO? CEO is upset since nothing was done over the weekend is not a mature response. If you have just one developer then he is screwed. Others can field calls and maybe fix simple stuff but for most calls the developer would need to get involved. 

I get user1220 may have been kidding about throwing a match but if the workplace allows candles a small candle is effective. Unfortunately a lot of workplaces will not allow candles. If anyone asks why the candle just say "control environmental odors". If that person asks then tell him to "to control your odors". 

I like the answer from AndreiROM but too much for a comment. Coming from $70K to $90K is a strong statement but going from $86K to $90K is not a strong statement. Say you were able to rearchitect your current environment and address ethical and management problems. That could boost you to a mid or senior manager position. It has a high reward but a high risk - the chance of pulling that off in the environment you describe is very low. There is also the risk they fire after a year at $90K. In poker you would do what is called expected value (EV). Where would you be in a 2 years: 

If the company got a bad reference they are not likely to change their mind so just write a thank you letter. Hopefully you asked the person in advance if they would be a reference. If a person cannot be a positive reference they would typically decline. I would talk to the reference and ask why he could not recommend you for the job. If you do not think you could get a positive reference from this person in the future then don't use them. 

It is not necessarily easier. Right or wrong if they give someone a raise out of cycle then more requests will come in. Management figures pay one person 20% to 40% more is cheaper then paying 10 people 10%. But that just causes more resentment in the ranks and more people typically leave and replacements are hired at the market rate so they have to give the raises anyway and lose experience and incur the cost of hiring. They may be under a cash crunch and simply cannot afford across the board raises. Or they may think 80% will work at under market rate. Either way not a good position for employees that want to stay. 

Consult a lawyer. I am not a lawyer. Your company is not you lawyer - they will give you advice that favors them. A lot will depend on the employment contract. Typically the company will assert ownership of anything created on company time or using company resources. Copy paste is not legal if what you copy was produced on company time. That said if the code does not have other legal protection (e.g. patent) then just create it from scratch. They can't take away you know how to do it. Some employment contracts may be so restrictive as to any (even on your time) software (or product) created during employment is company property. Like for a university professor this is common. Still if you wrote a generic snippet they cannot restrict you from recreating that - well they can try but I doubt it would stand up in court. Code you copied from an outside open resource (like SE) is clearly not protected. This is an example on legal advice. I was doing billable work on customer site. A person also on customer site was laid off. The contract was cancel-able and the customer just said fine we will cancel the contract with your (former) company and contract you directly. The (former) company told him he would be sued under the non-compete clause of his employment contact. He talked to HIS lawyer and the non-compete is void on a lay off. His lawyer talked to (former) company and threat of a law suit was immediately dropped and they told him they could not restrict him for working directly. Don't piss off your company for no good reason but also don't get legal advice from your company.