I've torn a bunch of Castelli stuff over the years. I just started using this ShoeGoo product and it's working well so far. 

It depends on your cassette as well as your freehub body. If your hub uses a ratchet and pawl system, then, theoretically, the "quieter" freehub will be the one with less pawls - but there are many other factors that would make that not the case. Also, higher quality hubs are associated with more pawls and more noise (think Chris King buzz). But, this changes as the freehub breaks in, it gets quieter over time. A lot depends on the cassette paired to the freehub, it's material, and construction. The cassette amplifies the sound, so, for instance, a hollow dome cassette is going to be louder than the same hub paired with a heavier, more solid cassette. I'd say if you're looking for something relatively quiet, look to buy a higher quality hub, with more pawls, thats used and broken in, and pair it with a cheaper, heavier cassette (I'd go high quality on the cassette for a stiffer gear cluster but there will probably be more noise). Not sure what your price range is but there are many options across the board. Some brands I'd look at would be: 

I am not going to offer a full answer - but I will offer what I know. In the time-frame that this bicycle was built, you had to make sure your bottom bracket set (the axle and the cups that threaded into the frame bottom bracket) matched the crankset. One mfr crankset might not match a different mfr bottom bracket. Because of this, I usually replaced both my bottom bracket AND my crankset at the same time. The angle of the taper varies, as does the length of the taper. The important things to consider were the bottom bracket (the frame) threading type, the BB axle taper length, the BB axle taper angle, and whether or not the crankset fit those measurements. Therefore, you can replace your crankset with pretty much everything available today, IF you can find a BB (bottom bracket, or axle) set that has the same threading as your frame. 

If spokes on the same side are of the same length, but showing up as some are too long and some are too short - then they are laced incorrectly. Although, they could look like different lengths before you have made your first pass at truing the wheel. But after you have made at least one pass at truing, if they appear different, then they would have to be laced incorrectly. 

I'm wondering if pedal washers are necessary, or even recommended, when riding with a carbon crank, in order to avoid damage to one's crank arms? The main reason I ask is because I prefer to ride with the smallest possible Q-Factor, and having any type of washer in place increases this insofar as ones feet will be positioned farther apart. 

I went from 42cm to 40cm bars on a road bike and experienced the same symptoms. The switch to narrower bars can definitely cause tricep pain at the elbow. So, yes, tricep pain can be a symptom of narrow bars (it could be from other things too). Whether it is a temporary or a permanent symptom can be gleaned by how you feel after you've had some time to adjust to your new setup. It sounds trivial, but make sure when you are riding in this new cockpit, that you keep your elbows bent and use your arms as suspension/dampening/etc. If you aren't able to ride comfortably with your elbows not locked out, this is a problem. If this is the case, I'd first add some rise to the stem to bring the bars up a bit. If you still can't get a comfortable position, then I'd recommend getting another set of 42's and riding what you know is comfortable and works for you. 

I could tell you more accurately if I were riding with you and could hear the noise and where it came from. But, I can tell you these things for certain: Clean and lube your pedal bearings. Do not skimp and just add some oil. Also make sure your pedals and crankarms are tightened to the correct recommended torque. Do not delay before applying these maintenance measures. I say "do not delay" because the cause could be that the crankarms are not torqued down properly. This is not likely, but it is possible, and if it is the reason? Then you can ruin the crankset within a few miles of riding. That's right - ruin - to the point of a crankarm or the crank spider cracking and eventually breaking. If it cracks you will see it happening - and it won't be sudden - so in that way it is not unsafe, ok? But it will be relatively expensive to fix. So the first thing you need to do is to make sure the moving parts involved (pedals, crankarms, bottom bracket) have proper maintenance and lubrication. Your problem is likely somewhere in there. 

Are there any technical limitations that make 3D printing frames impractical? And, if it is just a matter of time before our technology is able to overcome any limitations (like manufacturing techniques and processes), will 3D printed frames theoretically be better in so far as they will be able to be made with exact thicknesses, tolerances, etc. and also be lighter in weight? I'm interested in the implications for the common frame metals - steel, aluminum and titanium - as well as carbon. 

I remember this would happen to me as a kid while on my bmx bike especially in humid summer weather. So you are buying new grips already - I'd say make sure they are a harder compound than whatever your current ones are. Seems like harder rubber is less likely to deform/melt away. With your current grips you might try wrapping them in bar tape. There are many kinds. I use cork - is good for wicking away moisture from sweaty hands but it is thick. Synthetic bar tape that's thinner might wrap tighter and be less bulky around your grips. If you don't have any bar tape, maybe try the clear plastic wrap from your kitchen. It should keeps the little bits off your hands. Could be more slippery so be careful. 

There are technical differences about the lacing that the photos do not tell us. Like where the holes are placed in the rim. To my knowledge, the idea that spoke holes in a rim did not need to be regularly symmetrical geometrically was pioneered, at least in recent times, by Rolf wheels. As these wheels seemed to work well, other manufacturers responded quickly with variations on the traditional spoking systems. And continue to do so. The gains by the alternate spoking systems are always related to weight and air resistance. Some manufacturers may try to convince the buyers that they are also more reliable. If I were racing bicycles, on the road or elsewhere, I would seriously consider these alternate spoking systems. As a racer, weight, and aerodynamics, are paramount. As a tourist or a commuter, on the other hand, sturdiness and fixability are paramount. My equipment must stand up to abuse, with minimum maintenance. And it must be fixable by me. Easily. Now, I do not claim to know of these spoking systems specifically. However, I do know that traditional spoking patterns have had about a century of practical usage to work out the bugs. I know this. I can replace a spoke on a traditional spoking pattern. I can ride the bike if one spoke breaks, at least for a while, until it can be replaced. I can true a traditional spoke pattern. And I do not have to buy special spokes. And what advantage would I get from a new spoking system? A few grams of weight advantage? A tiny amount of aerodynamic improvement? Since there are many other, far simpler and more reliable, methods to affect both metrics, I would opt for traditional, tested reliability as a high priority. So, the Batavus link is, as I write this, bad. The Trek link works, but I cannot tell enough detail from the site to speak more specifically. But, in general, I would strongly distrust such innovative spoking patterns for use as a commuter. Really, as a commuter, you just want to get there. You don't want to have any issues. Your question: "What is the difference?" Specifically, I do not know. But if the difference is weight, then I can tell you to ask yourself why is this good for me as a commuter. And I can tell you that traditional spoking patterns are reliable, and strong, and durable. You can fix it if something goes wrong. With a traditional spoke pattern, you won't be asking questions - you will be riding your bike. With an innovative spoke pattern - none of these metrics are a certainty. 

Are there any time tested ways to improve one's bike handling skills? Outside of regular riding (road) are there certain exercises one can do to increase body awareness on the bike, improve coordination, and increase balance? Are there any exercises one can do off of a bike to increase handling skills and balance while on the bike? 

I don't know if the 60mm will have a higher rolling resistance than the 40mm, there are a lot of variables that can make the difference. There are tons of articles and studies on the internet that compare rolling resistance of tires. Here is one that says: 

I'm wondering if there are any advantages to mounting ones water-bottle on the bottom of the down tube, near the ground, versus on top of the tube. I'm mainly interested in the advantages, or lack thereof, in the context of a road riding. It seems like if you are riding a mountain bike or riding off-road, it could protect your frame from stumps, branches, or anything else that you could land on that is taller than the bottom of your down tube. Also, I could see it helping to keep the center of gravity of the bike as low as possible, for mountain and road. Are there any other advantages to mounting a bottle on the bottom of the down tube on a road bike? 

Five-speed shifter is accurate. After all, you have only five gears in back, and 3 in front, right? Online searches can find you new shifters, but you'll have to know more about them to buy the right ones than you do now. But I think it most likely that your real problem is a lack of maintenance. This sounds like an older bike that has seen little use. Anything sitting in the garage for 2 years or more fits in this "older" category. Your cables and derailleurs need lube. I'm guessing they have not been cleaned and lubed - ever. And that the most likely reason for your issues is that the derailleurs are just plain sticking. If you don't have rust, a good cleaning and lubing may work wonders. 

This style of bicycle was extremely common in this time period. There are no visible unique identifiers in the photo. Given that there were many manufacturers at the time, and even the major manufacturers (Columbia, Raleigh, Schwinn, etc.) or distributors (like Montgomery Ward) did not leave definitive identifying photos or descriptions of their bicycles, I am quite sure that this is an impossible task. I'm sorry, I know that is not what you want to hear, but I don't think you will get a better answer. It COULD be a Montgomery Ward bicycle, or an Elgin, or a Columbia, or a Colson, etc. It is not a Raleigh, nor is it a Schwinn. But even using the negative research method - what it is NOT - will not tell what it is. Unfortunately there were a lot of smaller manufacturers around then. For instance, look at this Colson: 1930's Colson. The top tubes and tank on the frame are similar, but note that the saddle appears different, as does the chainring. Pay special attention to the chainring when trying to identify a bike from this time period. They were made of stamped steel, and were frequently designed with a manufacturer specific cutout pattern. Examples are Raleigh's heron designs, Hercules "H", etc. A good place for some beginning research is Dave's Vintage Bicycles. However, using what you have found - that you think it might be a Hawthorn, and this page on Dave's Vintage Bicycles, we can see that the chainring cutouts match between the two photos. I think this is about as good as it gets when identifying old bikes like this! The handlebars are different, but that could have been a simple change from one year's offering to the next.