I hope I was transparent enough in my descriptions. Now, let's talk about the advantages of each method. Method 1 has the downside of C2 having to wait till C3 got to the belay to lower off the pigs, and only then start cleaning. But C3 is the fastest of the group anyway: he needs only to jug fast and tight. The main advantage of Method 1 is that C3 can help C1, which just leaded a possible A3+ and is thanking Odin for being alive, to haul the pigs. This method also involves a maximum of 3 ropes. Method 2, on the other hand, can be faster: C2 starts cleaning immediately after C1 fixes R1. C3 can deal with lowering off the pigs and then can sprint up from a fixed line, to help C1 haul a little, and to lead the next pitch. C2 will be cleaning throughout the whole process, so the next leader will have available gear earlier than in Method 1. The problem is that at least 4 ropes must be carried, and that C1 will have to haul at least a little bit on his own. Do you know another method? Does anyone have any experience with both of these methods and can suggest any improvement/comment? 

Others experience this too (the internet is filled with similar stories). It does not look like you were really sick - this would have lasted longer than a day. However a weakened immune system is a concern after exhausting exercise. It is difficult to tell you what happened to you, but we can still guess. For example people with high blood pressure can experience fever after too much unprepared exercise. You might want to get checked (and while you are at it, check other stuff too, your doc will be able to tell you what to look for). The vomiting could be a side effect of feeling ill due to the fever, but it can't hurt to ask if you drank enough. Especially after long breaks of exercise. You tend to sweat more, and your body loses salts etc, electrolytes in general. This is no big deal for short workouts, but after long trips this may add up - and you will feel sick. There are several possible reasons, but to be save you might want to get checked up by an expert, and "listen to your body signals" (thanks, mom!) when exercising. 

Disclaimer: This answer reflects nothing else than my own opinion on this subject, since I've never used water to clean holes nor know anyone that does so. So, first thing I'd like to ask you is: why? You'd have to carry more weight, and there's absolutely nothing wrong with cleaning the holes using air. In fact, as far as I know, industrial bolting manuals do recommend that. Now, assuming you have a good answer for the "why?" part, let's think a little bit. What happens when you inject water in a bolt hole (careful when pronouncing those words)? Well, firstly, it fills with water. This is per se a problem, since the whole was already filled with rock powder, which is very thin, and after getting moisturised it will turn into a thick rock porridge. Good luck removing that from the hole. Afterwards, what happens? You find a way to place the parabolt inside, and then you start to torque it. But the parabolt already crushed a significant portion of rock porridge, which entered the casing. This will probably make it harder for the casing to grip the rock and will fill it to some extent with moisture. As one might think, rock has also a pH level. Moisturising acidic rock will make its powder more efficient in corroding metal (and don't fool yourself - stainless also gets corroded). In a word: this doesn't look good. Let's think and try to make it look good. One thing one must consider is the angle at which the water straw is placed inside the hole. If directly or carelessly placed, turbulence effects will guarantee that rock powder accumulates in the end of the hole. What I wrote above is the result of this process. 

All these things are important, however there are some nice quality-of-life features, or gimmicks you could look into: My head torch allows me to lock it by holding the power button for some seconds. To unlock it, I have to press it for some seconds again. No more empty batteries after your torch lit up the inside of your backpack for 20 hours straight! It even has a battery life indicator - very useful! If the angle of the lamp is adjustable, you can more easily do stuff in front of your face, or the normal height, when you are tying knots, or do anything that requires your light to not shine at something at 90 degrees of your forehead. I never realized how much I love this feature, until I didn't have to temporarily move my crappy old head torch down to my neck to do something in arms reach below nose level. For a more "serious" use, you might want to have a strobe function to defend yourself, or signal SOS. 

This is a type of plug, you find some more information above You use them to catch predatory fish. Depending on the action you can just cast-and-reel these baits, adding some more action yourself. Depending on the baits action, you will use reel-speed to get it to your preferred depth, and then slow down and start working your bait. You reel slowly, you stop and let the lure rise to the top, then you start reeling again to make it dive. Or you just reel at a constant speed. Plugs have a diving depth at which they don't dive much deeper. You are constantly pulling it upwards, and the shovel pulls it downwards, at some point you will reach a balance. You will catch predatory fish with it. It it eats living fish, you catch it. I even had birds attack wobblers of mine. 

I've split the transitions between the ones I believe are mental and the ones I believe are real. The mental ones are the mystified ones: they usually rest on a threshold and require a change of mindset. If you climb 5.10d and have a strong mind, you can certainly climb 5.11a. You just need to get used to the fact that you climb better than you think. This is not true, however, for the steps between sending V5 and sending V6. There's obviously a mindset tuning, but climbing a V5 does not guarantee you'll be able to send V6 at the same pace you moved from V4 to V5. You will be required to hangboard, campus, and practice other specific exercises that increase your tendon strength and anaerobic power/resistance. People that redpoint V4 have usually no idea of what if feels like to send a V7 - because it's impossible for them. Their body is not ready. They need specific training. I have seen people climb V3 on January and onsight V7 in July, but that's not normal. Those people are different, and are usually teenagers. That being said, if you climb 5.11, you already have a good notion of what sport climbing is. You'll have a shock transition between 5.11 and 5.12, and then you'll be introduced to the world of specific training. From then on, you already know what you need to do: climb less, train more! The grades below could be achieved only by climbing, but the ones above 5.12+ usually (USUALLY!) need specific points that you can only develop by complementing your climbing with campusing, hangboarding, weightlifting, etc. The same applies for grades above V5. Many people don't understand (or simple don't care) their body requires training to break some barriers, and that's why most people plateau at redpointing V4 and 5.11b/c. Some people are very light/strong/young/motivated and don't even notice those barriers, but most people I know, do. I also know a lot of people (myself included) that are stuck at the 5.13 transitions - but come on: those grades are meant to be plateaus. For most people, there is no quick pace after 5.12+. Training (not climbing!) at least 4 times a week is a must, and we know it. 

This depends on the state, and the kind of course. In some states you don't need a license any more, or could even purchase a tourist-license valid for few weeks. The course can take just a few days, with a final test at the end, but sometimes it is difficult to find a course in a certain time frame. It can happen that you will have to wait a month, or even more, to be able to take a course at all. If your brother actually has a course with a fitting time frame, he should be able to tell you how long the course is, ask him. Otherwise you should check out which laws apply the the state, when courses are offered, and how long they take. 

The sole difference between a locking and non-locking knife is the blade folding in without any locking/unlocking mechanism. For this comparison i will assume, that you can close the blade with locking mechanism one-handed, otherwise you have an advantage right there. Short FYI: The (legal) reason is that non-locking knifes can not be used as a stabbing weapon as easily as locking knifes (could be considered a downside in the great outdoors?). Some laws (for example in germany) even disallow folding knifes that can be opened with one hand, as they can be used as a hidden weapon. Now back to your question. There are no obvious advantages for a blade to not have a lockable blade. But we can get creative! If an accident seriously disables you, closing a non-locking foldable knife with one (impaired?) hand might be easier. Also, when using your knife for batoning (for which you SHOULD use a FIXED blade knife!), the folding blade might put less stress on the pivot, so you don't break the non-existent locking mechanism. Finally, an anecdotal advantage of normal looking, non-locking, red, classical victorinox knifes: you can take them out of your pocket and use them without having everyone else around you think, that you were up to no good. - As opposed to those tactical folding knifes (which usually lock!). But this is off-topic. So, you might get creative and find advantages for non-locknig folding knifes, but apart from the fact that their non-existing locking mechanism can't break, there is no real advantage to them, especially in an outdoor situation. 

The answer is in this video: $URL$ I'm not sure if it's the same traverse as the OP posted, but I'd bet on it. The thing that looks like a biner between the columns is indeed a biner, probably from an ice/snow anchor. The holes (especially the large one) are due to this biner. What happens is that when the leader requires slack and pulls the rope up, the friction between the rope and the columns before the biner is extremely one-directional: the biner forces the rope to run in an almost fixed angle theta from the belay. Every climber has seen this happen: you place a quickdraw and then the route has a horizontal traverse, and then when it gets vertical again you feel a lot of friction and look down - what you see is the rope being constricted by that quickdraw that preceded the traverse. The friction is mainly due to the normal force the rope creates against that biner, but in this case you also have a lot of friction against the columns before the quickdraws (since they're protruded and pass in front of the rope's way). I've sketched some draws: Front view: 

Edit: It is a McKinley. The difference is the padded hip belt vs the frame extending to the side of the hips. The backpack in OPs picture features the padded hip belt. $URL$ Previous post: It is the D2 or McKinley. I can not spot a difference in the picture and description below. I think they revamped the pack at some point, newer images of the D2 show a slightly different version of the backpack. 

This looks like a Pedostrangalia revestita (i totally ripped this from the site below. I have no idea if this is correct, I am still looking for the English and German terms (in German it is a kind of Bockkäfer)) $URL$ I am by no means an expert, but those look alike. The wing-covers have similar shapes, red legs, big eyes, the butt-brush. Some coleopterist might come to improve on this answer with proper terminology, please don't forget to laugh about the word butt-brush. Edit: on a German page i have found another similar one: Rhamnusium bicolor, the "Beulenkopfbock" (german) (but, similar to the other source, I found conflicting images on different sites) $URL$ 

So: have you used this device? Does it wear the rope less than its predecessor? Is it really easier to pay slack with? Have you had any problems with the belay/top rope button? 

Column 1 (and the ones before it also) is the one that will experience the most unidirectional (mostly horizontal) rope slippage, and will acquire holes due to it. Column 2 will also suffer similar effects, because after the anchor the rope's movement is also unidirectional. The following columns will have no holes, since the rope has again a free angle to move until the leader places another anchor - that is, the rope will dangle and scatter the snow in a uniform manner. This is in agreement with the picture and the video I attached shows pretty clearly that the quickdraw moves up and then, when it reaches a maximum angle, the rope is constricted to move in a single direction. After some meters I'm pretty sure the little hole it opens at each time it does that is already large enough for it to enter it completely. Edit 1: the situation where the holes are inevitably dig is quite possibly when the leader ends the pitch and begins retrieving the excess rope for the second climber to come. This creates constant, fast rope action against the columns. Edit 2: view from above added for clarity.