The Zimmerman telegram was sent to the German ambassador in Washington, D.C., with instructions to forward it to the German ambassador in Mexico. It was actually sent two ways, both of which were intercepted by the British. The first, as noted by Tom Au and user2448131, was via American diplomatic channels to the German embassy in Washington. British monitoring of the US cable (and their knowledge of German diplomatic codes) allowed them to intercept this. The second was a more roundabout method, making use of Swedish diplomatic channels to South America (with the willing cooperation of Sweden, even though Sweden was officially neutral). (Since Swedish cables to the New World passed through England, the British were also able to intercept them.) In 1915, the British complained to Sweden about the the latter's practice of forwarding German diplomatic messages to the U.S., and Sweden promised to stop. What Sweden actually did was switch to forwarding German messages to the Swedish embassy in Buenos Aires; these messages were transferred to the German embassy there, which sent them on to the German embassy in the US. The British were soon able to identify coding patterns that allowed them to see which "Swedish" messages were actually German ones, which they could them focus on decrypting. The fact that the Germans sent two copies of the same message via different routes, both of which were intercepted, aided the British in deciphering them. In fact, the British also obtained a copy of the telegram sent on from the German embassy in Washington to the German embassy in Mexico City, possibly by bribing someone in (or breaking into) a Western Union office. But this was a slightly later step, based on the knowledge obtained from the previous interceptions. It did help the British disguise the source of their information: by handing the Americans the Washington-to-Mexico-City version of the telegram, they were able to convince both the Americans and (indirectly) the Germans that they had gotten ahold of the telegram in Mexico, and that they had broken it because it used an older, weaker code instead of the more modern code used for the telegrams to Washington. Source: David Kahn, The Codebreakers. 

Wikipedia undermines Gonick's assetion; it appears that Gonick may have conflated two distinct edicts. If you're asking whether the penalty was ever applied, I have no information. If you're asking Why Urukagina would impose this penalty, there are some theories. Marlyn French asserts that this is the beginning of a trend of degradation of women, but I think it is premature to ascribe that as the sole or even primary motivation. Other information in the wikipedia article implies that he expanded the role and property of women in the royal household, which seems to be in tension with a primary motivation of degrading women. @Tom Au has offered speculation as to Urukagina's motivation, which seems plausible, however the wikipedia article on polyandry suggests that some cultures do recognize partible paternity, which would address the issues that Mr. Au raises. Partible paterntity seems to be most prevalent in the Amazon and in Hawaii - I didn't see any reference to the concept in Urukagina's time/context. I simply don't have sufficient evidence to confirm or deny the assertion that Urukagina's edict was designed to ensure clear lines of heredity. 

"economically effective" - I'm going to interpret this phrase to mean that a system is more economically effective if it produces more units of output/units of input. The answer might change if we were to assume that it meant "What is the minimum number of units of input/labor needed to produce a specific desired outcome?" Slavery - For simplicity, I'm going to define slavery as ownership of an individual (who has restricted civil rights) and assigns part or all of the slave's productive output to the master. Different systems of slavery will restrict different civil rights, and will assign different portions of the slave's output to the master. I personally believe that modern people get confused because we think of "slavery" as "chattel slavery as practiced in the American South in the Ante-bellum era" - which was an unusual, and unusually brutal form of slavery. Historically slavery has been much more varied, and usually much less revolting. 

There's also the march of the Czech (or Czechoslovak) Legion in 1918, after the October Revolution and the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk. The Legion was formed as a unit in the Russian Army composed of Czechs and Slovaks interested in freeing their compatriots from Austro-Hungarian rule. When the Bolsheviks started making peace with the Central Powers, the Czech Legion decided to rejoin the war on the Allied side, which basically meant getting to France. Since getting through the German-controlled Baltic looked dubious, they decided to exit Russia via Vladivostok, in the Siberian Far East. The march started as a retreat in the face of German and Austro-Hungarian forces invading the Ukraine (part of a move to pressure the Bolsheviks into agreeing to the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk), and effectively ended 6,000 miles (9,700 kilometers) later in Vladivostok, which makes it a little bit longer than the Long March. All the same, I'm not sure how much of this qualifies as a retreat per se, since for much of the time they were more on the offensive than anything else (seizing control of multiple cities along the railway route, for example). It's probably more an example of a (very extended) march through hostile territory. 

I get the impression that the imposition of strong Germanization after 1870 partly backfired, in that it inspired resistance among the Poles and a strong desire to retain and promote their own culture. This would have included things like home schooling in Polish, private schools for education in Polish, and the like. (The Russians outlawed private Polish schools after 1863, but Poles went ahead and set up illegal private schools in places like Warsaw anyway.) (And I suspect even for those Polish-speaking kids who didn't have home schooling in written Polish, being literate in the Latin alphabet from learning to read and write German in school would get you about 90% of the way there -- sure, you don't initially know all the details of the orthography, but you know all but a couple of the letters and you know what all the words are supposed to be, because you already know the language.) Finally, there's the fact that the relatively liberal Austrian-controlled Polish region (Galicia) was right next door; interested Poles could travel to Cracow or Lwow for a proper Polish-language university education, for example. (We have to remember that international travel in the 19th Century was generally a lot less restricted than it is now.) 

As always, it is in the interest of radicals on both sides to polarize issues and make it tougher to occupy a moderate center. Parliament was willing to give in on small issues to preserve the fundamental principle. The revolutionary wing of the Patriot movement had to prevent the US from cooperating with that. They had to make the issue about politics, rather than about tea. Everything would have remained an abstract theoretical discussion except: 

Need for coaling stations rumor that Japan had massive coal deposits American whaling industry sought safe harbors, and shipwreck cooperation 

I have heard different stories to explain Diocletian's relationship with Rome, but they all seem to agree that Diocletian made a concious decision to break with history and put Rome and the Senate in their place. You could make a related but more subtle argument that the evolution of governance into the hands of a professional body of career bureaucrats undermined the function/effect of "public" governance". You could also make the rather simple argument extracted from wikipedia 

I've been holding off in the hopes of providing a good answer; I don't think I have a good answer, so I'll provide the best poor answer I can. Let me restate the question slightly, since I think the existing answers have been influenced by distractors in the current phrasing of the question. What factors influence the relative military strength and distribution of vassals in a feudal government. The question was driven by the observation that Japan chose to keep strong vassals near the court, while China positioned the strongest vassals at the periphery. European monarch invested very strong marcher lords, while keeping those closer to the capital weaker. What factors influence each choice? I don't expect that there is a single clear answer - the point of the question was to examine alternative hypothesis that might account for the relative strength of vassals on the border vs the periphery. If there are multiple viable factors, we can adjust the strength of the [original hypothesis]. If we can't develop a predictive model, perhaps we can create an analytical model that provides a number of factors to consider when analyzing similar situations. Unfortunately, that puts us in the realm of a list question, which is usually a poor fit for H:SE. I'll mark this answer as community wiki and encourage others to contribute list factors. Some factors we're pretty sure influence relative military strength of vasssals over geography. 

"Their point is that no non-violent movement has ever succeeded in a vacuum. There have always been parallel violent movements that essentially scared the powers that be into negotiating with the more moderate non-violent movement." I think that's pretty clearly nonsense. What were the "parallel violent movements" in the People Power Revolution (1986, Philippines), or most of the Eastern European revolutions of 1989 (such as rather aptly named "Peaceful Revolution" in East Germany and the "Velvet Revolution" in Czechoslovakia), or the overthrow of Slobodan Milosevic in 2000, or the 2003 Rose Revolution in Georgia, or the Arab Spring in Tunisia? (For that matter, how was Malcolm X actually "violent"?) On the general question of whether violent resistance is effective, you might want to take a look at the well-regarded study by Maria Stephan and Erica Chenowith on the relative success rates of nonviolent and violent resistance campaigns. You can find the original 2008 study here; it was later expanded into a book in 2011 called Why Civil Resistance Works: The Strategic Logic of Nonviolent Conflict. They looked at a total of "323 nonviolent and violent resistance campaigns from 1900 to 2006". (These were generally independence movements or movements aimed at overthrowing a repressive regime.) Nonviolent movements were twice as likely to succeed as were violent movements. In addition, nonviolent movements were significantly more likely to result in democratic successor states; successful violent movements were more likely to result in oppressive regimes, presumably because groups that rely on violence to succeed tend to continue using the same tactics and mindset after they win. One of their main arguments is that violent campaigns are less likely to get popular support (or international support) and are easier for regimes to suppress without much protest. Put more simply: if your movement is violent, you're less likely to get the general public or international groups to support you, and it's easier for the regime to portray you as illegitimate and too dangerous to talk to, and easier for them to justify and get away with suppressing you. One implication of this is that if the regime can link (legitimately or just via propaganda) a nonviolent movement to a violent group, it can poison the nonviolent movement in the eyes of the general public, making it less likely for them to succeed. (This is in part echoing Opt's answer.) 

tl;dr Moldavia fragmented along with the Habsburg empire and in the context of conflict between the Russian and Turkish Empires. Ultimately the Treaty of Paris codified the two countries. After a personal union, diplomatic pressure forced the establishment of two separate countries. Detail 

Hasidic Jews. Nicholas I in 1851 forbid the practice of women shaving their heads (remember that Hasidic men do not cut their hair, so their hair is longer). hat tip to user6591 for correcting my error. Hasidic men do not cut their sidelocks, so on the aggregate, Hasidic men's hair is longer than that of Hasidic women (or at least those that practice the custom). An article from a modern Hasidic Jew Detroit Interfaith has perhaps a clearer version of the cultural practice 

@MichaelF's answer is a very solid explanation of the origin of DC, and references a historical event that I think deserves more attention. His answer is also far better researched and referenced than I will be able to provide. Having said that, I think the answer to the OP's question ought to include a discussion of the changing role of the national government in US Politics. 

I think the question is a bit too broad. Mesoamerican cultures may have made this transition at a different time than South Pacific Islanders. Update: although I lack the scholarship to provide evidence, I strongly suspect that marriage among the lower classes was more about love and less about political advantage. Political advantage wouldn't have been absent, but I suspect that love/lust played a larger role. Furthermore, I am skeptical of the ability to measure what you describe. Each couple will have a different balance of lust, respect and mutual political advantage, and it may shift over time. That said, my understanding of European history is that the transition is typically anchored in the Courts of Catherine of Aaragon and the development of Courtly Love. 

I think you could argue for a fundamental difference in the Spanish and English attitudes toward "colonization" of the Americas, based partly on different historical backgrounds and partly on where they started. Once the Spanish got to the Americas proper (as opposed to the Caribbean islands), they encountered populous agricultural and urban societies, including sophisticated kingdoms and empires (especially the Aztecs and Incas). The model provided by Cortes and Pizarro thus became (crudely speaking): "Conquer the native kingdoms and rule over them (and marry their women). When you want more land, go on expeditions to conquer it." The strong Catholic missionary impulse of the time also meant a strong emphasis on converting the natives to Catholicism, which made it easier for Spaniards to intermarry with them. (Note that both Cortes and Pizarro married local princesses.) This was arguably a continuation of the Reconquista model: conquer the Moorish kingdoms and rule over the (non-Christian) locals as you try to convert them. It probably also was affected by the multinational nature of the Spanish/Hapsburg empire in the 16th Century: if Flemish and Italians and Germans could all be subjects of the Emperor, so could Indians in the Americas. For the English colonists (as well as, e.g., the Dutch in New Amsterdam), the model was more "Buy or steal small amounts of land from the natives to set up your own independent settlements. Don't interact with the natives aside from trade, and when you want to expand, buy or steal more land and push the natives away (or kill them)." Thus, despite the interactions and occasional intermarriage that did take place (and the occasional efforts at missionary activity), English colonists tended to remain segregated in their own societies, building their own towns and gradually expanding at the expense of native populations. Another possible factor: The lands the Spanish conquered included numerous long-established agricultural societies (with genuine cities), which generally meant they had higher populations. This probably ensured that the natives remained relatively numerous compared to the European conquerors/settlers despite the massive die-offs from Old World diseases. The lower population density in most of North America (fewer agricultural societies, and none of them with actual cities) probably meant that it was easier for English colonists to outnumber the natives over time. 

I don't know why Robbins chose to fight, I don't know why his owner chose to trust him with a weapon. (I'm making the broad assumption that "fought..." means that he was armed, although it is possible that he was merely part of the logistics train.) I suspect that the author of the blog above would love to explore that issue. In that sense I can't answer your question, but I can offer at least one example of why someone might want to. Also note that the concept of slavery changes significantly around Bacon's Rebellion and that the effects of Bacon's rebellion propagate more slowly in the Northeast where slavery is subject to different pressures than in the central states or the South. (discussion of the evolution of slavery). Having offered my caveats, I speculate that some enslaved people (particularly in the Northeast) may have had more hope of fair treatment from their owners than from the institutions that their owners claimed were enslaving them. Some may have perceived themselves as "Americans" (although enslaved, some of them had been here for generations and had no knowledge of other continents/countries/states). Some may have had hope of emancipation & citizenship - remember the Marblehead brigade included free black men, so people in the Northeast would have had a model. Some may have been promised freedom in exchange. 

Mounted soldiers date back at least to the Neo-Assyrian Empire, and were a significant part of Persian armies, who emphasized heavily armored horsemen (including armor for the horse); the general term that gets used for these pre-medieval heavy cavalry is cataphract. It's true that the Romans didn't emphasize cavalry much, but they did end up deploying some heavy cavalry units in the east, against the Parthian and (later) Sassanid Persians; the Byzantines continued this practice in their wars against the Sassanids. The idea of stirrups (which showed up long after armored, lance-using cavalry appeared in the Levant) as a critical invention is generally now seen as an exaggeration. (Stirrups are better, certainly, but mounted warriors were able to brace themselves and deliver powerful attacks using well-designed saddles prior to the appearance of stirrups.) See here for a list of references on the stirrups issue. As for mounted archery: it certainly was a significant advance -- groups like the Mongols and Turks used it very effectively, and tended to defeat European knights when they fought against them -- but again it's something pre-dating the Romans, as Luis Henrique noted in his answer. There are clear records of it from the Neo-Assyrian Empire. If you want a nice illustration of when these things were actually in use, there's the Battle of Carrhae (53 BC), where a Roman army was wiped out by the Parthians using a combination of cataphracts and horse archers. (But note that the Romans also won battles against the Parthians and their successors the Sassanids, so the "cavalry always defeats infantry" argument is clearly false.) 

I haven't found any evidence that either of the princes has exercised the powers granted under the constitution, however there was one action in 1993 

As Semaphore points out, the UK is paying interest on consolidated annuities. His links are better, but here is a story from the New York Times. (Note: Semaphore corrected my quibble about UK vs GB; he was right, I've removed my text). France continues to pay on a debt from 1738. But the oldest active debt is Dutch: 

Yes. According to this paper the concept of "ambidexterity" has been a part of Canon law since medieval times. brief quote: 

The question rests on a false assumption - that "country" can be tied to "ethnicity". There are a few countries that make an effort at racial purity, but I think that the concept has fallen by the wayside. There is a second flaw in the question. "Democratically elected" means "elected by those we choose to have the franchise" - Generally this excludes women, minorities, and aboriginal inhabitants. If I recall correctly, nearly every election held in South Carolina until 1866 disenfranchised the majority of the population, so every elected official in South Carolina during that period would fit your definition. As would every elected official in Rome (which is why I cite Nerva below) The third flaw is that the knee jerk response to some of the examples below is to deny that they don't represent distinct ethnic groups. D'israeli is a good example - I don't recall that he ever referred to himself as Jewish, but his contemporaries identified him as Jewish.