The file you had linked as 'Detailed NEO Data' lists all the orbital parameters needed to determine the position of the object as a function of time. It lists these parameters for the objects orbiting the earth. This should be just what you need. They are located at bottom of file. There are routines to convert the orbit in orbital parameters to cartesian coordinates. This may be easier to use. You can google on orbital parameters conversion to find these routines. I think I have a copy in Fortran but not many people use Fortran now. 

You have to remember that the alignment for an eclipse is a very rare situation. It's not as simple as the occurrence of a new moon. The planet and the moon have to align just so in relation to the sun for an eclipse to occur. Sorry, no numbers here but just trying to emphasize that several factors have to occur between 2 fast moving bodies. 

The gravitational is radial only. That means if you tried a different shape then you would have regions, like hills, where a change in the angle would experience a much less attraction towards the center. This region would, over time, be attracted to a different angle with a greater force of attraction. Or spherical. This results in a spherical-like shape. 

No it wouldn't make a difference unless you moved it near another star or body. If it was moved such that something was close enough to exert significant gravitational attraction it would have an effect on our solar system. 

Yes. There is a chance of one or more solar flares or CME's occurring during the eclipse and these would be noticeable during totality. There are actually two NASA jets equipped with telescopes and high-speed cameras to film the Corona and any such event. The plane will track the eclipse throughout its duration. 

We have seen galaxies around 13 billion years old. Since these galaxies formed so early in the history of the known universe, are there observables about these galaxies that are apparently different from much younger galaxies. I suppose all current physics laws had condensed out by then but was just curious about the formation and 'aging' of such old galaxies. 

So, to get back to your second part of the question, "massless gravity", this is not a viable alternative. Gravity exists either by massive objects exchanging gravitons and therefore exercizing gravity upon each other, or a massive object "denting" the fabric of space / time and therefore creating a gravity field. In either case gravity cannot be seen as a farce that exists without the existence of mass. Secondly, to the first part of your question. Whether we can observe objects directly or indirectly, this doesn't make it more or less realistic. Dark matter is generally accepted to be there. We just haven't found a way to measure it. We can only see that the visible matter in the universe can't explain the gravitational pull on the visible matter and therefore we assume there is some other matter out there we haven't been able to "see". Hence, dark matter. However, dark matter does interact through gravity and our current successes in measuring gravitational waves might also result in a better understanding of gravity and how to measure the effect of dark matter on the gravitational pull in the universe. So, to answer your question: "No, we call dark matter because we can only observe it through its influence on other matter due to gravity. There is no such thing as gravity without mass." 

Gravity is not necessarily a real thing. When you read the literature concerning general relativity about gravity you will learn that acceleration can be experienced as gravity and in the fabric of space/time gravity is "merely" a curvature in this fabric that. This means that gravity is highly debatable as something that could be seen as an independent force / object in the universe. When gravity exists as a force, whether it is an exchange of gravitons between two objects with a mass, or whether it is a curvature in space / time due to the mass of an object, the phenomenon "gravity" is always related to the mass of an object and doesn't stand on its own as an independent force of nature. Dark matter is not a "mysterious" thing that passes through itself. Dark matter is just the container concept of matter out there that doesn't interact a lot with other matter, but just leaves its marks in the universe by showing a gravitational force as interaction with other matter. Since we have only little understanding of gravity and we still have difficulty measuring gravity as a force in the universe, we have difficulty understanding and measuring dark matter directly. This doesn't mean it is not out there. 

To add to the excellent answer by berrycarter, there are 2 planetarium-like codes, that I know of, that run on a mac and would make excellent tools for viewing certain astronomical objects. The codes are Stellarium and Celestial. Both turn your computer into your own planetarium where you can search and view objects in space. 

Globular clusters vary in size quite a bit. They contain from a few hundred thousand to over a million stars. Probably best way to determine size is to measure its extent across the sky by telescope and then calculate that distance in km. One could also model the size by assuming the number of stars, the average size of the stars, and the spacing based on this size. One could build a globular cluster of 300,000 stars or so and determine the approximate size. You ask if 120-150 ly is the average diameter of such globular clusters. I'm confused by exactly what you mean but you have sampled a small range of sizes considering globular clusters can be well over 300 ly in diameter. 

Because scientists are now certain that dark matter exists but the exact nature of it is still being investigated. Its extremely important to understand dark matter if we hope to further our knowledge of the universe. Dark matter makes up such a significant part of the total mass of the universe that it must be accounted for in simulations and models of galaxies and other large scale structures in space. Money spent on dark matter research is certainly NOT wasted. 

Earth didn't get here before GW's. GW's have been around since the early universe. We have just recently developed the technology to detect the large gravitational waves associated with very massive disruptions in the fabric of space-time. We also know that our sun is not a 1st generation star, so much of the matter used to create our sun and planets came from a much earlier super-nova explosion. 

This has not been confirmed so whether it is legit is unknown at this time. A recent report ($URL$ calls into question the original analysis that leads to the initial report of planet nine. The report that fueled initial interest is given below. (EVIDENCE FOR A DISTANT GIANT PLANET IN THE SOLAR SYSTEM Konstantin Batygin and Michael E. Brown Division of Geological and Planetary Sciences, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA 91125, USA; kbatygin@gps.caltech.edu Received 2015 November 13; accepted 2016 January 10; published 2016 January 20) 

First of all it has to be stated that it is difficult to have a scientific discussion about multiple universes. The problem with multiple universes is that it can be logically deducted from assumptions and hypotheses, but not tested nor empirically verified. This makes discussions around this topic, like string theory, highly "religious". There are different multiverse theories coming from cosmology, physics and philosophy. One of the theories comes from the cosmological theory of cosmic inflation. Cosmic inflation states that there are always fluctuations on the microscopic level and this results in energy waves that can form into matter and anti-matter pairs. The cosmic inflation now states that at the beginning of our universe there was a cosmological constant or a big vacuum that is by nature unstable and caused the microscopic fluctuations to happen on a cosmic size and thus resulted in a rapid expansion of the early universe. This cosmic inflation is a variation of the (hot) big bang theory, that explains a number of observations in the universe that are not explained by the (hot) big bang theory. What it doesn't explain is that if I have an energy fluctuation at microscopic level, it can happen that this energy wave splits into two matter pairs or an anti-matter/matter pair. Later these pairs annihilate each other and what has happened at microscopic level evens out on macroscopic level. However, when particles appear at microscopic level, what needs to happen to let these particles exist for a longer time to have stars evolve from this matter. Now back to the multiple universes. The going theory now is that if such a thing can happen to our universe, such a thing can happen in the endless vastness that contains our universe and multiple universes can start and exists next to each other. These multiple universes might also explain that when I have a cosmic fluctuation, I have two universes that come into existence. One with the matter and one with the nati-matter. Bear in mind!!!! These are all philosophical hypotheses and none of it can be verified, falsified or empirically tested. If I now have made it logically possible to have multiple universes coming from different cosmic fluctuations, I can now have different universes. For instance, I can have for each matter universe a corresponding anti-matter universe to get the energy balance evened out. Now if I have several universes with each different compositions, I can also have universes where, at least, the laws of nature apply differently. In a universe without dark matter, laws of physics apply differently. Whether the "laws of nature" are totally different in other universes, is difficult to scientifically proof. Especially with theories that are build on our laws of nature. When you think we're already on thin ice here, philosophers can make it even more unreal. If I have cosmic fluctuations that can happen under different circumstances, which result in universes with different compositions that then have a different application of the laws of nature, I can equally well argue that there will be universes where certain laws of nature don't exists, while there are some particles that don't exist in that universe. So, to answer your question briefly, there are theories that say there are other universes that have different laws of nature. However, multiverse theories are highly speculative and are difficult to proof. So, whether these theories are right, we'll probably will never know.