Any ideas what's going on and/or how to fix it? As an alternative that I'm not too thrill about, I tried having an upstart job mounting those volumes. I added noauto to my fstab glusterfs entries so that they wouldn't be automatically mounted at boot item and created an upstart job with these content: 

If I manually run service mount_public_uploads start, it mounts just fine. Maybe it's trying to mount before glusterfs is ready? 

and I get logged in without being asked for a password because I already copied my public key. Due to forwarding, I should be able to ssh to pupeno@b1 from b1 and it should work, without asking me for a password, but it doesn't. It asks me for a password. What am I missing? This is the verbose output of the second ssh: 

will mount it as ext4. This is for an experiment. I want to do it without enabling the new features in ext4 so I can go back to ext3. 

That works fine. On the nodes where I include that class, firewalling is enabled. Then I have another class, for enabling OpenSSH: 

I need to block an external email address in postfix from sending me emails. This is an external email address of a third party domain name that I'm not controlling. The reason why I need to block it is because they have something misconfigured and I'm getting a message saying "Warning, your message has not being delivered yet", every second or so. I already contacted their tech support, but they are taking a long time to fix it and in the meantime, my server and my users are suffering. I tried doing this. In my mail.cf I added: 

I have a web app running with nginx and I'd like to analyze the logs to get information about how many hits each file is getting, and which 404s and other errors we are generating (something Google Analytics can't provide). Normally I would just drop awstats in a server, but with nginx, due to the lack of cgi-bin, it's not trivial. Is there another trivial solution to get this information? I don't mind paying a third party to do this analysis for me. 

UPDATE: I've tried running the command as bacula to make sure there were no permission errors and it worked. I did like this: 

In a production environment on Ubuntu (12.04), should a Rails app be run by a system or a regular user? I'm creating a dedicated user to running the a rails app and I'm not sure whether to create a regular or a system user. 

I'm running GlusterFS 3.5 from the official Ubuntu packages on Ubuntu 12.04 and when I enable client.ssl, mounting starts to fail. The error I'm getting is: 

I've recently installed a new server and configure Bacula to automatically label up to 10 volumes. Very soon I've got a message that intervention was needed and when looking at it one volume was totally used and the rest in Append mode but not being used. I managed to get that original one into recycle mode, but the rest just remain in Append mode and backing up doesn't work. Here's some console output. My volumes 

I'm backing up a Linux box over SMB to a NAS. I mount the NAS locally and then I rsync a lot of data (100GB or so). I believe it's taking an awfully long time to do it: more than 12 hours. I would expected to be much faster once everything is copied since almost nothing is changed from day to day. Is there a way to speed this up? I was thinking that maybe rsync thinks it's working with local hard disks and uses checksum instead of time/size comparisons? But I didn't find a way to force time and date comparisons. Anything else I could check? 

I am really curious. Mac OS X as a server sounds like a very expensive solution that is not much better than the free one provided by free software. I understand paying extra for a nice UI and an Apple logo on your desktop computer or laptop (I did it). But a Apple logo gathering dust in a dark room somewhere with no monitor attached, doesn't make much sense for me. But then either Apple is producing the server at a cost, or some people know something that I don't and choose Apple servers. If that's your case, why are you doing it? Enlighten me. 

For the amount of zones I have, syncing manually ended up being easier than getting any other solution to work. If I had many more zones I'd look into the proposed solutions. 

I'd recommend setting up one of the two names to be the canonical and unique way to access your web site and the other to redirect to it. Don't use CNAME, or JavaScript redirection. Use HTTP redirection. Personally I redirect from www.example.com to example.com because I'm against www. The reason is quite simple: the fact that you are using a web browser and http already says that you are trying to access the web site at that location, no need to add more redundant information. Also, hr.example.com may be HR's web site, does that mean then that you have a www department at your company? and if not, then it should be www.hr.example.com, which looks rather bad. 

I couldn't get the verification to work (anywhere else than in my workstation computer), but in the end I moved on and everything worked just fine, so maybe it wasn't that important. 

When copying the files from one machine to the other, the recipient run out of space. Which should have been impossible, since they are both the same size and I didn't store anything in them. Trying to figure out what was wrong I found a really confusing situation. This is all on the source machine. According to df, I'm only using 26% of the space: 

and the rest being the stock Ubuntu configuration I start to get the wrong results. When I see the main page it's fine, but when I go to a specific post I get a RSS feed instead. Like if the cache is returning the wrong content. I've disabled my RewriteRules as it seems mod_cache doesn't work with that. I'm not even sure where to start to debug such a thing. Any ideas? 

thinking that maybe it'll only match $URL$ but not $URL$ But it also generate an infinite loop. Any ideas how to achieve that? The reason why the IP virtual host is not the main and only virtual host is because I want other IPs on the server to also be able to server example.com. 

Is there a recommended known-to-work way of caching a WordPress site running on Apache Httpd 2? Should I use a plug in or cache in Apache Httpd? If in Apache Httpd, should it be disk or memory cache? If as a plug in, which one? 

Can I use the administrator user of a remote (no domain or anything like that) Windows Server to log in into the SQL Server running on that same machine? That would be, using the same credentials, user and password, as I use when I connect to that server with Remote Desktop. Is there anything special I should do for that? I'm talking about SQL Server 2008 and Windows Server 2008 

Also, there's no reason to have separate files. I have one file pupeno.com.conf which includes the definition for non-ssl and ssl pupeno.com virtual hosts. Think about what you want to enable and disable in one go with a2ensite and a2dissite. I consider $URL$ and $URL$ the same thing thus it's on pupeno.com.conf. 

I'm trying to use mod_disk_cache to speed up a web site that is running on WordPress. Whenever I enable it with 

I ended up destroying volumes, not everything but the oldest ones. One by one leaving space for the new backups. I've run out of space and had to re-do this several times. Painful, boring and slow. 

For off-site backups we are running a Bacula SD on another location and the internet connection to it, although quite good for what you can normally get at an office, is not as good as a single ethernet cable. It's slow (100Mb/s) and not very stable. One of the backups seem to take around 16hs or more to finish. The chances of the connection being lost over that long period of time is quite big. So far in a week I never got a single backup to finish and this is the problem: Bacula seems to start from scratch every time. Can anyone confirm this? It also seems not to be re-using the volumes, so I already run out of space having 95% of my volumes used by useless pieces of a backup. Does it mean Bacula cannot work on this conditions or is there something I'm missing about Bacula's configuration? Anything else I should try before giving up Bacula?