Isn't the existence of God a bit far-fetched? Applying Occam's Razor to the former, we see that it requires that we believe that there was nothing before the Big Bang, and that the Big Bang somehow created time and space as we know it. This conclusion is strongly suggested by the fact that it keeps the known laws of physics consistent and fits all the data we have collected so far about the universe. Applying it to the latter, it requires that we believe that there is some external intelligent all-powerful entity which created the universe. This conclusion is suggested by no scientific data, and in fact this belief has been around long before sufficient data was collected or laws known to make a strong statement about the origins of the universe. Also, what might seem "far-fetched" to our intuitions can often be completely natural once the laws surrounding it are more known. The current formulation of the Big Bang theory wasn't just arbitrarily chosen—it was done after considering many theories, most of which seemed too scientifically far-fetched to be justifiable, so they were thrown out. That's how science works. And if some day evidence is found that contradicts the modern Big Bang theory, then it will be adapted or thrown out too. 

This way, zero is , one is , two is , three is , etc. This doesn't explicitly have zero as a base case, but it is the only set that is not required to contain other sets, so it prevents expressions from being infinite. This representation has the advantage that m < n is represented as m ∈ n (since n contains all the naturals less than it). We can define the successor of n to be n ∪ {n}, which defines a new set with the elements of n, plus n itself. 

The Peano axioms define zero as a base case, because it is the only natural number that is not of the form S(n), so it prevents expressions from being infinite. 

It is certainly possible to overcomplicate a complex system to the point where it is detrimental. This is often the case with rule systems (where a set of rules needs to be simple enough to be learnable by the players and prevent misunderstandings). Complexity per se is not good nor bad. However, it is often necessary when the problem being solved is complex. In Google's case, the complex problem is "How do I return a list of results for this query that the user is likely to regard as useful to them?" Sites that attempt to game the system by exploiting Google's rating algorithm are a loophole in the system that must be dealt with, because such sites are not what the user will regard as useful. Google solves this problem by adding complexity, in the hope that their algorithm will then achieve their goal better by delivering more useful results. Google's changes to its algorithm would always be to block illegitimate sites by making the system harder to game. Legitimate sites shouldn't be affected because they are not attempting to game the system. If Google did end up accidentally lowering the score of legitimate sites because of that, that would constitute a bug in their algorithm, but not a bug inherent in too much complexity. 

The first column being the 'inclination of the will.' It's also of note to say that, according to Aquinas, in case , the agent is responsible for his actions, whereas in case , he is not. Lets go back to your original question; if you agree with Aquinas, you don't really 'influence' anything, anyway. It's as if you make the coercee your puppet (you control them but 100% of the responsibility falls on you). "But how far can we go without coercing?" you may ask. Aquinas makes a very interesting distinction. He argues that anything non-violent cannot be construed as coercive. So you could technically threaten, terrorize, or otherwise non-violently 'influence' someone to do your bidding and Aquinas would say two things: a) it's not coercion (yay!), and b) the agent is, in fact, 100% responsible for the actions they may take. 

Primary source reading: Socratic Puzzles. Conclusion - How far is too far? Looking at the example above, we see various milestones of coercion: 

Let's look at the last line marked with an asterisk. will yield per Table 1. Similarly, as well as will also yield per Table 1. So, no matter how we decide to commute, we will have to deal with an and the remaining . And will always yield a per Table 1. This is why we observe the odd-even alternation of truth values when all operands are true. It turns out that you don't want to use a in examples like the one in your OP. What you actually want to do is something like or (via DeMorgans) . There is no logical connective that does this since this would require an n-ary connector, e.g. something like which would only work as a function in FOL. Here is an interesting paper discussing the ternary exclusive or. 

Would this question perplex you as much as your original one? Probably not. The correct color simply isn't a choice. This question is just as unanswerable as yours - no more no less. Why your question seems more interesting is because it makes a key assumption (just like the first incarnation of the Liar Paradox question did - namely, that a statement is either true or false). Specifically, it makes the assumption that the probability of getting a correct answer is 50%. This is incorrect. The probability is, I would argue, mathematically indeterminate. Consider E2: 

E1 has a 0% probability of someone randomly selecting the correct answer. E2 has a 50% probability of someone selecting the correct answer. E3 has a 100% probability of someone selecting the correct answer. Unless it's posited that one (or two, or three, etc.) of the answers is/are correct, your assumption that: 

When you're raised from childhood to believe in faith, its unlikely that you will grow to think outside of that faith, especially if your religion implements a system of repetition where you verbally confirm that faith daily and weekly. You constantly repeat it, everyone around you confirms it, it makes you feel at peace, makes you feel safe, why would you want to think in any other way? My thought about this is that there's a fundamental problem with this way of thinking. Because it seems as a society, by condoning this kind of thinking, we make our population as a whole highly susceptible to extremist and non-tolerant ideas derived from religion. An example: Islamist Extremism, where women and homosexuals can be put to death for pursuing their personal freedoms, and people believe certain cultures should be attacked, that certain people should be killed. If people were not raised with a religious background, I don't see this issue as being possible. It seems to me that this is proof that religion or "believing without proof or logical reasoning" is problematic, that it damages logical decision making in society. Is this an accurate and logical assessment, or am I looking at this information the wrong way? 

The simple, fundamental answer: "Logic" is fundamentally just mathematics. A + B = C. But our ideas as humans are so complex and so subjective, they don't fit into any math equation. Our brain has developed in such a way that can calculate the logic of these ideas, but it's not by any means a truly logical calculation, but more of a rough estimate. Engineers working to develop Artificial Intelligence, I'm told, are having a big problem figuring out how to get their algorithms to work because they can't figure out how to teach a computer to make the "correct decision". They're trying to calculate "right and wrong" in binary and it wont work. To solution will be to stop trying to calculate "right and wrong" because it doesnt exist. Only our personal emotional interpretations exist. As a society, and as cultures, we have had to unify our "personal interpretations" of right and wrong in order to live in harmony, but logical decision making will always be just a rough estimate, a very imperfect calculation because logical thinking is purely relative. 

I'm not enough of a philosopher to properly analyze this particular argument, but I'm curious about it and I'd like to see it dissected and explained. 

I've been thinking about government assistance, and on one hand, I dont want to let people die, but on the other hand, I dont want to let them live by taking advantage of my generosity. For example, if a capable person refuses to work, what would logic in favor of humanitarianism suggest that we do? Let them starve? Feed them anyway? Both choices seem to lead to frowned upon results. If too many people take advantage of a system in which all people will be fed regardless, it seems that the society may weaken or collapse. And then there's a matter of fairness, in regards to the people who work, and have their earnings taxed to feed those who wont work. Is there any philosophy which addresses this problem? I'm looking for a citation of any philosophy on the subject which wouldn't be considered "highly" controversial. I'd narrow my question to a single philosophy, but I haven't heard of one which covers this problem.