Those who believe in the strict truth of the book of the Bible (I do not myself) would of course say it goes back to God's creation of the world, see Genesis Chapters 1 and 2 Most others say the week comes from Ancient Babylon, known directly from at least 500 BC but presumably older, if the Jewish religion absorbed it during the Captivity in Babylon which is thought to have ended 538 BC see: $URL$ More information in Gerard Clarke's book 'Heirs to Lost Kingdoms' The 7 day week's origins appear to be based on Babylonian Astrology, which knew 7 'planets' (i.e. wanderers in the sky, as opposed to the fixed constellations): Sun, Moon, Mercury, Mars, Venus, Jupiter and Saturn. Each was thought to 'rule' the first hour of hour of a day of the week. This made each day propitious for some activities but not for others, although there was not originally a Sabbath or a Weekend. Hence why several religions that later developed in the Middle East have one day of a 7 day week as their Holy Day, but possibly also why there is no consensus as to which day it is: Wednesday for Yazidis, Thursday for Druze, Friday for Muslims, Saturday for Jews, Sunday for Christians. [For some reason no religion seems to like Mondays!?] This took longer to spread to Europe. The 1st Century BC Roman writer and politician Cicero complained that the Jews were 'lazy' because they refused to work 1 day in 7. His contemporary the Roman general Pompey had an advantage attacking Jerusalem in 63 BC because the Roman besiegers worked 7 days a week to build up ramps from which to attack the city walls while the pious Jewish defenders would only work to knock them down 6 days a week and stopped for the Sabbath. 

The basic premise of your question is faulty: the American defenses weren't wiped out. Look at the list of what the Japanese hit (from Wikipedia): 

Certain targets were ruled out for various reasons. The Emperor's Palace in Tokyo was ruled out for having essentially no strategic value (despite having high psychological value). Kyoto was ruled out at the request of the Secretary of War, Henry L. Stimson. This produced a final list of five targets: Kokura, Hiroshima, Yokohama, Niigata, and Nagasaki (as a substitute for Kyoto). The final choice of Hiroshima was for entirely mundane reasons: on August 6, it was expected to have the best weather of the five targets. 

The term you're looking for is chronology (Wikipedia's article on the subject is rather sub-par). In general, there are two major ways of synchronizing dates. 

From the standpoint of the ancient Greeks, the aeolipile is a technological dead end. As an engine in its own right, it's useless for more than toys/temple wonders: it produces negligible torque, and does so in a horribly inefficient manner -- the slave you've got stoking the fire to run your aeolipile-powered device would be far more productive if he let the fire go out and did the task himself. As a predecessor to other steam technologies, it's also a dead end. There's no obvious transition from it to the steam piston, which the Greeks might have been able to build. If you turn the aeolipile inside-out, you get the steam turbine, but making turbines efficient enough to be worth using requires a knowledge of metallurgy, precision machining, and aerodynamics far beyond what the ancient Greeks had. 

Wikipedia, which the question quotes, is of course not guaranteed flawless. Africa was actually mostly partitioned in the late nineteenth century, not the twentieth. There was though some adjustment of colonial boundaries partly in Britain's favour, at the expense of Germany, after the First World War. I do not think there was necessarily any contradiction between this and Britain's then policy of free trade. Things did change in 1931 in response to the Depression and resort of other countries to protective tariffs. Britain then abandoned its long-standing policy of free trade to impose a 10% tariff (customs duty) on imports from outside the British Empire. From then on this to some extent skewed colonial markets in favour of British manufacturers as people living in British colonies had to pay a 10% higher price if they preferred to buy say German or Japanese manufactured goods compared to British ones. This was to some extent to the colonies' disadvantage. However, not entirely so; it also meant that the colonies gained the same price advantage selling their produce within Britain and the British Empire, as any competitors from outside the Empire had a 10% tariff slapped on their produce. 

Note: Some Australians and New Zealanders seem to want to believe that most fighting at Gallipoli on the Allied side was done by Australians and New Zealanders, who were all heroic and only failed because "the *&%$ing Pommie British were useless and *&%$ing Pommie British Generals were useless". The Australian Peter Weir's 1981 film 'Gallipoli', starring Mel Gibson, seeks to confirm this prejudice by ending with Australian troops being sent to die in a doomed attack by a stupid British commander; in real life the episode portrayed did occur except the attack was actually ordered by an Australian Colonel. By far the greatest number of Allied troops who gave their lives at Gallipoli were British, and that the French may have lost as many of their troops killed at Gallipoli as the Australians. Many people do not even know the French were there; some history books shamefully neglect their role. The truth was that none of the Allied armies, French (including colonial Senegalese), British, Australian or New Zealand were able to break the deadlock to advance very far inland, but nor could any of them be dislodged by Ottoman counter-attacks. PS In answer to requests below for sources, I mainly rely on the books 'Gallipoli' by Australian historian LA (or Les) Carlyon and 'Gallipoli' by British part-time historian (and former Member of Parliament) Robert Rhodes James. Also re the terrain having been there, in a tour group including Australians and New Zealanders who had no idea that many British or French troops had been in the campaign. The Turks now call the town we know as 'Gallipoli' (which the allies never actually reached) Gelibolu. See also probably any competent general biography in book or website of Winston Churchill, then First Lord of the Admiralty, whose political career was nearly ruined when he got the blame for the Gallipoli campaign, which he had advocated. 

If the photograph is from 1905, then the ship is one of USS Pennsylvania, USS West Virginia, USS Colorado, or USS Maryland, as the other ships of those two classes were commissioned in the 1906-1908 timeframe. There's a decent chance that it's the USS West Virginia, since that ship served with the New York Naval Militia. 

"Latino" or "Hispanic" refers to an American with a cultural heritage from Spain as filtered through Latin America, and says nothing about their genetic ancestry. "Taino" refers to someone with a genetic and cultural heritage from the Taino peoples of the Caribbean. A resident of Puerto Rico could be either, or neither, or both. 

In short, politics. The Flensburg Government (Doenitz's German government) wanted to surrender to the Western allies (the United States and United Kingdom) rather than the Allies as a whole, primarily because of the Soviet reputation for how they (mis)treated prisoners. To this end, Admiral Friedeburg was sent to Field Marshal Montgomery's headquarters. Montgomery was unwilling to accept such a surrender, but Friedeburg was able to negotiate a partial surrender, of forces in Denmark, the Netherlands, and northwestern Germany, including the U-Boat forces. This had the effect of being a surrender to the Western allies, since they were the ones who controlled or were adjacent to these areas. Between the May 4 partial surrender and the May 8 total surrender, German refugees and troops frantically tried to reach Western allied lines to surrender; this included several breakout attempts by forces encircled by the Soviets. On May 7, General Eisenhower informed the Flensberg Government that further attempted surrenders by German troops to the Western forces would not be accepted, which lead to the May 8 unconditional surrender of all forces to the Allies as a whole. 

See $URL$ for a collection of quotations from Homer about the Aethiopians [which basically meant black, sub-Saharan Africans], who are referred to respectfully e.g.: "Iliad 1.423-4 (Thetis is speaking to Achilles.) Only yesterday Zeus went off to the Ocean River to feast with the Aethiopians, loyal, lordly men, and all of the gods went with him." Another Example: While Ovid was a Roman, his collection of stories the 'Metamorpheses' was written based on the Greek myths and shows the considerable influence from Greek culture normal among educated Romans. In the story of Phaeton, Ovid says that the Aethiopians became the colour they are because the sun once veered dangerously close to the Earth and permanently charred them black. This suggests he and his audience regarded being black-skinned as something sufficiently different from what they knew as the norm to potentially require explaining, but he does not suggest that blacks were intrinsically inferior to whites. 

As a non-expert I would guess that: a) It is hard to study without much of written sources; one can tell if an inscription is in Greek, Latin or what but it must be much more conjectural whether an excavated group of huts was occupied by Thracian speakers or some other group. b) As Thracian and Illyrian were later replaced in most of the Balkans by Slavonic languages, most modern inhabitants of those areas feel less connection to (I say less connection to, I do not say none) and desire to preserve the memory of those cultures. (Albanian may be descended from Illyrian but Albania is a small, poor country with limited resources.) c) As far as I know, the Thracians and Illyrians mostly failed to burst into other nations' histories to compel attention in the way that say the Goths and Vandals did when they overran large parts of the Roman Empire. 

When triggered, a bounding mine propels itself into the air, then explodes, spraying shrapnel over a large area. To maximize the effectiveness, the shrapnel pattern is largely horizontal (shrapnel thrown upwards into the air or blown into the ground at the base of the mine is wasted). This means that, in general, the best way to survive a bounding mine is to throw yourself flat on the ground, face down. If you're close enough, most of the shrapnel will pass over you. The best-known bounding mines, the German S-Mine class, had a four-second time delay on the fuse. This gave a person or vehicle triggering the mine time to move away so they wouldn't prevent the mine from rising into the air, but it also gave them time to take evasive action if they realized they'd triggered it. 

Wikipedia has an example Bill of Mortality from 1665, listing the causes of death for the London area. Many of the terms in it are unfamiliar, though, eg. "Kings Evill", "Rupture", "Livergrown". In modern terms, what are these people recorded as dying of? 

It's a stern view of a Pennsylvania-class or Tennessee-class armored cruiser, photographed sometime prior to 1912. Distinguishing features: 

Were there any instances where high-altitude bombing of ships had a significant impact, or even managed to hit the intended target? 

When reading through Wikipedia's articles on naval battles of World War II, you'll often encounter sentences like the following: 

I agree with at least most of J. Siebeneichler's & Sempaiscuba's answers and add the following. It is true that as much of Western Europe Latin continued in use in the British Isles after the end of the Western Roman Empire within the Church, and hence for ‘book learning’ generally, which was for a time mostly a church thing. However, the Geoffrey Thomas's original question is right that as a language of everyday life and as people's first language Latin quickly and disappeared in Britain, unlike in almost all other ex-provinces of the Western Roman Empire, and that this is important and requires explanation. The only Pre-Roman languages that survive in the former Western Empire are Welsh (and its ancient offshoot Breton) and Basque. (The East, over much of which Greek was the main language of government and trade, has a different linguistic history) In the mainly lowland parts of south and east Britain that were conquered by the Anglo-Saxons and became England, Germanic dialects prevailed, and developed into the English language. In the mainly upland parts of the west where the native peoples initially avoided conquest, the pre-Roman native Celtic language Welsh (initially just called 'British') predominated. The question may therefore be divided into: 

I can only offer fragmentary facts I have read but cannot cite sources. I was told by university lecturer years ago that there survives an Ancient Greek 'history of philosophers' that mentions one philosopher of that time of whom the most interesting thing to be said about him was that he owned the complete works of Plato, indicating that this was very unusual even for philosophers. A lot of the time people learned more by 'talking to someone who had talked to Socrates'. In Latin (hence not strictly Greek, but Greco-Roman culture was closely intertwined) there is a word 'librarius' which can be translated 'bookseller', although I have read that the librarius's profession involved copying out the books as well as selling them. This suggests there were businesses that specialised in disseminating books for profit, although as other have said, there was no copyright law so authors did not have the same kind of connection to them that modern authors do to their publishers. There was also a custom among educated Romans that if they wrote a book they invited people they knew to attend a reading of it. The Roman historian Tacitus tried to end each chapter with an epigram, apparently to signal to the audience at the reading when to applaud. Other Roman writers complained about how boring the reading of a book by its author could be. One Roman money lender whose hobby was writing histories was said to be notorious for compelling those unfortunate enough to be in debt to him to attend his readings of his histories. 

What you describe are skirmisher tactics, not guerrilla fighting, though guerrillas do usually use them. Skirmisher tactics are highly effective against a linear infantry formation if you don't intend to hold the field. Taking aimed shots from a distance and reloading from cover lets the skirmishers inflict disproportionately high casualties. Success depends on being able to move out of the way of the advancing army, though: if they ever manage to close in on the skirmishers, the superior numbers and volume of fire from the linear formation will tear the skirmishers to shreds. This means that if a linear formation is willing to absorb the casualties, skirmishers can't stop them. Skirmishers are also highly vulnerable to cavalry charges. Until the development of quick-loading weapons, only compact infantry formations had the volume of fire or the density of bayonets/pikes to keep cavalry away. A skirmisher can't move fast enough to get out of the way, can only fire one or maybe two shots before the cavalry arrives, and is at a distinct disadvantage in a close-range fight. 

Although the two formations look similar, the pike square was developed in a very different tactical environment than the phalanx. The phalanx and the maniple were developed in an environment where the primary weapons were swords, spears, and occasionally slings. Cavalry was rare, and was typically light cavalry used as skirmishers or to protect an army's flanks. Infantry was the supreme fighting force, and the maniple and phalanx were both developed as a counter to infantry. The phalanx and the maniple were both employed offensively: to push against the enemy's formation and break it. The Renaissance, on the other hand, was the tail end of a period when heavy cavalry was the dominant force. Ranged weapons such as bows, cannon, and early handheld firearms were common, and infantry were considered a "yes, we've also got some of them" force by many commanders. Tactically, the job of a pike square is to provide a defensive formation: to keep enemy cavalry away from your artillery and to keep enemy cavalry and infantry away from your arquebusiers (see: pike and shot). The job of breaking the enemy formation was given to the other elements of the army. 

While it is not to do with marriage, it is to do with nationalism, his Wikipedia article confirms that in 1877 Cecil Rhodes, the British colonial magnate (present-day Zimbabwe was formerly known after him as Rhodesia) wrote a will leaving much of his wealth "for the establishment, promotion and development of a Secret Society, the true aim and object whereof shall be for the extension of British rule throughout the world...the ultimate recovery of the United States of America as an integral part of the British Empire, the inauguration of a system of Colonial representation in the Imperial Parliament which may tend to weld together the disjointed members of the Empire and, finally, the foundation of so great a Power as to render wars impossible, and promote the best interests of humanity." He later decided that this was too ambitious and in his last will hoped to achieve the same ultimate end by leaving money to enable American, Commonwealth and German students with leadership potential to study in Britain at Oxford University, in the hope that this would encourage links between future leading men of those countries and those of Britain. ("Rhodes Scholars"). Again according to Wikipedia,: 'Eight former Rhodes scholars subsequently became heads of government or heads of state, including Wasim Sajjad (Pakistan), Bill Clinton (United States), Dom Mintoff (Malta), John Turner (Canada), Norman Manley (Jamaica) and three Australian prime ministers: Bob Hawke, Tony Abbott and Malcolm Turnbull'. Dean Rusk, the US Secretary of State in the 1960s, was also a Rhodes Scholar.