You might want to clarify your question a bit: On one hand you imply by the statement "since in ancient and mediaeval periods science and philosophy weren't clearly distinguished as disciplines" that by modern period, you mean starting with the Enlightenment. But on the other hand, you specifically call out philosophy of science, which only appeared in the 20th century. So it is not clear what you mean by modern period. If by modern period, you mean starting with the enlightenment, then DesCartes (epistemology, physics, math) and Kant (epistemology, astronomy) would count as examples. Here I am considering epistemology to be the "ancestor" of philosophy of science. On the other hand if you are looking for those who contributed strictly to the field of philosophy of science (so starting from the 20th century) - the only well known example I can think of is Hilary Putnam, who contributed to philosophy of science (multiple-realizability and scientific realism), and also made significant contributions to computer science (The DP and DPLL algorithms). Less known is Massimo Pigliucci, who holds doctorates in genetics, botany and in philosophy of science, and has held positions both as professor of evolutionary biology and as professor of philosophy of science. I don't know if his contributions are considered major, but he has contributed enough that he qualifies as a working biologist and as a working academic philosopher of science. Sam Harris hold degrees in both philosophy (undergraduate ) neuroscience (Ph.D), and has written on both topics, but he isn't considered a major contributor to either. His main claims to fame are as a critic of religion (one of the New Atheists) and as a TV pundit, not as a philosopher of science. 

ever be verified, let alone falsified? Even Chomsky style analysis and classifications of language seem at best to fall under the category of mathematical statements or Humean relations of ideas, not empirical testable and verifiable knowledge. In what way is linguistics scientific? 

Physicalism (see SEP article) is the position that the mind is entirely dependent on the physical, so by definition, the mind for a physicalist can't transcend matter, regardless of whether they are reductionist or non-reductionist. The moment you allow the mind to transcend in some way or another, you are for all practical purposes introducing a form of dualism. 

That mystical feelings, or Godsense as you describe it, exist cannot be denied. They cannot be dismissed the way the Richard Dawkins' and Sam Harris' of the world do, and any philosophy purporting to explain human experience without taking them into account is like a cook trying to describe recipes based on the chemical properties of food, while ignoring things like 'spiciness' and 'sweetness' etc... The problem is in the leap that people make from the reality of these feelings, to the unjustified absolute certainty that many religious people have about their beliefs. Just because your feelings of awe and wonder are real doesn't make your belief in Southern Baptist Christianity (or Sunni Maliki Islam, or Progressive Scientology, <>....) justified, and it certainly doesn't allow you to treat everyone else who doesn't believe your own dogma like crap. 

How do Epiphenomenalists explain such causal chains of events that involve higher order mental concepts? Are such causal chains indeed a challenge to Epiphenomenalism? 

On the other hand, in his theory of alienation, he speaks of a human species-essence, and that the capitalist mode of production alienates humans from their species essence, their innate mental essences and their plurality of interests. Doesn't attributing anything essential or inherent to human beings contradict his above quote that human society and consciousness is ultimately driven by material conditions? To put it colloquially, in his theory of historical materialism, Marx seems to be saying "human is as human does", so how can he speak of any essences outside of whatever outward apparent state humans are put in because of the surrounding economic and material conditions? 

This is because the rules of Boolean Logic lead to a mathematical structure called an orthocomplemented lattice. Consider the set of days of the week: The proposition "Today is Monday" is not the opposite of "Today is Tuesday" because even though the statement ["Today is Monday" and "Today is Tuesday"] is always False, the statement ["Today is Monday" or "Today is Tuesday"] is not always True. The proposition "Today is Tuesday" has one unique opposite proposition which is "Today is either Monday, or Wednesday, or Thursday, or Friday or Saturday, or Sunday". However, in other forms of logic, such as some - but not all - Fuzzy Logics, or Quantum Logics, it is possible for a single proposition to have more than one opposite. This is because such logics lead to different structures which are described by orthomodular lattices instead of orthocompelmented lattices. In particular, in Quantum Logic, the reason why one proposition can have more than one opposite or complement is because just as in your initial example, statements are represented as vectors in multiple dimensional Hilbert Spaces, instead of being represented as subsets of a Boolean Algebra. 

On the other hand, the link between Nietzsche and Nazi ideology seemed much more tenuous. So why does Hegel "escape" the charge of being a precursor to Nazism while Nietzsche has to be constantly defended from it? 

The key element for existentialists was authenticity: One should strive to be authentic and create their own meaning in life, as opposed to just following or copying others, or doing things for the sake of appearances. So objective meaning doesn't really matter (and shouldn't). Most Existentialists were atheists (Sartre, Camus,...), but they could be christian as well, like Kierkegaard famously was. Your world view is also similar in a way to Nietzsche's Nihilism. 

In "A Brief History of Time" - Chapter 9, Stephen Hawking gives an explanation of how the arrow of time works, i.e. why time seems to move forward in one direction while space can go in different directions. He first explains that there are 3 arrows of time: 

To summarize, the top-down approach would be a priori and closer to rationalist and idealist conceptions of scientific discovery, and the bottom-up approach would be a posteriori, and closer to empiricist conceptions of scientific discovery. 

First you have to understand what evidence means: Empirical observations that support one explanation but disqualify other explanations. Evidence for belief would be some feature of the world around us (something in nature, something about the way human beings are made, something about the laws of physics, etc...) that can only be explained by the existence of God, or for which the most reasonable explanation is God. The cosmological argument and the teleological argument are basically attempts at providing evidence based arguments for God's existence (as opposed to the ontological argument which is based on pure logic). Those who disbelieve view such arguments as unconvincing, stating that modern cosmology and the theory of evolution provide better explanations for the way the world is than the cosmological and teleological arguments. A key difference for atheists is that science has predictive power whereas belief in God doesn't: Both science and God work as after the fact explanations for the way things are, but only science allows people to predict future events. This predictive power is seen as evidence that science is more accurate than belief in God. 

For them, Hitler and Stalin were just too sides of the same coin. In Russia there was a communist revolution, in Germany there was none, yet the end result was the same: Murderous totalitarian states, concentration camps and gulags. So to answer your question directly: What happened in Russia would likely have happened anyway, Bolshevik revolution or not, because the same thing happened in Germany, where there was no communist revolution. Some things should be noted: 

I agree with pretty much everything Virmaior and Chris Sunami said, however I would point out one counter example: Sam Harris. Note that he would fit more into the Analytic tradition than the Continental tradition. He only has a B.A in philosophy (He has a Ph.D in Neuroscience), and apparently no graduate level training in the subjects he writes about. He has published several widely received philosophical books, and is considered by many an influential figure, even if he is not held in high regard by Academics. I think the key to his success despite the lack of formal credentials is that he ties his philosophical writing to current affairs and controversial topics such as atheism, religious extremism and terrorism, etc.... So to answer your question: You are facing an uphill battle if you want to get a philosophy book published without being part of the in-crowd, but diving into a hot controversial topic will help. Basically you have to be a "high-brow troll". 

One of the main ideas of the analytic schools of philosophy (logical atomism, ordinary language philosophy,...) is that many philosophical problems can be dissolved - as opposed to resolved - upon analysis of the language used to describe the problem, it is realized that there was never a problem to start with, just a complication or misuse created by the way the problem was stated. It struck me that this might be the case in the believers vs atheists debates. Two examples: 

To answer your second question, Daniel Dennett attempts to prove that qualia are a pseudo-problem in his paper "Quining Qualia" (Dennett, Daniel C., In "Consciousness in Modern Science" Anthony J. Marcel & E. Bisiach (eds.), [Book Chapter]. Oxford University Press (1988)) and later in his book "Consciousness Explained". Supporters say that qualia's special epistemic status comes from the infallibility of our direct knowledge of them, and that they are intrinsic absolute truths: after Descartes, when I see red, I am certain that I see red, the cause of my seeing red is subject to all sorts of doubt (is it reality? illusion? neural damage? etc...), but that I see red is an indisputable fact. But per Dennett, our knowledge of qualia is just as fallible as our knowledge of everything else. Through a series of what he calls intuition pumps, he challenges the infallibility of our knowledge of qualia, and the idea that they are intrinsic experiences that are independent of our memories of past experience and our responses and beliefs to them. From the paper: 

What you are describing is the philosophy of the Stoics, a group of philosophers from Ancient Greece, and later Rome, whose central idea was that the main purpose in life was to live with dignity. They held that life was full of tragedies and misfortune, and humans had no control over their fate. The only real choice a person had was in how they faced life's hardships: do they cry and whimper or do they maintain their dignity and self-respect no matter what challenges they faced? The ideal Stoic remained calm and indifferent even in the face of torture or death. One could also argue that Buddhism pushes a similar philosophy, although in that case the main objective was the suppression of desires in order to achieve enlightenment. Suppressing desires pretty much leads to the same thing as suppressing emotions. However, in Buddhism, the control of emotions is more of means to an end rather than an end in itself. 

1.1 Determinism is not true: One could argue for this from a dualist position, that the mind is separate from the body and part of a non-material mental realm that doesn't follow the laws of physics, yet has the power to act on the body in a causal way. DesCartes famously argued for this position, and went so far as to say that the non-material mind acted on the brain via the pineal gland. 1.2 Determinism is true for small systems, but not always true for larger systems. There is no non-material mental realm or supernatural souls or anything, but free-will is an emergent property of the physical brain. Emergence is the idea that a large scale property can appear in an object made entirely of smaller objects, none of which posses that property. For example an elastic piece of rubber is made of a bunch of interacting atoms and sub-atomic particles. Although the elasticity of the rubber is dependent on the way those particles interact, none of the individual protons, neutrons and electrons that make up the rubber exhibit the property of elasticity themselves. Similarly, it has been argued, although I forget the source, that freewill might be such an emergent property of the way proteins, neurons, and chemicals interact in the brain, even though all of those individual components behave in a deterministic way. 2.Determinism is true, but it doesn't preclude freewill: This position is known as compatibilism: The world is deterministic, but free will is still possible, hence free will and determinism are compatible. Defenders of this position, such as Daniel Dennett, argue that we are mistaken in our definition of freewill. Freewill is not the freedom to act against the laws of physics and causality (nobody can defy gravity out of freewill for example), but is instead the freedom to act according to one's own motivations. As long as a system has agency, and has practical freewill, true metaphysical freewill is unnecessary. Once we have adjusted our definition of freewill, then freewill and determinism become compatible. 

I heard in a philosophy of the mind lecture that Skinner's behaviorism went out of favor in the 50s mainly due to Chomsky's critique of Skinner's behaviorist account of language acquisition. When I looked further into the question, it seemed that Chomsky's reply to Skinner is based on a theory of universal grammar, based in turn on a concept of innate ideas. Innate ideas as a concept have been discredited as far back as Kant. My questions: 

William James believed that there was no central entity or ego that embodied the "I" in "I feel" or "I think". That the continuous stream of thoughts and sensations generated the illusion of their being a central entity doing the thinking and perceiving, but that no such entity existed. Here's James as quoted in Russell's "The Analysis of Mind" 

I was hearing a recorded lecture on the philosophy of science, and I heard the author mention that various disciplines (math, physics, etc...) separated from philosophy and became established scientific disciplines, a well known fact. He then stated that psychology was the latest discipline to do so, without further elaborating on that point. My question(s): 

This is known as pantheism, and has adherents even among certain interpretations of the monotheistic religions. 

This paradox is directly addressed by mathematician David Wolpert, in a theorem named after him (Wolpert's theorem) and the answer is: 

A really interesting book I read on the topic is "A Tear at the Edge of Creation", by physicist Marcelo Gleiser. In it he argues that recent discoveries (including the frequent inconsistencies in measurement that Smoot talks about) indicate that a Theory of Everything is unlikely. He also argues that there is no reason for us to expect such a theory in the first place, and that the only reason people have expected such a theory is a holdover from monotheistic religious beliefs. He argues that the idea of single God who created the universe is so deeply ingrained in Western culture, that even those who don't believe in God still work with the assumption that a single set of fundamental laws must govern the universe, even though empirical evidence points in the other direction. 

Whewell was also notable for looking at the history of science to understand the scientific method. This same concept, that the history of science is intimately tied with the way science is and should be practiced, was taken up later by Thomas Kuhn and most radically by Paul Feyerabend. The idea is that philosophers shouldn't just sit in their armchairs philosophizing about what the best way to do science is. Instead they should look at the history of science and examine how the greatest scientific discoveries and theories were achieved to understand how science should be conducted. In particular, Feyerabend uses examples from both the history of science and contemporary science (especially the historical example of Galileo) to show in his book "Against Method", that there is no proper method for scientific discovery. His opening statement in the introduction of the book is the following: 

I just listened to a lecture on ethics and justice, and John Rawls' "a theory of justice" was presented as the most significant work of political philosophy in recent times. The lecturer then went on to explain his two principles of liberty and equality. The two struck me as blatant capitalism apologetics, with no real philosophical depth to them, more like a formal version of the so called "compassionate conservatism" that some republicans claim to espouse than any truly insightful philosophical principle. Ayn Rand basically says the rich should be free to get as rich as they want to, while Rawls says the rich should be free to get as rich as they want to, as long as the poor get to pick up of a few crumbs here and there. His theory of justice seemed like it was just "Objectivism Light". What am I missing in Rawls's theory of justice and why is he taken more seriously as a political philosopher by academics than Rand? 

As wolf-revo-cats points out, your question is so broad as to encompass the entire fields of epistemology and philosophy of science. You do point out to some interesting details in your question which have been answered elsewhere in this post. But we need to break up your statements.