The simplest ethical framework is Kant's. From that point of view, which of these two agendas could one always imagine everyone followed, which would not ultimately cause you problems. The problem with asking a question in Kantian terms is that it is very important how the question is phrased, and yours is not clear enough. If everyone follows the agenda that they favor their own benefit, there will be times when you are vastly outnumbered, and the results will be quite bad for you. If everyone follows the agenda that they vote opposite to their own benefit, there will be times when you are in a vast majority, and the result would be even worse even more often, as more people will be equally badly hurt. But since neither option can be made universal, this is probably the wrong way to look at what is actually going on. What is another way to look at this distinction? Instead of being self-centered and voting for or against your own interest, you could think in terms of voting your own interest, or choosing someone at random who differs from you in some important aspect, in whose interest to vote. I think we could generalize that solution. If the person in whose interest we should try to be motivated is randomly chosen, this does maintain a bias toward benefitting majorities. But overall, people feel OK with the idea that what is good for more people should happen more often, as long as this cannot become a form of systematic oppression. Since the population differs a great deal in many dimensions, choosing someone else based on different criteria each time, does not create a systematic bias against the overall majority, and it breaks down correlations between advantages that traditionally lead to a single group benefitting over and over again. In addition, it would lead to something else that could, over time, become quite positive. In order to understand when you are voting in the interest of some other randomly chosen person, you would have to actually actively empathize with that person, and discern the effects on them. Understanding how different people, about whom you would not ordinarily think, might be affected, would improve your ability to see how benefits to given groups function, and to better make correct determinations about how things might affect your target beneficiary. This is a bizarre and rigid way to make decisions, but it offers a perspective on what is really required. What we need in a voting system, from a Kantian view, is empathy across divisions. Taking the weirdness out of the formula, we should consider a number of others, very different from ourselves in different ways, as randomly as we are really able, and do what benefits that group, instead of choosing to vote for or against ourselves. 

Given the direction which Wittgenstein turned thereafter, it might be good idea to simply first take the statement literally, and not ascribe interpretation (e.g. about reference to God) to it. Taken that way, it is simply a logical necessity, so it can be neither a practice, nor advice, good nor bad. So then, how does it apply in context? If we look forward from the Tractatus to where he is going next, the period between the Tractatus and the Investigations where his lectures were developing the notion of the language-game, then logical discourse itself, as laid out in the Tractatus, is simply an example of a single clear game, if one from which numerous others inherit. In that context, this tautology comes to reflect the respect for the boundaries between language games. Within a given game, there are things to which the rules simply don't apply. One can make those moves, but they are either pointless, or they are disguised trickery, and either way, they are not useful participation in the ongoing dialog. In this way, I think Wittgenstein returned to his original position, when he claimed the Tractatus would be dedicated "To the glory of God", if that would not be instantly misunderstood. In that frame of mind, there is a reasonable place to discuss God, as long as one realizes the purpose of doing so, and does not use the power of that domain to corrupt other domains of discourse. Not coincidentally, from certain interpretations, the word he uses in German for 'to keep silent', is not simply a reference to quiet. It is not 'be still', which is much more common, but 'come to a close' or 'restrain oneself'. It is also the more traditional German translation of 'tacere' as the fourth "power of the Sphinx" (To know, to will, to dare, and to be silent.) So there is an element of respecting power, and an accusation of aggression against those who fail to do so, built into the statement. (It is also a pun, as it is the last word and the word for the end of a musical piece.) Looking forward to the theory of language games, this is fitting, because it acknowledges that purposely crossing clarifying boundaries and bringing over power acquired in a different domain, is a kind of warfare against the topic in the name of contribution. 

First, most folks (with various exceptions e.g. Meinong, David Lewis) buy Kant's argument: Being does not add meaning, because it is not a property, or at least it is just a reflection, and not an objective property that conveys meaning. You can't implying 'something more exists' by not saying anything. To see this in more detail: If a property actually conveys meaning, its applicability can be tested against some criterion. Also, properties have opposites. So if existence were an objective property, nonexistence would also be a property. As the opposite of existence, it would also be objective, and so could be tested. Well, to what would one apply the test for nonexistence? I cannot put a nonexistent unicorn in any hypothetical machine and press a button to judge whether it is really there. By contradiction, we have a proof -- existence is not an objective property. If you allow the test to be applied to a reference to the object, then existence ends up being one modality among many, depending upon the kind of reference: unicorns exist, but only fictionally, they can be referred to in stories; guilt exists, but only morally, it can be assigned by a set of principles; many future versions of me exist, but only potentially, as things that refer to me as their past... We need another sort of logic for modalities, and what we have is very incomplete. Second, no materialist has ever denied there are things other than matter. Matter itself cannot account for motion, so there is energy other than matter (even if matter is energy, energy is not matter.) And beyond that even matter in motion cannot account for generalizations made about those motions, and the statistical trends there are obviously exist in some sense. No materialist denies this, either. So your statement 'only matter exists', taken completely literally, is already silly, even to the most dedicated materialist. It is a straw man. But the notion of modality gives us a less elusive way of stating the proposition of materialism: for a materialist, the modality 'physical' is more basic than the modality 'actual' -- so that anything that exists 'actually' also exists 'physically' -- I can point at it or locate it by coordinates, referring to it in a physical way, or I can identify it via its effects upon other things that I can refer to physically, in a way consistent with physical observation. (This is a reasonable and meaningful statement because we have examples of other modes related in this way. Possibility is more basic than actuality or morality: anything that actually exists has to potentially exist; anything I really ought to do has to be possible.) This might be true. But we can't tell, because since quantum dynamics, the notion of locality, and therefore the modality of 'physical' seems to be impossible to define: Is there a boundary on 'physical'?