It's close enough for a very rough guess, but in most cases (especially if using a sizing formula) you'll want to measure the distance from the ground right up to your pubic bone. Unless your pants drag along the ground, you're inseam size will be a bit shorter: somewhere in the range of 1-3" (as a guess). You can get this quickly measured at many road bike shops as part of the shopping process (i.e. it should be free). 

Soak the rusted join with WD-40 from above and below (ie. flip the frame and spray down the seat tube). Let it sit for a few hours or overnight. Secure the frame against something solid, like a heavy workbench (not a repair stand!). Put an old saddle you don't care much about on the seat post. Hit the side of the saddle's nose with a hammer or mallet. Use short, hard taps -- using wild swings you're liable to hurt yourself or the frame. 

Ok, I googled that funky MegaRange 14-34 (first picture) and it appears to be a 7-speed threaded freewheel. The second example is a bit harder to make out but it appears to be a modern cassette+freehub design, not sure how many sprockets. The two designs are incompatible and use different hub styles. The freewheel design includes both the sprockets and freewheel (the mechanism which lets you coast) as one piece, which screws onto the hub body. This is an older design and is limited to a lower number of gears, typically 7 or less. I'm not sure of any clear advantage, other than it's easier to replace the freewheel in this design. It's been a long time since I had one of these. Most modern hubs use the second freehub design, where the hub includes the freewheel mechanism. The sprockets come separately as "cassettes" and can be slid onto the freehub; a locking ring (black in the picture) holds the cassette in place. Cassettes make it easier to change out a worn sprocket set, or to switch between different sets for different conditions (e.g. one for flat terrain, another for climbing). Because the cassette widths are standard, you can often upgrade to more sprockets without changing the hub (although you still need to upgrade the shifters). The tradeoff is that to replace the freewheel you'll end up replacing the entire hub. For more details (with pictures), check out Sheldon Brown's site. 

Bar ends are typically banned from group/club rides because of the potential to hook another rider when riding in a tight group. Because a flat MTB-style handlebar is wider than a drop bar, adding bar ends increases the likelihood of snagging another rider. (drop bars still can cause crashes though, which I've seen first hand) On the plus side, adding bar ends gives you more hand positions to choose from (similar to using drop bars). This is very important on long rides (e.g. touring) since your hands can go numb and possibly suffer nerve damage if you keep them in one position for too long. Some people find the hand position on bar ends more comfortable too. Papuass has been injured by a bar end in a crash. My experience is the opposite: the bar end protected my hand from sliding along the pavement at high speed, saving me a fair amount of skin. So it can go both ways. If you're not doing group rides where bar ends are banned, I would definitely consider trying them for the sake of having more hand positions. 

50 miles per day is a fair amount of riding. 4 hours sounds about right when you take into account traffic stops, hills, etc. If you're not used to putting in this kind of distance -- not to mention a full day's work too -- then it's not surprising that you're tired. Before splurging on a new bike, try some of the modifications others have suggested. Narrow slick tires can really make a mountain bike feel faster. But you're still going to have to work on getting used to the distance -- going a bit faster won't build up your endurance. One way to build up to this commute would be to ride only one way per day. If transit is an option, ride in one day, leave the bike overnight and transit home. Then on the second day, transit back and ride home. If you can't do transit but can transport your bike by car, drive your car in the first morning then ride home in the evening. Then ride in the next morning and drive back home on the second day. 

I do carry them with me but I've never patched on the road -- I always carry a fresh tube instead since most of my flats happen in wet conditions. But I've occasionally used "glueless" (they're actually pre-glued) patches from the comfort of home and they've turned out fine. 

Jay's answer covers most of it and you should start with his suggestions (toe-in and greasy rims are big culprits). I'll only add two things: 

Your approach to building up distance is a great tried-and-true method. I do a fair number of long distance (200-600km) rides but don't currently do any type of cross training. Like yourself, I started out with shorter distances and gradually built up to longer and longer rides. With more and more time on the bike, you will start to notice all of those little areas where your riding position needs tweaking. A fresh bike fit might help dial in your comfort more. It sounds like you could use a stem adjustment -- a bit shorter or higher will give you a more relaxed position. Many riders are positioned too aggressively on the bike and this really shows up over longer distances. You also need to take more care of your body on long rides. It's important to get out of the saddle regularly, long before anything starts to hurt. Same goes for moving your hands around on the bars. Stretching out your neck, shoulders and arms during the ride will also help. If you do want to add some cross-training, anything that strengthens your core or adds flexibility will help (see curtismchale's answer). Swimming is fantastic for your core. I haven't tried yoga or pilates but I imagine they would help too. 

I've wiped excess sunscreen countless times on my cycling shorts with no ill effects. Same goes for sweat, chain oil and miscellaneous grime picked up on roadside repairs. My cycling clothing wears out from friction (simple things like a camelbak slowly rubbing holes in backs of jerseys, to obvious ones like accidental high-speed contact with asphalt) and from general wear & tear. Lycra definitely loses its stretch over time too. And watch out for loose velcro straps, they can tear up lycra and jerseys during a ride or in the wash. 

Adjusting the rear derailleur is a matter of tightening or slackening the shifter cable so that the chain runs smoothly for all rear cogs. The easiest way to do this is using a barrel adjuster -- there's normally one where the cable runs into the derailleur and you may have another where the cable runs into the shifter or on the downtube for a road bike. If you look at the barrel adjuster from the point of view of the cable housing (not the bare cable) running into it, turning the adjuster clockwise will slacken the cable and counter-clockwise will tighten it. Adding slack to the rear derailleur should adjust the chain towards the small cog, tightening moves it towards the large cog. If the barrel adjuster doesn't give you enough range, then you'll have to adjust the slack where the cable clamps into the derailleur. With your bike in a stand, or flipped upside-down, change to your middle chainring (for a triple) and try it out. You should be able to see small movements in the derailleur as you tweak the barrel adjuster. I like to get the middle cog dialed in really well (change gears in/out this cog) and then check that this setup works for all of the others. You'll probably have to adjust this slightly once you ride the bike. (Once you get comfortable with this, you can actually tweak the derailleur mid-ride without stopping if you have a barrel adjuster on the shifter or down tube) After tweaking the derailleur setup, you should also double-check the limit screws just to be on the safe side. These are two screws on the derailleur that adjust how far it can move. One keeps the chain from going past the large cog (sometimes marked L?) and the other does the same for the small cog (H?). Make sure that the derailleur cannot move the chain off of the end cogs. Turning the appropriate screw clockwise should push the limit in towards the center of the cassette, counter-clockwise normally gives the derailleur more freedom. Of course, there are a whole range of other problems that can affect shifting (worn chain, worn cogs, bad chain line, worn cable/housing, sticky derailleur, etc.), but try this first. 

support a full touring load (and survive) should be easy to extend/retract when your hands are full shouldn't get in the way of the pedals when you're cleaning the chain 

Seated climbing is the most efficient way to go: just pick a low enough gear and spin it out. Standing requires proper technique and can never be as efficient since your muscles have to support your entire body weight. But standing does change the muscles in play and can be a nice break from that uncomfortable saddle. It also might be your only option if you don't have low enough gearing to spin up a steep hill. 

If you're sitting too upright, vibrations from the road/trail (anything from pavement quality to serious potholes) will travel straight up your spine, causing your the gaps between your vertebrae to expand and contract. This can add up on a long ride. Ideally you want to be leaning forward enough that your back has at least a slight arch to it so that your muscles absorb the impact instead of your spine. Suspension (either rear or a sprung saddle/seatpost) can help here too. If you're riding with your elbows locked, or letting your shoulders sag then again you're letting your inflexible skeleton take the shocks instead of letting your muscles do the work. If you're leaned too far forward, then you'll constantly be craning your neck upwards to see the road ahead. The solution here is to raise your handlebars and/or shorten the stem length. Finally, long rides require stretching out muscles that tend to get stay in the same position all the time. This is especially true for your upper body and neck. Either stop to stretch or learn how to some basic stretches while riding. If I didn't stretch my neck periodically, I'd be a mess after a 10+ hour ride! 

The spot with the least effort is at the back, because the slipstream at its is widest here. If you're having trouble hanging on to the back then you may not cut it further up the group -- you'll just open up a gap and annoy everyone caught behind you. The problem in the back is that every time a rider varies their speed, it ripples back through the line and gets worse and worse. So at the back you'll have to stay focused since the paceline may appear to speed up and slow down often. Near the front the line will appear much smoother. If you notice a gap opening up, pedal hard to close it. The wider it gets, the further you fall out of the slipstream and the more effort you'll need to apply. Fall too far back (even just a few feet in a big, fast group) and you're toast unless you're a strong sprinter. Keep within a foot of the next rider's rear wheel, but don't get closer than you're comfortable with. Keep more distance if they seem to surge ahead or fall back often. Never overlap their wheel -- if your wheels touch, you're most likely headed down and they may never even notice what happened. Don't focus on the wheel ahead of you. Scan ahead for obstacles (which others should be pointing out), turns, climbs and traffic stops. Resist the urge to use your brakes -- better to swerve (safely) out of the paceline rather than brake hard and have the rest of the pack pile into you. A good paceline rotates front riders constantly -- when you're the second rider, make a note of the paceline's speed. When it's your turn up front, do not accelerate, maintain that same speed at a nice steady rhythm. Your turn might be up after a set number of minutes or distance, depending on the group. But if you're tiring too quickly, better to end your turn early rather than slowing the line down or being unable to take a turn later on. When your turn's up, check over your left shoulder to make sure there's no traffic coming up alongside the paceline. An exaggerated shoulder check also lets the next rider know you're ready to switch. When the lane's clear, peel off to the left (might be the right in the UK?) and coast or soft pedal to let the paceline roar by. As the last rider approaches, accelerate hard and duck into the slipstream at the back of the line (don't wait too long or you might get dropped).