If you have been eating 200kcal a day for any significant amount of time, you should contact a physician on a proper advice on how to start to recover. Not only this is not enough energy to sustain basic body functions like body temperature or heart beat but also such amount of food keeps you deprived from all basic essential fatty and amino acids, vitamins and minerals. Any advice from people that do not know your personal case (and it does not look like a common case) should be ignored. Your body burns over 1000kcal a day just to maintain its basic functions (and actually for a 60kg person, male or female, no matter how sedentary, that figure will be higher) thus while eating that much, it is physically impossible to store fat. And under that - your body is desperately destroying tissue to try to reduce the energy expenditure. Any weight gain after you increase your calories to a figure close to your maintenance level (and at least 1000kcal) will be due to water retention and stomach content, not body fat. 

First of all, given we don't know much about the exact situation - have in mind there could be an underlying medical condition so you should consult a doctor if you have any such doubt. That being said - having more strength on your right side, especially in the beginning is not unlikely. Your strength is not solely determined by your muscle shape and size but how well your nervous system knows how to coordinate your muscle tissue to produce work (muscle unit recruitment). Actually when a person starts weightlifting for first time, there are massive strength gains first few months mostly because of improved muscle unit recruitment. Given that through your life you have used your right hand for many demanding tasks, or have your right leg stepping first when climbing stairs etc, there could be such natural imbalance. It's significance should decrease over time. A tactic strength athletes (especially bodybuilders) apply to have equal development is doing unilateral exercises at the end of their workout. Eg one hand biceps curls or altering leg lunges - doing equal number of reps on either limb. But have in mind that you should focus on big movements and full-body workouts in the beginning (squats, deadlifts, vertical and horizontal pushing/pulling), not using isolating exercises. Those basic exercises will work your abs much better than crunches. You might however include isolating (single joint) exercises at the end of your workout to help you feel more confident that you are equating the development of your sides. 

There is a simple general formula to calculate BMR (calories you burn per day without exercise). It is rather accurate as long as you are not far from "average" person. Eg very lean, very muscular, very obese: 

The main concern with low carb diets is if you consume too much processed meats, which are not healthy at all. I'd strongly advice you to stick to less processed food most of the time and eat lots of fish. Try to get free-range eggs and higher quality food if you can afford it. Also, it could be a concern if you completely cut out veggies and fruit from it. And I personally have a training high-carb day in the week where I try to match my calories to be a bit higher than the average of my total daily expenditure. Out of 4-5 meals on that day, I have one that I could eat some cheat food if I really crave (pizza/beer/ice-cream) but generally it's just enough to have some fruit, some nice bread and other foods I generally miss. So this makes it quite impossible to stay in ketogenic state, but the fact that it's all planned makes it really hard to get out of track. I hope this helps. 

And even fewer can make a meaningful set of many reps like that. And you definitely need both of your arms for balance. If you don't do full one-leg squat, focus on going the whole way (you can google for videos / articles for "Pistol squats"). However if you do manage to get many full one-leg squats and they feel too easy, you can try to grab and hold a dumbbell with both hands in front of your chest. And definitely shoot a youtube video - it will be impressive to see :) 

Stomach Vacuum is contracting the transverse abdominis or TVA. Doing it regularly helps you tighten up those muscles which is both aesthetically desirable and has other health benefits. Aesthetically desirable because it makes your waist look smaller (front-to-back width) and helps you keep your stomach flat and tight while resting/walking. TVA also plays a huge role in preventing back pain. Now the questions is what would you want to achieve with an "opposite" exercise? If you want more muscular abdominals, you should increase the workout volume on them just like with any other muscle. But this is by no means opposite to doing "Stomach Vacuum" exercise - actually it could only help you achieve better overall definition. 

Yesterday I finished an anual bike race - 100km of cross-country riding with 6000m total elevation that many amateurs (over 2000) around here attempt. For most people it takes between 5 and 12 hours to finish and it is quite taxing. It's my 6th year doing it and while I usually manage to feel quite fine within 24 hours, some of my friends with less praparation complain of soreness and nausea for 2-3 days. What would be best strategy to recover after that? Including: 

Your muscles haven't gotten any bigger, they are slightly swollen (or "pumped") after your workout, because of inflammation. This is a standard response of your body to this new challenge you are throwing at it. If you keep training, at some point this effect will last only few hours after working out, if at all. Because your body would have adapted and gotten used to handling your workouts. As a female, you likely will not be able to gain any significant amount of muscle, no matter how heavy you train. And even if your goal is to gain some muscle - it won't happen overnight. It is a slow process that takes lots of time and you are in complete control of it. Building some muscle will help you have well defined "toned" figure. Only gaining fat can drive you away from your goals - and weight training is helping you to go in the other direction. So bottomline is - keep training most importantly - keep challenging yourself. If something feels easy, it in fact is too easy and most likely doesn't help you make progress. 

The above is a good guideline to plan initial caloric intake if starting a diet. As everyone has slightly different metabolic rate, different lifestyle and daily activity routines, caloric intake should be adjusted according to progress. 

Gaining muscle after huge fat loss should be done slowly as it takes long time for your body to get accustomed to lower body fat level and could gain fat rather easily. Waist shouldn't increase from muscle gain significantly. Take regular measurements of waist and tights. ** On the other hand most people that lift weights seriously have problems finding pants because of big tights. If you regularly squad/deadlift, you will soon have to forget about most "skinny fit" jeans and go towards "loose fit" or certain models of "regular/straight fit" jeans. ** Fat gain is a major concern if you are above 15% bf - if so, try to maintain weight while training with bigger weights and consuming same amount of calories that you burn. After a while go for another cutting period to get to around 10% bf before focusing on muscle gain. 

"Listen" to your body. If you feel pain during exercise (not one of lactic buildup in muscles), with or without injuries, it's best to immediately stop. Make sure you are doing the exercise properly and that you don't have an underlying condition that limits your ability to perform the exercise safely. That being said, I'm occasionally doing twists, starting with low range of motion before starting to push myself or use weight (for Russian twists). I occasionally feel lower back pain from all kinds of seated ab exercises thus I prefer exercises like the "Hanging Pike", ab-wheel (which can also be taxing to your lower back if not performed properly) and full range of motion chin-ups (which activate the abdominals most)[1]. My advice is given that you have an actual health condition - be very cautious, always start doing the twists slowly, warm up well and stay on the safe side. Don't ignore any pains and if in any doubt - consult a physician. [1] $URL$ 

Nothing to worry about, it's just milk protein. Many baby food formulas contain whey and casein protein. Read about "whey protein" in wiki. There is just lots of misinformation about supplements in general. They key to proper recovery and muscle growth is to have enough daily protein intake, regardless of the source - about 2 grams per kg of body weight (without counting non-animal protein sources). If you have a poor diet, whey protein won't help you much. Strive to consume enough protein from food and add protein shakes here and there to help you match that figure, or as a bonus intake on training days. 

Short answer would be that light work (walking / light jog, other low intensity work) and stretching on your "rest" days will help your recover from intense workouts. You should actually look for ways to be more active on off days instead of avoiding any work. Make sure you stretch after warming up to avoid injury (contrary to what many people do - stretching before warming up or as a warm up). However I feel you might have a misguided understanding of the "need" to rest. If you feel like training more, you could (and probably should) train more. Overtraining does not happen as easy as some people try to make it and definitely has not happened if you feel like doing more. In fact you should avoid doing very intense workouts more than 3 days in a row but very few people do such taxing workouts every time anyway. Then you say you'd try to have only 1-2 rest days per week. I would advise you to make your goals to be that you train in a way that lets you progress in a measurable way. Training more often will at certain point help you achieve that. But as an example - if your workouts consist of running, you could run more total distance per week, or run longer distance same time or run faster the same distance or combination of those. For weight training it could mean to lift more total amount of weight (sets x reps x weight) on your exercises or do same work in less time or combination of both. It's enough that you start somewhere - let's say 3-4 times a week and make sure to progress based on your goals. At some point you might feel you need to start working 5 or 6 days a week (and maybe more frequent shorter workouts will feel better), maybe some days purposefully lighter, with some stretching. But again the goal should be to progress, not to train every day for the sake of it. If you start by working out (almost) every day driven by high motivation you might soon burn out as CNS (central nervous system) fatigue accumulates.