Possible yes, but a good idea probably not. Bones are calcium, this is a mineral, it's a metal actually. If organic biology can lay down one mineral then there's no reason to suppose evolution couldn't develop organisms that lay down other minerals. Aside from the utility & usefulness of those other minerals to an organism as dictated by mother nature through evolution & natural selection of course. There are in fact examples of other minerals laid down by organisms in the real world, some snails that live around deep sea vents do actually grow their shells out of another metal. The only real question is would this other mineral provide an evolutionary edge to the organism that uses it for it's bones, most crystal probably isn't a good choice, at least not for bones, your diamond bones may be hard but will also be brittle, so lateral blows to long bones are pretty likely to cause it to shatter far more easily than our calcium bones, possibly not a good idea then. 

As for the rust issue, I'd be surprised if any outdoor automatons weren't properly weather proofed & would expect plastics & other non-ferrous materials (fiberglass, carbon fiber, etc) to be the norm for outer casings. 500 years may be stretching things a bit though, they still need maintenance & repair so you'll need to have had a lot of automated repair shops out there before the fall as well. And if the power industry is sufficiently automated to keep running with no people there's no reason the mining, refining, machine parts & electronics industry won't be as well so your repair shops stay fully stocked, they should even be able turn out new units to order (from their own, other household & factory supervisor software*) as needed. *A unit like the Amazon Alexa can already be set up to place online orders to automatically restock your fridge for you (which might then be delivered by drone) & it's really no different from that. 

All the resources, all the materials, everything you need to build a space station in the first place are basically at the bottom of a gravity well (i.e. on planets). Was that "asteroid belt" I heard you say? it's a damn long way out from the sun to that, & energy to run your station out there is going to be thin on the ground as a result, travelling out & back with the ore will take a damn long time & likely even more energy than lifting the stuff off planet. So everything you need to build, extend & maintain it has to be hauled uphill (or a very long way). In the short term there may be advantages to a space station but ultimately in the long term the cost benefits of hauling all that stuff off world every-time you have enough population increase to need to expand (or build a new station) means that long term the planet route will win every time. Whatever advantage space stations do or don't have long term it's just cheaper & more economic to drop your population at the bottom of that hill where everything they need (for expansion) is anyway. Which doesn't mean we shouldn't have space stations, we should, there are a lot of things we can do with them we can't do (or can't do as easily, or as well) on a planet & they're going to be a useful part of our toolkit, but as a housing solution for the bulk of the human race they're a non-starter. All in all even an un-terraformed planet where you have to live in a contained environment is a better solution for a growing population than a space station, at least everything needed to build new living space is close at hand there. 

It's possible, as other answers indicate, to convert kinetic force into electricity, so I won't repeat that. But what you should think about is the cost-benefit ratio. The truth is, it's not feasible to add the complexity of an extra subsystem to an already ridiculously complex system. Think of the amount of electricity it takes to accelerate anything to several times the speed of sound. Power savings from a kinetic converter would simply be insignificant. 

If you are willing to sacrifice those types of orbits and the habitable zone, consider a world like this: Jupiter's moon Io is the most volcanically active body in the solar system, making its surface uncharacteristically hot for where it is. The tidal forces that Jupiter and Europa enact on it cause the activity. Although Io is a harsh and toxic environment (with all the sulfur and volcanoes and whatnot), you could entertain a scenario with milder heating, making it warm enough to be have liquid water. Given the lack of sunlight, perhaps the creatures on the planet evolved to use chemosynthesis, like some of the animals that live near sulfur vents on the ocean floor? Who says that the "habitable zone" is the only place that can support life? This is where the fiction in Science Fiction comes in, and where it gets fun :) 

There are indeed natural objects (called Trojans) captured in Jupiter's L4 and L5 bands. One gotcha is that for planets the size of Jupiter to form at all, they must be out of the habitable zone. Closer to the habitable zone (our side of the Asteroid Belt) causes dense rocky planets to form, but the solar winds that close to the Sun blow away the massive clouds of dust and gas that compose Jupiter and all of the gaseous planets. (Parenthetically, this formation pattern is why many don't consider Pluto a planet. It's more likely a captured foreign object.) According to Wikipedia article on Lagrangian points: 

If they are intelligent enough to have language faculties, then as the other answers say, they are simply undead humans. As dangerous as humans, and possibly more so if they aren't restricted by the weaknesses of human biological systems. But the question becomes, at that point, what issues do your room-temperature humans have with higher-than-room-temperature humans? If zombies are intelligent enough to think freely, what unites them against normal humans? Why wouldn't their allegiances to their country, family (undead or still living), or religion trump anything else, especially if they were once a normal human? Sure, you might have a terrorist zombie here or there, but what reason do intelligent creatures (on the whole) have to want to see the world of normal humans fall? 

All that aside (as dot_Sp0T said in comments) with the level of sophistication your robots have it seems silly to assume they wouldn't be able to repair themselves or at least book themselves into the nearest local automated repair shop as needed. Oh! and go read Autofac by Philip K. Dick, he beat you to this story (pretty much) by decades. 

So other than walking on the soles of the feet (plantigrade), humanoid & clutch size, an Ostrich. Other than hole nesting (which as you point out has implications for the egg not rolling away & the necessity (or rather the lack of any) of shapes that avoid that) your criteria have no implications for egg shape (well not much worth speaking of). Typical clutch size can have some implications for the potential size of individual eggs, but not really for shape (if you only lay one egg you can put more resources in it). It's not one of your criteria but the size of the birth canal (or whatever we call the bit an egg passes through) does have implications, you're laying one egg at a time so you'll want to put as much into that one egg as you can to allow for larger better developed offspring with the best chance of survival at hatching & an oval shape will allow a bigger egg to pass through the pelvic bones. Other than that it will conform to the rounded oval structure of most eggs (simply because a sphere provides the most strength for the shell, & an oval is the closest you can get to that while allowing it to be longer than it's wide so you can have a bigger egg for the size of the pelvis). The same as many other eggs it might be a little thinner at one end so it will roll in a circle instead of rolling away (just in case it is ever out of the nest hole). The long & the short is that nature has had a long time to perfect the design & barring a very few outlying examples has chosen much the same design for almost every egg laying species eggs.. So it will be (really big surprise) egg shaped, meaning a slightly asymmetrical oval. 

If you want to get silly you could even have your bots powered (indirectly) by ethanol & bio-diesel, a whole automated farming & industry chain producing crops, processing them into fuel & delivering it to the power stations, with the power flowing back to the abandoned cities & homes the bots inhabit through the remnants of the bot maintained national grid, where they plug in to recharge. 

Now, some of these things are very low-level, subconscious functionality of the brain. While I always feel emotions and am usually conscious of them, I might not always be conscious of my own motives or intentions. Even if I am self-conscious enough to be aware of them, can I really articulate them, even to myself? Sometimes it takes weeks or months of introspection before one really understands some part of themselves. I personally think it would be unlikely for others to be able to sense those deep things "at a glance," as they aren't really feelings. I might have strong emotional feelings for someone, but may have no intention of starting a relationship. Does the intent transfer, or just my warm fuzzies for them? Because unless I mentally articulate the intention, it could be a source of miscommunication, if not really a lie. Memory - now this is a fun one! Memories might consist of thoughts and feelings, but in reality they are neither. Do others have access to only what I am remembering at the moment, or does everyone within telepathic range share a collective memory? But I'm digressing from the question of lying. Based on what you describe, no, I don't think it's possible to intentionally deceive someone, which is usually via misinformation. Moreover, the social dynamic would be extremely different from ours. I don't think there would be cause for intentional communication - if everyone knows X, you can't articulate X any better to them. It would be redundant. I doubt there would be language or words - just a flow of abstract concepts. I don't think this society could even be aware of the concept of lying or deception, which makes an extremely interesting premise in itself. 

If he can physically move any element (or combination thereof) within a ten-mile radius, the character is actually indistinguishable from someone with powerful telekinetic ability (who could move any physical matter). The question is really a function of how complete his control is. Since you edited to say that he expends strength proportional to what he is moving, you could simply send a missile at the guy. It would take a LOT of energy to flat out stop a modern missile going several times the speed of sound. Even if you have to use more than one, you said you have an unlimited budget - just keep launching them from safely outside his ten-mile radius. As far as the cheapest way, you wouldn't want to go for a direct offensive. I would say use some form of trickery, like poisoning his food supply. But with an unlimited budget, I can't think of a reason you'd have to. More complications might be necessary to make an interesting situation. 

You might consider a combination of broadcast (as used by "the internet of things") & solar power, besides that, with as many robots propping up the economy & industry before the fall (as you say) it may not be (too) far fetched to say the power industry was fully automated, so they could all just be plugging themselves in at night all over the country to recharge like good little domestic appliances. Other good power sources for you include thermoelectric (also called Seebeck) generators & types of broadcast power "tuned" to generate power from background radiation or else from infrared light, no transmitting station is needed for any of those & they never run out, though your bots may have long periods of downtime while they recharge with these ones. 

How about a custard filled ballistic vest? What you may be looking for is a non newtonian fluid, something that stiffens when sudden kinetic force is applied to it (like custard). So you might imagine a vest made of sealed sections (pockets or cells) & each of these sections filled with such a fluid. You couldn't shoot the wearer (through the vest) but you could stab him (through the vest), if you stab slowly enough (this is almost exactly the effect of the shields in Dune). For the actual material of the vest you probably can't beat Demigan's suggested spider silk, but I wouldn't know which of our currently available non newtonian fluids is best to fill it's pockets with. It probably won't stop the effect of a bullet completely but it will take some of the kinetic force out (redistribute it sideways) & the forward force that's left (probably most of it?) will be spread over a much larger area of the body so it'll be (a little bit) more like being hit by a flat plank of wood than shot with a bullet (so sort of a full body airbag for bullets), a lot less lethal. On the down side I'm not sure we have anything right now that would provide sufficient stopping power for what you want to it's own weight in ratios that would make such an armor even slightly reasonable for a person to wear & move in though. Edit: rereading your question, my answer will only fit the bullets in your question.. if you really mean to include tanks & gas & weren't just getting a little excited & giving way to a touch of hyperbole as you typed then there's nothing, you want magic. It seems this idea was already very much in the design stage if not in production as far back as 2006 (see Liquid Bullet-Proof Armour), and it seems much lighter & more flexible than I thought it could be with currently available materials (while still retaining adequate utility).