Check out KVM might be a good alternative for you and use something like Virt-Manager to manage your virtual machines. 

Are you still able to ping the box after this happens or does it become completely unresponsive? Any backups running during that time? Is this server a dedicated Exchange server or does it have other functions? Otherwise, I agree witi Itai, you should cross reference the the event logs with the time in which your machine goes down. You may also need to get a dump of your system and post any pertinent information here. If it is just exchange that is failing and you still have access to your system, check Task Manager to gather what processes are running during that time. 

Credit:richardkok I feel like I am almost there but I am having a difficult time processing through it. 

There are a lot of different ways you can save space on Exchange 2003. Here is a good article which explains a couple ways. There is also a program with Exchange 2003 that comes with the Exchange Resource Kit called EXMERGE that can be used to remove and delete objects within your mailbox folders. 

which to my knowledge you basically cannot update unless you upgrade RHEL. Our systems were running RHEL5 for the longest time and we had the same issue with installing software, upgrade or basically enter dependency hell. Try and find a package for this software from back in the rhel4 days? 

The company I work for uses WebEx on a daily basis for meetings and sharing sessions, including that are considered to have security concerns. The following article is available which speaks about WebEx security methods. $URL$ 

I ran into this issue awhile back, check to see if libgdbm is installed, if it is do the following to ensure its linked correctly: Just noticed you said you were using RHEL5 same system I was using so these should work perfectly for you 

Problem: We have a shared folder that resides on a NAS using a Windows 2008 AD for the authentication with the proper permissions setup. When the Windows 2000 machine tries to open the share residing on the Win2008 machine, it is prompted for a username and password. Upon entering the credentials it continuously re-asks for credentials. Important Details: The Windows 2000 machine can ping both the XP machines and the Windows 2008 Server The Windows 2008 machine is mandated to only use NTLMv2 The Windows 2000 machine was originally set to NTLM but was recently switched to for the purpose of trying to connect to the share. As I am sure it will come up, we are using Windows 2000 because of contractual obligations Questions: Why is password Authentication failing in this case? After setting a GPO for the Win2000 machine for it to use NTLMv2, we used SECEDIT to update the GPOs without rebooting. Does anyone know if this is sufficient or will a reboot be required? 

If you are running Hyper-V and wish to look at the performance on its current machine then I recommend the following article on How to Monitor Hyper-V Performance. Has come in handy in the past. I am not aware of any tools that can look at the performance of the Hyper-V layer which are inexpensive. 

As an example I ran a Piwik installation load balanced over three servers and with eAccelerator and it was able to handle about 15 hits per second. Once I switched to APC and narrowed down the settings I needed for my installation we were achieving over 40 hits per second (more than 2 million hits per month) without any flaws in the Piwik web interface. Here is an image of our CPU with APC on & off (Piwik uses a cron job to gather its information, but the point is its effectiveness) 

Control Panel -> Add Remove Program -> Windows Small Business Server 2003. Set Server Tools to Maintenance. Set Monitoring to Uninstall and continue the setup process. Control Panel -> Add Remove Program -> Microsoft SQL Server Desktop Engine (SBSMonitoring) -> Remove. Rename the C:\program files\Microsoft SQL Server\MSSQL$SBSMONITORING Folder. Reboot the server. Control Panel -> Add Remove Program -> Windows Small Business Server 2003. Set Server Tools to Maintenance. Set Monitoring to Install and continue the setup process. Reboot the server. Start MSSQL$SBSMONITORING and SQLAgent$SBSMONITORING services. In Server Management Console -> Monitoring and Reporting: run the "Set Up Monitoring Reports and Alerts wizard". 

You really have to weigh your options here. There are a lot of variables in play. If you are not comfortable handling any type of issue that may rise then I would recommend using the managed option. The phrase time is money comes to mind. If you feel you have the knowledge to do things properly and you feel like you can make the investment (in time) for the maintenance of the server then go for it. But again, if you do not have ample experience using Linux then you should pick the managed solution. That money you save picking the unmanaged option could certainly cost you more money in the time it takes you to troubleshoot any issues you may have as well as keeping it updated and running smoothly. 

I was unsure if VMware was emulating the CPU when I asked this question. Assuming it did we could look at the physical hosts interrupts to determine the best way to divide up our resources. However, there is no emulation that takes place at all. As it was explained, consider a virtual system board with a hole, the guest OS simply looks through the hole and sees one of the cores in the host server. This takes the pressure of VMware to change theCPU emulation software each time a vendor introduced new instruction sets. The other reasoning is it adds too much overhead. The VMkernel schedules simultaneously CPU cycles for multi-CPU VMs. When the VM requests for cycles the request goes into a queue for the host to process and the host waits until there are at least two cores or hyperthreads to schedule that VM. 

You may have to reissue your cert using a new CSR check out the following link. It is similar to the directions you have already followed but with a little more instruction to getting around this error. $URL$ 

There are a lot of steps you can take to slowly figure out what the issue might be. I would first check if there are any available alerts and look at the hosts statistics to see how the system is running (CPU, Memory, etc.). This will go a long way to helping figure out the issue. Otherwise "slow" isn't really a good description for anyone to help solve an issue. If you have other VM's installed on the host check to see how they are running. Is your VM on the same datastore as all your other VM's? What are the specs of your host machine? 

EDIT With 2003 you should follow these instructions to reinstall the service. It will come down to which you prefer to try your own that you found or these. I know you were looking for "official" documentation. The link is a KB article. or: 

At a past company they used Rackwise. At another company they picked Connectwise as it combined asset discovery and mapping with an IT help desk. I think for smaller IT Consulting firms there is a lot of value for these types of tools especially when it comes to asset discovery. So many times a customer will plug in a random computer, or worse, a router without any knowledge to the IT firm. Further, it seems they never know just how many computers they have or where they are all located.