Today (March 20, 2015) is seeing a rare combination of the spring equinox, a total solar eclipse, and a supermoon. I am wondering if there is anything special astronomically about all three of these happening at the same time, like is the equinox a particularly more or less likely time for solar eclipses to happen (my guess is that it has no impact eclipses). The supermoon/total solar eclipse combination doesn't seem surprising to me, since if the opposite were to happen (moon far away and solar eclipse) we would end up with an annular eclipse instead of a total eclipse. 

I just noticed this announcement from the K2 mission that the field observed for Campaign 16 of the K2 mission would be changed so that the telescope would be "forward facing", saying that "observing in this mode allows for simultaneous observations from K2 and from Earth." (an aside: Campaign 17 was originally planned to be a forward facing to facilitate supernova science, but it was discovered that the telescope may not have enough fuel to last through Campaign 17, hence the modification to Campaign 16 to still facilitate supernova science) What exactly does it mean to be forward facing? 

I'm coming across the concept of "period doubling" in RR Lyrae stars. When I look up what period doubling is on the Internet, I find general-level explanations of bifurcations of dynamical systems and transitioning to chaos. However, I am unable to apply these things to stars in a way I understand. What is period doubling, and what is physically happening in a star to lead to period doubling? 

"Took shelter behind Mars"? These spacecraft are in orbit around Mars, constantly in motion, so they can't very well just pack up and move to the other side of Mars to avoid getting hit with the dust. So my questions are: What exactly qualifies as taking shelter behind Mars? Does it simply mean being on the other side of the planet from the tail of the comet as dust from the tail passed Mars? How did NASA get the (constantly in motion) spacecraft to hide behind Mars? I assume that the orbits had to be modified in advance of the comet's arrival. I picture some orbital modifications that changed the phase of the orbits of the satellites so that they would be on the other side of Mars as the dust flew by, perhaps also making the orbits more elliptical with the apsis behind Mars, allowing the satellites to spend additional time in Mars' protection. Will these orbital modifications affect the ability of the spacecraft to fulfil their primary missions as they relate to Mars? I am not asking whether dust from the comet will affect the quality of the instruments on the spacecraft (indeed, this whole question focuses on steps NASA is taking to prevent that from happening) but whether the altered orbits the spacecraft have after their orbital modifications will affect their ability to pursue their primary missions (such as flying over different parts of Mars than was originally intended, which may or may not be beneficial to answering the questions the spacecraft were originally launched to answer. Although scientists are nothing if not resourceful and I'm sure any data that come from the spacecraft, whether intended or not, will lead to important discoveries). 

The flyby anomaly is an occasional, unpredictable, and as yet unexplained discrepancy in acceleration of satellites when they pass close by the Earth. It causes an increase of up to 13 mm/s during flybys but we have no understanding of it and how to predict it. The laws of centripetal force predict that due to rotation, the more dense molten material within the Earth might accumulate at the equator, since there it can move further from the axis of rotation. This will, of course be counteracted by gravity. Nevertherless, it will be an effect present at the equator more so than at the poles. This predicts that we should expect to see a flyby anomaly of some magnitude and that it will be correlated with proximity of a flyby to the equator. Can anybody provide anomaly data and / or correlate it with angle of incidence in order to test this hypothesis? 

Whenever I see the term dust for the particles of a nebula, I ask myself whether this is actually based on some reliable measure of particle size. Of course we can all agree it looks like dust from this distance. And we all know how such appearances often lead to assumptions which are incorrect and whose incorrectness we are often blind to. Is there any reliable evidence by which this "dust" is known not to be pebbles, rocks, boulders etc.? Which in reality would seem vastly more likely. How might we measure size from such distances? 

This is a great question and observation, and in fact it is not just distant events this applies to. When I look in the road and see my car parked outside, I should be thinking "it was outside", half a picosecond ago." I think it's just out of convenience that we use the present to describe all states as we perceive them now. But in actual fact we know nothing of "now" other than our own thoughts and feelings. All external stimulus is transmitted to us via various different media and through our senses, all of which take time to reach us, so if we are to be accurate, we never know anything about the present. 

Where we are, and in the conventional galaxies etc. that we see, there is a whole lot of relatively uniform space but in isolated places within that space, there are pockets of concentrated "mass" which is highly organised into all the objects we observe and study, and out of which we are made. Now suppose that there were regions of space where that is all turned on its head, and there were huge vast swathes of relatively uniform matter, and within that matter there are pockets of "space" which is highly organised into some other form of object, out of which other objects and beings are made. Obviously on the first, and simplest test - the question of "how much" dark matter there is, this theory passes the empirical test of reality with flying colours, i.e. astronomers seem to observe much more mass in the regions of hypothesised dark matter in accordance with what this conjecture implies. What other testable predictions does this conjecture make, and how well do they fit our observations? 

I know Seyfert galaxies are types of active galaxies, but I do not understand what separates them from other types of active galaxies. Are they brighter/not as bright as other types of active galaxies? Do they emit in different wavelengths relative to other active galaxies? I've read that 10% of all galaxies are Seyfert galaxies, so it seems to me that understanding what these galaxies are is very important to understanding galaxies overall. 

This Wikipedia article states that Segue 1 is either a dwarf spheroidal galaxy or globular cluster associated with our own Milky Way. I am wondering what the difference is between dwarf spheroidal galaxies and globular clusters, since at first glance is seems that the morphological properties and stellar ages are similar between the two classes of objects. 

Auroras require an atmosphere, which the moon does not have. Auroras occur as solar wind and other particles that interact or are associated with Earth's magnetic field are funneled by the magnetic field and accelerated until they collide with atoms/molecules in Earth's atmosphere. These collisions cause the atoms/molecules to ionize or excite the the subsequent recombination/de-excitation of the electrons is what causes the light seen in the auroras. Without at atmosphere, though, there are no particles to ionize and excite to create an aurora. 

Again, this is very school-specific. Some schools have immense computing resources and getting computer time to run simulations/heavy calculations is easy. Other schools may have no computing resources available (other than your desktop workstation) and it will be more difficult to get the computing time you'll need for simulations since you will have to look outside your university for resources. Some schools have access to a lot of time on some very big telescopes; some have access to telescopes that are specialized for specific topics in astrophysics; and other schools may have no access to telescopes at all, meaning you will have to find telescopes with allocation time you can apply for without having to belong to an institution affiliated with that telescope. It varies from school to school. So, your ability to pursue specific research topics in astrophysics can be enhanced or hampered by the computing and telescope resources available at your department. Take that into consideration as you apply to schools. SUMMARY The answers to your questions vary greatly from department to department and are largely dependent on the resources available to a specific department. I have found generally that there is great flexibility in astrophysics programs to choose a PhD dissertation topic but that certain research topics have more support and resources at some institutions than at others. Also, at many institutions professors are limited in how many students they can advise by the amount of funding they have for PhD students, which can significantly affect the research options available to you. There are, however, some institutions that have the resources to cover for an under-funded professor if a student does want to work for them, but again it just boils down to it varies from school to school. 

This demo uses real values except that the radius is shrunk by 3x to increase its gravitation effect. 

We need to think about just where the time dilation effect occurs. By then thinking about the observations from each point of view, that is the free falling object and the external observer, we can come to terms with just what is happening as opposed to what appears to be happening. The experience of time We must remember that an object moving at a certain speed will travel through time (or the 4th dimension) at a slower rate. This does not mean that it moves slower, otherwise it would obviously not be travelling "at a certain speed". Where time slows is in the ticking of the physical processes of the object itself. In other words, my clock would tick twice as slow according to you as I flew past you at 87% the speed of light. I would be waving my arms normally, but according to you, I would appear to be waving my arms twice as slow and would also appear to be squeezed in size (not really relevant to this). The falling object's point of view If you were the object falling into the black hole, you would accelerate as you approached the event horizon, but you would take longer and longer to react to the approach, to the point where you would fall into the black hole in no time at all. From your perspective, your approach to the event horizon would become exponentially faster. In other words, you would fall incredibly fast into the black hole, but you would have barely registered it in your mind because there just wasn't enough time for you due to relativity. The stationary observer's point of view Now, the stationary observer outside the black hole's influence would observe something very different. The light (or rather, information) about your descent would become more and more redshifted, but also take longer and longer to actually reach their eyes. This means that according to the observer, the falling object would slow down to a halt at the event horizon and have disappeared. So what really "happened"? 

I wrote an experiment in HTML5 and Javascript to try to show what is happening to the curvature of spacetime as a body moves through a region. As time progresses, I'm using the equation to move the spacetime grid toward the object. When a grid point is within the body, I use to modify the bending according to the acceleration at the surface. This assumes uniform density. The result is that it takes a very large mass and very long time for any sort of noticeable curvature to occur (as you'd expect). By decreasing the Earth's radius by a factor of 3, I was able to see the curvature very well as in the screenshot below. What occurred to me then is that the the warping of space would remain long after the body of mass had moved on. Does this warping in space ever return to truly "flat" or is the fact that we almost never orbit through the same absolute region of space mean we never experience this existing warping? If light went through this "wake" would it bend according to the spacetime curvature created by the long distant planet? Or have I gone wrong in my model?