The following is an Autonomist answer: Fordism entered advance industrial societies as a form of social and technical relations of production, largely as a reaction to radical syndicalism (US's IWW, UK's shop steward, France, Germany, Soviet Union) and workers' revolutions (Germany, Hungary, Italy, the Soviet Union). This happened slowly, sector by sector, as the increased productive potentials of firing a whole bunch of skilled tradesmen and replacing them with unskilled general labour operating machines that "embodied" the skill (Gramsci on this) indicated a higher level of profit. However, if you're aware of the least Marx you'd know that an increase in the Organic Composition of Capital, the "machiney"-ness of production, causes over-production (your "surproduction" in English) and leads to a declining rate of profit and a momentary crisis such as, why, a great depression. The working class remained undisciplined through until the end of WWII. Why after WWII did the working class become "disciplined" generally, and retreat to mere industrial militancy and occasional insurrections in the East? Because after WWII Fordism's broader elements developed: a method of ordering and distributing the widespread consumer production. What roles did WWI and WWII play in this? Directly, little. The Marshall plan was directed against working class self-activity, as was the imposition of Comecon. The introduction of Fordist production methods in the 1920s was directed against the skilled workers who lead syndicalist unions. The broader point is: War empowers workers. Total wars impose elements of Fordism as a general economic relationship: forced labour quality standards (even if they fail) and full employment. Full employment is generally considered to empower workers, as it indicates capital is no longer able to use a reserve army of labour (the unemployed) against the employed. So WWI and WWII both strengthened and aggrieved labour movements. And these strong and aggrieved labour movements had to be dealt with. In the 1920s Capital turned to Fordism in the factory. In the 1950s Capital turned to Fordism in society. 

I don't have a source for this, but what I heard from others is that the methods are different. Orthodox missions consist of some clergy showing up, building a church, and starting to do services, and waiting for people to start showing up. They will just go ahead and translate the service into the local language, inventing an alphabet if necessary, and start. They don't really do to much "I give you food/medicine, you become Christian?" sort of exchanges. They just do the liturgy and wait. It is my understanding that in addition to the missions in Alaska, the whole of Siberia was converted this way : build church, translate bible, and wait. (At the dawn of the SU, there was a ton of written languages that got replaced by latinized alphabets, then Russian.) There is some of this happening in Uganda between 1920 and now. More recently one in Guatemala. 

Mussolini developed the political model that Hitler Implemented Direct WWII involvement by Mussolini was less dramatically important than his development of the Fascist methods of gaining and maintaining power. Hitler and the Nazi's patterned the SS and their means of obtaining power on Mussolini's methods. For example, the blackshirts were a volunteer paramilitary arm of the Italian National Fascist Party (PNF). Blackshirts swore allegiance to follow Mussolini, the leader of the PNF, and they regularly engaged in violence against any and all of Mussolini's domestic political opponents. It is notable that Mussolini founded the PNF, and was its leader. Hitler and the Nazis copied this with their Brown Shirts that eventually grew into the SS. Starting the Fascist movement was Mussolini's largest impact on WWII. Without these "innovations" it is doubtful that the Nazis would have gained and maintained power in Germany, thus precluding them - and Europe - from a ton of trouble. 

Marx's determinate category here is pretty close to a technological determinism, and there's a sense of teleos in the movement of productive forces. But there's no indication that the hand-mill produced capitalism, any more than the steam-mill produces socialism. The hand-mill produces a new instance of social relations whose unique character changes what comes next. The society of the hand-mill can't comprehend industrial capitalism, and nor did it produce it. Apart from the universal of movement, there's no determination linking as a necessity Society A to Society B. The kind of reinfeudation and mass slavery seen in Federici's Caliban and the Witch as just as likely as free wage labour appearing in the European bourgeoisie's slow contest with the aristocracy. I suppose that the Varieties of Capitalism discourse follows this up more closely. I will agree, however, that Diamat as taught in the Soviet Union, and on history in particular, taught Marx as determining a universal course of human social change. 

But this is very much a service relationship, with the profession of semantically oriented computer scientists serving the needs of historians, much like archivists serve the needs of historians but are a profession unto themselves. Obviously solving AI will solve history—if the AI is cheaper than training historians. But that isn't really a "problem" specific to history; it is the specific implementation of a general problem. We can reverse this—historians could well serve computer science through an analysis of the conduct and engagement of the discipline. I've read a decent monograph on scale and funding waves and the development of multiple distinct types of computing company. It suggests that old models retain their utility in domains where old funding structures and old systems-of-problems remain. There's no real transdisciplinary space; but maybe there is room for project level interdisciplinary cooperation. From what I've generally seen of the concept of "Digital Humanities" it appears to be an ark to save literary criticism from institutional execution; and the few historians who participate participate more as information professionals than as historians. ymmv. 

From which it is clear that educated Britains did have some understanding of the history of Roman Britain in the 8th century. As to what "normal" or "average" people knew - I doubt that is something we can ever determine precisely at this late date. 

To answer the question about Hadrian's Wall directly, Gildas mentions the conquest and loss of Britain to the Romans, including the construction of the wall, in De Excidio et Conquestu Britanniae ("On the Ruin and Conquest of Britain"). I am not sure exactly when it was written, but Gildas dies in roughly 570. Gildas was British and spent a great deal of his life in Britain, so I think that is good evidence for educated knowledge of the Roman Empire, its influence and effects, in Britain, but Gildas retired to Brittany, and I am not sure if he wrote De Excidio there. Gildas's account of the wall's construction is rather confused. He appears to describe the construction of Hadrian's Wall as an act of the Roman occupiers very late in the period of their occupation (as late as Honorius perhaps?). Rather than in Hadrian's time. @Sempahore has mentioned Bede, and as it happens Bede also mentions the wall in Historia ecclesiastica gentis Anglorum (writing in 731), although he ascribes it to Septimius Severus: 

No, these weren't "goods" in the past, their social meaning was entirely different. We can try to evaluate their social importance by understanding the past economic and social system as it was, but a comparison can only be made in terms to evaluating and comparing concrete past societies. We can't run a sheep/cow index any better than wage/price. 

Saints Days, in particular, the local saint's day Shrove Tuesday Lent Easter Christmas was less important. In any area of importance four quarterly Saint's days would be identified with local days when legal actions occurred and markets occurred in the local large city. As such courts were either rotating, or held on feudal bases, it is usual for surrounding regions to have different days. Memorial days as we currently understand them are a modern thing. All holidays, as saints days, were in memory of X. The most important being in memory of the suffering of our Lord. 

Formally, Japan has no right: $URL$ Substantively, the Japanese state has taken such a right: $URL$ Politically, as the Chinese state has a great interest in Japan's capacity for aggressive war, Japan's interpretation of Article 9 both formally and substantively is closely watched by a large heavily armed state. 

I personally don't like this question because it gives credence to racial theories. Scientifically speaking, there is more variation from individual to individual than there is between peoples of different ethnic backgrounds. Anyway, addressing your question: One theory I've heard is that King Phillip's war was the cause. The idea behind this theory is simple: When the pilgrims arrived at Plymouth Rock in 1620, the Native Americans aided them in establishing themselves, and helped them not to starve, by teaching the pilgrims, people who had lived as refugees in the Urban Netherlands for a generation, to learn farming and survival skills. They even celebrated the first thanksgiving together. In New England, generally speaking, the contact between the Europeans and Natives Americans were more than cordial - there was intermarriage, and conversion to Christianity, and peaceful coexistence. The primary difference between the two populations was more one of lifestyle than one of race. By about 1670, the mixing of the two populations, combined with declining Native American populations and quality of life, set the stage for "King Phillips War" Supporting Source and Wikipedia links. The common narrative goes like this: Metacom, a Native American nicknamed "King Phillip" by the settlers, started attacking and slaughtering the colonial population. The English colonialist responded in kind, slaughtering the Native American population. Both sides killed whichever "enemy" they came across, including women and children. Persons of mixed heritage were victims of both sides. 5% of the settler and 40% of the Native American population died. The general slaughter led to well defined racial identities that didn't exist before the war, and set the stage for future separate ethnic trends in North America. There is, of course, an opposing theory presented in this book that the war was not about race at all, but was instead a civil war intended to increase British control of the region, which used "divide and conquer" strategies, split what was a unified community to increase colonial power. One results of the increase British control was marginalization of the Native population, and a stronger racial identity for the settlers. 

The chief impact on the ratio of agricultural workers to workers in all other industries has been the dramatic growth of workers in other sectors. Agricultural workers have increased in number at times, particularly with the proletarianisation of peasants, petits-bourgeois, and lumpen-proletarians in the development of modernity. The "total workforce" has also changed. Small scale industry has reduced, but large scale mobile regional workforces have increased. Labour has flowed from capital intensive sectors towards labour intensive sectors. Workers are generally where the profit isn't. Moreover, the "farmer" the owner operator of a family concern, even if they exploited itinerant workers, has been reduced in power and status to a locked-in-contractor. Noel Butlin's data on Australian agriculture is good here, as is the account in Connell and Irving, Class structure in Australian history. 

No. As EP Thompson admirably demonstrates in Making of the English Working Class, the proletariat was already in existence in Britain and Ireland at the peak of the enclosures in a "pre-factory" system. As Engels and Marx demonstrate, and as reaffirmed in the Italian influenced Autonomist tradition, the purpose of the factory was to smash pre-existing forms of proletarian composition; from Thompson's work, the frame knitters and the London Mob. The enclosures leading up to the factory system displaced a rural crofting population into agricultural labour, where they already competed with an Irish rural proletariat who had been displaced en masse by the most brutal forms of primary accumulation or enclosure known. Enclosure relates to the destruction of the rural moral economy, the factory system to the destruction of the urban moral economy. And Hammond and Hammond (1911) Village Labourer 159ff. Enclosure, in relation to wage labour, was about forcing agricultural wage labour, "[T]he large farmer wanted a permanent supply of labour which was absolutely at his command. Moreover, the roundsman system maintained his labourers for him when he did not want them.… The report of the Poor Law Commission in 1834 showed that these prejudices were as strong as ever. 'We can do little or nothing to prevent pauperism; the farmers will have it: they prefer that their labourers should be slaves.'" 

I thought I ought to answer the question rather than simply commenting on another. There are a few points that may help you understand what is going on. I will confine my answer to England because that is where the question is about and this is a subject which varies considerably across different countries. The basic point - made by a number of users - is that, with very few exceptions, in at least post-Norman England, a title was just that, a title. You could be styled "Duke of X" or "Earl of Y" but those titles were quite separate from the notion of vassalage. In fact titles on their own conferred very little by way of rights at any time. There were periods when, for example, particular forms of dress were intended to be restricted to particular classes of people, but in general no. What I think the poser of the question is thinking about in terms of "vassalage" is the notion of someone being someone else's feudal lord. Now this system operated in England. All land was either "held of" someone else, or was in the hands of the Crown (technically known as "Royal demesne"). So the Manor of Littletown might be held of Lord W who holds of Lord X who holds of Lord Y who holds of the Crown as tenant in chief. Being Lord of a particular manor or manors was thus a legal relationship concerning primarily land ownership. It was not really a title in the modern sense. Lots of people are "lords", including numerous women, also known as "lords". These chains of ownership happened because, at first, the holder of land was permitted and even sometimes expected to create subordinate holders by a process of subinfeudation. In the above example, the Crown may have granted lands including the manor of littletown to Y who then granted some of them to X who then granted some of them to W. But this process began to be used as a way of transferring land to others. If W wanted to sell the manor to another person they would have to get X's permission (as W's lord) or they could simply grant the whole manor to the purchaser. That created a feudal mess. In 1290, Edward I passed the statute Quia Emptores which prevented any further subinfeudation. At that point no new links in the feudal chain could be created (except by the Crown). The first duke in England (the Duke of Cornwall) was created in 1337 by Edward III by a royal charter that gives it to the eldest son of the monarch (then the Black Prince). From this it should be obvious that no duke could have created a feudal inferior because the ability to do so was stopped some 47 years before the first duke was created. There may have been situations where an Earl happened to acquire land where their feudal lord was a Duke but that would be an accident. What is more the reverse could have easily occurred as well. This is because, as I said earlier, just being a Duke or Earl didn't give you any particular local jurisdiction or create a kind of "subkingdom" in which you were a sort of mini-king. You might be made Duke or Earl of somewhere and have no lands there and no authority at all in that area. In the earlier period that would not be usual - why make someone Earl of March if you weren't also going to give them something to do there? But the current Duke of Cambridge has very little to do with the city or county in law. There are exceptions, but they are really extra rules rather than something inherent in the title. The big exceptions were the "counties palatine". In those places someone was usually given local power. There were separate judicial and administrative arrangements. I think only one of these was ever held by a Duke (Lancaster) and for most of its history the Duke was also the Monarch as is the case today. But again dukes come to late for the handing out of feudalities. The Earl of Chester (another county palatine) was much closer to what the questioner had in mind. The Duke of Cornwall does have certain rights (by charter) such as bona vacantia, so its not a nothing title, but it these are not feudal rights. The "Charter of Novadamus" is unknown to English law and so ought not to form part of a correct answer. 

The moral questions regarding personal culpability have for a long time focused on the blandness and ordinary nature of attempting to systematically annihilate civilian population groups. For current research I'd suggest starting with Chirot and McCauley (2006) Why Not Kill Them All?: The Logic and Prevention of Mass Political Murder. 

To complement Mark's answer, from the Marxist perspective where "prosperity" could only be viewed as the maximisation of value under bourgeois control. I was reading an abstract today on the commodity form's [use in human communities, resulting in reflected legal and political ideology as people consider their practice in the light of commodity society, and these relation's production of] conflicting construction of rights doctrines from property. The conflicting constructions require individuals to be able to own property and the state to be able to regulate this ownership in the interests of the general condition of individuals owning property. Such a society has tended to 

Money's meaning changes over time; it is not a static category. For simplicities sake, lets assume that you learn how to use Lsd (£/s/d) figures, and work out a few of the more curious word name (tuppence). Even then, you won't know how much money was worth in that era unless you read a lot of social history. There are time values for money converters (for example, measuring worth), but their utility is limited unless you have a concrete understanding of the social meaning and value of, for example, not being able to eat in 1790 in Manchester. For which I recommend social history. It would help greatly if you specified the social class you were writing about. Money's meaning for workers in the period was vastly different to money's meaning for the industrial, mercantile or landed (ie: aristocratic) bourgeoisie. 

It depends how you count is; 11 years or 16 years. In either case, the rise from Orphaned Buddhist monk to founding a new empire in a little more than a decade could be a bigger achievement than the other answers. He ruled for more than 30 yeras, and the Ming empire lasted for more than 250 years, so he was fairly effective too. The people in the other answers tended to have only a short term impact on History. This man belongs on a "most important people in history" list. 

Until he was 16 years old, he was in a poor peasant farming family. They were so poor that several of his siblings were "given away". When he was 16, his family died during a famine. After being orphaned, he was a homeless wanderer until about age 20. At that time, he became a Buddhist monk. While Buddhist monks were not rich, at least he had a place to eat and sleep, and he learned to read and write. In 1352, the monastery was destroyed by a Mongol Army. Zhu Yuanzhang joined an insurgent force called the Red Turbans. In 1358, Zhu Yuanzhang was the leader of his own army, later called the Ming. In 1360, the Ming conquer Nanjing and project control over much of the Yangtze River valley. In 1363, controlled most of central China, without any serious rivals. (FWIW, 1363 - 1352 = 11 years ) Just some mopping up against small armies to do. By 1368, his army defeated the Mongols of the Yuan dynasty and had control over most of China. Ming dynasty is declared, and Zhu Yuanzhang became the Hongwu Emperor. 

Your question provides the basic response for books that are widely reviewed, however for books that are not widely reviewed: Generally if a book hasn't been peer reviewed, that tells you all you need to know about the scholarly response to the work. Unless the book is in your sub-discipline and problem area it is discardable. Textbooks, for example, regularly go without review unless they're of importance. Finding reviews in History, however, isn't simple. The journal oligopoly poorly indexes historical reviews, often merely indexing them as "Book Review" or "Book Review, XXX" covering all the reviews in that issue. The only certain way (given the poor quality of deep text searching in the oligopolists' archives) is by checking issues for two years after publication. Journal by journal. 

It is the International Military Tribunal for the Far East. Check the wall pattern and light: $URL$ $URL$ 

In Miller 2011 it is clear that the R&D lab emerged as the Taylorisation of research and development of technology for the capitalist market. Intellectually, I see them as having some basis in the 19th century development of scientific experimentalism and its formalisation.