This is easy. Don't ask for anything; make them give you an offer. You should never name a number first when negotiating anyway. If they bring it up, say that you're sure the two of you can come to terms on compensation if the position is a good fit. If they insist, say the salary you expect depends on what else is in the total compensation package, and you'll be happy to talk about it after they make you an offer. You have nothing to gain by giving them a number first, unless you just happen to guess at the high end of the range they're considering offering you. Have them make an offer first, and then you know the ballpark of what they consider reasonable, and you can go from there with confidence. 

Yes, you should send a follow up email. It doesn't really take that much effort (no more so than asking this question) and it can set you apart from other candidates. Start by reiterating anything they did respond positively to, and concisely state why you are a great candidate. Some have mentioned that you shouldn't remind them you were late. If the interviewer hadn't mentioned it, I would agree with this. However, given his reaction, I doubt he's forgotten about it. Giving an excuse about family issues was a terrible response, and he's likely wondering if those "issues" will cause problems in the future. Put this concern to rest by admitting you made a mistake by getting a ride from a family member, and how you will use a different, more reliable transportation option if they hire you. Reiterate how your usual method has never let you down in your current or past job, that you are always early, and your current supervisor will attest to that. If any of that isn't true, get as close to it as you can without lying. Take responsibility and demonstrate that it is a one-time mistake. It would have been better if you had better addressed it in the interview or been early, but a quality thank you note may still save you if you aren't competing against a much better candidate. 

Part of any interview is informal chit-chat. This is a chance for you and the interviewer to get to know each other. It's a bit like a first date - you want to get an overview of the person, but it's not the right time to go into too much detail. You also probably want to stay away from controversial topics - politics, religion, war, and football. Even on uncontroversial topics, I would tend to avoid making them too personal. For example, let's say the interviewer lives in the North East USA - which has just had lots of snow. 

This really depends on why they want a reference. Usually, references are taken up to prove two things. 

Personally, I always book my birthday off as holiday - that way I don't have to be in the office for it. There's usually someone in the office who takes responsibility for buying a card, ordering a cake etc. Find them and politely explain that you don't want a fuss made. You don't need to go into all the details if it makes you feel uncomfortable. Depending on where / how you work, see if you can take the day off, or work from home, etc. 

Yes, it is absolutely fine for you to use your time off. If your employer balks at you for this, then you do not want to work for them. However, you still need to get the exact timing approved by your manager. Before you go to them, think about your responsibilities. Will the time off cause you to miss any deadlines you've committed to meet? Are you responsible for any tasks that will need to be performed while you're gone? If so, find a solution if at all possible. If you say to your supervisor "I'd like to take the last week of January off. This will not affect my ability to meet my deadline on Project X, and Sally said she will run my weekly reports for me while I'm gone. Is it okay for me to take that week off?", then they will likely respond with, "Enjoy your vacation!" Show that you've been thoughtful about the impact of your absence, and you will be seen as a team player that cares about the company. If there is a lot going on that particular week and you being gone then will cause problems that aren't easily solved, then they may ask you to take a different week off instead. This is reasonable, especially if you're giving them short notice. You absolutely should insist that you get to take the time off that you're entitled to, though, even if you don't get to take it exactly when you want to. 

I think there is a risk - but it should be possible to mitigate it. The key is to emphasise why the skills you use in volunteering are useful to the business. For example, if you volunteer at a cat shelter and your job is feeding the animals - that's probably not going to help you get a job in accountancy! So, what are the aspects of your volunteering which will help get a job? 

You are not there to "write code" - you're there to either make the company money, save them money, stop them getting sued, improve their efficiency, etc. The end result of an annual review is to prove your worth to the company. If you want a pay rise (or not to get fired) - you need to show them exactly how you've contributed to the company's success. If the HR process is broken (and many are) then there's no real way to demonstrate whether you're succeeding or not. 

Making noise that stands out from the ambient noise level is obnoxious. If you work in a mall, then no one will care. If you work in a library, then you will aggravate people around you. The break room at a typical office is almost certainly fine; people tend to chat and laugh there anyway. Whether it's okay in other areas (such as at your desk or in a hallway) solely depends on if it stands out from the regular noise level. A good way to judge is to see if people look your way when you start to whistle. If they do, you're exceeding the normal noise level/tones, and you should stop. The happy attitude shouldn't be an issue. If it is, you might want to start looking for a new place to work. 

You won't like this answer, but you should not seek compensation from your workplace. Consider if you drove a car and it got dinged in the parking lot. Would you expect to have your employer repair the damage? (In case you're unsure, the answer is no.) This is made even worse by parking your bike in a spot not designed or designated for bike parking, and that you know cars frequently get close to. I understand the desire for convenience, and nobody appreciates having their property damaged, but there is no way your employer will pay for it. You will seem whiny and entitled if you even ask. Don't do it. Your only recourse to recoup the damages is to find the person that hit your bike. You can try filing a police report, but if the costs are minimal, they likely won't bother to pursue it. If there is a camera at the front of the building, you could ask security to review it and get you a plate number. If it's a really small company, you could try putting up a notice somewhere asking the person to come forward. You have to be really careful how you word it to not come across as passive aggressive, though. I personally wouldn't bother unless the costs were really high, as it's unlikely anyone will 'fess up to it. To prevent this happening in the future, I suggest you request a designated, safe, and relatively convenient place to park your bike. This is entirely reasonable, especially if they provide parking for cars. Tell your management that you tried to find an existing place to lock up your bike, but your bike got damaged there, and you'd like a safer place to put it in the future. If they don't agree, then you are stuck with the same preventative measure that car owners have to use: park your vehicle somewhere that cars are unlikely to get close enough to damage it. That generally comes at a convenience cost, so you will have to decide if the trade-off is worth it or not. 

Chat to your manager about it. Raise the fact that you feel uncomfortable wearing an unwashed fleece. Be aware that she may not have the power / budget to change it. Talk to your local union rep. If you're not part of a union yet, take a look at one which is relevant to your place of work - $URL$ - the rep should be able to tell you what your options are. Finally, ask your other co-workers if they feel the same. Having several team members push back is likely to be a lot more effective than just having you complain. 

You can try to implement your suggestion - saying "in the interest of fairness, please do not include your gender, marital status, faith, ... etc. on your application" - but candidates may ignore that, and you're back to square one. 

Your manager is busy. All managers are. You are not the only person they are responsible for. One of your jobs is to make life as easy for your boss as possible. Happy boss = happy you :-) So, you need to understand how your boss works and what will motivate him and keep him happy. You could just send him an email. But I bet he gets hundreds and will find it very easy to ignore. Consider the following... 

Forget the law about smoking in a public building for a moment. Even if you are right that he can be fined, bringing that up is going to cause a lot of sore feelings. Nobody appreciates being ratted out to the authorities, no matter how wrong they are, and it should be your last resort. Instead, consider the problem as if there were no legal remedy. I think most people, especially smokers, would consider smoking in a personal office to be reasonable behavior. If he keeps the door shut while smoking, then there shouldn't be enough smoke leaking out to cause problems for the grand majority of people. It's possible you are the only one bothered this, so don't approach him as if he is posing some dire health threat to the entire office. He's not; he's acting in a reasonable way that happens to cause problems for you, and you need to find a solution that is agreeable to you both. I suggest you meet with him at your desk or a conference room. Say something like "I understand you like to smoke in your office, but even small amounts of smoke bother me due to a medical condition." Then suggest a solution that allows him to smoke and you to not have to suffer it. Can you be assigned a desk that's farther away from his office? Can you find someplace to meet other than his office in the future? Can he keep the door shut for at least fifteen minutes after finishing a cigarette and/or open a window? You get the idea. In short, there is likely a solution that will make you both happy. Find it and pitch it to your boss. Do not attack, threaten, or blame him. He's not your adversary; he's someone you need to work with to solve a problem. If you go to him with a cooperative attitude rather than a confrontational one, he is very likely to want to help you. 

Yes. It is unprofessional. Ideally, you should be told of complaints as soon as possible in order that you can put them right. 

Side projects are a great way to demonstrate to a potential employer that you actually know your stuff. Don't think of them as side projects - think of it as a portfolio. I'm sure you have classmates who have somehow managed to pass their degree without any discernible talent. As a hiring manager, how do I differentiate your CV from theirs? Showing off side projects gives me the following assurances. 

I have absolutely no idea what an "Eagle Scout" is - I don't think we have them in the UK. So my advice is simple: 

It is both polite and professional to request a contract before starting work. You say something like "Great, I'm really excited to work on this project. Before we get started, let's formalise the relationship." The contract should list: 

Please don't do this. I'm a young, female professional just starting my career, and I have had a colleague call me to comment on my picture. It was very thinly veiled as a "oh you might be interested in this thing I know about", but he commented on my picture and how I was young and attractive multiple times. It made me feel like some people don't take me seriously just because of how I look, and made me wonder how many other men interacted with me for the same reasons but hid it better. It also made me very uncomfortable and glad that I ended up being pulled from the project he was on. No one should have to feel that way at work! It's one thing to ask out a colleague because you've gotten to know them through working with them and feel there's a connection. Even then it's risky, but it's understandable if you spend a lot of time together. If you want to pick up women based on their looks alone, go to a bar or club. If you're still on the fence, consider how you would feel if a man did to you what you want to do to this woman. Wouldn't you be uncomfortable? Wouldn't you feel it was completely inappropriate and a little intimidating? How would you like to find out a man singled you out to join his group because he liked your picture in a newsletter? It's super creepy, right? Don't do this. Treat her like a professional, not a random pretty face. 

Having gone through the process of relocation and battling bureaucracy, I feel your pain. Here's what I would do. 

All of a sudden, your total compensation is worth £40,000! With your new job, the salary may be higher, but they don't offer health insurance or gym membership - in that case, is it still worth taking the job? Mention to the recruiter the total package - and explain that you'd want X% more. That could be via salary, bonus, company car, etc. 

It is usually sufficient to say something like "it's a personal matter that I don't feel comfortable discussing - I'll be back in on Thursday." If you trust your boss -and if you've read your company's sick-pay guidance - you could tell them the nature of your illness and whether you think you'll need more time off in the future. Generally speaking, you don't have to tell your boss why you're off - although you may need to share your doctor's note with your HR department. If your boss persists, it would be worth talking to their boss or HR department to get them to remind your boss about the law / company policy on asking employees about medical matters. 

When your manager asks you to perform a task and you don't have time to do both that task and everything else you've committed to, tell him that. You can inform him of your workload and still be respectful. Try something like, "Sure boss, I'd love to do X, but I've already committed to do Y and Z, and I don't have time to do all three. Which tasks should I prioritize? Is anyone available to help me?" Then go from there. If you're concerned about future backlash from not doing a task your manager tells you not to do, follow up your conversation with an email. If there are other stakeholders involved (i.e. people other than your manager request your time), copy them on the email or ask your manager to speak with them. If someone asks you to perform a task and your schedule is full, refer them to your manager. Don't be afraid to use your manager as a buffer between you and the people requesting your time; that's part of their job. Don't complain about the work ethics of others. It will make you look whiny, and it's irrelevant anyway. The only thing that matters is your workload and whether it exceeds the amount of work you can do. It's the responsibility of your manager to decide how to deal with you having too much work, and it's also his responsibility to deal with slackers. Don't try to do his job.