Your question is quite similar to one that I asked some time ago, with the additional requirement that the glue be insoluble in water, which unfortunately excludes sodium and potassium silicate. Like you, I've found Ceramabond (albeit 571, not 569, in my case) to be too magnetic. I suspect that there's an element of random variation here. It's not (as far as I know) specifically formulated to be completely non-magnetic, so there may be some batches which are more magnetic than others. Khakhalova and Feinberg (2014) investigated some other high-temperature ceramic adhesives and found that they were also too magnetic for use with weakly magnetic samples. However, they do make one useful suggestion: 

The use of ‘erosive’ in the definition perhaps doesn't make it entirely clear that this can apply to the particles as well as the surface itself, but it's easy to check that ‘abrasion’ is indeed used in this way in the literature. For example, again from Nichols (2009): 

In fact, a similar (but far more involved) technique is already commonly applied: the triaxial IRM and thermal demagnetization protocol of Lowrie (1990), which involves applying decreasing IRMs along three orthogonal axes. In Lowrie's technique, however, there is no mention of calculating the SIRM as the sum of the orthogonal components. Is anyone already using this technique? Are there any obvious pitfalls I've missed? I am tempted to try it the next time I need to determine an S-ratio, after a pilot study to confirm that the SIRMs are additive in the way I assume. 

You don't say which lake, but these are almost certainly crinoid stem fossils. Crinoids, or sea lilies, are echinoderms (relatives of starfish and sea urchins) that anchor themselves to the sea floor and feed on plankton. In some crinoids, the animal's sea urchin-like calyx is connected to the anchor by a long stem to a holdfast which anchors it. The stem part of the crinoid's endoskeleton is a stack of calcareous rings or pentagons (called "ossicles") which look almost like a little spinal column. (However, vertebrates are not descended from crinoids, even though Echinoderms are deuterostomes, placing them closer to chordates than arthropods or molluscs). When the animal dies, it falls into the bottom sediment and the stem can become disconnected as the sediment is compressed into limestone. Sometimes the rings stay aligned, and show assemblages like you see in your rock. Other times, all you see are disconnected rings or little pentagons, like the ones all over the rest of the rock. Crinoids have been around since the Ordovician period 485 million years ago, so they appear in (and sometimes entirely make up) limestones throughout the world. 

Source: USGS (via usu.edu) But BUT BUT it seems you want to know what happens to existing mountains. Some others have answered that only erosion destroys mountains, and that's mostly right, but only because it's a matter of timing. It's often difficult for us humans to comprehend just how big geological time scales are. Most of the time, a mountain range created by a continental collision is eroded away completely by the time the next rift comes along. This was the case along the eastern seaboard of the United States. The mountains created by the collosion of Africa and North America in the Carboniferous (the Alleghenian Orogeny) were almost completely gone by the Triassic, when the Atlantic Ocean began to form from a rift along about the same line. However, we have an example that might result in a qualified "yes" to your question, a little closer to the present. This is the way the Yellowstone Hotspot moved across what would become the northwestern United States. One of the things that caused geologists to recognize the Yellowstone Caldera was the 80km gap it melted in a mountain range it passed under, separating the Gallatin Range in the north from the Red Range in the south. The hotspot's track might just be the genesis of a new rift that breaks North America apart, given enough time and the right stresses. 

It's a Campbell-Stokes sunshine recorder, used to record the times at which the sun is shining. It acts as a lens, focusing the sunlight onto a piece of card. If the sun is shining, the focused beam will burn a hole through the card at that point. Here's a closer view of a sunshine recorder in Wendelstein, Bavaria: 

I should add that the adhesive requirements are actually very modest: the join doesn't have to bear any load beyond the weight of the sample itself, which will not exceed 50g. 

Certainly there are such places. They are simply spots where the nearby rocks have a high concentration of magnetic minerals with a strong remanent magnetization. They're not necessarily literal hills: any kind of topography can be magnetized in this way. I'm not sure what exactly you mean by "drives your compass crazy" -- its direction will be affected, but it won't spin around madly since there's still a field for it to align to. These phenomena are called magnetic anomalies, and their effect on a compass is called magnetic deviation. You can get an idea of anomalies at a large scale by looking at the World Digital Magnetic Anomaly Map -- however, this map shows anomalies as measured or inferred at 5km above sea level, so small-scale surface features won't show up well. You'll see that, in Europe, there are a lot of anomalies in north-eastern regions (corresponding to iron ore deposits, I suspect) and in Iceland (corresponding to lava flows). At the surface level, there is a fairly recent magnetic declination chart of Europe, but the spatial resolution is too low for the small, intense features which you seem to be interested in. I think these small-scale magnetic anomalies are mainly of interest to navigators (marine ones might be marked on nautical charts -- I'm not sure) and possibly to exploration geophysicists (who might use them to infer the presence of ore bodies). Unfortunately, data collected for mineral exploration purposes tends to be kept private for commercial reasons. However, geological maps can give you some clues: volcanic rocks tend to be relatively magnetic so if they're near the surface they're good candidates. I found this paper about magnetic anomalies on Mount Etna which shows magnetic declination varying by about five degrees across different sites on the volcano. 

Source: GeoKansas And, just because it's there, here's a video of a crinoid crawling across the sea floor. 

(Source, Arkansas Geological Survey; a very detailed map can be downloaded here) The source rock (nepheline syenite) for the bauxite appears as two isolated blue spots in the middle of the map above, surrounded by (orange) Tertiary sedimentary deposits. The town of Bauxite is just to the northwest of the southern spot. Rather than cut and paste EOA's description of the process, I decided on the following summary: 

Both the original laterite and the alluvial deposits have been mined for aluminum. Your assertion that there are no other bauxite deposits in the US is not true; other deposits formed in similar conditions in the southeastern US, and there is also bauxite in Montana. 

(Source: Wikimedia commons) Minnesota has early Archaen ("Superior" craton) rocks and a whole succession of Paleozoic. It has some Cretaceous rocks but lacks other Mesozoic/Cenozoic bedrock. North Dakota has some Jurassic age rocks in its northeastern corner. 

The rocks that make up Britain have been slowly drifting north over geologic time. About 700 million years ago it was near the South Pole! I paused this Youtube video at 75 mya, held the end of a toothpick over Cornwall, then played it to the end keeping the toothpick steady over that point, under which the approximate location of Bilbao, Spain eventually slid itself. Bilbao is at 43°15′25″N according to Wikipedia. So now, think of how longitude is defined: Relative to the meridian through Greenwich. A cursory glance at the video I linked to shows the rocks that make up Great Britain have moved as a unit and haven't rotated appreciably over the last 75 million years. So the longitudes associated with Cornwall haven't changed much in that time. 

References Sylvie Roussel-Debet, Gilles Gontier, Françoise Siclet, Marc Fournier, Distribution of carbon 14 in the terrestrial environment close to French nuclear power plants, Journal of Environmental Radioactivity, Volume 87, Issue 3, 2006, Pages 246–259, ISSN 0265-931X, doi:10.1016/j.jenvrad.2005.12.002. Von Herzen, R. P., M. J. Cordery, R. S. Detrick, and C. Fang (1989), Heat flow and the thermal origin of hot spot swells: The Hawaiian Swell revisited, Journal of Geophysical Research, 94(B10), 13783–13799, doi:10.1029/JB094iB10p13783. 

I don’t know that it is ‘the International Reference Observatory’. The Mauna Loa record is almost certainly the most-cited decadal-scale CO2 record, but as far as I know the observatory hasn't been accorded any special status: the record is used on its own merits. Googling for the phrase ‘International Reference Observatory’ gave me precisely one hit, which strongly suggests that it's not a well-defined term. The hit comes from Roussel-Debet et al. (2006), and appears in the following context: 

It's definitely not a meteorite Perhaps the easiest way to rule out a meteorite is to note the vesicles in your first picture. These alone make it almost certain that this isn’t a meteorite: meteorites overall are rare finds, and vesicular meteorites are very rare even among meteorites (around 0.1%). You mention that your specimen is highly magnetic, and this makes it entirely certain that it’s not a meteorite, because no meteorite is both vesicular and magnetic. It's probably slag As Dr Randy Korotev at Washington University in St. Louis says: ‘vesicles and metal together in the same "rock" are a good field mark for slag’. Slag would also be consistent with the flat face (from solidifying on a flat surface) and the ‘molten’ texture on the other sides. As requested, here’s a photo of some similar slag for comparison: 

The short answer is, bauxite requires a particular alumina-rich source rock and a specific set of conditions and processes to concentrate the aluminum in a specific order. From the Encyclopedia of Arkansas: 

(Source:Wikimedia Commons) This is the Matterhorn in the Alps on the Swiss-Italian border. The word horn is used in glacial geomorphology to refer to a mountain peak that has been ground by glaciers on many sides to create a "pyramidal peak" with sheer, faceted sides. During the Pleistocene ice ages, the Alps were covered in an ice sheet much like Antarctica is today, and undoubtedly at some point the tip of the Matterhorn poked through the top of the ice, looking very similar to the mountain in your picture. 

If you were hoping for a smooth succession from Archean all the way down to Quaternary, you're going to be disappointed. Geology is messier than rocks being serenely laid down continuously through time like that. A drive from the Appalachians to the East Coast would get you everything but the Archaean rocks, although the only Proterozoic rocks would be found in the Piedmont. The tough part is finding rocks of Archaen age. Although the North American craton contains Archaen rocks, they are only at the surface in northern Wisconsin and Minnesota (That is, if we restrict ourselves to the United States as you asked), and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. There are a few outcrops in the Black Hills of South Dakota. Here's a link to a large detailed geological map of the three states. But this is just the bedrock geology. The trouble with looking for Archean age rocks in northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, of course, is that these areas are mostly covered by glacial till from recent ice ages (although you might find an Archean glacial erratic that the ice sheets carried down from Canada). Archean outcrops might be small and inaccessible. 

But more to the point: even if there is slightly increased heat flux here, why do you think it would affect the CO2 readings? What mechanism are you suggesting by which a small amount of conducted heat, several kilometres below sea level, is able to perturb atmospheric CO2 concentrations several kilometres above sea level? Finally: even if there were such a mechanism, the mantle plume operates, as you point out, ‘all the year’ – year in, year out, for millenia before the Mauna Loa station even existed. So at worst it would produce a constant offset, and wouldn't affect the trend of the measured CO2 concentrations. 

An oddly specific question, but quite straightforward to calculate. Let's start by calculating the volume of your slice. I'm taking values for the inner core's physical characteristics from this Wikipedia page. 9 inches is ~0.229 m. Radius of inner core: 1.21e6 m We'll approximate your slice as a cylinder: even if we imagine the inner core is a textbook sphere down to the centimetre scale, its curvature would be miniscule over such a thin slice. $\pi \times (1.21 \times 10^6)^2 \times 0.229 \approx 1.05 \times 10^{12} \,\,\mathrm{m^3}$ So the volume of your slice is around a trillion cubic metres -- about one-fifth of a Lake Michigan, if Wikipedia is to be believed. Now we just need to turn this into a mass: Density of inner core: 12800 kg/m³ $12800 \times 1.05 \times 10^{12} \approx 1.348 \times 10^{16}\,\,\mathrm{kg}$ So, roughly 13 trillion metric tonnes. As jamesqf points out in a comment, this calculation just takes an estimated average density for the inner core, and assumes that this is the constant density throughout. In reality, the density increases with depth. Kennett (1998) gives a model for this density gradient. 

Remember that Antarctica is covered in a sheet of ice. Strip away the ice and you get something like this: 

Circles! Well, some of them, anyway. You can plot any azimuthal projection in polar coordinates, where the radius is a function of the angular distance from the center point. So where two points' angular distances are the same, their radii are the same, and the projection of any locus of constant angular distance from the center point is a circle, if it appears at all. Since you said that the tangent point is a pole, that means that parallels (lines of constant latitude) are those lines of constant angular distance. Ergo, Northern Hemisphere parallels appear as circles. 

(Wikimedia Commons) Since the Gnomonic projection can show only a single hemisphere, the Equator and parallels in the Southern hemisphere can't appear at all -- they would be an infinite distance from the center point. The polar orientation of the projection even takes away complications resulting from the earth's not being a perfect sphere -- the radius formula changes a little, but the equal results from the same input remain. 

From an Earth Science standpoint, it's meaningless to ask about the "source" of a river in this way. The "source" of a river is the rainfall within its drainage basin, which percolates down into groundwater, and the "river" appears where the land has eroded down below the water table. The Amazon has an enormous drainage basin: 

(Source: Steven Dutch, University of Wisconsin Green Bay) $URL$ Wisconsin has late Archaen ("Penokean" craton) rocks and the same lack of later rocks as Minnesota. Wisconsin has a field-trip planning site with an interactive outcrop map at this link. If you could get access to the Black Hills outcrops (uplifted bits of the "Wyoming" craton), you might be able to approximate what tou want with a trip east through South Dakota, starting in the Black Hills. I haven't found an image of South Dakota geology appropriate for embedding, but Here is a link to a large, detailed PDF of South Dakota geology, and here is another link to an interactive site with generalized SD geology.