Alpaca is softer than almost all sheep's wool. Merino can be close, but in order to be soft, it has to be processed in a certain way. The Alpaca fiber you'd find on the market is naturally soft, so you don't have to think about that. If you want to compare the two equally, you have to make sure your merino wool has been through the softening process. That process includes a lot of chemicals, whereas alpaca fiber needs no processing at all. Some people who want to make sure they're wearing a "natural" product choose alpaca fiber. Another major difference is that Alpaca is classified as "water-resistant", and is close to being "water-proof." It's considered a “dry fiber.” Compared to merino, this is beneficial in a number of ways, especially for outdoor use. It's thermal and excellent at wicking water away from the skin. This makes it more comfortable, and increases its capacity to be warmer. 

Many sources say not to eat wild insects that are already dead, especially if you're going to eat them raw. This is mostly because you won't know what killed them. If they were killed by pesticides or diseased animals, they may be carrying something that could make you sick, so it's best to steer clear. People who come across busy anthills usually trust that those ants are safe enough to give them a try. Home ant-farming is also a common way to safely incorporate ants into your diet, and is practiced all over the world for that purpose. There's controversy over eating fire ants. Many sources classify them as edible, but since they fall into the category of insects with stingers, they're not the first choice, and to leave them alone if you have other options. If you do want to eat them, take some time to remove the stingers first. Also note that they secrete more of what gives ants their sour flavor, so some people find them less palatable. On the other hand, they're also more spicy, which is one reason people do choose them. They're eaten all over the world, so sometimes avoidance is from people who just aren't used to them. This is an account from an American family entitled Yes we ate fire ants in a Cambodian Village! They were visiting a native family and immersing themselves in the culture, which included eating many foods not usually eaten by Americans: 

There are a few reasons why Canada Geese sleep on the ice. michael has covered them, so this is supplementary. In simplest terms, it's because they live in the water, and are able to tolerate frozen water for periods of time if fresh is not available. Geese on the ice may be resting or preparing to move on to un-frozen bodies of water when need be. Huddling their bodies together on the ice of a shallow pond can cause it to warm up, especially along the edges, and increase their food supply, so sleeping on the ice can merely be a step towards thawing it out. As michael pointed out, their bodies are built to stay warm. They have insulated underbellies, and enough feathers, generally between 20,000 and 25,000, to keep their upper body temperature around 104°F (40°C). (Goose down has long been considered the warmest filling for things such as jackets and sleeping bags. After hunting nearly decimated the population of Canada geese, they've become protected, and synthetic warming materials are used instead.) Geese also have an interesting type of circulation through their feet that transfers warm blood back up into their bodies. Since their feet can't freeze, they often sleep with them tucked underneath their bodies. This heat-transference phenomenon is one of the reasons why sometimes you'll see them standing on one foot with the other tucked up under the belly, especially when the ground is frozen. It's also helpful for living on the tundra, where the ground is frozen much of the year. Canada geese live year round in much of the United States, including the western part, where I believe you live, so the group on that pond may winter in the area, unless of course nasty people come along and make them move! When in flight (or during migration when applicable) they stay within a certain distance, generally a "bird's-eye view" of bodies of fresh water. They'll either stop and settle in, or at least rest and eat. For further confirmation that geese sleep on ice, I turned to research done by an organization called Wildfowl & Wetlands Trust (WWT), which is a charity dedicated to saving wetlands in several countries in the United Kingdom. One of their projects is the annual publication of a scientific journal called Wildfowl. In a past journal entitled Geese in cold weather, authored by Jules Philippona, it was reported that some geese do indeed sleep on the ice. The article cites several scientific papers written between 1962 and 1964. Note that although Canada Geese have become commonplace in the United Kingdom, and are among the 27 breeds observed and studied, the following quote doesn't specifically mention them. 

The Mt. Lyell is one of the few varieties of salamander in California that are indigenous to the Sierra Nevada Mountain Range. Almost all other California salamanders are in the Western part of the state, and even at the Pacific coastal region. 

In the United States, we have areas designated as National Parks, and areas designated as National Monuments. What are the fundamental differences between the two? 

During the second week of October, 2016, my husband and I went for a drive from our home in Massachusetts to the state of Maine. One of the things we wanted to see was the town of Bar Harbor. Whenever we go anywhere, we try to take the “scenic route” rather than the highways. That affords us the best opportunities for seeing birds, animals, flowers, woods, and anything else found in nature. Sometimes that means we get lost or off-track, but the best part of that is accidentally ending up in places that are absolutely gorgeous. That was the case on this trip. We had seen signs to Bar Harbor, but rather than go there (which we did the following day), we took some turns and wandered around. Driving up a hilly but not too narrow road, we spotted a really unusual shoreline, with more different types of rock than I've ever seen in one place. In fact, there were many I don't think I've seen before at all. I think the road was one-way at that section, but I don't remember that for sure. We parked the car along the side of the road, and literally saw all these different types of rocks and shorelines in my pictures from where we were standing. It was the only stop we made, making it even more fun to see so much. I'm not good at measuring distances, so I don't know how big it was. The water wound in and around the rocks and the shoreline curved in and away. As the shoreline curved away, the rocks became flatter, and some of those had moss on them. I can't walk easily on this type of terrain, so I got onto the flat orange rock and stayed there. My husband always stays within shouting distance in case I start to slip, but he was able to get to where there were some fascinating breaks in the rocks with water running through them. He also got down to the shore. Some of the drop-off was flat, and, as you can see, there was also an area of dangerous sudden drop off the rocky edge into the ocean. We saw an entrance to a steep wooded path to the left behind the trees, but we didn't walk it. Since we weren't really paying attention to the signs, as we often don't, I'm not sure exactly where we were. It was probably in the area of Acadia National Park. I'm pretty sure we saw Cadillac Mountain nearby, which is in the National Park. We didn't have to stop to pay, and there wasn't a visitor center, so it didn't seem like an "official" Park entrance. I've posted a sampling of the many pictures we took. It's the only stop we made along that road, so it was a treat to see so many fascinating things in one place. Some of the pictures are close-up and cropped. We have some big panoramic views, but they all have other people in them, so I didn't post them. The trees in the first two pictures were up to the left of the rocks, near the road. The ocean and trees in the fourth picture were taken facing out from the lower left most part of the rocks. I'm hoping that because of the unique design of the area, someone will be able to tell me exactly where we were, so we can return. I'm also wondering if there's an actual name for it, so I can learn more about the history and rock formations. 

They need to be wet to dig the tunnels for the winter, (up to about 6 feet or 2 meters, depending on the location and species), to eat, and to procreate. They have no bones, and move through a series of muscle movements which only function when wet. If it had recently rained, and your stones were wet, they may have been attempting to use them as a shortcut to their final destination. One of the reasons earthworms come up in the rain is to make traveling easier. 

The picture on the left (source) is a common snapper. The one on the right (source) is a common yellow-bellied slider. Also, an excellent illustration of a snapper top and bottom can be found here. 

People with hypersensitive skin, like me, may notice an itch even with alpaca fiber. In that case, it's recommended to wear it as an outer layer, or between other layers of clothing. Some chemically treated merino wool is also soft and comfortable. Here are a few things I found about durability: 

There are a few fundamental differences between oars and paddles. One main difference is the position of the user relative to the direction in which the vessel is moving. 

The smallest owl in the world is the elf owl (Micrathene whitneyi). It's about the size of a sparrow, and weighs about an ounce and a half, which is just less than the weight of a golf ball! Wingspan: 13 1/2 - 16 1/2 in. Length: 5 - 5 3/4 in. Tail: 1.8 - 2.1 in. Average Weight: 1 1/2 oz. 

I was also surprised to learn that those of us in the Northeastern region of the United States are almost always seeing only one species. According to the Mass Audubon Society: 

Here are some good choices: Tortoise Trust has some excellent pages dedicated to snapping turtles. Chelydra.org also has many different pages dedicated to the snapping turtle, including this. Turtle Rescue League Turtle Conservation Fund Mass Audubon Tufts Wildlife Center Massachusetts Department of Energy and Environmental Affairs Incredible World Wikipedia Wildscreen Arkive Minnesota Department of Natural Resources Metro Parks, Westerville, Ohio Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (A section of this page was quoted by OddDeer in Russell Steen's excellent answer.) NC Turtle Rescue 

The elf owl has no way to make its own nest, so it lives in nests that have already been made, generally by woodpeckers. Nests are found most frequently in cacti, especially Saguaro, and in high trees in mountains. Nests at elevations of up to about 600-2200 meters (2,000-7,000 feet) are also common. They can be found in dense mesquite, dry oak woodlands, wooded canyons, sycamores, and probably any other tree within its elevation range. In the United States the range is mostly the extreme south of Nevada, across central Arizona, Southwest New Mexico and West Texas. They migrate south for the winter, where they live and breed in Mexico, primarily the Baja region. In North America breeding season is normally May and June, in Mexico it's March through August. They may lay 1-5 eggs, but 3 are the most common. The incubation period is 21 - 24 days. The young can capture food as soon as they can fly (27-28 days of age) and fledge shortly thereafter (28 - 33 days of age). Their diet consists almost exclusively of arthropods, like moths, crickets, beetles, and spiders. Scorpions are an important staple, but they usually remove the stinger before eating. They may also stash scorpions away (a behavior called caching) so they can eat them later. They've also been observed eating lizards and small mice, even though by looking at them you wouldn't imagine how! Since water in the desert can be hard to come by, they've adapted to get all the water they need from the prey they feed upon. Although the elf owl has predators, it is generally hard to find, and would rather hide than fight. Like an opossum, it has the ability to "play dead" when threatened. It hunts only at night, when most of its predators aren't active. It uses a combination of sight and keen hearing to locate its food. Elf owls have "silent flight" which means they don't make any noise as they approach their prey. The sound of their wing beat is muffled by softened feathers on the leading edges of their wings. Sadly, there has been a drastic drop in Elf Owl populations in the United States, but that's due less to predators than to the changing habitat as desert areas have become developed for homes and agriculture. Now that you know where they live, you have some idea where and when to see one. If you live in their native range, you may have some elfs nearby and not realize it, because they sound more like birds than the owls we're used to hearing. Here's an example. Also, the organization Birdnote is taking a group to Big Bend National Park in Texas this coming August. Elf owl sightings are expected, so if you can get there, it sounds like a great opportunity! Click on pictures for closer view. More photographs and sounds can be found at the references I've used in this answer, which are listed below.