Is this the only reason? Is seniority in play? Are there other factors? Any workplace where promotion is not by merit is a little toxic, and politics in most places tends to be more interpercial. To close - the caste system is a relic of a long time ago, and used and abused by politicians and others for their own ends. Its the cause of many social ills and well, not always how you think it is. How bad it is really depends on the state, and unless you want to go into politics, its going to be a hard slog. There's nothing stopping you from creatively using these elements for good. At the end of the day though, if its one man swimming against a tide of filth, it might be a better idea to consider getting a transfer to a more enlightened state. This sounds like one of the worse places to be. 

I work in the IT department of a bigger company. For the last couple of months I have been in charge of tech support of a couple web applications, I only do this occasionally since I work in software development full time. A specific person, the head of a different department, is well known for somehow always experiencing issues with his software or computer equipment in general, but mostly the issues appear to be because of his own wrongdoing. This person is also a user of said web applications. Since I'm responsible for them, he takes every chance he gets to ask for my presence so he can explain to me everything that "is wrong" with them, complaining about how he has to waste several hours each month (web apps are used on a monthly basis) to try and make them work but still they don't. He gets aggressive enough to complain loudly about how we may have time to waste but he doesn't, about how it's unbelievable that he has to every month call someone and show them what's wrong and still nothing gets fixed, about how he thinks we are doing it on purpose so he can't take care of whatever else he's supposed to do, about how can we develop such horrible systems that nothing ever works on them. Basically he thinks it's garbage, and he knows I'm the only person responsible for it so the use of "we" is only a euphemism. Now, in a way, I understand some of the things he says, there are several things I see on the software that I probably would have done differently, but that's the issue, I didn't develop it, I didn't design it, I wasn't even an employee before this was up and running. And it's not like I can just say I'm gonna work on that because he keeps complaining, I'm part of other projects, with several deadlines that take all my work time and even more in many cases. However I don't tell him that, I only tell him the truth, every time he calls me I try to explain the same things, that some functionality is actually designed to behave in such a way (it is), that there are things that because of security he cannot do, that the software works as it was intended to and so on. But it serves no purpose, he just keeps yelling at me because "well... but it doesn't do this and it doesn't do that... and also...". My direct boss is aware of him and the so called issues he complains about, then I'm told I probably shouldn't worry too much about it. But still I'm the one that has to keep getting yelled at because of others' past decisions plus the lack of greater understanding of this person. He's even passively aggressively threatened me to talk with the head of my department and complain about how everything "we" do is garbage. Something I'd have no problem with because he also uses those web apps and doesn't experience those issues. I like my line of work, I enjoy it, I strive to make the best out of everything I make. And it angers me that basically he tells me I am everything I try not to be. I have no idea if he does the same to other people, he might as well, but I know for sure he didn't do it to whoever was responsible for this before me. So, if you've read all this through, how could I deal with this? 

Your manager is responsible for taking decisive action when workplace dysfunction like bullying is involved. I'd say your story clearly involves bullying as the actions of the other team members were totally excessive. An appropriate reaction would be for them to have informed the manager of the situation. It's not really a question of how smelly the lunch was, it's just clear that your co-workers actions were totally inappropriate. Your boss acting in a non-chalant manner in regards to your complaints is lazy and incompetent behavior. The being said, all HR people and bosses are human beings. You might get the same reaction from HR. Nonetheless, you should now speak to them in regards to your manager. Finally, I would really just quit. Seriously, she threw a hat at you? That is so inappropriate. If your manager or HR won't dismiss a person for behavior like that (throwing a hat?? Actually?) then they are simply lazy, arrogant and incompetent and the situation will never improve. If HR doesn't take swift and satisfactory action, your choice is really whether or not to work for them anymore, and the consequences of that decision are yours to live with. 

Make sure that all the paperwork you'd need to get your next job is in order, check to see if your manager would give you a positive reference for your next job, update your resume, and start looking for your next job. The moment you're asked to leave, there's no real reason to have any sort of loyalty or attachment to your last company. They've chosen to cut you loose (and the end of the year's not the best time for that). At this point there's nothing left for you at your old company. You can always prove yourself at your next job. 

check if your office building allows it. Ours was in a residencial building but most local office spaces don't allow this. It really depends on the dog - if its a dog that sleeps much of the time, and just needs people present its a better office dog in many cases than one that's going to keep demanding people play fetch with it. There were games of fetch played over downtime sometimes tho. Have a 'dog/people' safe space when needed - our office dog was enthusiastic about greeting people, and sounded much larger than he was. We had a bed in the conference room or the director's office for when we needed to keep him out of the way cause someone was afraid of dogs and/or we had a delivery and wanted to avoid crushed dog. If possible, the intern might have a spare/old pen that might work well. Dogs are awesome stress relief. Its a lot easier if the dog's 'timings' work around work times - we parked the dog around lunch and after work, which worked well. Years after retirement, the dog still does his business at the same times ;). Doing it outside is essential - for obvious reasons. Yes, we're all adults here and I'm talking poo. 

Sure, everything is negotiable, always. Circumstances change. You may want to work for company A, but company B comes in and makes you another offer of $20K / year more. You can, a) Still work for company A at the original rate (Company A wins) b) Go to work for company B (Company B wins, you win) c) Renegotiate your rate with company A based on the offer from company B (You win, and the company that is willing to pay more wins) As a side note, I have done exactly this, and more often than not company A finds the 20K to see the counteroffer. Sometimes they don't, and are no longer interested in hiring you - that's why it's important to have a REAL offer from Company B, and not just a bluff. 

Who will get the job? The answer - you can't tell based on the URL of their website because it doesn't matter at all versus the content of the actual site. If your portfolio is good, it doesn't matter what the link looks like. If your portfolio is bad, it doesn't matter what the link looks like. 

I had a resume out while I was studying - what I did was simply leave the finishing date open ended. I've been there. I've gone into an exam needing a 30% score to pass... and got 29%. The marker (who was elsewhere) disagreed with my answer's content, and well, yeah. I retook that module. Its not the end of the world (I got a pretty good score when I retook it!). So, what to say? "I'm currently finishing up my degree and I'm one module away from finishing". Focus on the wins, and what you have to offer to an employer. I'd also add that depending on the job market, its going to take time to find a job, and getting your resume out there pre-graduation is a sensible thing to do. 

Good news is? They haven't told you to pack up your stuff and leave, especially as a new employee. You've been given a chance to explain yourself - which is a ... well, less than negative sign. That said, this is ... going to be hard to explain. The best strategy here really is to prepare your resume, and go face the music. Be earnest, apologetic and well realise you've messed up. Listen to what they have to say, apologise anyway. If you have a legitimate work related reason - like testing geographically, well, then, the truth works. Its also worth considering most contracts have a notice period, and they could go "ok, we'll pay off your notice period. Please pack your stuff and leave" 

This boss in my company is retiring at the end of the month, he politely asked me if I could get an external hard drive so he could save personal pictures and videos along with other personal files stored on his work computer, he is no IT guy so I politely agreed. For the sake of the argument let's say he gave me $50 USD when we talked about it and said he would give me the rest once I had bought it and knew how much it was. Let's say I spent about $80, would it be ok for me to tell him that it's fine and he shouldn't worry about the rest? Would that seem weird or even petty? I don't know him for long but he has been a friend of the family for a while, also I did get a recommendation from him when I started working here although I don't work directly with him. I've never been in this position so I really have no idea if: