Note that riding in the wet is generally more risky than riding in the dry since things are indeed slipperier than in the dry. Relatively innocuous things in the dry become hazardous in the wet regardless of your tire type (such as wet leaves). Wet also is accompanied by oil in many cases on the road, especially if rain hasn't washed the oil from the cars off the road yet. Stopping distance goes up, etc. Many racing bikes tend to have sensitive and twitchy steering/geometries, so they aren't great in the wet since they are not easy to control to begin with (even in the dry). But this is a function of the bike itself, not the tires primarily. Note that some control of speed and riding style will help here (riding like a racer means taking risks like a racer). Here is a summary of a recent article by Leonard Zinn in VeloNews on the subject (with responses from major tire manufacturers) and Sheldon Brown's advice: 1) You can't hydroplane (bicycle tires are too thin and high pressure for this). 2) Slick is best in the dry. 3) Tread is effectively aesthetic on road tires (Specialized argues for a tread pattern of < 0.2 mm, but the pattern doesn't matter according to them, Challenge argues for a particular pattern, Continental says they are effectively aesthetic, Vittoria wants you to have tread [ but remember, they all want to sell you a new tire! ]). The road is rough providing the grip. 4) Things that matter: Softness of the tire/compound, reduced tire pressure, higher tire width, rider weight to get a nice big contact patch. 

That being said, you might be able to make a suitable replacement on your own for the part in question with a bit of PVC tubing or some other plastic tubing cut to size and shaped appropriately. 

You don't have pictures of the bike, but honestly, theres not much you need to worry about. Pump up the tires and make sure they hold air. Check that the brakes work (may need new pads, cables). Add a new chain and you're likely good to go. A lot of bikes live outside their whole lives (in rain and snow) and aren't worse for the wear. 

Most drop bars have a different diameter than flat bars, and therefore cannot fit a twist grip (which is designed for flat bars). Moreover, you have to get the twist grip to an appropriate position on the bar so you can shift easily. Some BSO's have drop bars with twist grips, but these allegedly have been sawed in half to get the twist shifters on from the center and are being held together by the stem. This is not a good idea. The easiest way to get twist shifters on a drop bar is a HubBub drop bar adapter, which plugs in as a bar end for the twist shifter to be attached to. Though, it will likely be easier and better to just switch to bar end shifters or some other type of shifter (stem shifters, downtube shifters, brifters, etc.) As DRH said in the comments, you may end up shifting accidentally when using the drops. 

Ideally you want a mudflap on the front. These mount to eyelets on the frame and fork normally, and at the brake bolts (or reflectors or ziptie there). There are also a few clip on ones for this. These prevent crud from being thrown up to your drivetrain and getting into the headset bearings. The problem with full fenders is that something can get caught between the fender and the wheel or the fender can slip (esp. in the front) and jam a wheel. Then you crash. This is why you see fenders with safety release tabs so the fender will shear off in some way if something tries to get caught in the wheel rather than jam it and crash. 

Park tool has plenty of information on how to do this, including how to cut a fork (and what tools are useful, namely a saw, a vise and a saw guide). They also have other directions, e.g. how to prep a frame for headset installation and what not. Depending on the tools you have, and how prepared the frame comes, you may want to leave some of the preparation to a bike shop (e.g. very few home mechanics are equipped to ream/face a frame properly). 

The first thing is, do you have the right wheel size in this bike? People often convert 27" bicycles to 700c, which requires 4 mm more adjustment downwards on the brakes (which looks about to what you need, so it wouldn't surprise me if this was the case). In any case, you need to either: 

(Picture in Public Domain) There are a few mountain bikes which use drop handlebars (like the ones in the picture above) rather than flat handlebars in the picture below, but they're pretty rare these days. An example is the Salsa Fargo. Almost all bikes with drop handle bars are road bikes or cyclocross bikes. Flat handlebars: 

Clean a standard rim (not for tubeless tires, which has rimtape installed) Fit a 20" tube on a 29" wheel Split the tube along the seam of the tube so that it covers the edges of the rim Clean the chalk (used for manufacturing the tube so it doesn't stick to itself) out of the tube Install a standard tire (designed for tubes) on top of the split tube (so the edges of the split tube cover the rim), and pump it up to see if it seals well enough Add sealant and shake the tire up as usual, trim the excess 20" tube off the rim. 

These are slick tires, so it doesn't really matter. Even if there are rotation marks, they generally have minimal/trivial differences in performance if any on slick road tires for direction of rotation. For tread for things like mountain bike tires, the performance may be different depending on the tread orientation, with how much the tread grabs depending on the way the rotation. 

Now, also note that you may run into some issues with putting the freewheel onto the bike. While the threading of the freewheel onto the hub is going to be the same, you need 130mm rear spacing (which if you have a steel frame and have less spacing, you'll can spread the frame). You'll also need enough axle length to be long enough. You might also need to re-dish the wheel and maybe play around with some spacers. Also, note that 8 speed freewheels are more prone to breaking axles than lower speeds. Depending on what you're comfortable doing at home, you may want to leave this job to the bike shop depending on how much needs to be done. 

Nowhere is a good option. A bike can't fall over if its leaned on the ground, and in many cases you can lean a bike against a post or a tree if it needs to be kept upright. On a more serious note, kickstands can crush bicycle tubes or can interfere with the crank or some other moving part if something goes wrong. Some frames are designed with kickstands in mind and have some reinforcements for kickstand installation. From this perspective, something like a Click-stand (like a folding tenting pole which can be used as a bike stand) is preferable. If you insist on having a kickstand, check the bike's manual to see if theres a recommended spot. If not, a rear one is preferable for the interference reason, but you're more likely to find a center one legged kickstand easier, which is the one you'll probably install. 

700 mm is roughly 27.5 inches, so if you mounted a reasonable tire on it, you'd get around 28 inches (hence the name 28"). For mountain bikes, you'd get a bigger tire giving an outside diameter of 29"+. In theory, any tire which can be mounted to a rim marked as any above sizes can be mounted to the others, but in practice you want the rim width to be appropriate to the tire size you're mounting. In terms of which way you should refer to this wheel size, ISO 622 is unambiguous. If its being used on a road bike or hybrid, 700c is also a good way to refer to it. If its being used on a mountain bike with a big tire, 29" is also a good way to refer to it.