Even if you assume determinism without quantum complications, I think a better interpretation (more consistent with Lorenz's original math) is this: Given a complete description of the state of the Universe at one point in time, calculating all the causes and effects forward may come to a point with, say, a hurricane in Florida. Suppose that we rewound back to that same initial state, and then made a small change--like removing the flap of a butterfly's wing in China. It's quite likely, then, that performing those exact same calculations on this new state for the same amount of time will result in a world without that hurricane. 

As there is no reason to logically accept one as me and the other as not, option 1. cannot be the case. Option 2. directly follows from the personality theory of identity as stated above. Kagan immediately dismisses this as absurd and therefore appeals to option 3. (requiring a revision of the personality theory by adding a no-splitting clause). However Kagan does not elaborate on this dismissal. Why dismiss option 2? Edit for further simplification: 1st premise (soundness aside) Personality theory of personal identity: You := your personality (whatever that is) 2nd Premise Your personality is transferable and copiable to different objects in such a way that preserves it. 3rd Premise Your personality has been copied to two different objects A and B. Therefore You are A and you are B. (Option 2 and not option 1 nor option 3) What is wrong with this conclusion? Furthermore, what is so repulsive about the idea in general? 

I would argue that only an atheist can be moral. Imagine two men in a convenience store: one walks to the counter, makes a purchase, and leaves. Another has a knife in his pocket and intends to rob the store. When he gets to the counter, he notices a police car pulling up, so he changes his mind, buys something, and leaves. Which of these men was more moral? They both did exactly the same thing, but one of them only did so out of fear of punishment, while the other did so from his own intentions. Being moral implies taking responsibility not only for your actions, but also for your own values and beliefs that lead to those actions. Otherwise, you're not a moral person, just an obedient one. 

I am currently watching the Yale open course "Philosophy of Death" with Shelly Kagan. So far he has made the case that there is not good enough reason to believe in the existence of an immaterial soul. Thus everything is now being argued mostly from a physicalist perspective. He is now discussing personal identity, specifically the perspective of personality theory of identity which says Your personality (beliefs, desires, memories etc etc) is what makes you you. Although your personality may change across space-time, the entire continuously connected space-time worm of beliefs, memories, desires, etc etc is your personality and forms your identity. We are presented with roughly the following science-fiction thought-experiment: Imagine I die and a scientist is able to copy the information from my brain that composes my personality and then is able to load (implement) my personality onto the brain of some other dead body, John Smith from Iowa. Certainly "I" would awake with my same (space-time worm of) desires, beliefs and memories but in the body John Smith. Based on the personality theory of identity, this person would be me. Now imagine the scientist loads my personality onto another dead body, Kris Kringle from Florida. Are the person in Iowa and the person Florida both me? We only have three options: 

To add more context, this quotation is his response to the situation he's chosen to consider in this section of his essay. "Whenever I go into a foreign country or a prison or any similar place they always ask me what is my religion". The difficulty here is not about his beliefs, it's about how he can accurately answer that question when posed by some official or other. So, he's not changing his beliefs, he's changing the label he uses when describing his beliefs to different audiences. Russell assumes that to a philosophical audience the word "atheist" means "a person whose beliefs entail the non-existence of God", whereas "agnostic" means "a person who thinks there is no conclusive argument for or against the existence of God" (he explicitly states here that he thinks there is no conclusive argument against God. He has let it go without saying that he thinks there's no conclusive argument for God either). Therefore, to a philosophical audience he uses the word "agnostic" to describe his beliefs. He can't present a proof of God's non-existence from his own priors, which is what a "pure philosophical audience" would understand by the word "atheist". Then, Russell assumes that to the ordinary man in the street, "atheist" means "a person who does not believe in God". By this definition, Russell is an atheist, since "God exists" is not among his beliefs. Basically he's advocating talking to people in their own language rather than getting too hung up on the proper philosophical definitions at all times. Therefore that there's no contradiction in describing himself as an agnostic in one context and an atheist in another. In particular he sees no contradiction in publicly describing himself as an atheist and nevertheless believing that one cannot prove the non-existence of God. By raising the Olympian Gods as an example I think he is also teasing those who want to draw what he believes to be an overly-pedantic distinction between agnosticism and atheism. He asserts (rightly or wrongly) that there are many things other than the Christian God in which we don't believe, and which if absolutely pressed we would acknowledge can't be disproved either, but we don't go around in everyday life saying that we're agnostic on the subject. 

I think this is simply assuming the consequent: You assert "The law against X is unjust.", and you're opponent replies "Don't do X.", he's simply assuming that the law against X is a just and reasonable law, and thus should be obeyed, which is exactly what you are denying and/or trying to prove. Your response should simply be "So you think it's right and just to punish X, and the law should stand?" If he backpedals and says something along the lines of "Maybe it's a bad law, but it's the one we have.", then you reply with "So you agree with me that the law should be repealed?" Either way, he has only three logically consistent options: (1) The law is a just one, and should be enforced. (2) The law is an unjust one, and should be repealed. (3) Rule of law doesn't matter. 

I think the latter can be directly rebutted. Atheists could have an externally-delivered "fixed moral center" from a source other than a religious text, for instance: 

The argument you want to rebut seems to come in two parts, the second of which doesn't get much attention from your idealised religious person: 

No, he's saying that because he describes himself in everyday language as not believing in the Olympian Gods, and because (he says) his disbelief in those Gods is of a kind with his disbelief in the Christian God and every hypothetical God, that he should also describe himself in everyday language as an atheist. He's not describing anyone who disbelieves in the Olympian Gods and believes in the Christian God, and he's not saying that just because a person disbelieves in the Olympian Gods then they should be an atheist. 

Intellectual property is a broad and ill-defined notion so I want to be clear what I am talking about. I am not talking about someone taking credit for another's published work, surely authors should get credit. I am not talking about patenting designs of physical objects with immediate commercial use. I am talking about the ownership of abstract information that appears to take place in the arts and sciences. The notion that someone can own information and legally control its use and expression is absurd to me. Example: Walt Disney creates a drawing of "Mickey Mouse" and makes a cartoon of him on film. He controls the mediums in which the information that is "Mickey Mouse" is now stored. He chooses to release these mediums for public view. I view these mediums. The information that is "Mickey Mouse" is now in my psyche. I can choose to paint a painting of information from my psyche that happens to be a derivative of "Mickey Mouse". Under current laws around the world there could be legal repercussions for this. So Disney has partial legal claim to a medium in my immediate possession. Disney also has a legal claim to any such medium that may exist involving " Mickey Mouse" and therefore has legal claim over part of the expression of my psyche. Almost all cases I can think of involving ownership of abstract information require seizing power from individuals over their immediate reality for enforcement. This is oppression. What do philosophers have to say about such matters? What schools of thought are there involving "intellectual property"? Are there any sound ethical arguments behind these types of laws? 

This seems like a simplistic "The perfect is the enemy of the good" fallacy. "Experts aren't perfect, therefore my lay opinion is as good as any other". Of course a PhD is no guarantee of accuracy--there are no such guarantees in philosophy or in life, and no one has ever suggested there were. But randomly selecting among theories of laymen and theories of experts, the probability that the experts are correct is quite a bit higher. Experts do have knowledge and experience that laymen do not. The bell curves overlap, but the peak of the experts' curve is significantly to the right of the peak of the laymen's curve. (And if you don't understand probabilities and bell curves, your opinion on this matter is likely to be less valuable). 

The religious person might argue that "what your mama told you" might be morally incorrect, and therefore is not a moral center. For example, for all we know maybe she approved of stealing. But functionally as long as it's consistent it will serve as a source of moral imperatives, and so if the religious person argues this then they have been disingenuous. They are not really arguing that ethics is impossible without a religious text, they're arguing that true ethics is impossible without their religious text, the one they hold to be correct. Simply put two such religious people, of different religions or different doctrinal inclinations, in a room together, and leave them to rebut each others' arguments. The former claim, "morality requires a fixed moral center" might ultimately boil down to a particular definition of morality. It does seem reasonable that ethics must progress from some set of imperatives, but it might be that the words "fixed" and "center" are being imbued by the religious person with some sacred aura that a non-religious imperative can't, in their mind, compete with. If the religious person ultimately is defining morality to mean, "following the commandments of a religion" then logically speaking they're absolutely correct, atheists aren't moral, but you can get into their axioms with them in order to establish that they're begging the question. None of this is deep philosophy, but when the argument we're supposed to be rebutting contains the statement, "[atheists could] justify killing other humans on the basis of their actions or beliefs", as if this is something only enabled by their atheism, when in fact we observe many religious people who support war and/or the death penalty, then I don't think the philosophical big guns are really required. The argument you're presenting to be rebutted is pretty weak, and an expert could present a stronger version :-)