In short, because the means of power were dictated by democratic means. During the time of Oliver Cromwell's rule England was a commonwealth that can be considered a republic because the people were represented in the government by elected officials. After the defeat of Charles I in 1653 the victors drafted the Instrument of Government (full text here), and afterwards Oliver Crowell was declared Lord Protector of the realm. However, the legality of the Instrument of Government was doubted, and in 1657 another group drafted the Humble Petition and Advice (full text here), which declared Cromwell Lord Protector for life, and gave him the ability to name his successor which is how his son, Richard Cromwell, became Lord Protector upon his father's death. In sum, the "people" of England democratically set up the means by which Oliver Cromwell, and later his son Richard Cromwell, wielded their power. So, although the Cromwells exerted tremendous power they were propped up by England's two written constitutions. 

As far as I can tell Krushchev was removed from office because of his erratic policies, and specifically their failures, but did his role in Stalin's purges also play a part in his removal? 

First off the wikipedia page that you cite to is based on the Economist Intelligence Unit's Democracy Index ("EIUDI") which is not an academic source. The methodology used to assemble the report is not known, but that doesn't mean that it is not useful. With that in mind from the EIUDI 2011 Report: 

This question really has two parts to it: 1) did votes "cast" by deceased voters give LBJ enough votes to push him past Stevenson; and 2) were the votes of deceased voters what led to LBJ winning the 1948 election. The answer to the first question is unequivocally yes. Some number of deceased voters cast votes for LBJ which led to LBJ having more votes than Stevenson. Robert Caro even found the election judge for the infamous precinct 13 who admitted as much in an interview for the book "Means of Ascent." There are also sources who point out that Stevenson was procuring illegal votes as well. The answer to the second question is a little trickier, but is probably yes and no. Caro and Robert Dallek's book "Lone Star Rising" deal with the contested votes, but as Texas lawyer Josiah Daniel argues Caro and Dallek don't do the litigation that occurred after the election justice. Mr. Daniel went into detail in a law review article on the legal machinations that led to LBJ ultimately prevailing in the ensuing litigation. Mr. Daniel's article does an excellent job of explaining the legal arguments mustered by Stevenson and LBJ, as well as explaining how the litigation went from a state district court, to a federal district court, to a failed attempt at getting a mandamas (a fancy word for a court order) from the Texas Supreme Court, to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals, and ultimately Supreme Court Justice Hugo Black. The crux of the election came down to the motion to stay the proceedings before the federal district court before Justice Black which: 

I am specifically interested in information related to: the University of Bologna, the University of Paris, and the University of Oxford. From what I have been able to find so far universities were created as an extension of the learning tradition embodied in monasteries. However, this doesn't really get to the why of the question. That explanation just seems to assert that they were a continuation of that sort of tradition. My question then is, what was the demand during this time period for these institutions of higher learning to be erected? Did the sovereigns of the time period wish for their to be a more educated class? Was there some source of demand for a degree as proof of one's education? I'm looking for academic sources that can shine light on these questions. 

Piggybacking on what mgb said, it is necessary from a security standpoint that heads of state have a dedicated security force whose sole purpose is the protection of the head of state. Local police forces, or even national police forces, have conflicting agendas that can lower their focus. That said, the Secret Service (in the US) and their counterparts in other countries work with local security whenever the head of state travels. 

Both Steven Drennon, and Tom Au, have provided excellent answers, but I wanted to add to them. The important thing seems to be that the other branches of government likely did not know about what was going on. Perhaps some had suspicions, but nothing to the level of allowing them to execute some sort of check on the activities. The reason for this is that the CIA has extremely broad authority to conduct activities as it sees fit: 

Prohibition existed in many localities around the country prior to the amendment, but the answer to your question seems to be because the powers that wished to enact prohibition had overwhelming public support. So, the group that wanted prohibition did it in part because they could. To further flesh out some points of MichaelF's answer, prohibition was already starting to take hold around the country. According to Irving Fisher (a professor of economics who testified during congressional hearings on prohibition in April of 1926) in his book Prohibition at its Worst: 

The Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact was the non-aggression pact between the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany prior to, and during WWII. It seems that the actions of the two countries after the invasion of Poland would confirm suspicions that they were working in concert in some fashion, but that doesn't mean that the specific secret agreements were known to the Allied powers. My question is did Churchill, Roosevelt, or their administrations, know at any point prior to entering into an alliance with the Soviet Union that there were explicit agreements between Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union? 

So, yes the US Navy of today is smaller than it was in 1919. However, the differences between these two fleets are the key. For example, there were no carriers until 1924, whereas in the 2007-2011 range there were 11 carriers. Eleven is a small number except when you consider this picture: 

I seem to remember that the British Navy, and the US Navy maybe, used to give out a ration of alcohol to sailors each day. When did this practice stop, and why? 

The most on point case for what it means to be a natural born citizen is U.S. v. Wong Kim Ark (full opinion found at Justia). The opinion itself is a great read on the issue, and one that covers the development of the theory in considerable depth. Discussed in the opinion are the facts that the US recognizes natural born citizens to be both jus soli (right of the soil), and jus sanguinis (right of blood). The Congressional Research Service put it best in 2011: 

I know that Gandhi was involved in the civil rights movement in South Africa during he beginning of the 20th century, but was there a specific person, or group, that he learned how to protest through non-violent means? 

My first thought was that the legislative session for each one of these states ended right before July 1, however, a look at the National Conference of State Legislature's website showed that the legislature in each state adjourns at a different time, although these times could have been different in the late 60s. What appears most likely is that during the 1960s there was a renewed interest around the country in revising state constitutions. Michigan adopted a new constitution in 1964. Connecticut adopted a new constitution in 1965, and Florida adopted a new constitution in 1968. There were also aborted efforts in the 60s. Maryland, New York, and Pennsylvania all had constitutional conventions in 1967 that failed to be ratified by the voters. All told, 13 states adopted constitutions from 1940-1980. This activity is no doubt due to the changes undergoing US society during the 1950s and 1960s. Many states constitutions had been in place since right after the Civil War, and thus were not exactly in line with modern day values. As to whether the three states in question, North Carolina, Illinois, and Virginia, engaged in any sort of coordination the answer is likely, no. The North Carolina Constitution was concerned with reworking the functioning of state government. The Illinois Constitution was concerned with issues of substantive law (abolishing the death penalty), as well as the general inflexibility of the Illinois Constitution. The Virginia Constitution dealt with civil rights issues as well as state bonds. All three states did have Democratic governors at the time, but the democrats in North Carolina and Virginia were not the same democrats as those in Illinois. Additionally, each state used a governmental committee to formulate what amendments to put forward with the input from interested parties for example bar associations, academics, and concerned citizens. There is nothing to suggest a supra-state type of coordination, especially when some of the changes to the constitutions were extremely state specific.