As an medical insider from the ICU nursing perspective. I will agree that doctors do their best to prevent medical errors. The point of "To Err is Human" is that our best isn't good enough. Humans at their 'best' have a 3% error rate and the IOM report of 1999 is responsible for making hospitals accept that the problem exists and resulted in changes to improve 'error trapping' such as two identifiers before providing a therapy, having coworkers sign your med sheets when giving high risk medications and instituting 'time out' before beginning invasive procedures. $URL$ What the ER doctor failed to mention is this study: two recent studies of malpractice claims revealed that diagnosis errors far outnumber medication errors as a cause of claims lodged (26 percent versus 12 percent in one study) $URL$ and these findings were reiterated by a separate study that concluded clinical diagnosis is verified with autopsy in 49.1% of the cases. Doctors are worried about the assigning of blame for obvious reasons, fear of litigation. He isn't aware of patients 'dropping like flies' simply because lots of patients die in hospitals and fewer than 10% ever receive autopsies. $URL$ $URL$ Failure to recognize a problem exists is very common in the medical community. One paper attempted to minimize the Johns Hopkins open letter by suggesting the IOM was the actual standard. Any attempting to inflate these numbers were merely alternative medicine quacks seeking to make a quick buck by frightening the public about the dangers of medical care. $URL$ Very sad indeed, that anyone attempting to improve patient safety is labeled as a crazed quack. The medical system needlessly kills people. This is why we have medical attorneys. And before the reader suggests most law suits are frivolous and are done solely for profit, consider the Harvard malpractice study that found 47 malpractice claims occurred among 30,195 patients after initial hospital visits; of 280 patients identified with adverse events caused by medical negligence (defined per study protocol), only eight filed claims (<2%). That means fewer than 2% of all injured by the medical system actually file suit and less than 1% actually receive awards (that are generally capped at $250,000, darn few get millions) $URL$ The numbers do not reflect deaths from adverse drug reactions that the FDA concedes results in a considerable number of annual deaths: $URL$ The FDA also concedes that physicians grossly under report these serious and potentially fatal drug interactions. The median under-reporting rate was ...high at 85%. This systematic review provides evidence of significant and widespread under-reporting of ADRs to spontaneous reporting systems including serious or severe ADRs. $URL$ Add to these the unconscionable number of amenable deaths (those due to untimely access to medical care but otherwise preventable). One study concluded: In 2004–2005, amenable mortality in the United States ranged from a low of 63.9 deaths per 100,000 people under age 75 in Minnesota to highs of 142.0 in Mississippi and 158.3 in the District of Columbia. I'll spare you the math, the average is around 1 out of 1000 deaths in the US could be prevented if they received appropriate care in a timely fashion. I am a former Traveling ICU nurse and worked in 26 different hospitals nationwide. I am also a former Molecular Biologist who worked for a major drug company. I am a former Koolade drinker but no more. I have nothing to sell except to tell the reader to do as the Public Health Service suggests and choose your parents wisely. 

It is not clear whether statin treatment is beneficial in a primary prevention setting, that is in people without prevalent CVD who are at relatively lower risk. The recent results of the JUPITER trial1 have fuelled an intense debate whether statins should be given for primary prevention of CVD. $URL$ This study therefore questions the widespread practice of prescribing statins to middle-aged patients with an average cardiovascular risk profile who do not have overt CVD. Statin use in low risk young patients remains very controversial Early statin trials reported significant mortality benefits, yet serious concerns have been raised in some studies regarding biased results, premature trial terminations, under reporting of adverse events, high numbers of patients lost to follow-up and oversight by the pharmaceutical company sponsor $URL$ the above is an excellent article that explains both the history and problems of statin therapy. The name of the game is ABSOLUTE Risk reduction or ARR, Relative risk reduction is a ploy use by pharma to promote a drug's benefit. If I say Aspirin reduces your risk of a heart attack by 25% I would probably be correct but not accurate. The Relative Risk Reduction (RRR) is the percentage your risk is reduced by a therapy. So, 25% sounds great except it is deceptive because it doesn't use your actual risk of a heart attack. If you are a young healthy male in his 30's your risk of a heart attack may be only 4% $URL$ if I give you aspirin and it reduces your risk by 25% it actually reduces your risk to just 3%, only a 1% ABSOLUTE Risk Reduction (not 25% RRR) and that reduction is at a 3% increase for dying from a bleed. I could actually increase your all cause or total mortality by 2%. I may spare you from dying in your old age from a heart attack because you die middle age from head bleed or hemorrhagic stroke. To understand medical therapies you have to understand how statistics are manipulated "There are three kinds of lies: lies, damned lies, and statistics." Samuel Clemens 

Depends on what you consider to be health benefits. I will address the question about heart attacks. Lots of medical sites and media outlets report the wonders of daily aspirin. But, in medicine, you can't claim the benefit unless you also assume the risk. It is all about risk to benefit ratios and frankly most doctors are too busy to do a complete review to determine if aspirin really is preventive of heart attack. The problem is aspirin can also cause you to have a hemorrhagic stroke (bleed in your brain) or exsanguinate or bleed to death from an ulcer. Doctors know this and good ones worry about it. So, they do a risk assessment (or should) to determine your risk of having a heart attack over the next 10 years. $URL$ 14-16 - High risk (15-19 percent) - You stand a good chance of having a first heart attack before you are 55, if male, and 65, if female. If you have already had a heart attack, you are at high risk for a repeat performance. Primary prevention means preventing the FIRST heart attack. There is very little evidence that daily aspirin will prevent your initial heart attack and the little possible benefit is at the risk of a head bleed stroke which has a very high mortality rate. Currently, the worthwhile net clinical benefit of giving aspirin to healthy individuals is made difficult to assess by the imprecision of estimates of benefits and risks, especially for rare events, such as intracranial hemorrhage, and by the difficulty of weighing ischemic versus bleeding events. In the setting of secondary cardiovascular prevention on the contrary, the benefit of treatment (saving major cardiovascular events) is clearly superior to the risk (inducing major bleeding). $URL$ However, if you are also a diabetic there may be some benefit at medium risk of first heart attack: $URL$ Head and GI bleeds are horrible with very high rates of mortality. The suggestion to use aspirin as primary prevention is best determined by a qualified cardiologist as this site has no means of accessing or even generalizing risks. Here is a great site that offers several scenarios for when to take or not take aspirin. As you can see, daaily aspirin isn't as healthy as the media may suggest: $URL$ I'd suggest get a cardiac workup to be safe 

Not sure about brain infection, but, popping pimples can result in death. S. aureus is a common skin bacteria that produces a variety of ailments from rashes, pimples, and boils to more serious bouts of food poisoning. It is responsible for a variety of diseases, and about 20 percent of the general population carries S. aureus on the skin and many more carry it in the nose. $URL$ Popping the lesions can introduce the bacteria into the body and result in death from Toxic Shock Syndrome (I personally gave care to a patient with TSS from a pimple) $URL$ or the infamous flesh eating bacterial condition called necrotizing fasciitis: $URL$ $URL$ Or the now all too common MRSA may be introduced into your blood stream: $URL$ Concerning the 'triangle of death' yes it can occur according to Wikipedia but the article doesn't give the incidence related to acne. $URL$ 

Social media platforms provide potential opportunities for individuals to connect to support or treatment they need. For instance, social media posts that convey messages of despair or a pattern of increasing hopelessness over a period of time could spur outreach from peers, who in turn can help connect a friend or teammate to commanders and professionals. $URL$ But what they're most worried about is social media causing depression to develop, or exacerbating a person's mental state, worsening it every time they log back in. According to the Anxiety and Depression Association of America, depression isn't characterized by fleeting feelings of anxiety or sadness. $URL$ A recent study found that people who use anywhere from seven to 10 social-media platforms are three times more likely to be depressed or anxious, compared to those using no more than two $URL$ Do social groups really increase the risk of depression? 

I wish to add to the above answer. Approximately 9% of the genome is viral in origin, but current research suggests there is less of 'you' than there are other viral related sequences. Here is a very nice listing of the percentages of various genetic elements within the human genome: $URL$ Although viral related sequences may comprise 9% of our DNA, there are other elements than can be considered pre-viral in origin called transposons. Our genome is composed of 44% of these elements. Add to these viral like sequences regulatory elements and telomers that are non coded and you will see our genome is more non-coding 'junk' DNA than it is genes essential for the expression of human proteins or regulation. In fact, 65% of our genome has no known function at all and may be considered non-essential fossil elements according to the $URL$ $URL$ And don't think these fossils that clutter our genomic junk drawer are worthless. Studies have found many human genes were in fact initially of viral origin: $URL$ Thankfully most of these mobile genetic elements are currently inactive, but that hasn't always been the case. $URL$ $URL$ A recent study found one sequence, Alu, is found only in primates and may in fact be the agent that induced changes in our brains that allowed us to become human. $URL$ Probably more than you wanted to know, but 8% is probably an understatement for viral like elements in the human genome 

What makes people think skinny or weight loss is healthy? Weight loss is a common sign of advancing disease. A Harvard review was horrified by this and similar studies suggesting obesity increases life expectancy. Here is their primary objection to this and other studies. ... included many samples of people who were chronically ill, current smokers and elderly, according to Hu. These factors are associated with weight loss and increased mortality. $URL$ I also recognize being overweight may mean well-fed and a fully function immune system, but that does not equate to the known risks of diabetes, hypertension and heart disease. $URL$ 

I am not sure why most think placebo effect is only psychological. It is easily reversible by opioid antagonists like naloxone: the placebo response could be blocked by naloxone if it was induced by strong expectation cues, whereas if the expectation cues were reduced, it was insensitive to naloxone. In the same study, if the placebo response was obtained after exposure to opioid drugs, it was naloxone reversible, whereas if it was obtained after exposure to non-opioid drugs, it was naloxone insensitive. These data indicate that opioid and non-opioid mechanisms come into play under different circumstances. $URL$ The placebo effect isn't restricted to only pain relief. A 2001 study on placebo effect and Parkinson's Disease concluded:the placebo effect in PD is mediated by an increase in the synaptic levels of dopamine in the striatum. They found a strong positive response from placebos that increased dopamine levels that mitigated the symptoms of Parkinson's. $URL$ And a 2011 Nature paper reported that: the endocannabinoid system has a pivotal role in placebo analgesia in some circumstances when the opioid system is not involved. $URL$ And don't think placebo effects are restricted to alleviating only pain or depression. The fascinating field of psychoneuroimmunology studies how our thoughts affect our response to infections and immune related illnesses. $URL$ The author of the above study reported: ... it's not the cytokines produced in the blood by macrophages that tell the brain you're sick. They're too big to get past the blood-brain barrier. Instead, the message moves from the bloodstream to the vagus nerve, which delivers it to the brain. "If I cut your vagus," said Maier, who has done such in rats, "your brain doesn't know you're sick." The psychoneuro response is even the basis for the Nocebo: it is the phenomenon in which inert substances or mere suggestions of substances actually bring about negative effects in a patient or research participant. For some, being informed of a pill or procedure’s potential side effects is enough to bring on real-life symptoms. Like the placebo effect, it is still poorly understood and thought to be brought about by a combination of Pavlovian conditioning and a reaction to expectations. $URL$ A systematic review concluded that contrary to the rhyme you cited as a child, words can hurt you and even cause you to die: $URL$ The nocebo effect has been credited for 'voodoo death'. $URL$ Any clinical scientist will tell you that the placebo effect is far more than a psychological effect. 

YOU BET! But, first let me say not all headaches are created equal. A headache can simply be the result of stress that causes muscular tension the neck or as a result of inflamed sinuses from strong smells or a head cold. At the far extreme, a headache may be a sign of an life threatening intracranial hemorrhage. Ice or cold packs won't be of much help in these. I will restrict my answer to only migraines and even then migraines vary in terms of cause and treatment and as a medical worker I will advise you to have a neurologist eval just to be sure your chronic migraine isn't a brain tumor. Hopefully your doctor has cleared you of all but migraines, so, will ice or cold packs help and if so how well and by what mechanism. $URL$ A 2013 randomized, controlled, crossover clinical trial evaluated freezable ice packs applied to carotid arteries at the neck. Maximum pain reduction was observed at the 30 minute time point with a 31.8% ± 15.2% decrease in pain in the treatment arm compared to a 31.5% ± 20.0% increase in pain at the same time interval in the control arm. These findings confirm the application of a frozen neck wrap at onset of migraine headache targeting the carotid arteries at the neck significantly reduced recorded pain in participants with migraine headaches (P<.001) $URL$ Cryotherapy or cold may be so effective that the popular People's Pharmacy site even recommends eating ice cream or chugging cold drinks to alleviate migraines. $URL$ And Scientific American states the mechanism may go beyond simple vasoconstriction of carotid and basilar arteries. $URL$ There have been clinical studies testing cryotherapy devices for the treatment of migraines: $URL$ $URL$ But, this is something you can do without a corporate sponsor. My suggestion is to apply an ice pack at the nap of your neck (back of neck) not to your forehead. I find the if the therapy is going to work, you will achieve significant pain relief in just 5 minutes.