I don't think so; unless you presume a lot of things such as existence (what is it?!) of an external world (that contains a lot of facts) and such as One's knowledge (and what is that?!) is obtained only by interacting with an external (presumed) world and so on... 

In Russell's 1905 paper "on denoting" in which he introduces his theory of descriptions, he uses his method of analyzing propositions that include denoting phrases (descriptive ones), by rewriting them into their LOGICAL forms. By this, he embeds such propositions to "symbolic logic" to handle. [ He does this by using the "undefinable" notion of universally quantifier and the "fundamental" notion of variable (and then as in first-order logic defines propositions including other descriptions such as 'some man', 'no man', 'a man', etc. in the terms of universally quantified propositions with logical connectives such as negation) ] For example, taking M(x) to be the "propositional function" (i.e. property; in nowadays terminology) of being human and D(x) to be the property of being mortal, "All men are mortal" becomes in its logical form as "for all x (M(x) => D(x))". Now it seems Russell is ranging over all objects as the quantifier's domain of discourse : The class the we know (Thanks to Russell himself!) is NOT A SET if we treat sets as objects (And I guess we do so). But the problem is that in using quantifiers, our domain of discourse must be a SET according to definition. Now don't you think it is a misuse of (first-order) logic if we use its tools to work on such an illegal proposition?(i.e. it is NOT a first-order formula, though may seem so!) Is there any logic in which the quantifiers range over arbitrary classes (and Russell was probably considering that logic)? Of course I think we can fix this by determining our universes in different contexts: In the above example the universe will become 'the set of all men' and then the logical form will become: "for all x D(x)" and then we will feel free to use other tools of (first-order) logic to handle this proposition. I'm mostly curious on whether Russell did that mistake! What do you think? What's wrong here? Please ask me if there is any ambiguity in the question. Thanks 

If you wanted to approach this question as a pure Heideggerian, it would be a matter of deciding whether a new epoch of being has overtaken us, determined by some change in our relationship to technology, or whether we are still immersed in the same epoch described by Heidegger. He describes modern technology as completely determining the possibilities of Dasein, so that we see ourselves as set forth by technology, rather than vice versa. If you understand us as continuing within this epoch, then the possibility of salvation (so to speak) still remains in recognizing the essence of technology. If you prefer the theory that our technology has opened a new epoch, then you could take these reflections in any number of directions. I believe that Bernard Stiegler has developed a philosophical project along these lines - you might take a look at Technics and Time, 1: The Fault of Epimetheus. My own preference is for Derrida's response to this direction (or Weg) of thinking. Derrida questions the possibility of distinguishing authentic from inauthentic thinking, and thus deconstructs the oppositions between animal or technological existence and that of Dasein as they are developed by Heidegger. You can take a look at Derrida's Of Spirit: Heidegger and the Question or "The Pit and the Pyramid: Introduction to Hegel's Semiology" (In Margins - of Philosophy for more on how the deconstruction of authenticity and inauthenticity leads to a questioning of the distinction between Dasein and mechanical thinking. One way to think about how deconstruction can change our thinking about our relationship to technology is to consider what it is that we are trying to get away from when we try with Heidegger to disclose a thinking that is not technological. Derrida would argue that the possibility for technology, which is the possibility for any sort of prosthesis that extends or alters our "natural" capacities - of voice, reach, or physical power, for example, is not something that comes along after the fact to affect a subject who is completely self-contained and authentic, but rather an extension of the difference-from-self that is already present in all of our self-relations, including thought. This or that technology may change our relation-to-self, but never in the essential way that would transform a self-present (authentic) subject into an absent-from-self or inauthentic one. Of course, according to Heidegger we are always falling away from authenticity, and requiring an effort to arrive back at an authentic relation to our own possibilities for being. But I would like to question the extent to which "technology" is a force preventing our return to authenticity. It may be that there is still something technological, technical, something of technique that is still a part of even the most "authentic" thinking. The developments of mechanical and computer processes that increasingly resemble human thought should also lead us to pose the question whether or not authenticity and/or inauthenticity are possible for machines, that is, for technology unto itself. 

First I would like to say that Continental Philosophy is just European Philosophy carrying on as it always has, with a few new twists but carrying on the Western Philosophical Tradition. Thus it considers all the categories mentioned but is not caught up on categories because it is mainly concerned with synthesis not analysis. It is not based on specialization, but in the pursuit of philosophical insight. In order to understand your question better, we need to contrast Continental Philosophy with Analytical Philosophy. This is an offshoot of European Philosophy that began in Vienna but soon transferred itself to Britain and then to the United States. Its lineage went from Kant to Frege to Schlick to Wittgenstein, but in england it was also rooted in Russell, Wittgenstein's advisor for his Ph.D. and Moore. From these roots the branches spread to Quine, Putnam, etc. I would venture that this off shoot of European Philosophy that became popular in England and America is a child of the Cold War and particularly of the McCarthy Era. I venture to say that now the Cold War is over it is going to vanish, slowly but certainly. See $URL$ So it is Analytic Philosophy that seems to be the norm in english speaking countries that is obsessed with Categories, and with Specialization, and particularly with Analysis rather than synthesis. In my opinion the main topics of Continental Philosophy over the last century have been Phenomenology, Ontology (including Existentialism), Dialectics and Hermeneutics. But of course there is really every other topic under the sun in there somewhere like Psychoanalysis, Political Economy, Social, Cultural, or Political Critique, Marxism, Literary Critique, Poetics, (you name it, and it is in there somewhere). It is not specialized, it is not isolated in Academia, it has tended to be revolutionary, and politically active. And this is primarily because during the second world war the French Resistance were overwhelmingly communist and we made allies with them. And so even though after the war DeGaule was placed into power, the intellectuals were all marxists, and the only marxists not dominated by the Soviet Union, and thus free to have their own thoughts about what Marxism is and how it related to things like the unconscious, or structuralism, or literature, etc. Semiotics for instance was born out of this mixture of approaches which took off from Russian Formalism. The major names in this movement are Hegel, Nietzsche, Husserl, Heidegger, Merleau-Ponty, Sartre, Derrida, Bataille, Lacan, Baudrillard, Levinas, Deleuze, Zizek, Badiou, etc. This Continental Tradition has been embraced by English Departments across the United States. This is because they give these English specialists a basis for critique of Literature. There are a lot more English Professors than Philosophy professors. And so Continental Philosophy is going Mainstream, as seen in the fact that Zizek spoke at Occupy Wallstreet. I did not hear of any Analytical Philosophers speaking to that crowd. Even though Analytical Philosophers have a grip on Philosophy Departments across the Commonwealth, including ex-commonwealth nations like the USA, they are doomed to irrelevance due to their specialization and their worship of categories or boxes that they dare not think outside of. Continental Philosophers long ago gave up the idea that their thoughts could be contained by any specialties, or categories, but instead they are transdiscipliary and interdisciplinary and will basically meddle in anything. So there is a strict difference between Analytic and Synthetic traditions of thought. The Synthetic since Kant and Hegel has been the basis for all European thought. Analysis as Kant says comes after synthesis based on a priori projections of things like Spacetime and the Categories. I noticed that this Q&A site tends have an Analytic bent so I thought I would say something provocative to see if I could liven things up. See my Quora answers at $URL$ for more quasi-Continental strangeness. 

Heidegger would reject the connection between rationality and authenticity. When we seek rational grounds for actions, we seek a principle beyond our finitude that can ground the justice or rightness of our activity. Kant is a primary example of a thinker who seeks rational grounds for practical activity, and is also a good example of the type of thinking Heidegger rejects with his theory of authenticity. According to Kant, we are moral when we act not in conformity with the law, but out of respect for the law. Though the law is something we discover in ourselves, it is universal and necessary, and transcends our particularity and finitude. For Heidegger, on the other hand, our finitude is radical and inescapable. The pretense of universal laws or principles is an escape from the responsibility for ourselves that this radical finitude demands. We are being authentic only when we act while being consumed by that finitude - without any grounding in reason. He would also reject the correlation between authenticity and efficiency. This sounds more like the way of thought he associates with Nietzsche's nihilism and modern society's technological thought, which equates being with value. There is no sign by which one can distinguish an authentic action from an inauthentic one (interestingly, this is true of moral actions in Kant's view as well - one never knows if someone has acted out of respect for the law or merely in conformity with it). The thought of being, as Heidegger says in a later work, changes nothing. 

Language here is Sprache. Heidegger relates this elsewhere in his writing to German versprechen, which means promise, and Anspruch, which means claim. He sees it's Greek root as logos, which he derives from legein, meaning to gather. You might be interested to look at On the Way to Language, especially "A Dialogue on Language" where Heidegger poses a question much like the one you're posing to a Japanese interlocutor, and "The Nature of Language" where the Anspruch of language is explored - the claim which ties the human being to language before any particular language or its individual use.