Source. I think that the better solution is to add some bar ends to your bike to give your self some more hand positions. Here is the solution that I came up with while researching although I have not implemented it yet. First I would add some bar ends regular bar ends on the end of your handle bars. Bar ends are very similar to to the hoods on a mountain bike. It is more comfortable for your wrists to be in an up and down position (although you will have less turning power). 

I am just shopping for used bikes right now online. I want to try and save myself a trip to visit the bikes by determining which bikes will fit me. Does anyone have an approximate height-bike size conversion chart or inseam-bike size conversion chart? I know that this will not 100% accurate as Sheldon Brown observes. I was just hoping to get an approximation. 

I would advise sticking with the mountain bike. I commute on one and a tourer which is basically the same thing but with road wheels. I tried a road bike a couple of times, and it's not as comfortable and didn't seem all that much faster. And I just need a workhorse to get me from A to B, so comfort is a bigger factor than speed, I'm not racing anyone and I believe that I get just as much exercise as from a road bike if not more. 

I use a 1 meter long thick heavy chain and a big solid padlock, both too thick to be cut with small bolt cutters (lost my keys a couple of times, so I know this for sure). Also great for deterring stray dogs which abound in my country and would-be road ragers which also abound here. This stops any but the most dedicated thieves (never lost a bike). But if you lose your keys you need some serious tools to free your bike. 

I am looking for a bag to attach to my road bike that I can attach quickly without having a rack on my bike. I saw one a few weeks ago (on someones bike) that attached to the seat post and extended backwards. It mounted on the seat post with a screw-on clamp but the bag (and 95% of the weight associated with the bag) could be removed via a clip. I don't need anything very large. The bag I saw was just big enough for a t-shirt or your lunch. I am interested in finding the bag described above or another bag. Here are my requirements: 

Edit: The Compatibility Map 2016 MTB Components is here. Still trying to figure out how to read it... 

I think that the best course of action is to mount one of these onto each drop bar. That way you will still be able to control breaking while on the drops. 

Mountain bikes can be as comfortable as any other. With slicks they actually ride more comfortably than most because they generally have more cushioning from the tyres. I have both mountain bike and cruiser. The cruiser is a bit faster and lighter on the road (I have a BSO mountain bike), but in terms of comfort I don't notice a difference. The mountain bike takes bumps/potholes better, skids better and is basically more forgiving for a rough rider on the road and up and down curbs. However with ANY sort of offroad I notice a big difference in favour of the mountain bike. In saying that, my mountain bike is a 29'er hardtail, I don't feel comfortable on the smaller wheeled mountain bikes, but that might be just a matter of practice. The bigger wheels do make for a smoother more comfortable ride. I'm not convinced by those that recommend locking out the front suspension. One factor is when commuting you quite often carry loads, I have a toolbelt full of expensive engineering tools on my handlebars and usually a bag and laptop on the back, the front suspension is useful with these things. Commuting is a lot of different needs, speed isn't that big a factor for many people. Worrying about pedaling effort is good if you're shaving seconds off a race I imagine, but in practice you don't notice it, it's like half filling your water bottle to reduce weight a fraction. 

I currently just have (standard width) North-West clipless shoes. If I leave them on the looser side, they are reasonably comfortable. Other notes: 

Make a list of the requirements for your new bike. Go and buy a cheap used bike. The bike should be relatively inexpensive (relative to your target purchase) and should retain it's value well so that you can resell it. Ride the bike. See what kind of riding you are doing (where? How agressive?) Update your list of requirements. If you are confident that you now know what you want go drop the big bucks. I still recommend buying used because then the bike will have a better resale value and it is somewhat inevitable that sometime in the future you will be upgrading to a new bike. If you still don't know what you want return to step 2. 

I only have one set of water bottle mount screws on my bike. I would like to have an additional water bottle. Ideally I would like to mount the bottle on the frame (preferably on the vertical tube). Bonus: Can I order/build in Canada? 

I ride up and down stairs every day because I'm lazy and where I park my bike has stairs. I ride a cheap mountain bike and it handles it no worries. The only times I've come off were my own fault. I do seven steps. Going down is much easier than up, because it's just a matter of balancing. Going up is a bit more tricky, you need to line up properly, then pull a bit of a wheelie so your front wheel doesn't impact the first step or two until you're at the right angle when your back wheel hits, then power up in one go. Don't mess around on the way up and keep your weight on the back. I disagree with the answer telling you to wear clips, you may need to ditch in a hurry (I know this from experience, my steps are narrow and don't have guard rails), it's better to have your feet free. As far as I have found you can go down on pretty much any bike with properly inflated tyres and a bit of common sense, but my 29'er mountain bike does it better than my wife's 26'er so wheel size makes a difference. 

I was trying to figure out if this would work on my bike a few weeks ago. I decided against it. I think this is a pretty good description of some of the problems you may encounter: 

I currently have a 30 tooth chainring on my Devinci Kobain. The gearing is a little too tough for my current fitness level. I am considering putting a smaller chainring on it (as per this question). I would like to know two things: 

I brought the jacket home and began having second thoughts. I am thinking about returning it and continuing my search. Here are my requirements: 

@Carel's answer to this question is perfectly acceptable, but I wanted provide another alternative. When cornering and doing any kind of bike manoeuvring, you should be in the attack position. The attack position allows you to shift your weight around on the bike and has the added bonus of keeping your pedals flat ensuring you don't have a pedal strike. More info from MTB Techniques: 

I have a very steep hill on my route which levels out after about 2 km. The first quarter is extremely steep and shortly after I enter it the bike skips around a little bit and by the time I'm at the bottom I'm gripping the handle bars and working pretty hard to keep it under control. Is this a normal issue or is it indicative of problems with the bike? It happens both with my mountain bike and the touring bike. Less on the 29'er mountain bike perhaps due to the wider tyres and less twitchy handling. There is a lot of acceleration right from the start going down. Clarification:- I'm not concerned with other people's safety or traffic, my question is more about at what speed does my bike become unhandleable and/or fall to pieces. 

I do that a lot and haven't had any issues. What I have noticed is that sitting back at times gives your legs a rest from other postures and helps you flush the pain out while you can still maintain a decentish forward momentum. You can also twist, turn and stretch your arms, shoulders and back. The downside (apart from balance) is that you can't get the same amount of power into the pedals since you are less stable and don't have anything to push/pull against with the rest of your body. But you're not racing anyone in that posture so it doesn't matter. 

What is the best place to buy bike components that will ship to Canada? I would prefer a Canadian company or someone who ships within Canada to avoid large shipping costs and inport duty. I am especially interested in buying used components. Right now I am interested in buying: 

Where would be the best place to look for this? I have tried my local craigslist postings but these items are too specific. I have also looked in my local bike shop but buying these parts new will cost more than buying an entire new bike. I like to do most of my own work and being a student I have a fairly small budget. Where would you look for these parts? 

I have been using Strava for the last year to track my daily commutes, mountain bike rides and hikes. Unfortunatly, I have found that Strava appears to be hiding my data from me. It seems like I only have access to a small number of recent rides (maybe 10?) and I can't search for rides based on name. I would like to switch to something that will not hide my data from me and will allow me to: 

I commute every day about two hours with a bag of tools that weighs more than that. It's fine on the rack I made at the back tied down so it can't move around. Center it properly, strap it down and the only time it will give you grief is when you're off the bike holding the handlebars, then it tends to lean the bike over if you don't pay attention. And it digs the stand into the ground and the bike might fall over. Apart from that I just ride normally. I advise against strapping it around your waist, you may need to ditch the bike or it could get caught on something. Also make sure there are no loose fitting or straps hanging out which might get caught in a wheel or hit your legs, common sense stuff. 

I did this to two bikes and they both fit under a single bed. Took a few seconds to take off the front wheels, Dollar cost = zero.