TA chainrings have their own system of ramps and pins, which in my experience works quite well. It is possible that Shimano has found a way make chainrings that work only at the combination they are designed for. They certainly market parts as if it was so. In my experience, TA works fine even in non-standard combinations (28-38-50 on 4-bolt MTB crank in my case). 

This is completely normal for folding tires. They will settle into round shape when they are mounted and inflated for a while. When installing the tires with kinks, they do slip away from rims more often than perfectly round tires. One way to avoid it is to keep the part that is already on the rim tight. There's no need to align the kinks to something, or anything like that. 

In general, V brake levers are not compatible with sidepull brakes because of different mechanical advantage. Avid Speed Dials have adjustable mechanical advantage, so you might be able to adjust them for sidepulls. 

That seat post is made of carbon fiber tube and metal seat mount that plugs into it. The carbon tube is about to split and the inner part you see is the metal plug. It should be replaced immediately and should be a clear warranty case if the bike is new enough. 

Cycling shoe covers always have holes for cleats. The clipless mechanism depends on exact fit between cleat and pedal and doesn't work if there is anything between. If you do not need foot retention, there is no need to play with shoe covers. Just use waterproof shoes (with gaiters to prevent water running down your legs from getting into shoes, the waterproofness works both ways), waterproof socks (great if your shoes holes where the water can drain out), wellingtons or whatever fits the weather and your needs. 

For the kind of riding you describe, the best choice are windproof tights. You should look for the kind that has windproof membrane in the front, breathable fabric in the back and most importantly no padding. Underneath them you wear shorts or bib tights with chamois. These are available from many cycling-specific brands, but the ones intended for nordic skiing work too. If the membrane gets too warm, the next thing are winter running tights made of brushed lycra. Running-specific because they come without padding. 

I'd recommend getting used to a new handlebar style (or frame geometry or any other change) slowly. On a multi-day trip problems tend to accumulate, so I would't recommend trying anything new. An additional problem with drop bars is that the brake and shift levers work differently and some people seem to have problems getting used to them. You could try to rent a bike with drop bars at home and see how it works out. Edit: For the kind of trip you are planning, many cyclists prefer drop bars. I would recommend trying out them if possible. 

I think wheel chair hubs are what you are looking for. If you need disk brakes, Cannondale Lefty hubs are another off the shelf solution. 

Like most things in English language, established convention. According to Google N-grams, "saddle post" along with "seat post" was used until 1950s, after which "seat post" became dominant. 

Mountain hubs are the same for 8, 9, 10 and 11 speeds. 11 speed cassette is wider, but instead of making the freehub body wider, the largest cog hangs slightly over the freehub body. This means that it is possible but not likely that there is clearance for derailleur with 9 or 10 speeds but not 11. 

There is very little actual cork in most cork tapes. The plastic foam absorbs some water and may become slightly slippery, but it doesn't deteriorate or anything. 

One fun area is the Harz mountains. The ride to Goslar is around 80 km, and the old town is a sight as itself. From Goslar you can climb to the mountains and finish the trip at one of the several railway stops around the Harz area. 

70mm is the diameter of the brake drum. There is model XL-FD which is labeled as "90mm Front Drum Brake Hub" that has equal width but larger drum. The respective pitch circle diameters are 89.9mm and 109mm, which places the spoke holes 9.5mm away from the drum. So, the OLD is 100mm, which is standard for most bikes but unfortunately does not fit Brompton. 

It is a derailleur pulley, and fairly worn out one at that. The easiest way to find a fitting replacement is to buy a set from an aftermarket manufacturer that comes with adapter shims for different derailleurs. You can simply try different shims until you find the one that fits. They do come in different teeth counts. From the picture it looks like this one used to have 11 teeth. 

It sounds very much like you have levers intended for cantilever brakes in combination with V-brakes. The cantilever levers pull the cable a shorter distance with greater force. Because the V-brake requires more cable movement, the levers touch the handlebar before you can pull them enough. The difference in brake mounting points adds to the problem but is not the root cause. There isn't much information about your levers on the Internet, but they look like they were intended for cantilever brakes. A V-brake lever would have the pivot next to handlebar, but here the pivot is half way to the lever. EDIT: Another answer has information about the manufacturing year of these levers, and these are indeed from time before V-brakes were introduced. 

Because they are installed wrong. You can remove one crank using crank puller and install it in correct position, or take it back to shop. 

The Ergopower shifters have a part called G spring that eventually wears out. The symptoms are inaccurate shifting and less sharp clicks, just as you are experiencing. The part is still available, not expensive and relatively easy to change. I would not replace the shifters with Xenon, as it is generally much lower quality and doesn't allow downshifting multiple cogs at a time like other 2000s Ergopowers. 

From the bike computers I have owned, Sigma and VDO have had 5-digit odometers. No doubt there are other brands too. 

The only easily replaced part are the tires. The rims look too wide to fit actual road racing tires, but you can probably find something with lower rolling resistance. Other than that, this is not a road bike in the usual English sense of the word and can be turned into one only by replacing everything. Consider getting a suitable used bike instead. 

It is true that the old style brake levers were not as powerful from the hoods as modern ones. The reason is geometry. The picture below shows how old and new levers move when pulled. With old levers, braking from the hoods requires one to pull back and push down at the same time. As said in comments to other answers, this is doable but not very effective or intuitive. With new levers one simply pulls the lever towards one's hand. The small blue arrows show how brake cable moves. 

I agree this is probably an issue with bike fit, or just not being used to handling a road bike. If the bike is roughly correct size, I'd suggest a different approach: 

Well, let's compute the forces. For example's sake, I'm assuming 80kg of bike + rider, all braking force on front wheel and deceleration of 5 m/s^2 (extreme, but possible). This equals 400N at contact surface. The radius of 559mm rim and tire is something like 320mm, giving 128Nm of torque. The spoke hole is at 22mm radius, and cross 3 lacing places the spokes roughly tangential to hub flange. Using the axle as pivot and spoke attachment to hub as lever, we can calculate that we need force of 5818N to produce the torque. Spread over 32 spokes, that is 181 newtons per spoke. Since spokes in a properly built wheel are already at 1000N or more, the increase is around 15-20%. This requires a rim with stronger spoke holes, but not by that large margin. Keep in mind, that in many double wall rims the spokes attach to outer wall. In this case, the extra wall doesn't help at all. The case with radial spokes on both sides is different: The spokes exit the hub at zero angle, there is no leverage and if the spokes wouldn't stretch and let the hub twist, the force would be infinite. Calculating the actual force is left as an exercise to the reader :) 

With double wall rims both are fine. Longer gets a bit more thread engagement, if you are using aluminum nipples you probably want it. With single wall, shorter because you don't want spoke ends poking through rim tape. 

Freewheel bodies (the part that cassette is installed on) are generally non-interchangeable. It is not possible to take a freewheel body from an old 7-speed freehub and install it on a modern hub, especially one from a brand that has never made 7-speed hubs. The exception to the rule are hubs/wheels that are made with both Shimano and Campagnolo compatible freewheel body, usually you can buy the other freehub body as a spare part. 

It is a traditional external cup threadless headset and non-tapered steerer tube. It is likely that the bearings are not available as spare part but you need to replace the cups and crown race too. These should be available in every bike repair shop. Fun fact: Headsets used to be available only as top/bottom pairs but now that there are too many different diameters, mountings and steerer tube tapers to keep stock of every combination, tops and bottoms are available separately. 

Your cassette and possibly chainwheels are worn out. When a chain wears, the cogs wear down together with it and will not mesh correctly with a new chain. Worn cogs do not look like the teeth would be actually wearing down. Instead, the teeth get narrower and eventually develop an asymmetric "shark fin" shape. If you do not know exactly what to look for, a worn out cassette looks like new. 

The Klein is a classic. For commuting, I'd pick the Raleigh and leave Klein for someone who appreciates it and is willing to deal with 25 year old parts. Also, if someone's selling it for price of an used Sora bike, I'd expect there's something wrong with it. If the low end brakes worry you, swapping the pads doesn't cost much and improves them a lot. 

The answer is already in your question. To quote, "they normally lost 5-10 psi per day". Since you are using lower pressure and thicker tubes, it can be expected that you would lose pressure slower, somewhere around 1-2 psi (which accidentally is the exact number you posted). 

These things are also known as Hellenic stays, a term which will find plenty of opinions. Their main benefit is distinctive looks, but there are also some claims about increased stiffness. The main drawback is increased weight and cost of manufacturing, since the design requires longer seatstays and two extra joints. 

This answer is about first and second generation Ergopower, the Escape mechanism is different and should never downshift several gears at time. The G-spring is a small piece of wire shaped like capital G, located inside the shifter. When it is worn out, the clicks feel less crisp and it is easy to accidentally shift multiple gears at a time. The spring is fairly easy to replace if you have any experience disassembling mechanical things. The Campagnolo mechanism is extremely simple compared to Shimano, but the price of simplicity is the spring that wears out. EDIT: Not UltraShift. See the other answer. 

They have been available all the time, but called "top tube pads" and used to protect fixie frames against scratches and dents from locking against poles. Notice how high top tube the bikes in the picture is? Modern off road bikes have top tube much lower, which reduces the risk of hitting your crotch to the tube and makes the padding unnecessary. 

The difference between 9 and 10 speed Campagnolo front derailleurs is a black piece of plastic inside the cage that can be snapped out. So, the big spender solution (22€ part to fix a bike that cost above 2000€ as new) is to get a 10 speed front derailleur and remove that piece. 

The answer is "it depends". Some parts are cross compatible, some are not and some can be made to work with adapters, non-standard cable routing etc. If you have access to the parts, you can measure most dimensions yourself. Calculating cable and derailleur movement and actuation ratios takes some simple math, otherwise you are fine with just measuring. A great resource for looking up compatibility is Sheldon Brown's crib sheets. Actually, reading through entire site will answer a lot of questions. 

The little rubber tubes are for repairing Woods/Dunlop valves. The valve core does not have any valve mechanism in itself, but relies on the little rubber tube to seal. The tube fits over rounded end of the valve core shown below. 

There is no way tires are different than other weight when climbing. The saying about rotating mass being equivalent to double non-rotating mass applies only when accelerating and even then you have to take into account that tires are quite lightweight compared to rest of bike and rider. Rolling resistance difference can be noticeable even when climbing, but Conti 4 seasons are among the worst road tires and Schwalbe Marathon plus is one of the best rolling extremely protected tires, so the difference isn't necessarily that great. 

I have managed to overhaul early 2000s Veloce and Mirage, which have the exact same mechanism down to spare part codes, using only the exploded view from the spare parts catalog. The exploded view looks like an explosion of small parts, but in reality the parts can all be removed and added one at a time, like in the UltraShift video. The mechanisms work on similar principle, the main difference is that the Ergo is disassembled only from the back. If you are only overhauling the index mechanism, you don't need to remove the brake lever. Instead, you pull it back and it exposes a large hex head. Insert a hex key here and it supports the axle (EC-CH135) while you disassemble the rest. For replacing the downshift return spring (EC-RE137) you need to remove the brake lever. No video, sorry. 

It depends on your bar diameter. Oversize bar is 31.8mm for both road and mountain bars, so the stems are interchangeable. For historical reasons[1], most of "standard" drop bars and stems for those are 26.0mm and other bars are 25.4mm. It is possible to tighten 26.0mm stem to hold 25.4mm bar, but it will put extra tension on both stem and bar. Mountain bar can be used on road stem with a shim that can be made of soda can, but mountain stem will crush a road bar. [1] The international standard is 25.4mm and 26mm is Italian national standard, but since Italy used to be major exporter of high end road bikes, that is the more common one. Deda is an Italian brand, by the way. 

Yes, it is possible. Just be prepared to replace every single drivetrain component. If you go 11-speed you will also need a new rear wheel because 11-speed cassette needs a wider freehub body and possibly new brakes because cable pull changed slightly with 11-speed. The standard advice here is to not do it because the cost will be close to new bike, but Look frames are quite high end and new bike with similar quality frame would be far more expensive than any random Ultegra bike.