Even though this is his personal opinion, when you start searching for more resources about this claim they will back it up. It is a fact that flexible working hours are becoming more popular. Where the focus does not lie on being at an office for 8 hours a day, but that you do your tasks and assignments in a given period of time. Be it in the morning in the evening. Many Studies and articles can be found on this issue: 

Conclusion: 40+ will definitely NOT be more productive when they are spent non-stop in a working place. 40 hours spread out over 8 hours a day might already not be efficient. The future will be not so much working less, but more efficient, with more room for personal/family time. EDIT: Removed double reference and got rid of some personal opinions. 

Here is a basic chart of European countries where hours worked is compared against productivity. Note how the Dutch are low in hours, but high in productivity. Here's a nice link to a Harvard Business School Article which in short says: 

Two studies suggest that dogs can detect hypoglycemia. The mechanism whereby they detect this state is unknown - the example linking scent, for instance, may be a baseless supposition for marketing purposes. In the 2008 paper Canine responses to hypoglycemia in patients with type 1 diabetes the conclusion states, "The findings suggest that behavioral reactions to hypoglycemic episodes in pet owners with type 1 diabetes commonly occur in untrained dogs. Further research is now needed to elucidate the mechanism(s) that dogs use to perform this feat." Note that the training component of your question was not evaluated in this study, but a later 2013 paper Investigation into the value of trained glycaemia alert dogs to clients with type I diabetes concluded that "Based on owner-reported data we have shown, for the first time, that trained detection dogs perform above chance level." Further it showed that "dogs alerted their owners, with significant, though variable, accuracy at times of low and high blood sugar" It does appear possible to train dogs to detect hypoglycemia conditions. 

Almost all reputable historians believe that Jesus did exist. Why they believe this I will explain below. To be absolutely clear, when we say Jesus did live, we are not saying that everything or even most of the things said about him in the Bible is true. Even ignoring the supernatural elements, the gospels contain internal contradictions, so we are absolutely sure they are not 100% reliable. What we say is that the myth of Jesus originated from real historical person. Kind of like the myth of Santa Claus originated with a real person, the bishop Nicolaus of Smyrna which was later sactified as Sct. Nicolaus. Compare this this to say Jupiter which we consider a purely mythological figure. The outlandish claims regarding Jesus (walked on water, resurrected the dead etc.) cannot be taken as evidence that he is fictional. If we take Alexander the Great, multiple legends grew up around him - he was the son of Zeus, his sister was a mermaid etc. This just shows that when a figure becomes revered, legends will form. No historians in their right mind would deny that Alexander was historical. Stripping away all the legends around Alexander there is still a historical core which is more likely to be true than to be made up. I'm going to explain why historians consider the same to be the case for Jesus. So what evidence is there for Jesus as a historical person? We have no first-hand or contemporary sources to the life of Jesus and we have no archaeological remains to prove his existence. And this is not surprising - this is the case for the vast majority of pre-modern historical figures, including people who was much more famous in their own time than Jesus. Take someone Alexander the Great again, one of the most important figures in History. We have no first-hand sources and no remains. The best sources we have are written hundreds of years after his death. Even then, given the available historical evidence we assume Alexander existed, since a lot history is impossible to explain otherwise (and his invention would have required a vast conspiracy among historians in antiquity). There are a few references to Jesus by historians independent of the Bible, but they are not first-hand accounts, and basically just states what the Christians of the time believed. The most important is the Jewish-Roman historian Josephus which have two passages mentioning Jesus, although one of them is generally agreed to be a fabrication inserted by later Christian scribes. The other passage (which is generally assumed to be authentic) states: 

Further, one needs to understand that the CDC does NOT recommend a low salt diet, except for those in the following categories: 

The study quoted, according to Dr. Peter Briss of the CDC, has the following problems, which may lead one to conclude that the study doesn't affect the same population that the CDC is concerned about when they discuss low salt diets: 

They recommends that everyone else maintain 2,300 mg sodium per day or less. This is not a low sodium diet. In fact, most Americans consume 20 more times the sodium than what the body needs. What the CDC recommends is that people consume the recommended daily amount (RDA) or less. Most people are consuming more. So the general call to reduce sodium intake is, for most Americans, a call to get back down to the RDA, not to start on a 1,500 mg diet which is typical for an at-risk patient. Further, this is the first study to correlate higher morbidity with lower sodium intake, and due to the issues with it no doctors are currently using it as a basis for patient care. There are many, many studies that back up the CDC's recommendations, and thus people should wait for more information before rejecting the current recommendations for a possible correlation, suggested by one flawed study. 

This is extremely embarrassing. In the last moment he looses faith, thinks God has abandoned him, and dies with a whimper. Even Jim Jones or David Koresh did not lose faith like this! And people around him does not understand what he is saying and are making fun of him. Now consider the later account in Luke: 

Regarding claim 2, this is actually contradicted by the article you link to, which states that Egyptian was the only ancient language which had a word for blue. But even this claim is wrong since we specifically know ancient Latin and Greek words for the "Egyptian blue" dye. 

Bottom line: People throughout history have been able to perceive and distinguish colors we would call blue. But they would not necessary have a word directly translatable to "blue". 

Regarding claim 3, this seem to be a misunderstanding of the hypothesis that languages evolve words for colors gradually and in a universal order. The claim is not that on a specific day, languages around the world invented a word for "blue", but rather that "blue" will typically be the sixth color term to appear in a language (after dark, light, red, green and yellow). This hypothesis is controversial and some counterexamples have been found, but it is not totally ridiculous. The answer by March Ho examines this in more detail.