They are magical simply because humans/sapients place value in them. The collective subconscious assigns great value to precious metals and gems. This corresponds to humanity as a whole unconsciously placing mana in said precious things. Mana as a thing flows from the collective subconscious to things held in high regard by humanity as a whole. This means people like kings etc have a large personal mana supply. Particularly well crafted items admired by many has some for example the kings crown even was it not made of anything precious is coveted and so has some level of mana. But by far the easiest way for an item to have a large mana supply means being constructed from precious metals/gems due to them being inherently valuable to almost everyone 

Food It may take 1 acre on earth to feed a single person, but that's relying on soil, sun, and animals. Cattle would be fairly inefficient to take in space, and you can't grow plants "naturally", so hydroponics makes much more sense. Since you have fusion power available, I assume hydroponic greenhouses can feed a human with much more efficiency than 1 acre per person. One source says it is about 10x more water and land efficient. Also note that cows eat a lot of grain. One pound of meat requires about 10x times the water to produce compared to a pound of soybeans. It would be best if most of your population were vegetarian, unless population size isn't critical and you wanted the cattle for populating the destination (or as a luxury reward). Shielding Also, it would be best to put as much stuff between your humans and the outside as possible. Hard radiation will make your ship pointless if the crew isn't adequately shielded. You can use water as a shield, or lead. But probably best to just put as much mechanical towards the outside as possible (but keep sensitive electronics near the interior). If your fusion reactor runs on D/T, then you can use heavy water as the fuel and keep that near the outermost layer. Capacity One acre is about $4000 m^2$. Hydroponics can reduce that to maybe $400 m^2 * 2 m$, so let's say $10^3 m^3$. Thus, you should allocate at least this much space per colonist. As long as their "personal space" is much less than this, that becomes mostly a rounding error, and the rest of the space can be used for power, life support, manufacturing/recycling, transportation, etc. So, absent a significant improvement in farming density, I'd say that $10^6$ is a hard upper bound on your population, and $10^5$ is more realistic (though anything in that range is passable). 

Digitize and replicate. Why waste space for storage and preservation on a long journey when you can digitize the occupants and replicate them upon arrival. Any sort of stasis system is going to be complex and require ongoing maintenance power. The advantage of digitizing and replicating the passengers is that all the complex machinery can be left in a powered off state for the journey. 

The same way you cannot make generalizations about the cultures on Earth you will not be able to make generalizations about the cultures of a colonized planet. We have one example of humans occupying a planet. On it there are somewhere on the order of 7,000 languages that have been cataloged. This strongly implies that colonizing a planet isn't sufficient to establish a monoculture. 

"However, if a creature is swinging its tail around at an enemy, especially a tail with a heavy weapon on the end, wouldn't that knock it off balance?" Tell that to the scorpion! Obviously, scorpions aren't human-sized, but there's nothing intrinsically limiting about their body geometry to make their offensive tail ineffective at human scale. And this is a piercing attack rather than a blunt force attack, but again, I don't see anything which would prevent it from using it as a club instead (other than the fact that whatever weight is used to give it heft would be useless drag outside of combat). You might say that the scorpion is cheating because it's using 6 legs for balance, but I'm pretty sure it would be fairly effective with just 4 as well. Bees and wasps not only use their "tails" offensively, they can do it while flying! How awesome is that?? A bipedal human-sized creature with arms and a prehensile tail like a monkey could simply use the tail like a 3rd arm, although, one would wonder why it doesn't just use its arms. If the tail were stronger than the arms, that would be one reason (maybe it has T-rex arms). If the tail is longer, it can create a greater moment swinging a mace or hammer, but only if it is correspondingly stronger. This could be another reason for using the tail instead of an arm. Of course, technology can make a hammer really long too, so if I were such a creature, I would use the tail in addition to my arms. Say, two swords and a dagger/spear/mallet/buckler/use-your-imagination. That could make for some very interesting techniques. 

There is an off by one error which will cause a null pointer exception in a piece of crucial code. This causes a crash and for some reason the AI keeps crucial parts only in non persistent memory. On a reboot (which would be automatic) parts of the AI will act differently with unknown consequences due to losing their trained state. Essentially there will be a new and unknown AI on reboot There might also be a routine that runs on task empty which is quadratic in the number of tasks completed. When the AI was small it was irrelevant. Now it means it will stall for days/months/years ignoring all new tasks until done 

Change your inertial frame of reference. If you treat the Earth as a stationary object, then the Sun will be orbiting the Earth roughly once a day. This will make the math needed to explain the motion of the other planets much more complicated, because the motion of the planets will change from being roughly elliptical to a spiral-thing (as can be seen in this image). 

Sanitation won't spark an industrial revolution. It is neither necessary nor sufficient. A modern understanding of sanitation is unnecessary to start an industrial revolution. Given that the Industrial Revolution was considered to have ended sometime between 1820 and 1840 and the Broad Street Cholera Outbreak happened 1854 in London we can safely assume that adequate sanitation did not exist throughout the Industrial Revolution. The capabilities to build a system of piped water and covered sewers existed as far back as Rome. Building the system would promote economic growth and improve the quality of life for the inhabitants of the town but would not lead to any of the innovations iconic to the Industrial Revolution. 

In order to avoid electrocuting itself it could simply have tissues that are highly conductive (potentially metal) as skin. It will act as a Faraday cage leaving all other tissue mostly unharmed. 

One way would be to see if our theories were wrong. Currently we are unsure exactly what is going on with dark matter and dark energy. We have observed their effects but don't know much else about them. They could hypothetically be due to unknown physics not available in our neighborhood. In reality this is not particularly likely they may at most be due to hitherto unknown physics but if an idea could be presented that explained them and shown that for example they can be observed from afar but not recreated here then you are starting to build a case. 

The problem is in how we define "intelligence." If we limit it to "what is measured by IQ tests," then we can possibly increase this factor significantly, but at what cost. Note that many super-intelligent people are also very anti-social. Grigori Perelman is perhaps one of the most famous. Paul Erdos was friendly but eccentric. Thus, high IQ alone might not save us from the tyranny of AI, since the high-IQ individuals might not care a whit about that problem. Today, our political leaders can hardly be considered the smartest in the pack. Even our CEOs tend towards sociopathy moreso than high IQ. So it is not exactly clear how high-IQ individuals would actually save us from the Robot Overlords, unless we employed them as defensive hackers in the NSA. 

Cyborgs then, requires technology and surgery. Your weak arm muscles? replaced with basically a nanoweave of hydralics Bones? Bah we use titanium They can be powered both by electricity/converting fat/stealing energy from the digestive tract. Another route would be to simply have worked out a more efficient cell structure/ biological processes, a more efficient way of binding oxygen could improve the supply of oxygen to the cells etc. There are many inefficiencies in the human body that could be improved upon. 

She is perfectly able to create sentient lifeforms. How about sentient factories crawling the forests chopping wood and replanting followed by fast ice carriages taking the wood down to shore. She is capable of doing an industrial revolution on her own since her powers seem to be almost unlimited and perfectly capable of customizing sentient beings. This might also be of interest: $URL$ 

Memes don't exist in a vacuum. Like a bacteria or a virus they need the right host to settle in. For instance when I play Rick Astley's 1987 hit song Never Gonna Give You Up to my 90 year old grandmother, she remarks "What a nice song." without any of the groans and grumbles associated with being rickrolled. Since as a time traveler, lacking cultural context, you're probably not the ideal host for most memes. Now it is possible that an ideal translator would translate the speech acts in such a way that the context is perfectly translated as well. If your translator is 99% accurate it's probably not preserving context well enough.*