To prevent torpedoes from becoming a navigational hazard in the event of a miss the 1907 Hague Convention VIII had a section on mines. Once a torpedo was out of fuel it was buoyant. Therefore any torpedo that missed its mark (which was a lot!) would become a random and deadly hazard to navigation. The easiest solution to this was to detonate the torps at the end of run when the fuel ran out. In later models, they were built to automatically explode when the fuel was exhausted. US submarine commanders speak of hearing 'end-or-run' explosions which told them their torpedo had missed. This may be designed as safety system, causing the torpedo to self-detonate after a certain radius. 

The Poor For the (mid/late) 19th century, Rerum Novarum is arguably the single most important document in Catholic Social Teaching since the Bible itself (actually, when I was in grad school, it was considered the "first, best place" to learn the Church's opinons re: social justice). If you like that, there are at least a dozen encyclicals based off of that, some being as clearly named as "Forty years later" and "One hundred years later", but those are from the beginning of the 20th century onward. Immediately, this document on almsgiving from the Council of Trent comes to mind. 

The book, "Life in a Medieval City" (by the Geis family) actually has an entire chapter on the subject. Several important points can be summed: 

The people living along the northern coastline of Australia, in the Kimberley, Arnhem Land, Gulf of Carpentaria and Cape York had encounters with various visitors for many thousands of years. People and traded goods moved freely between Australia and New Guinea. Indonesian "Bajau" fishermen from the Spice Islands (e.g. Banda) have fished off the coast of Australia for hundreds of years. Macassan traders from Sulawesi regularly visited the coast of northern Australia to fish for trepang, an edible sea cucumber to trade with the Chinese since at least the early 18th century. Tamil sea-farers also had knowledge of Australia and Polynesia before European contact. There was a high degree of cultural exchange, evidenced in Aboriginal rock and bark paintings, the introduction of technologies such as dug-out canoes and items such as tobacco and tobacco pipes, Macassan words in Aboriginal languages (e.g. Balanda for white person), and descendants of Malay people in Australian Aboriginal communities and vice versa, as a result of intermarriage and migration. The myths of the people of Arnhem Land have preserved accounts of the trepang-catching, rice-growing Baijini people, who, according to the myths, were in Australia in the earliest times, before the Macassans. The Baijini have been variously interpreted by modern researchers as a different group of presumably South East Asian people, such as Bajau visitors to Australia who may have visited Arnhem Land before the Macassans, as a mythological reflection of the experiences of some Yolŋu people who have travelled to Sulawesi with the Macassans and came back, or, in more fringe views, even as visitors from China. In 1944, a small number of copper coins with Arabic inscriptions were discovered on a beach in Jensen Bay on Marchinbar Island, part of the Wessel Islands of the Northern Territory. These coins were later identified as from the Kilwa Sultanate of east Africa. So it is not true that Europeans were the first to discover Australia. 

Slavery The big list for slavery timeline can be found here. Any involvement by the Holy Roman Emperor may be considered "action by the Church" depending on your point of view, but even still, there does not seem to be terribly much unilateral action. 

I was curious to know what is currently the best source (or the best sources) for information about people indigenous to the Americas prior to European contact. I am especially interested in the area around where the Massachusetts Bay Colony would be formed. 

You can get a fairly comprehensive answer here. Honestly, that seems like it is a good source and it certainly agrees with the Geis family. I'm only including the comment below because I wrote it before finding that link (and I really like the story I relate in it). 

Now perhaps this is to be taken with more than a mere grain of salt. Or it might be peculiar to Athens, hence worth stressing to the author of the text. If there is truth to this, why didn‘t most Greek slaves (even if they were a minority among slaves) run off to their cities? Some cities, such as Megara were less than 50km away and long standing enemies of Athens. I assume, if the slave could find his way into the city and to his family without being spotted, they would have helped him to re-settle in Megara! Despite the Old Oligarch’s information, was there anything such as a metal ring around the neck, a branding, etc., whereby to recognise them? Edit Thanks for bringing to my attention this informative answer. As a Greek I am of course aware of the problems associated with enslaving Greeks. There is still no doubt that it was done. As the aforementioned answer states: 

The basic problem with this question is that the Papacy really didn't start producing a large number of encyclicals until Leo XII in the middle of the 19th century. Prior to that, the Papal Bull would be used, as would apostolic letters, but Leo XIII really revolutionized the practice. I highly recommend Papalencyclicals.net for more sources. Another problem is that slavery and the later abuses come predominantly from areas under the British crown. The French had lost most of their oversees holdings by the middle of the 18th century, the Spanish and Portugese had outlawed a majority of slavery by the end of the 17th century. As far as I know, the only major involvement after this was during the opium war in China (which is well past Catholic influence). A third problem is "official position" and "official efforts" are often far removed from actual realizations. Spain and Portugal outlawed slavery, but it still continued. For that matter, the US outlawed the import of slaves, but it continued until slavery was abolished. 

When I was little we lived in the Greek mountains and most women had sewing skills, but I think for something like the kirtle above they generally went to the seamstress. Edit: It turns out the kirtle image is from 1626, so even that is not medieval, but Renaissance clothing (many thanks to the commentator Mr Denis de Bernardy). I will try to find a more accurate one. Until then, I think, it may serve as an estimate for the level of sophistication. 

On the German Wikipedia page about warhammers it says their weight reached from 3 to 14 Kg! Having done some really heavy sports in my past, I was truly surprised by this last number! I searched extensively. First of all I found one more reference to the same number on Mittelalter Wikia. There they claim the so called Luzerner Hämmer (hammers of Lucern) had a long haft and weighed 14 Kg. I also tried some more general searches. The Bec de Corbin reproduction here weighs 3.75 lbs. This article about pole axes lists examples up to 7 pounds 11 ounces (which is just below 3.5Kg). This reproduction weighs just 2 pounds 4 ounces. 

As an aside, an example of this love can be found in the story, "Sir Gawain and the Green Knight." (I recommend Tolkien's version) Sir Gawain fights valiantly and is victorious, except that he has failed to be forthcoming about his interactions with his hosts' wife. Read the whole tale if you're interested in learning how it works out. 

Troubadours often played up the courtly ideal and generally were unreliable sources of information on how love was played out. As marriages were arranged, romance was not a key component (a stark contrast was made between religious/marital love and romantic "courtly" love). It was not uncommon for someone to seek romantic relations elsewhere. Adultery was actually relatively frequent in said relationships. 

Unfortunately, I have only found medieval examples for the kirtles, but they seem fairly complex. I am aware, that the examples from paintings might represent the most elaborate garments: 

I am aware that the medieval period is long and there may have been differences amongst countries. I don't know how much I must specify my question. So, if necessary to choose a time and place, please focus on England, 1300-1400AD. I read on Wikipedia for this period: 

If this applies generally, or many people used their kettles for pot roasting, we might have great difficulty finding these implements or establishing their use. Yet, shapes, materials or grease traces, might tell archaeologists much more than they would tell me. Even if our estimates have to be very conservative, I am still interested. 

That's a bit of a tricky question. With many religions vestiges will remain centuries after the original was long abandoned. One well-cited example is the St. Bridget's relationship with Brigid. Does modern veneration of the Celtic Saint mean that the original religion is still alive? Also, to what extent does identification of a religion with Greece/Rome mean that a religion should be considered Greco-Roman? The Romans had a reputation of appropriating other deities into their pantheon. Does their incorporation of Isis make Isis a Greek? There is little doubt that paganism had lost majority status in the cities before the time of Augustine. City Of God (426 AD) was written, at least in part, as a refutation of those who would have pagan beliefs return. There were a number of battles over the political clout of religion after Constantine, but from an official perspective, it was all but dead by 491. That said, the very word "pagan" has its etymology in the word "rustic". While the cities certainly did not have non-Christian sects after the fifth century, the traditions and beliefs of those who lived in isolation continued much, much later. Depending on your interpretation of what "the old religion" is/was, you could effectively argue that it never died out but rather lives on as "witchcraft". Indeed, if you take the witches of the Latin and Balkan peninsulas as practicing a variant of Etruscan religion, and you view that same religion as partially centered on Uni (who is a parallel of Juno), then the Ancient Hellenistic gods never died out.