Since you don't specify the tech level or the military force levels of the enemy, there is no way to give a good answer. But let's say that the enemy has WWII tech levels, and has naval, air and marine forces adequate for the job. Meanwhile, our defenders have current tech levels and (as you say) no military to speak of. In that case the answer is straightforward. Pretty much the response is the old couplet: "When uncertain or in doubt, Run in circles, scream and shout." Or, if you prefer one-word answers, surrender. Since the country apparently has no naval or air forces, there will be almost nothing that can be done to resist the invasion force when it arrives. Conceivably the nation could convert its civilian aircraft to kamikazis by loading them with explosives, but that would pretty much require the existence of an explosives industry. Furthermore, even WWII anti-aircraft defenses will do pretty well against civilian aircraft, unless the pilots are very good at low-level flying and have an excellent radar/communications net to guide them on their terminal run. And preemptive strikes on airports will cut way down on the number of kamikazis which can be launched, since in the absence of AA defenses for the airports such strikes can be placed with some precision. You just don't build an army in two months, and you don't build up the equipment needed for that army in two months, either. Warships, combat aircraft and artillery are long-lead, specialty goods. Your best bet would be providing small arms to the populace and providing for a guerrilla resistance after the occupation, using your SF troops as cadres. This will have the problem that there is no way to select for effective leadership at any level until the shooting starts - the defenders apparently don't do violence much, and peacetime armies traditionally have to undergo a steep learning curve when they transition to combat operations. (Quick paraphrase: peacetime militaries tend to promote a lot of people for the wrong reasons.) 

Ignoring issues of personal autarchy, I suspect the reason you're having problems is that your situation doesn't seem to make much sense. If the protagonist "finds themselves living an enslaved life that most people still living free could only dream of.", the question is - why is slavery necessary to fill the jobs? If the conditions are so great, why can't the employer find regular employees? Traditionally, slavery has meant that the slaves don't get paid well and have a noticeably lower standard of living than non-slaves. Either that, or the condition of slavery brings non-economic costs to the slaves: chattel slavery works on the principle that slaves are things, like farm animals, and can be abused or killed with impunity as long as the master's property rights are respected. This generally extends to sexual control as well. Some societies (such as the Romans) have practiced what you might call a restricted form of slavery, and cultural norms may modify the practice of slavery, so you'll have to give some thought to just how slavery works in your society. If conditions in the job are so great, what does the owner get from owning slaves rather than paying less money for the same labor from freemen? That would seem to be the heart of the problem. 

US law does not recognize machines as "persons". As a result, any blame (if blame were determined) would rest with the builder. Of course, the question would arise, "Did the builder have reason to think that normal operation (or even abnormal operation) might be reasonably considered dangerous?". So, how, exactly, did the machine kill its victim? If the machine has a built-in machine gun or chain saw, then it's pretty clear that the builder is in big trouble. If the machine used a built-in internet connection to modify the operation of another machine, as long as the modification were not "reasonably forseeable" there is no reason lay blame. EDIT - Martine Votvik has pointed out that corporations are recognized as "persons". While this is true, it is a very limited version of personhood. US corporations cannot: Vote Marry or divorce Be ordained Practice medicine Practice law Be assaulted or murdered or raped Be arrested or imprisoned (note that a warrant might be issued for officers of the corporation - but not the corporation itself) 

I suggest the approach is simple - collective responsibility. If one dop commits a capital crime, all instances, including the original, are executed. This neatly avoids the determination of which aspect is guilty and which is not. For non-capital crimes the situation becomes murkier, but collective responsibility will still serve. Property crimes such as theft result in a fine equal to some multiple of the stolen property value, and is levied on each dop. So, if you (dop #3 of 10) steal 1000 dollars, each dop gets fined (let's say) 3000 dollars. 3000 goes to the victim as restitution, and the rest goes to the state. Bodily harm cases are difficult, and I can't think of how to apply the principle, so I'm open to suggestion. Perhaps the victim is permitted to inflict a similar level of harm on one of the dops, selection to be made at random. 

That's pretty simple - kill the believers. At some point the number of surviving believers will drop below critical mass and the god will be no more. And that works just fine for medieval technology. See the Albigensian Crusade as an example of the suppression of a religion (or at least a religious sect). 

You might just want to write off one continent, say South America. This is clearly not optimal, but would seem to work pretty well in terms of preserving the rest of the planet. You have not specified just how fast the SOD moves, and even suggested that it will move most quickly when rolling itself along like a giant hoop. Let's take 100 mph as a starting point. You have also suggested that the SOD destroys buildings by rolling over them. This limits its destructive footprint to a track no more than 446 meters wide - call it 1/3 mile. Then it will take about 1200 days, or nearly 3.4 years, to cleanse an area of 1 million square miles. South America has an area of about 7 million square miles, and a worst-case time of about 24 years to scour the entire continent clean. During this time, teams of combat engineers will be building sacrificial structures in the cleared areas, requiring a repeat visit. Done properly, the SOD can be led by the nose, around and around the devastated region, condemned to a never-ending mission of futility. Applying a bit of analysis to determine the SOD's targeting priorities, I suggest that the SOD can actually be confined to a much smaller area, effectively tracing out a repetitive loop. The actual resources required will actually be smaller than you might think, since it's not necessary to produce urban concentrations of structures. A few large, flimsy (that is, cheap) widely-spaced structures will do the job as long as there are no alternatives nearby. And, of course, these sacrificial structures will make excellent testbeds for the latest ideas in booby traps. 

Interestingly, I haven't been able to find a real number for just how hot shell casings are when they get ejected. It's clear that they get hot enough to sting, especially in cleavage, but that's not really an adequate consideration. I can only speculate that, since ejected brass does not significantly oxidise, it is unlikely to be hot enough to set most matierals ablaze, even at high oxygen concentrations. Certainly, there would seem to be considerable cooling during flight, since the walls of a cartridge are very thin and would cool rapidly. Perhaps of more concern would be muzzle flash when firing from the prone position, although the flash duration is so short that I'm very dubious that solid materials would be affected. 

The short answer is that society collapses and most of the race dies in a few years or less. In the short term, most of the world depends critically on long-distance motorized transportation. Ensuring that a vehicle has enough fuel is a very arithmetic-sensitive process. As vehicles run out of fuel at inconvenient places, and fuel distribution breaks down, chaos begins. Furthermore, running an oil refinery is also done by numbers, so pretty soon the refineries will start catching fire due to faulty pressure regulation in critical parts. And let's not think too hard what happens to nuclear plants when temperatures start to rise in the core. In the medium term, agriculture depends on mostly on the production of annual crops. These crops require the setting aside of seed from the year's harvest. Being unable to tell how much to set aside will result either in wastage due to too much seed/too little consumption or too little seed and too-small a crop the next year. While this is not strictly true for modern hybrid crops, the process of producing those hybrids does need the sort of control that only numbers produce. Additionally, the application of pesticides and fertilizers must be controlled numerically. More fundamentally, any economic system above the level of barter is intrinsically dependent on numbers and the ability to do arithmetic at a level above "0/1/many". And even barter gets into trouble above the "I'll give you a tomato for an apple" level. The entire question of "How many" becomes unworkable when there is only "many". 

As stated, you're out of luck. Human nature being what it is, over a remarkably short time the fighting skills will become stylized, and combat effectiveness will essentially disappear. See, as a good example, the decline of the US Army during the 5 years between the end of WWII and the start of Korea. All is not lost, however. I have 2 words for you: immersive VR. With first person POV recordings of real (and nasty) combat, and a competent AI for scenario management, a baseline of performance can be established. Of course, you're going to have to make some pretty heavy modifications to the culture of the warrior caste. They're going to have their performance in VR have consequences, and probably lethal ones at that. Furthermore, you need to understand this about combat: the individual skills you might think would be prized, such as markmanship, are only the beginning of the skills necessary for success in combat. What really counts is aggression, indifference to hardship, intense trust in one's fellows, willingness to die for the group, and the ability to keep on functioning when the only thing clear in a swirling chaos of blood and fear is that to keep on functioning may get you killed but it's better than the alternative. It bloody well doesn't matter how skilled you are, sometimes (oftentimes) what makes the difference between victory and defeat is just a dogged determination to hold your ground and not let your buddies down. War is a game of imperfect information. Also, despite current US mottos about being warriors, warriors are not soldiers, and a good bunch of soldiers will go through a great bunch of warriors like a combine through a wheatfield. Warriors fight for personal glory, they don't cooperate well, and they don't take orders worth squat. Read the Odyssey and the Aeneid to get a feel for it. Soldiers fight for their buddies and because they are told to. They don't have the option of retiring to their tents when their buddies are killed, and they can't pick up and go home when the game stops being fun. And, of course, warriors don't do the unglamorous support jobs like pulling maintenance on vehicles, humping ammo to the artillery pieces or driving supply trucks. Soldiers do, and it is the performance of the unit as whole which matters. Warriors make a proud show and a good first attack, but after that it's the soldiers all the way. As a modern example, the insurgents in Iraq used to ambush Coalition soldiers and get into firefights. Nowadays the survivors mostly set off IEDs. And it's not because the Iraqis are poor fighters - they are tough and determined. Proud warriors. It's just that soldiers beat warriors in the long run, if the warriors are dumb enough to play the game of "let's have a battle". As you might guess, this can suck mightily, and generations without real fighting is going to make the whole thing look pretty silly. So, VR with teeth is the only thing I can think of which might make a difference. And by VR, I don't mean 2 hours at a time, either. How about 2 months? With fatigue, hunger, and maybe a way to suppress the soldier's knowledge that it IS VR. As the old saying goes, "You fight the way you train." 

Well, not to be a killjoy, but the dominant feature of the new Arctic will be water. A warmer climate will melt the polar ice caps and raise the level of the ocean by about 200 feet. The Arctic will be mostly underwater - that is, even more than it is now. As it stands, Arctic land consists of Alaska (United States), Canada, Finland, Greenland (Denmark), Iceland, Norway, Russia, and Sweden. For all but Canada (the Arctic Archipelago) and Greenland, the area north of the Arctic Circle is a fairly narrow strip of land bordering the Arctic Ocean. If you want to set your story at the South Pole (Antarctica), that's a different story, but not a great one. The variations in terrain elevation found in Antarctica would be important in providing the different climates required by the different species, but with the problem that the high altitude of the interior makes it a desert. Again, you'd only get forests around the edges of the zone, but for different reasons (not enough water, rather than too much). However, in either case the long summer days and long winter nights will continue to produce major temperature swings, it's just that the average temperatures will be higher. This will cause considerable climatic challenges for your forest species. In the Arctic, because of the moderating effect of the Arctic Sea, where the water temperature doesn't fall much below freezing, land temperature swings run about 140 F (-60 to +80), so raising the winter temperature by (let's say) 40 F will raise summer temperatures to 120, and that will have severe effects on most of the species you've listed. Sequoias, for instance, are quite intolerant of hot humid summers - and that means New England summers, not the Deep South. Virtually none of the species you've mentioned is adapted to polar light cycles, so you're going to have to invoke some serious genetic engineering. 

The question requires considerable clarification. By "religion" do you mean the religion as a whole (such as Christianity), or do individual sects count? By "peaceful", do you mean that all members are prohibited from military activity upon pain of expulsion from the group? If sects are allowed, then (just in the US) the Amish, Hutterites, Jehovah's Witnesses and Quakers, at the least, espouse pacifism and have never entered an armed conflict against any other religious group, and all have resisted military participation in national wars. As far as I know, all of the groups have occasionally produced soldiers (often non-combatant, especially including medics), and even some fighters, but these actions were individual choices. In no case did the sect as a group take part. The Hutterites, for example, refused military service during WWI, and when 4 men were imprisoned for failure to comply with the draft (and 2 died of injuries incurred in prison), the entire community moved to Canada. 

Unless you've made some fairly remarkable assumptions about the location of the colony and the native biosphere and ecosystem, both starting points reach the same point very quickly. The problem with your farming settlers is that your new colony location is not guaranteed to have the same climate and soils as the settlers are accustomed to, and they can pretty reliably assume that the local pests are different, and especially the microflora and microfauna in the soil. It would be a miracle if many of the transplanted crops did well, and free-ranging animals would be very difficult to keep alive - they don't know which local plants and bugs are poisonous. As a result, I'd expect the colony to revert to hunter-gatherer in a few years. And the gatherer part would be traumatic, to say the least, as (often lethal) trial and error would be needed to determine which plants are edible.