The whole idea of informal logic is flawed. A conclusion in in an informal argument does not logically follow from the premises, by definition. If you believe the argument anyway it's because you are, perhaps unconsciously, adding some additional assumptions or in general believe it for other unrelated reasons. There is a lot of ambiguity in natural language which allows for a range of interpretations so what seems 'logical' to one person might not seem so to another. 

This question and responses illustrate how easy it is to get sidetracked from the abstract moral question by the empirical difficulties involved in getting information in very complicated social situations. It is extremely easy to answer the abstract moral question. Can cruelty and suffering be justified if it might lead to social transformation, or to possibly establish an ideal state? With a simple example. Suppose it were the case that simply pinching somewhat and causing them a very brief sensation of pain would result in freeing 10 million people from a situation of horrible slavery. We also suppose that the person to be pinched is completely innocent of any wrongdoing. Would such a pinch be justified? It is cruel and causes some suffering. Resounding YES! The answer to the question - YES ! - is beyond question. Any other answer is patently absurd. So what's going on with all the discussion? If you look over the answers there are a great many points brought up. Points that are related as to whether in various particular circumstances the amount of suffering would justify the intended result and whether or not allowing the suffering would even have the intended result. These are empirical matters which can be impossible to determine beforehand. What suffering is allowable will depend strongly on one's belief about what the outcome is likely to be. Other points raised are whether or not the desired changes are actually desirable. Of course if two people disagree on whether or not the intended changes are desirable they won't agree on causing someone pain and suffering to achieve those ends. The question is quite ambiguous about this, it is asked as if there is a general answer Can cruelty and suffering be justified if it might lead to social transformation, or to possibly establish an ideal state? As such it is asking Can cruelty and suffering ever be justified if it might lead to social transformation, or to possibly establish an ideal state? At the other extreme we could have: Is cruelty and suffering always justified if it might lead to social transformation, or to possibly establish an ideal state? Other clarifications come to mind: Can cruelty and suffering ever be justified if it almost certainly will lead to social transformation and establish an ideal state? Is cruelty and suffering always justified if it almost certainly will lead to social transformation and establish an ideal state? All these alternatives show that the question can only be meaningfully answered if the actual circumstances are known. What are the probable effects of allowing a specific amount and type of suffering. These empirical relations are of course extremely difficult to come by so oblique arguments are made instead. It's really a version of asking "Do the ends justify the means." without ever saying what ends? what means? The question has become stripped of the context absolutely necessary for it's answer. 

Why all this discussion? Like Feynman said we cannot be absolutely certain of anything.... You might be a brain in a vat and you want certainty? 

Mathematics is just the description of patterns. Nature must possess patterns,regularities, if there is to be anything worth calling existence. The concept of randomness, chaos etc requires patterned structures to compare it to. Anything short of infinite randomness involves patterns.There is then no mystery as to why mathematics is useful in describing nature. It is then trivial that mathematics should be so useful. Whatever patterns exist in nature are fair game for mathematical study. The threatened philosophies are those that don't accept that patterns of experience are what science is all about, which is to say metaphysics, if it is taken to involve distinctions that can't be experimentally/experientially settled. $URL$ 

I believe that there is only one sensible answer to the first part of the question, i.e. 1) In what sense can we ask if the moon exists, if it is 1 light second away? To answer this question you must first specify a criteria for 'existence' in terms of measurable/observable quantities. It needn't be a completely general criteria just enough for whatever situation is of interest. For what observations or series of observations is the use of the term to be allowed.No matter how vague our use of the term generally is it is still just a term and it's use is set by us. People go about deciding if this that or the other thing exists all the time. Horses exist because we can find them. Unicorns don't exist because we haven't. Yes relativity and it's time delays add some additional complications but ultimately it's word usage that is the issue. Define the term in accordance with your needs and proceed, should be sufficient. If you are concerned with pre-established usage then an empirical study will tell you the range and frequencies of various conventions. 

It depends on how you did it. If you had eggs on your plate and then dumped usage of some mayo on top of them then it's "you put mayo on your eggs". If you had some mayo on your plate and dropped the eggs on top of them then "you put eggs on your mayo." Doubtless you meant something other than this but used very casual language to express it.(Someone might humorously say that you are putting eggs on your mayo if they think that you are using an excessive amount of mayo because when we add condiments we usually do so in amounts smaller than the original serving.) 

You'll also find more at $URL$ ... process philosophy regards change as the cornerstone of reality... There's even: The Center for Process Studies was founded in 1973 by John B. Cobb and David Ray Griffin to encourage exploration of the relevance of process thought to many fields of reflection and action $URL$ 

When I was growing up I learned that in some situations the word "one" was to be used. Say the number of dots between the parentheses (.). After a while I encountered situations like (. .) and would say "one" "one" because that would tell someone what I had seen. This kept up with (...), (....), etc with just repeating the word appropriately for the situation. It became tedious and time consuming however and new utterances were substituted for the different situations. The utterance for the (..) situation was "two", and so on. OK I lied. This wasn't exactly how I grew up but I bet it's an approximation as to how 1+1=2 came about. This is a fundamental aspect of human cognition. We see/experience things and cast them into categories. The fact that we can dissect our sensory input into any parts at all is the origin of numbers. We had to differentiate between aspects of experience (sensory input) to avoid tigers and find edible fruit. We came up with utterances to match these discrimination. As soon as we had a way to identify single instances we could identify multiple instances. We then shortened saying "ugh" 16 times for a given herd of buffalo to whatever the Indian word for 16 was (depending on tribe). Well that's how we got 1+1 = 2. The rest of math was developed from that by inventing new notation (multiplying instead of repeated addings and such) and demanding that we didn't end up with contradictions because of all the inventing we were doing. It's how a relatively limited system can deal with too much input. Our senses provide far more actual data then we can effectively process so we use lossy compression to classify similar gobs of data. If an input stream approximates others fairly well we say close enough and say that we have "one" of those. We then get into the above scenario above leading to two etc.