This is a variant on the longstanding critique of charity/welfare as robbing people of meaningful work and giving them a suffocating idleness instead. By being given charity instead of work, the poor in Frost's poem sleep all day instead of spending their time productively. The end result is that they cannot sleep peacefully at night, the way one does after a hard day's physical labor. In American politics, this is a prominent conservative viewpoint. It, itself, has been criticized as reactionary and heartless, and as idealizing the hardships of poverty and physical labor. In Frost's hands, it is arguably a bit self-satirizing --this is a poem all about a urban middle-class person's varied, contradictory, ambivalent and quite possibly wrong (or wrong-headed) thoughts about the rural poor and their experience. 

A lot of our standard language encodes subconscious in-group, out-group preferences. As theorist Franz Fanon explored in his work Black Skins, White Masks, the probable origin is the psychological desire to distance oneself from non-desired traits by displacing them onto a group readily distanced from the target audience. Since racial examples can be controversial, and tend to garner instinctive resistance, let's start with a non-racial example. The word dexterous is a positive adjective meaning "skillful and competent with the hands" whereas "sinister" is a negative adjective meaning "singularly evil or productive of evil" (see also gauche). Yet, the words originate in ones meaning "right-handed" and "left-handed." The fact that a significant majority of people are right-handed has resulted in a distinct semantic preference for right-handedness being encoded into language that is used commonly, and without any malicious intent. Similarly, the advent of positive/negative word pairs in European languages contrasting white and black is at least arguably related to the formation of a unified European racial identity privileging lighter skin, perhaps as a reaction to increased collective competition with the darker-skinned cultures of the Middle East and Africa. Recent literature that counters this trend often does so as a direct and explicit response against the perceived subconscious racism in the color-coding of older fantasy works. 

"N" and "S" are letters that are frequently mistakenly written backwards by children, and others of a low level of literacy. For that reason, if written on backwards on a sign they denote a barely literate writer. Sometimes letters are deliberately reversed to give a "folksy" touch to a piece of writing, but in this case, Frost explicitly calls them "artless" mistakes. It all goes along with the poem's larger theme of poor country people who are despised and ignored by the wealthier, more sophisticated urbanites. 

I wouldn't characterize it as "ambiguous," it seems fairly clear that she's using the one custom to critique the other, and characterizing both as stupid and old-fashioned. Rhetorically speaking, the astrological belief is presented as more prima facie absurd and outdated, the lack of agency over her own marriage is absurd and outdated by extension. 

These are two separate quotes from a single address that King delivered at Morehouse College in 1948. In context, the address is a critique of education, particularly education that does not improve people morally or mentally. $URL$ "Thinking intensively" is "intelligence". "Thinking critically", which here seems to mean assessing what you are told against a moral standard, is "character." So the two sentences say the same thing, but in different words, and in a different order. Together, they express King's belief that the goal of education is not the simple gain or memorization of knowledge, but rather the ability to think and judge. 

@muru's answer is once again correct, but I do feel there's a little additional nuance to explore here. Frost is actually mocking himself with the modifier "gently." If someone offers to kill you, you're unlikely to care whether or not they are "gentle" about it. When Frost puts himself in the place of the prospective victim, he can finally seen how ridiculous, patronizing, insulting and alarming his offer of euthanasia is. He wouldn't care to be put out of his pain, gently or not, and neither would the rural poor. 

As @muru described, owned has two meanings. The more familiar meaning denotes possession, but there's a less common secondary meaning of "admitting something is true," sometimes used in the construction "own up (to the truth)." Frost is using the term primarily in the second sense, but with strong connotations of the first. In other words he is both admitting to his shameful thought and taking responsibility for his possession of it. As to why the thought is shameful: "Put out of their pain" may sound benign, but it's a euphemism for euthanasia ("mercy killing"). So he's suggesting it would be better to kill the rural poor than let them continue living their miserable lives --a postively Hitlerian solution to their "problem." In the next breath however, he extends a little more empathy and imagines them suggesting that he be the one to be put out of his misery (mercy killed) instead. 

At least according to science fiction grandmaster Samuel Delany, well-known for "literary" books in popular genres, the distinction is largely one of anticipated audience. Popular fiction is generally aimed at a larger, more mainstream audience, and may feature simpler plots and language. It also typically follows one or another set of standard genre conventions, which guarantee it a potential audience that enjoys that genre. For example, mystery novels, such as those written by Agatha Christie, usually concern a murder, or other serious crime, a range of plausible suspects, and a set of clues that potential allow the reader to anticipate the eventual unmasking of the criminal, which comes at the end of the book. Literary fiction is often considered more prestigious, and is generally expected to draw a smaller, more highly educated audience, often of a higher socioeconomic class. Its use of language may be more complex and its plots more original. It may also be experimental in one sense or another. Salman Rushdie, Michael Chabon and Zadie Smith are three well-known and widely read current authors of literary fiction. Their work may have genre elements, but is not easily characterized or summarized by them. A successful literary work may draw a tiny fraction of the audience of a popular fiction work, yet have an individual influence that is greater and more lasting. Literary works can occasionally be extremely popular, but their popularity is often not easily predictable. It is worth noting that many popular genres are formed in imitation of a standard-setting literary predecessor (for example, epic fantasy in imitation of Tolkien). As popular fiction works become older, their audience profile becomes more like that of literary fiction, in as much as older books, regardless of genre, tend to be read by a smaller, more educated audience. They also become experienced more like literary fiction, is as much as their genre characteristics become less familiar as their own time period disappears into the past. In terms of "canonization" (becoming widely and consistently considered as ranking among the great literary works across the ages), popular works are canonized as often as literary ones. Again according to Delany, canonization essentially reduces to the ability of a work to maintain a productive body of criticism, secondary literature and other cultural artifacts, which combine to keep it alive in the collective cultural imagination. Source: Delany, Samuel, About Writing: Seven Essays, Four Letters, & Five Interviews, Wesleyan University Press, 2013 

The part about "half" a dog is to lure the townspeople into the joke. If he had just said he wished to own the dog, it would have been too obvious, and not interesting enough. This way of phrasing it forces people to ponder what he means, and what possible reason there could be to want only half of a dog. Once people have fallen into the trap, he springs the punchline, "so I could kill my half!" Obviously, this would kill the whole dog, so the whole thing is just a deliberately convoluted way of expressing that he wants to kill off the dog to shut it up. (Elaborate circumlocutions were popular comedic devices of the time.) It's a faux-sophisticated young-person's joke, that probably would have left young men in the frat houses at Wilson's college convulsing with laughter, but it is badly misjudged for this stolid audience. It's Twain's way of establishing the distance in perspective between Wilson and the townspeople. 

I believe "good bad poem" is a description specific to Orwell. The more common term for critically disdained poetry is doggerel. This can either mean a poem in verse that is structurally flawed (irregular rhythm, off rhymes, etc.), particularly when done deliberately and for comic effect, or conversely --and a closer match to what Orwell and Barr describe --a poem of no particular "literary merit," which is too regular, to monotonous effect. The idea here is that there exist poems without any of the attributes we associate with "good good" poetry --complex structure, evocative metaphors, spiritual depth, and so forth --and yet which have their own merits that may be overlooked by the critics. These poems, perhaps comic, perhaps melodramatic, tell a story or express an emotion in a memorable and indelible way, and thus may outlast the more abstruse critics' darlings. At one time, ordinary people more commonly wrote poetry, and so if you go back enough years, you'll find an endless supply of "bad" and potentially "good bad" doggerel to be found in the notebooks of amateurs. You'll also find a veritable wellspring in popular anthologies of best-loved poems, such as the one by Martin Gardner, which includes the critically scorned but much beloved verses Orwell and Barr mention by Service and Harte, along with numerous others that would probably make their lists, such as by Thayer, Longfellow and Kipling. If, however, you're looking for something more up to date, the closest contemporary analog is probably rap music, which (until quite recently) received no critical recognition or respect, despite clearly being the most dominant and influential verse form of modern times. Having been dismissed for so many years as a "bad bad" art form by the critics, it is now a fertile field for a critical reevaluation that might potentially find some of it to be "good bad" or even "good good." 

Some insight can potentially be gained by comparing and contrasting Simon's later song "A Poem on the Underground Wall," in which a graffiti artist's scrawling of a obscenity on the wall of a subway station is described, in deliberately florid language, as the act of a poet. Similarly, if we ask ourselves what is written on "subway walls and tenement halls," the answer is clearly graffiti. Yet here the graffiti artist is being described as a prophet. In both cases, Simon is instructing us to pay closer attention to the marginalized and the ignored of society, and to give their forms of expression greater respect and attention. In this, he is in some ways in conversation with Bob Dylan, whose song, "The Times They Are A-Changin'," he covers on the same album where "The Sound of Silence" debuted. Where Dylan instructs "writers and critics who prophesize with your pen," as well as mothers, fathers, senators and congressmen, to reserve judgment on their children and the future they are bringing forth, Simon is telling the same people that the future has already been written down for them in the last places they would think to look. Simon's respect for graffiti also prefigures (or prophesies, if you will) the forthcoming adoption of graffiti, and its intrinsic social criticism, as the central visual expression of the hip-hop cultural movement (and its subsequent acceptance as a mainstream, but still socially critical, art form in more recent times). As Peter Shor noted earlier, there is a notable instance of a prophecy being "written on a wall" in the Old Testament Book of Daniel. Like Simon's prophecy, the one in Daniel is a warning, in this case about the immanent fall of the king. It is from here we draw the common English expression "the writing's on the wall" as a premonition of doom.