Once again the most important thing is staying in a caloric deficit. There was an individual who only ate twinkies and donuts and still lost weight. Stop worrying too much about little things, just focus on eating healthy and not over eating. 

There is no way to change your genetic potential. If you wish to get bigger and stronger you should eat more (healthier is better, and protein is important) and workout. If you wish to lose weight you should workout and eat less. Its important to determine how many calories you need each day and then either increase or decrease them to reach your goal. With hard word and proper diet you can reach your genetic potential after 3-4 years of training. If you aren't satisfied with your genetics then steroids would be an option but I would not recommend that. 

Green tea can help aid in weight loss, but the only way to actually lose weight is to stay in a CALORIC DEFICIT - so your body burns more energy than you give it through food. Basically as far as I know, green tea has the ability to burn more calories, so it helps you achieve the caloric deficit easily. As for drinking green tea 4 times a day. I would recommend drinking each cup at the same interval throughout the day for maximum benefits. 

Recovering from plateaus is hard because they are both frustrating and usually you have to do the opposite of what seems rational - like take a step back. When people struggle to lose more weight, they usually cut the calories more and increase running/other physical activity which actually worsens the problem. Your body goes into "starvation mode", meaning it starts loosing more muscle to become more efficient, slows your metabolic rate and soon your hunger becomes unmanageable. Based on my experience and the things I've learned to work for me, this is a short list of things to consider: 

You shouldn't compare yourself to other societies adapted to entirely different environment for generations. Yanomamo are in central South America. While many more people have lived near the ocean with access to plenty of salt since ancient times. Also there are many other factors in the lives of Yanomamo people I would guess that haven't been taken into account. I couldn't find any data on low sodium intake benefiting athletic performance. On the opposite - there are claims that very low sodium intake could cause different problems to athletes - like muscle cramps, heat illness, inability to rehydrate and others. Also trying to avoid any salt in current society will be extremely hard - almost all food and drinks contain some. So given that there is no evidence that this could help you - I would just focus on "healthy" intake as described in western health journals. If you stay under 2000mg of sodium intake and drink plenty of water, any difference in athletic performance will come from other factors. Your kidneys are very capable of shedding the extra salt and compensating when you don't consume enough. 

It all depends on your goals, but since your are skinny fat I would recommend eating less and losing weight first. 1) Start off by eating less and going to the gym. If you wish to build muscle, increase the amount of protein you eat. Since you are a beginner you should be able to burn fat and build muscle at the same time by eating less calories but increasing protein. 2) refer to 1 3) This depends on your goals, but like I said above you can gain muscle and lose fat at the same time if you haven't worked out before. 

People store fat first in different body parts. For example person A could store fat first in their belly and then their face. Person B could store fat first in their face and then their belly, its different for every person. Neglecting metabolism, people who say they eat a lot and don't gain weight are not actually eating enough and vice versa. Best way is to count calories! 

At your age you will start to see massive amounts of improvement soon if you just keep going with lifting, one of the biggest factors in making muscle/strength gains are you hormonal levels which will be quiet high during your teen years. I suspect you have no idea the things people (20+) do to try and get their hormonal levels to similar to what your body produces now. I wouldn’t be concerned with supplements and focus more on right eating and sleep. The biggest misconceptions I find with beginner lifters (and many intermediate people as well) is trying to use supplements to replace proper food (I leave out advanced lifters here as people who don't understand nutrition wont ever make it to this stage). This is not something I would recommend, especially at your age given the amount of nutrients required for growth (I’m not talking about the gym here). If you don’t understand what your body needs then do not try to supplement it, focus on eating and sleeping right. Taking supplements won’t give you the results you think it will; start researching nutrition – once you understand what your body needs you won’t need to ask the question here. But hey the placebo effect might motivate you until you know better. Also when researching nutrition keep in mind that most of the research was done on adults; knowing this I would follow advice given by your nutritionist. 

As your body tries to use as primary energy source the type of macronutrients you are consuming most. So when you are on low-carb diet, that is fat and it starts using fat (including your own) more enthusiastically. This is part of the reason you are not as hungry - your body just uses more of the fat as it now does 24/7 instead of "asking you" for more carbs. When you are on moderate/high carb diet, the primary energy source is carbs, and they are just so easy to process - who would bother breaking down fat if you have sugar around! Your blood sugar is stable. You are not as moody which further helps you control appetite. Also helps you stay on track. You have noticed yourself it's harded to staying focused and training almost every day when on higher carb diet. Your insulin sensitivity improves a lot (which is a major problem when you have excess fat). This makes you more effective on handling more calories even if you overeat. If however you overeat with carbs, combined with the low insulin sensitivity, it is a recipe for storing that whole huge meal as fat. Insulin sensitivity is one of the reasons fat people get fatter easier and eventually develop diabetes. Low carb diets make food choices quite simple. Your main problem becomes "what should I have as with my steak/sausage/burger patty/eggs". Which ideally ends up being some vegies and a bit of sauce like mustard/ketchup :) 

Try lqd+ (or off brand alternatives) - basically flavoring with low calories. Tho green tea (without sugar) would be better and may help with losing weight a little due to the caffeine. 

From what I understand you cannot naturally increase your height as an adult. However you might be able to appear taller with correct posture; doing exercises back and core exercises will help with this. Some recommendations: Deadlift, Squat, Russian twist, Reverse flyes. Remember to do those exercises with proper technique otherwise it maybe detrimental in the long run. 

Yes, as long as you eat enough and consume the right amounts of nutrients to do both. I would recommend doing some research on nutrition for triathlon and also for body building. Please note that there is a massive difference between what most people consider ‘healthy’ and eating the right things for what you are doing. This is the most vital thing to remember for your long term fitness success. You may also want to start recording what you are eating to ensure you are sticking to your diet; especially given that you are doing massive amounts of cardiovascular exercises which, if not done right, will be detrimental to muscle building. There is a nice write up here which is a good starting point to figure out your needs. Also given your age and lack of weight training experience I imagine your routine with those weights will become really easy fast, I would recommend starting to do more reps if you cannot go heavier. Also look into harder bodyweight training such as one handed pushups/pull ups, otherwise look at joining a gym. 

Correlation - two events happening together (like observing if carrying lots of muscle and living long go often together) shouldn't be confused with causation (hyphotesizing the more muscle you have, the longer you live). High protein, higher calorie diets, typical to people that carry lots of muscle, add strain to your liver and kidneys. Lifting heavy and often pushing the boundaries of your capabilities, leads to injuries and decreased mobility in the long run. Heavy lifting needed to build lots of muscle, forces high blood pressure. If lifespan is your goal, regular exercise, healthy unprocessed food, plenty of sleep, avoiding injuries and stress and being generally happy is the way to go. Many of these factors are also necessary to build and carry more muscle - you can't get big and lean without living rather healthy (although "healthy" is very relative term). For some people, being muscular improves their self-esteem, which improves their lifestyle, happiness and this could have a major impact on life. But even if there is data to suggest that there is positive correlation with lifespan and amount of muscle you carry, it still would be just a correlation. It wouldn't mean that the muscle itself is somehow making you live longer. In fact many of the most muscular people in the world - like professional bodybuilders and weightlifters die very young (30s to 50s). Needless to say there are other factors involved (like drugs) but compare that to professional swimmers or skiers or just people who are just light, live actively and not carry significant amount of muscle. It draws a different picture. 

Every person is different in terms of how many calories they burn each day and how fast their metabolism is. 

There's no specific angle. Focus on what feels right for you. Since you feel your chest more when doing it at 90 degrees, try to keep it around that. 

If you wish to lose weight just eat less. Find out how many calories you need to maintain your current weight and just eat 250-500 calories less than that. If your main goal is to lose weight it doesn't really matter what you eat, but eating healthy is always better. As for dark chocolate I believe it suppresses your appetite, due to the amount of fibre it contains. So it basically helps you stay in a caloric deficit. 

Not sure of the exact name, but many people just call it "tricep stretch" This video explains how to perform the stretch. 

Trust me, stay 250-300 above your maintenance level of calories and keep your protein high and you won't gain much fat. This way you will get bigger a lot quicker rather than sitting in a caloric deficit all the time. Also, when you first start working out you can easily build muscle and lose fat at the same time, something referred to as "beginner gains", but after you workout for longer than a year, the way to see more progress is to be above maintenance level in terms of calories. In terms of biceps not getting bigger, I think you should keep doing compound lifts while in a caloric surplus. Compound movements do help your arms get bigger, just keep increasing the weight as you get stronger. Also, including curls can help shape your arms. Lastly, there is a genetic factor that comes into play. Some people have better chest genetics and others have better arm genetics. So if your biceps are lacking and you have tried everything, it could be genetics. 

Have you tried doing them with straps? I had similar issue, given my limited flexibility - I also was doing them with crossed arms in front. Then I found out that doing them with straps drastically improved my form - and the amount of weight I can lift. This way I can comfortably do front-squats with around 25% less weight compared to back squats. Here is a video that explains the technique: $URL$ 

There is also a formula based on body fat that is more accurate. Now, there is a Harris-Benedict equation that helps you calculate the calories burned based on your activity lavel. Here is a simplified version: 

TL/DR: Any sport (and swimming is an excellent one) will work, if done consistently, with applied hard effort and together with healthy diet and caloric deficit. No way to do it without clear goals and determination. To lose 80kg of mostly body fat, one would need 2 years focused effort, at least. It could be the one of the hardest yet most rewarding journeys one could take. Such that will not only improve the health but likely also self-esteem, general lifestyle, lifespan, work ethic and basically just about everything for this person. To burn 1kg of body fat, you need to get a deficit of 7000kcal (actually 1kg of pure fat has 9000kcal but the body stores water and other tissue to support the stored fat, so if you lose 1kg pure fat, you would have lost more body weight). If by including sports one burns on average 2500kcal a day and consumes 2000kcal a day (500kcal average daily deficit), it would take abound 2 weeks for a kg of body fat. But this can be a consistent long-term reduction. Good guideline to achieve sustainable fat loss, without yo-yo effect, is staying on deficit of about 20-25% of caloric consumption. This caloric deficit can be achieved by consuming less food (less calories in) and being more active (more calories out), preferably both at the same time. Eating healthy, calorie-sparse unprocessed foods makes it easier to manage appetite. Those foods are nutrient dense and fulfil your body needs unlike heavily processed thus named "junk" foods. And working out harder makes your body burn more energy and build/maintain muscle - the tissue you need to keep burning fat. Combination of high-effort activity and healthy higher-protein, low-sugar diet would make your body increase it's caloric expenditure, maybe such a huge person could burn 3000kcal a day, then the daily deficit could be 600-700kcal and lose 3kg a month instead of 2kg... And actually swimming is much better than jogging for fat-burn - it burns more calories and allows to make more intense workouts (bursts or fast freestyle swimming) without straining joints or spine. The key to be taken is that any activity that helps burn substantial amounts of energy will do. But even if you work out a lot, it's very easy to out-eat the benefits of physical exercise. One hour of continuous swimming will burn 700-800kcal. One pizza is between 1000 and 2000kcal. Sport and diet (healthy, calorie-conscious) should be used together. And this is why weight loss is result of long-term habits. It has taken years of caloric surplus to get to gain substantial amounts of weight, it can't take months to reverse the process. This is slow (yet, very rewarding) process. There is no quick-fix, there is no diet or pill that can do this without hard effort and determination. It requires huge amounts of long-term motivation to stay focused on your goal. The goal of losing around 80kg of body weight is achievable within about 2 years of hard work. In my experience coaching people, the motivation to change yourself usually comes from break-ups, ultimatums, sometimes as attempt to get out of long term depression, new-found health problems or other sources of personal epiphany. But I have never seen it work if the person doesn't really want it and is doing it for someone else. Edit: One book that I read and really helped me was "Burn the Fat, Feed the Muscle" by Tom Venuto. I really liked it because it emphasised not on specific foods or routines but how to set goals, measure progress and change your mentality towards a consistent healthy lifestyle. It thought me that there are no shortcuts but that you could look the way you dream, not the way you believe it's possible. Hard work and consistency is the only way but once you change your mentality it gets much easier. It also explained macronutrients and how to make smarter food choices. 

I recently started a programming job and have notice my shoulders have started to round. I try to sit with good posture but my posture breaks after a certain time and I don't notice it. I workout 5 times a week and follow a good workout plan (includes all compound lifts). Whats some good workout or stretches I can add to fix rounding shoulders? 

If your main goal is too lose weight then just staying in a caloric deficit of 250-500 calories should be what you aim for. So find out how many calories you need to maintain your current weight here and then just subtract 250-500 from it. This will help you lose weight. For your runs, it depends on what your goals are. Do you want to increase your stamina?, become faster?, etc. But what I would recommend is making a routine and tracking your progress. So I cant really say how often you should do it without more information, but getting enough rest is always important As for building muscle, if you haven't worked out before, you will be able to lose fat and build muscle at the same time. So doing exercise with the dumbbells and other body weight movements would be beneficial. Also remember to get enough protein if you plan to build muscle.