Remove the chain and put a string on it to fish it out of the gatorade bottles Simple Green: I have an old gatorade bottle full of 50/50 diluted Simple Green, which is a great degreaser. Put the lid on (with string outside, for chain removal). Shake it up baby, now! Really work it. Remove the chain when it looks clean enough. Grime will accumulate at the bottom of the bottle, but I just cap it and reuse the Simple Green again next time. Clean water: Hot is best. Another Gatorade bottle with water, put the chain in, shake shake shake. This is to remove the Simple Green. I don't save the water, just dump it out. Hot will evaporate off the chain more rapidly and dissolve the Simple Green more quickly, but cold will do. 92% Isopropyl alcohol: water rusts chains (bad!). Water dissolves in alcohol, and the alcohol then evaporate super quickly. So, chain in Gatorade bottle of alcohol, string outside, cap on, shake shake shake. Remove the chain, watch the alcohol drip off and evaporate in no time. 

If you want the best for you in a steel frame, look into local framebuilders. There are newer tubesets by Columbus and True Temper that individual builders can use to make awesome frames. Furthermore, they are competitive with aluminum frames (yes they weigh more, but the difference is far less than how overweight 'I' am...ymmv). Here in the Seattle area we have Davidson and Rodriguez bikes built locally. Your area probably has someone who builds high-quality frames as well. There are treatments for the inside of steel frames to prevent corrosion, and any reputable steel frame builder will have treated their frames. 

I'm planning on going bike touring in S.East Asia. I've been planning which bike to get. Companies like Thorn offer custom made bikes (specially designed for adventure-style cycle touring), but they somewhat expensive and I have enough expertise to build something similar myself. I was thinking to use a mountain bike frame because they are designed to take more abuse than road bikes and I plan to ride on rough tracks. A mountain bike seems to offer much of the ruggedness offered by a custom made bike, but then not being a bike designer there must be some shortcoming using it to carry luggage and over long distances. 

I need some new sunglasses for cycling - what features will actually be helpful - I've seen ones with vents, polarized lens, rubberised frame, replaceable lens . I just need the best value model that looks good. 

If it is a cruiser bike it might be the laid-back angle that makes it feel a bit more difficult to pedal as you generally push bigger gears with such bikes rather than spin due to the position of the seat in relation to the cranks. 

I come from a mountain biking background but I've also done a lot of cycle touring but I chose to go with flat bars and bar-ends vs drop bars. I've also seen bikes that are designed for 'bike packing' such as the Salsa Fargo sporting drop bars. Recently I've done more road biking but I still don't fully understand the reasons behind drop bars. Can you tell me what the benefits area? 

What type of bike are you riding, and what width are the tires? Looking at the answers, the only thing I don't see is a reference to the width of tires. Narrow road bike tires get more flats that wider hybrid or trail bike tires. When I was commuting on a road bike I was using Bontrager Hard Case and tire liners and still got too many flats. Of course what constitutes "too many flats" varies from person to person, but when I changed to a hybrid (keeping the same type of tire set up, except wider [32mm]), my problems ended. 

Use the widest tire that will fit on your bike and inflate it to the max recommended. I used Bontrager Hard Case for some time for commuting. They suffered fewer flats than most. A added a liner & slime tube both of which helped. I ride by an auto body shop that uses the street as a work area so you can just imagine. I tried a solid rubber tire from $URL$ but I will tell you I was not happy at all. The not only was the ride godawful but the road resistance was very high. I wasn't expecting the latter but it was unmistakable. What killed it totally was that they cracked in the cold weather. IMHO they are a complete waste of money. Bontrager + liner + slime tube was reasonable but I still got more flats especially in the rear than I wanted as a commuter. I ride every day rain or shine. Flats make you late. The widest tire that would fit on the rear of the road bike was a 24C IIRC. I recently purchased a Specialized Sirrus Elite hybrid which I adore so much I also use it for long rides. I may just ditch the road bike. I'm using 28C rear and 32C front right now. I've had Two flats since I purchased the bike in I think it was March & never a flat on my way to or from work. If a tire can be inflated to 90psi or more road resistance is not a problem. 

Find a good LBS (Local Bike Shop) that deals in road bikes and has a used bike section. They might not have something for you right now, but if you talk to them, tell them what you are looking for, try some new bikes to get a really good handle on the size you are needing, they may just give you a call when the right trade-in appears. 

The length of the crankarms, usually around 170mm +/- 2.5mm increments--these are the same with both normal and compact cranksets The diameter of the bolt circle to attach the chainrings--compact are 110mm, regular are 130mm The number of teeth on the chainrings (and this is the whole reason for a compact crankset, to allow smaller chainrings). Most compact cranksets are sold with 34-tooth and 50-tooth rings (referred to as 50x34), whereas most regular cranksets are currently sold with 53x39 combinations. You can also purchase other chainrings, but those are by far the most common. 

Doubtful. Differing lubricants can act as solvents for each other, causing it to drip out and be lubeless. This was attributed as the cause of Alaska Airlines Flight 261 crashing; differing maintenance crews lubed the horizontal trim jackscrew with two different lubricants. They dripped out, the part failed, and the jet crashed. 

I've heard different rules of thumb (rule of thumbs?) about how much use you can get, and remember none of them. What I do know is that not lubeing a chain often enough--actually, cleaning and lubeing--will cause it to wear such that it 'stretches'. Not stretch like taffy, but gain overall length due to the pins and bushings in the links wearing down, getting slightly more room in how they link together. Once the chain stretches it wears the teeth of the cassette and chainrings much rapidly. Bottom line: lube and clean your chain often enough and everything else will last longer. 

and I want to know if I can use v brakes with them. It looks like there is a thread to screw in some bosses, but I'm not 100% sure. 

I've got a XC mtb which 1. I'm trying to cut the weight off , 2. I want a bit extra reach. I've got a longer road bike stem made by 'Deda' (I think Planet X)? and I was wondering if it will be strong enough for XC mountain biking use? 

I've got some Sun Rhynolyte rims and one of the features is being welded and machined. What does it mean when said in relation to a rim? 

Just a quick suggestion. I ride mtb and after I get back into the swing of riding I learn to push the bike ahead of me more. This allows the bike to do more of the trail work. There are different styles of riding and some riders won't put to the limit of needing to dab. If you dab you lose some of your flow. 

I've got a 1x10 set up. Sometimes I have a problem with the chain falling off at the front. I've been reading that a clutch mech will help to prevent this. My mech is Deore long cage without clutch. What is the dis/advantages of a clutch mech vs a chain tensioner / chain guide? Bike is 2006 Specialized Rockhopper Pro. Chain is correct for chainring. Its not worn, nor the chainring etc. Chain line looks fine, but maybe this could be tweaked slightly. 

they look like a they were inspired by horse saddles, but tinier. The leather is rock hard, but once they get broken in are surprisingly comfortable. Nowadays the saddles you see in shops are all high-tech, lightweight creations. I had to search, but found some ads for Brooks on Amazon. So: does anyone use them? Or are they outdated and anachronistic? 

Get a seat bag and have at least one spare innertube, a multi-tool, spare CO2 (if that's your inflator of choice, a frame pump otherwise), and park a $10 bill in there. It's not a matter of 'if' you have a mechanical, but 'when'. Anticipate it, prepare for it, and deal with it. More than once (because I don't learn quickly) I got as far from either end of my ride and had a flat. I ended up riding home on my rim, which is BAD. Additionally I have a laminated photocopy of my driver's license in case I'm unresponsive, but that may be overkill. 

There are 3 size aspects to a crankset (and, of course, lots of variations between product lines as far as materials, color, price, etc.). 

Be as visible as possible, and assume you are invisible. No matter how much neon spandex and blinky lights you have, some drivers won't notice you until it's too late, especially if it is rainy, getting dark, and their radio is on. ASSUME you are invisible and they are all out to hit you, and ride accordingly. 

My method, which works very well and is fairly quick (although it required initial shopping and drinking some Gatorade): Edit: this requires having one of those reusable 'gold links' to detach/reattach the chain at will.