Its not brilliant. I see a previous commenter has mentioned weight, in my case that's not an issue, the camera weighs next to nothing. One other thing you may find useful is that I have a 16GB card in mine and according to the manufacturers that equates to about 4 hours. So no problem whatsoever about space, given how frequently I need to hook the camera to a pc in any case. Hope this gives you some food for thought. 

For the correct tyre pressure, you should have a look on the wall of your tyre. Obviously different tyre manufacturers will mould their tyres differently, but here is an example (one of my tyres, I have raided the flour cupboard to make the marking stand out!): 

Well, it'll depemd on how the narrower tyre sits on the rim, specifically whether a 25mm tyre will be wide enough, but as long as this is ok, you should be fine. Be aware that wider tyres will have a larger surface in contact with the road, and therefore more grip, but if you're happy to trade that off, go for it. 

I've never been a runner so I can't really comment on similarities, but certainly it is possible to experience numbness while riding. I have poor circulation anyway, and for me it usually happens on long rides in low temperatures. Warm weather rides are fine. Also note that there are various medical conditions (e.g. diabetes) which can give rise to poor circulation, so someone who for example is diabetic may be predisposed to numbness. 

So this at least explains what each of those numbers means. Googling the Shore A scale was also quite informative, yielding a number of results from rubber-related businesses. This scale is clearly quite common in the world of rubber although as I say in the question I'd never heard of it regarding cycling before. Giant told me that the x/y/z referred to shoulder/centre/shoulder hardness - so you get more grip as you move away from the centre. 

You can buy cable caps separately, they're actually meant to be crimped on so you can fix them with a crimper or pliers. I know Park tools do something which is basically a really sharp wire cutter, should prevent fraying in the first place. This tool is showing on their site now but I have one (bought many years ago) which looks a bit different. You shouldn't need to resort to duct tape! 

I think this is kind of a non-question. You want the helmet that rides the fastest? For anything "fastest", either components or kit, just look at what the professional riders are using. This seems to imply that you either wear a regular-design lid (albeit one which is very light, very ventilated, and probably very expensive). Or, you go for a time-trial helmet. I know some team helmets used to be made by Giro (as I bought one, Ionos springs to mind, but I'n not 100%). This was a couple of years ago, I would assume it is still the case. As for the exact model, just look at the top of the range. At the start of this year's Tour de France, a bike shop I follow on Facebook ran a competition to win a Team Sky helmet - manufactured by Kask. So there's two manufacturers to give you a start. As regards TT helmets, when I watch time trials a lot of the riders seem to wear Specialized lids, not just the Specialized team. So they might be a good place to start looking. I presume you realise (and accept) that for this kind of top-notch quality, you will pay. 

I have a bike for commuting which doesn't even see home most of the time. When not outside my client's it lives at a station cycle rack. So its basically exposed to the elements 24/7. When I got it, I chose a steel-framed fixie, so its very minimal in terms of things I have to maintain in any case. I carry a small bottle of lube with me all the time, and keep a track pump at the client's. I'd say I use the lube maybe once a week, the pump maybe once a month. But as a rule it never goes near anything fancy like soap! Twice a year or so, however, it gets brought home and I give it a decent service. Things I do vary depending on what is required, but I generally fit a new chain every time. I've been doing this for a few years now and the bike is still in tip-top condition. I mean I suppose it depends on how susceptible the frame you've got is to rust etc. but you could probably get away with doing less, not more as you suggest. 

You will be fine with an 8-speed cassette, as long as you also think about compatible shifters. As regards the chain width, 6-, 7- and 8-speed are all interchangeable. 9-speed and above, the chain becomes narrower to cater for the extra sprockets on the cassette. As exemplified by @Batman's answer, there is an amount of scepticism regarding how much this narrowing matters, in terms of the smooth running of the drivetrain. 

I agree with you. I have 2 road bikes, 1 mountain and 1 fixie. In terms of understanding the bike - not just the terminology but understanding parts, sizes etc. - the fixie has taken up more of my time than all the others put together. The reason for this is that although the bike itself is a simpler arrangement (i.e. no derailleurs to worry about), there appear to be far more variations. Also I find that when I need to make purchases I'm looking at very niche shops, rather than just popping down to my lbs. It might help you to look at a couple of the specialist web sites I look at - Velosolo and Tokyo Fixed. These are both vendors (and both uk-based) so probably not quite what you're after. But in terms of terminology they should still be quite helpful. Plenty of photos with descriptions etc. Velosolo in particular has some good FAQs in addition to the "shop" bit.....but note that even they refer to Sheldon! 

By this do you mean pedalling when unnecessary (and without increasing the bike's speed), for example, on descents? I will do this on long descents just to keep my legs turning over and to prevent them getting too cold. But I will mix it with coasting. There is a theory that keeping the legs moving will keep your blood flowing and help pump lactic acid out of the muscles. I can go along with this as I've felt the benefit, or at least I think I have. I've also heard it argued that it's advantageous as regards making your technique smoother, but I don't think that's particularly proven. But no personal experience, I've never really concentrated on my technique to that extent. Further, you can talk to racing cyclists who will often say that soft pedalling is preferred when riding in a peloton, purely because coasting implies to other people that you're about to hit the brakes. Again, no personal experience. I know some of the regulars on here are either racers or ex-racers, maybe they can confirm? In terms of speed (or power) surely it makes no difference, purely by the definition of "soft pedalling"? 

Would absolutely go along with @geoffc's answer re tyres. I'm suspecting that's what you really meant to type when you said "rims"? But anyways... I'd just add that it might be worth trying out some aero bars too, you can get ones that will just clamp on to your current bar. Might be worth seeing if you could borrow some first as they are very much an acquired taste, but you can imagine they'd improve your position on the bike if you can get on with them. 

Yes I test rode a Sora a few years ago with those thumb shifters - truly awful. My gut feel (I know Shimano well, but don't have direct experience of this groupset) is that one is a direct replacement for the other, but the only evidence I can find to back this is a review on Amazon. For sure there'll be no problems shifting, because you're staying at 8-speed. I was just a bit hesitant to answer in case something to do with the braking might have changed. But that guy's review suggests you'll be ok - sounds like he did exactly what you're proposing. 

Nothing. If the manufacturer doesn't want to play ball, you're scuppered. There is no way you can prove your case one way or the other, so you're reliant on the goodwill of the manufacturer. In this case they appear to have no goodwill. Unfortunately your case shows that for the most part, warranties should be treated with a pinch of salt. Not much consolation for you, I know. 

You ask about a balaclava - I can highly recommend the Assos facemask. The downside of this will be the price, but as with anything Assos make, the quality is the best on the market (imo). This is my second winter with mine and last year was fine. Note from the photo in the link the loops above the ears....for your glasses. But I think if you ride with both nose and mouth covered a certain amount of fogging is inevitable. Personally I hate the feeling of having something over my nose or my mouth so always have the bottom between chin and mouth, if you see what I mean. You also mention booties. There are lots out there offering thermal properties, but I think you are right about wear and tear. I cycle at either end of a train journey. At one end (country roads) I use clipless pedals, at the other end (big city) I use flat pedals. The flat pedals most definitely cause wear and tear. My solution? Nothing fancy I'm afraid - I stump up for a new pair every year. 

Go out and buy yourself a carbon frame with all the trimmings. If you want to race, there is no better hardware option. 

I think your last comment is the operative point - it will happen anyway sooner or later. The technology here is basically the same as with automobiles. You start off with new pads and a clean rotor. The bedding in process involves the deposit a small layer of pad onto the rotor (mixed in with a little frictional heat). Until you have that layer on the rotor, braking could be less powerful and uneven. You don't ask this, but for completeness, the rotor should be cleaned whenever the pads are changed, using isopropyl alcohol. And, once the rotor is clean, the bedding-in process will start over. You don't see an awful lot on this subject if you look on the web at bike pages, but as I say if you start looking in the context of cars, there's lots out there and it is definitely not new technology. 

There are various web sites that might help. I use one called $URL$ You need to register on it but you can get quite a lot from a free account. Does your GPS device output GPX files? If so, I think Ride With GPS can suck them in. If not you might have to put your route into the site manually (but this is easy enough). But what you do get on your route is a display of the gradient (you hover over different parts of the route to see it). For example, I did a quick ride yesterday afternoon, here it is: 

Your question is very general but I can start the ball rolling by telling you about a short-distance tour I did over a couple of days last summer. Think is was about 350km in the end, on tarmac roads, over 2 1/2 days, staying in hotels overnight. Bike was a road bike, but was an audax bike rather than a racer. It had mudguards, a rack and I had SPD clipless pedals on it. These were good on the bike but also allowed me to walk when not on the bike. As a start point, I had it equipped with what I normally take out on every ride. This is basically a saddlebag containing mini toolkit, mini first aid kit, spare tube, CO2 gun and a couple of spare cartridges. Also the usual bidons, helmet, Garmin, mitts etc. etc. I took a single pannier. I bought the pannier especially with smallness in mind. Bear in mind I was able to do this because of the short duration of my trip. The pannier contained: 

It's unusual to have to replace cables every year, you'd expect several years of lifetime under any normal circumstances, even without maintenance. So it could be that you got a duff cable, or it could be that the bike is left in a particularly harsh environment, or it could just be that your memory is playing tricks. But whatever the reason, brake cables are pennies to replace. Get some decent ones now - you may as well replace your gear cables too if you have any - snd start keeping some kind of maintenance log just so you remove any doubt about when parts get replaced. (Some web sites will help here, for example.) And, when you do replace the brake cable, take a look online about what you can do yourself to maximise the lifetime of the new cable. It is mostly a case of lubrficating them in the right place, but this is something you don't have to worry about very often - things like your chain will demand far more frequent attention 

I suspect that the answer here would be to use some common sense. I'm not sure anyone would condone cyclists riding along the pavement/sidewalk - intersection or not. This is a risk to pedestrians, and generally gives cyclists a bad reputation. But, as a motorist, what are you going to do? Drive into them? I'm pretty sure that in most any jurisdiction, that would put you in the wrong. Even if you did so accidentally, when you had right of way, I'm pretty sure you'd find yourself in a position where you'd have to prove your innocence, rather than someone having to prove your guilt. Driving is a social activity in that, like it or not, we have to share the roads with other people. Try not to let the fact that some of those people (whether on 2- or 4-wheels) are idiots, ruin your day. 

This may not seem very concrete to you, but if you think about it, it is very powerful indeed. Imagine a collision between a car and a bike. With no such law in place you might expect there to be some argument about whose fault it was etc. etc. and as cyclists we all know from experience who's likely to come off worst... However you put such a law in place and when you have a collision, the motorist has broken the law by default because they couldn't have been the required distance. I'm sure there would be circumstances where the motorist could argue that the cyclist was riding like a dick, but they would be forced to make that argument, you wouldn't start from a 50/50 position. People have been talking about this kind of thing in the UK for years in order to make cycling safer, but nothing has ever been done. In fact I think this is the first form of words I've seen that achieves this goal.