Any context-free parser can be used. However "pure" CF grammars aren't practical for real applications. I'd recommend to use LFG or a similar tool that generates more useful underlying representations. 

You've correctly recognized that a predicate in syntax is not what's called predicate in formal logic. As has been mentioned above, appositives can be expressed as conjunctions in formal (first-order predicate) logic. In general, what's expressed by the logical predicate is the focus of a sentence whereas the argument is the topic. For example, "Melissa dormit" would be sleep(Melissa). But if you have "Dormit Melissa", you can't have Melissa(dormit), which is nonsense; formal logicians use lambda calculus to make Melissa a predicate: λf.f(Melissa). (I used a Latin example because it has free word order in order for both syntax trees to be identical.) Another possibility would be to use Davidsonian semantics which is very flexible and doesn't make you use lambda calculus. 

This book is good though quite old: The Meaning of the Sentence in its Semantic and Pragmatic Aspects Geert-Jan Kruijff gave a nice course at ESSLLI: DG, and you can google up his papers on DG. XDG is one of the best dependency formalisms: XDG 

There's a purely logical definition (given in the MIT Encyclopedia of cognitive science): If sentence s is uttered in context c, then p is a presupposition in s if c entails p. This definition is more or less identical with most linguistic definitions and is equal to that of Jerry Hobbs if "entails" is taken to mean "abductively proves". Rephrased less formally, presuppositions (topics) can be inferred from context (that is, they're predictable from previous discourse and/or shared background knowledge). The remainder of the sentence is focal ("preferred content" in the MIT Encyclopedia mentioned above). Informally it's often said that the focus of a sentence is what's being said about its topic. In formal logic, focus is then taken to be an "Aristotelian" predicate. The unmarked sentence John sings (John topical, sings focal) is formalized as sing(John), whereas JOHN sings (John focal, sings topical) would be λP.P(John)(sing). Discourse-configurational languages assign topic/focus structurally. Hungarian is said to be one (Kiss, who coined the term "discourse-configuratonal"), other examples include Russian (King) or Georgian (Meurer). This approach only accounts for nonemotive sentences since intonation can mix things up. In most languages word order is more or less iconic with respect to information structure. Aside from word order and intonation, some languages have morphological discourse markers. There are topic markers in Japanese and Korean, focus markers in Eastern Armenian and both in (many dialects of) Quechua, to name just a few. As for formal representation in frameworks, FGD uses an ordering on nodes in deep syntax trees to express information structure. In LFG, there's a separate i(nformation)-structure for discourse functions. In the abductive framework of Hobbs, there's no implicit formalization but whatever can't be inferred/proven is taken to be focal. 

Should events be classified as tangible or intangible? Maybe. If tangible ("concrete") and intangible ("abstract") nouns existed, their should be some linguistic test where the answer would separate words into these two categories. According to the introduction to a paper titled "Abstract and Concrete Sentences, Embodiment and Languages" ($URL$ 

did not change form despite going from the subject position in (1) to the direct object position in (2). Wikipedia has a great example of Japanese displaying the use of nominative case to clearly mark the subject of a verb. 

The nominative case refers to how the subject of a verb in a given language will change form simply by being the subject. Present day English does not change the forms of most nouns simply because they are the subject. For example, 

When linguistic tests are run on native speakers, the results are mixed within a language community (perhaps indicating that the categories are not really a part of the shared grammar of the linguistic community), vary across cultures and linguistic structures, and change depending on linguistic context ("an apple" vs. "to think about an apple"). The paper goes on to discuss and advance theories which attempt to correlate the huge variety in interpretation of tangible/intangible nouns to biological systems (e.g. brain functioning, the visual system, etc.). You have stumbled across an active area of research for some linguistics. If you are interested in responding to or implementing your own theories on the subject, I found googling "abstract" vs. "concrete" nouns to be a good starting point. 

there are many transliteration schemes. if you want to be scholarly, follow the Encyclopedia of Islam scheme. informally, I use H for your first example and h for the last. the middle one is not really an "h" sound, I usually go with "kh". 

your America friends are having fun with you. Nobody does this, unless they have hearing problems, the soundtrack is muddy, or they're in a noisy environment like a bar. native speakers of American English are just people, no different than native speakers of any lsnguage. as for spelling, it is complete irrelevant. native speakers never need guidance from written language to disambiguate, in any language. 

Yes: Arabic. This was analyzed in considerable detail very early in the Arabic tradition.. Whether some word counts as a verb or a noun is not due to any inherent or essential nature of the word, but to how it is used. And I'm not talking about homonyms etc. but about really the same word. The canonical examples are the so-called "verbal nouns" and "participles". These western terms are miscategorizations. E.g. "Zaydun Daaribu Amrin" v. "Zaydun Daaribun Amran". here the suffixes -u, -un, -in, -an are case endings. The former would normally be translated "Zayd (is the) striker of Amr" (noun); the latter, either that or "Zayd (is, or was, or will be) striking Amr" (verb). But it depends entirely on context; the best translation in either case could be either an English verb or a noun. Moral of the story: categories like "noun" and "verb" are neither universal nor scientific. They are Western cultural artifacts.