The outside panel isn't the only access for the controls, but the usual route has been flooded with sharks and lasers by an insane AI. 

The shield would probably be shaped like ferrofluid covering the ship with magnetic spikes. Check this amusingly narrated video that shows some detail features of ferrofluid spikes I've not seen elsewhere. The shield would not be a round "bubble" but would flow along the contours of your ship, especially along any sharp protruding edges: 

According to $URL$ at the end of the 10th century the spice trade deals primarily with pepper, cinnamon, ginger, and also galangal and clove. The link also lists: cardamom, cinnamon flower, cubeb, "grains of Paradise", mastic, nard, nutmeg and mace, [black] pepper, long pepper, saffron, sugar, sumac, spikenard introduced over the next few centuries. (Interesting to learn that many of these were medicines before they were spices…) 

The procession of Mercury fits some of your criteria (all but #4), in spirit if not to the letter. Each year as Mercury's orbit brings it to perihelion, it "locks" one face in day/summer. The next time Mercury comes in close it locks the other side making night/winter. The opposite faces of Mercury alternate in 3:2 resonance with Mercury's year, with a twilight ring that wraps up and down over the poles rather than around the equator. It wouldn't be a perfect twilight zone, each twilight face would see the sun at aphelion every other year. 

"Bounce back" is a relative term. Just restoring population numbers is a math problem, but this would be a completely new way of life for them. I'm going to say the recovery will be uneven to the maximum extreme once the moderating uber-force of the gods is removed. You will have some areas that recover almost immediately – perhaps under the guiding hand of one of your benevolent surviving gods. They may have a wounded (sleeping?) god, but the people still preserve the knowledge and lifestyle of the way they were before. These areas might even seal themselves off from the chaos by hiding their cities, forming secret societies, preserving knowledge in private libraries, etc. Other areas will never recover, possibly because a god was artificially maintaining a population there through magic – like a plantation where the slaves are not indigenous and have no desire to preserve their exploitation so the land reverts to swamp. Subsequently the way of life collapses and the people barely survive, if at all. The power vacuum means war lords will rise up and battle for dominance, perhaps modeling themselves after the old gods. Some people will follow them, others will rise against them. There will be massacres as factions try to claim the best resources. This might even kill more people than the gods war, assuming the gods were more about killing each other than laying waste to valuable "chattel" that they might claim for themselves. A comparable incident in history might be the Greek Dark Ages, which fits your war of the gods scenario, at least in legend. Archeology suggests a 100 year rapid collapse, followed by about 300 years of dark ages (all very rounded numbers obviously), then within a century a new culture is flourishing with an imported alphabet and an entirely new system of government. By that metric it's about 500 years total. 

The newspapers are full of the failures of human morality. You get the idea. But maybe most disturbing is recent brain research is starting to show men receive pleasure from seeing others get punished: 

It might help to recognize that Space Opera is more akin to action/adventure than science fiction. Heroes blast their way out of prison, villains become tyrants for the self-serving desire to have power, and politics resemble Greek tragedies: all about personal grievances and family bloodlines. Space Opera is a bit of a mash up of pop futurism and traditional storytelling. With Space Opera technology is just a story mechanic to service the plot. Consider one of the grandfathers of pulp sci-fi Flash Gordon. The science (if you can find it) is nonsense, but these are larger-than-life characters doing exciting things. It's not that the science is too lazy or "soft", it's actually irrelevant. Don't worry, you don't have time to think about what makes the hawkcycle go, you are too busy dodging death rays and being seduced by gorgeous amoral princesses. 

Similarly, whether an island is 200 miles away or 2 miles away makes a huge difference if your character must swim (or paddle a canoe) to get there, or if he must fly a bomber with only 300-mile range of fuel. Consider the 4 game worlds in these photos. How will the terrain effect game play? Does the terrain become harder in advanced levels? The main design rule for ALL games is to build the mechanics of gameplay first. Since your terrain is procedural there is no reason it should be randomly generated all at once before the game even starts, or based deterministically on real world geodata. You'd be putting resources into a dynamic game mechanic that the player cannot influence. Read up on the "communication cycle" and the "feedback loop" in games. The exact number of volcanoes should be a variable that evolves dynamically with your game, otherwise what is the point of procedural generation if the world is always more or less the same, just rearranged? Change your terrain in lock-step with the skill of your player. If the game is too easy, add more swamp to slow him down, etc. 

The idea that killing things makes them evolve is wrong. The cause-effect flaw in your premise is here: "If that happened enough times, over a long enough period, might monsters start breeding faster, in general, to keep their populations going…?" MUTATION, not genocide, is what makes a species change it's breeding habits. It would be pure coincedence that a happy mutation comes along just as your monsters were being driven to extinction, but fewer surviving adults means it's far less likely the mutation will find its way into the general population of your monsters. In the lab when scientists talk about "forcing" evolution in a petri dish, there are hundreds (if not thousands) of more experiments where the organisms simply die. Scientists are excited because they were able to observe one beneficial mutation under a controlled environment but that was just chance, and the reason they use viruses and bacteria is that new generations come in hours, not years. Mutations are happening all the time, but of course the vast majority are not beneficial to the individual, much less the species. Imagine a different environment, resources are scarce when the same mutation to breed faster happens. This causes physical stress on the mother who can't feed all the babies, competition among siblings who now compete for food and care, and leads to higher infant mortality and probably a shorter lifespan for the mother. In this situation, the same mutation is probably NOT a benefit to the species. 

Failing one answer meant failing the test. You had only 10 minutes to complete all 30 questions, and the first several minutes would be wasted attempting to make sense of intentionally serpentine sentences. In many cases there was no correct answer, or instructions may be interpreted several ways thus allowing the tester to arbitrarily declare the answer to be wrong. The test of course was never intended to actually discern literacy. It was just a pretext for voter suppression. People who were assumed to be "educated" (code for white) would not have been asked to take it. The test was a proxy pretext used to suppress African American votes during the Civil Rights era. The law claimed to serve a noble purpose that many people would agree with (literacy), while in practice served a gatekeeping agenda that many of the same people would not openly agree with (racism) but were happy to accept the outcome anyway. In the end, any system that works to remove voters from a democracy is a form of voter suppression and problematic. A recent SCOTUS decision has stated that gerrymandering by political party looks exactly like voter suppression by race. Each could be a proxy for the other. If I have to explain it: someone is trying to game the system to their advantage. There are no noble reasons to try to prevent part of your population from voting. They can't win unless they suppress votes. 

The downside is with no consistent world rules technology comes and goes as needed Deus ex machina to get characters from A to B, or to resolve impossible conflicts instantly. Star Trek is among the worst offenders for casually discovering or inventing a world-breaking technology on a weekly basis and just as quickly ignoring it. Technobabble is used not to inform the viewer but to talk over their heads. That isn't science fiction, it's just trying to awe with pseudo-intellectual wordsalad. Another unfortunate staple of Space Opera is reductively amplifying every conflict to an ancient battle of Good verses Evil (looking at you, Babylon5). I think this is more a case of reductio ad absurdum, or just bad writing. How old is this conflict? Since The Dawn of Time…, wait no, before that even… Why rely on dry technology infodumps to explain the setup if you can have a juicy prophecy with built-in foreshadowing to get the action moving? Also why develop characters with believable motives when you can just have space nazis? Most genre clichés probably have a grandfather that did it well, followed by hundreds of derivatives that did it to death. Supernatural magic is not necessary, but it's the corollary to Clark's Third Law "Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic." Only in this case it's actually magic but we'll say some technobabble so it sounds like advanced technology.