The turning point in the Hundred Years' war came about when France regained its self confidence, thanks in large part to Joan of Arc. France had a larger population, and fielded larger armies than England. French armies were outmaneuvered at famous battles like Crecy, Poitiers, and Agincourt. But except for the long bow, French armament was not inferior to the English, either. France basically had to avoid battles of maneuver, and fight battles hand to hand. Joan's victory at Orleans was a huge psychological victory, since Orleans was the gateway to the south. The battle was won because Joan led the required hand to hand fights, and then started others, including a march to hReims, the site of the coronation of French kings. Joan's ignorance was not necessarily a disadvantage; and the fact that she was a shepherd in the fields may have given her essential fighting qualities. What the French needed at the time was not a strategist, but a "brawler," think of Ulysees S. Grant whose fellow officers complained that he "drank too much whiskey." President Lincoln's answer was, "Find out which kind and send a barrel to all the other generals." Joan's "illiteracy" wasn't exactly a disadvantage when the French needed was a leader who could "dumb down" the war into one that the numerically superior French could fight "up close and personal." (The English won most of their victories by superior maneuvering in the open field.) A young shepherd named David won a duel against a prominent warrior named Goliath, and went on to lead his country in a successful war against Goliath's Philistines. 

"Spain was a powerful kingdom ruled by Ferdinand and Isabella (or their descendants) at that time." Charles V was one of those descendants. Specifically, his mother, Juana of Castile was the daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella, while he inherited Austria, the Holy Roman Empire, and the Netherlands from his father and the father's parents. And Charles V controlled essentially ALL of Spain, excluding Portugal and Navarre. 

The importance of Japan grew in relation to the China trade. The importance of the latter grew after China lost the Opium War in 1840-42, and was forced to open a number of treaty ports to European countries. Two countries in particular had an interest in Japan: America, and Russia. That's because Japan represented a "way station" to China for those two countries. For example, the distance between San Francisco (newly founded in the 1840s) and Tokyo is 5100 miles; from there to Beijing is 1300 miles. Similarly, Japan stood astride communication lines between Vladivostok and the Chinese coast. A hostile Japan could deny either country, particularly Russia, access to the Chinese coast; a friendly Japan could guarantee access. 

After the Stamp Tax in 1765, the 13 colonies set up "committees of correspondence," whereby leading members of one colony commiserated with leading members of other colonies about British (mis) rule. These leaders later formed a "Continental Congress." As a result, the 13 colonies developed a certain common "consciousness." When a few of them (e.g. Massachusetts) rebelled, they all did. The Declaration of Independence refers to "the Representatives of the United States of America in General Congress." "Canada" was not part of this "bonding" process. Instead, it was invaded by "Americans" and called to join the common rebellion against the mother country. But in fact, a lot of the measures that Britain had taken against "Americans" in the previous decade were actually meant to protect "Canadians," who were much less dissatisfied with British rule. So unlike say, Georgia and Massachusetts, "Canadians" didn't look on "Americans" as fellow colonists, but rather as "other" invaders who spoke English. (And France had not yet allied with America, so there was no incentive for French speakers to support the "Americans." In the end, the choice for the Canadians probably boiled down to "better the devil we know that the one we don't know." 

"Coffee houses" were social meeting places where people of the same trade or profession would often meet. Some of these coffee houses (and similar places such as pubs and clubs) were places where writers would meet. Samuel Johnson, being a leading writer, would be a leading light of such a circle, and other writers would want to go to the places he frequented to meet him. Perhaps the most famous example of such a coffeehouse was Lloyd's of London, founded by one Edward Lloyd, where all the "underwriters' (insurers) met, to do business with each other. The result was the world's most famous insurance syndicate, named after the place where they (and their successors) first did business. 

The reasons may have been political, thereby resulting in the countries "fragmentation". After the Romans conquered Illyria in the second century BCE, they subdivided the province into two shortly after the birth of Christ because of revolts in the area. After the fall of Rome, Illyria fell under the successive jurisdiction of Roman Catholic popes, and Byzantine rulers. These back-and-forths appear to have diluted "Illyrian" culture. A similar story took place with Thrace, with was also repeatedly subdivided, particularly in the Middle Ages, into Turkish, Bulgarian, and Greek spheres. This kind of subdivision prevented the development, or at least the appearance of, a coherent "Thracian" culture. So why are they not studied as much as other Balkan cultures? Because there is less available to study (in one piece), particularly because these cultures weren't good at keeping records to begin with. 

The French Resistance (and other resistances) killed civilians who were viewed as "collaborators." They were out to weaken the civil structure of German rule, as well as military targets. "Resistance" brought about bitter civil wars in German-occupied countries between pro- and anti- German groups that hated each other even more than they were against (or for) the Germans. This was particularly true in the former Yugoslavia, but true enough in France. After the war, collaborators were (mostly) tried and executed if found guilty, rather than "murdered," since the Resistance then had the law on their side. 

President Salvador Allende of Chile was a Marxist who was democratically elected in a three way race in 1970. He instituted economic policies that were left wing, but from a human rights point of view, he was "more sinned against than sinning." He was overthrown in a military coup d'etat in 1973, which caused him to commit suicide. THAT was a crime against humanity. 

The civil service exam was the main route to upward mobility in China. Anyone who "passed" it who be a candidate for official posts in China. There were several levels, and the higher the level of the pass, the higher the level of eligibility. A person who had passed an exam and held no post was ranked higher socially than a person who had not passed an exam, and held a good post in "private" life, because the first person was eligible to be an official, and the second person wasn't. In parts of Europe, for instance, an academic is held in higher esteem than a businessman, even if the latter is richer. One such exam passer at the highest level was this man, who happens to be my father's maternal uncle: $URL$ A person who didn't pass a civil service exam would revert to his original status, peasant, laborer, merchant, or member of the gentry. For people at the bottom, passing an exam was basically an "all or nothing" proposition, because there were few other avenues of advancement in China. 

I don't have statistics on "absolute" frequency for any time period, but maybe I can answer for "relative" frequency. According to this article, there were three degrees or classes of torture: 1) striking methods, such as whipping or beating that caused a lot of pain but did not necessarily threaten the anatomy, 2) crunching method such as racks and thumbscrews, and 3) anatomy-altering methods, especially those involving heat. They are listed in descending order of frequency, because they required progressively more skill on the part of the torturer. Beating or whipping was "easy," most people know how to do that, meaning that such methods were the most used. "Heating" methods required the most skill and were therefore the most infrequent because the heat had to be carefully controlled to cause a maximum of pain, without actually causing the victim to die or become unconscious. 

A reason may have been that they could not have been protected by conventional diplomatic means, given the power vacuums that existed in these remote areas. Another reason was that the Russian-American Company was given the task of exploring and colonizing the lands that it was developing economically. 

Shells, bones, etc. worked as currency because they were "hard," and durable, and because (small groups of) people could come to an agreement on their value. The same was true of more "advanced" currency based on coins of metals such as copper, silver, or gold. Thus, they functioned as a store of (monetary) value. 

A lot has to do with the successor states that were spawned by the respective countries. Rome spawned a number of successor states in western Europe (albeit a millennium later) that created the printing press, and one of the offshoots of these western European states was America, which created the Internet. The Sumerians may have been among the first to create writing in clay and parchment, but later versions of the Persian empire (e.g. Iran) were not nearly as successful at creating means of communications to tell their story as Europe and America. It's possible that Persian (or Indian or Chinese) historians have a story to tell that is lost in antiquity, because these countries obtained the printing press much later than the Europeans, and failed to create the equivalent of e.g. "The Cambridge History of Europe." But it remains a truism that "history is written by the victors." 

The "Nazi" Party STARTED OUT as the National Socialist German Workers Party, with a left-leaning, socialist bent. That is, until it enrolled "Member Number 7," aka Adolf Hitler, who had other ideas. A World War I veteran, Hitler figured out the the "Dolchstoss" legend, the idea that Germany had been winning World War I until it was "stabbed in the back" by Hitler's enemies, plus re-armament/revanche, was more appealing to most German people than the idea of a "worker's paradise. This was particularly true of the right wing, where Hitler drew most of his financial support. In fact, the Nazi party at one time had two wings, a nationalist wing under Hitler and a socialist wing under Gregor Strasser, who considered himself a personal friend of Hitler's. That is, until Hitler took over the party, and later murdered his "friend" Strasser during the "Night of the Long Knives." 

In 1942, America's General Eisenhower summed up his gloomy assessment of an invasion of Nazi-held Europe in the "reverse" direction as 50-50 to get one division ashore, and one chance in five (20 per cent) to maintain a five division bridgehead. While this may have been a "guess," it certainly qualified as an "expert" opinion. I'm going to assume that the German naval and air forces would play their roles as described below. The German navy feared that it could get only "so many" men across the English Channel before losing every ship. Then the air force would have to re-supply and reinforce the landed men (in the manner of Crete) before the Germans could finally accumulate enough men to overwhelm the British army and occupy the British Isles: What did either contemporary German or British strategists or planners, or recognized historians in hindsight, have to say about any of the following questions: 

The standard for the Middle Ages was "ducat", fineness or .986 pure. This was adopted in Venice in the 13th century, and by then Holy Roman Emperor Maximilian in 1511. The Red zloty or "Polish ducat" was produced beginning in 1526. The "ducats" could be of either gold or silver. In Poland, however, only gold coins "red zlotys" were treated as ducats. The silver Grosz was debased over time. 

It's a difference of emphasis and philosophy. Both Japan and China have officially incorporated the western New Year into their calendars. The Chinese philosophy regarding such matters, however, was "Zhong xue wei ti, xi xue wei yong." (Chinese learning for the core, western learning for use.") Hence, China pays "lip service" to western practices, and goes its own way. On the other hand, the Japanese ethos at the time of the Meiji emperor (the time the decision was made) was "West is best." 

There was a military school in Japan for Chinese students called the Tokyo Shinbu Gakko. It was established early in the 20th century and run by the Japanese Army under the auspices of the "Pan Asian" Faction of the Japanese government. One of its most famous graduates was Chiang Kai Shek, who later led the anti-Japanese resistance. But some other graduates became pro-Japanese collaborators during World War II, so the effort was not entirely wasted. Japan at the time wanted to "dominate" China, but not necessarily "conquer" China. Some in Japan thought that the best way was to cultivate future Chinese leaders that would be sympathetic to Japan. Even during World War II, Japan tried to work with local leaders in parts of Southeast Asia, with varying success; before and during World War I, that policy was also pursued with regards to China. In the first decade or two of the 20th century, Japan's most feared enemy was Russia. Cultivating Chinese (and other Asian) leaders was seen as creating a counterweight to this enemy. A large part of this payoff was received in the form of Chinese logistical support during the Russo-Japanese War of 1904-05. 

Originally, there were seven electors of the Holy Roman Emperor, three ecclesiastical, and four temporal. These were called "prince-electors," and were the highest ranking dignitaries of the Holy Roman Empire other than the Emperor himself. The three ecclesiastical electors were the archbishops of Mainz, Trier, and Cologne. The four temporal electors were the heads of state of Bohemia, Brandenburg, Saxony, and the Palatinate. Of those, only the head of Bohemia was a "king," making Bohemia a kingdom. The head of Palatinate was a Count, of Brandenburg was a Margrave, and of Saxony was a Duke. Much later, the heads of Brandenburg and Saxony also called themselves "kings." That is, the Elector of Brandenburg became "king of Prussia" after that domain merged with Prussia, while the Elector of Saxony also became King of Poland in a "personal union." But there were no "second" kingdoms totally within the Holy Roman Empire itself. And in the 17th century, Bohemia became part of the Austro-Hungarian empire, part of which was not in the Holy Roman Empire. 

Napoleon was crowned Emperor under the auspices of the Pope (Pius VII) in 1804, about 1000 years after Charlemagne. (Actually, he placed the crown on his own head after the Pope spoke his piece.) But he wanted, and got, the legitimacy of the Catholic Church behind him. 

In September, 1940, Britain traded a number of its New World naval base sites for 50 "overaged' (old) destroyers in the so-called "Destroyer Deal." That doesn't seem like a large number of destroyers, except that it was "large" relative to the existing British destroyer fleet. Why did Britain have so few destroyers, even after its World War I experience with submarine warfare that they needed to trade for old ones? 

Britain taxed the American colonies to help pay for the French and Indian War. Together with the taxes, Britain placed restrictions on their colonists crossing the Appalachian Mountains (to pacify certain Indian allies like the Iroquois. The colonies felt that they had done Britain a favor by fighting on the front lines. They felt that they should have been rewarded, with greater settlement rights in the newly conquered territories, and fewer trade restrictions. Instead, the colonists felt that they were being "punished." Hence the cry of "no taxation without representation." The real issue was not one of taxation, but rather privilege, and ultimately of "equality" with Britain--through independence. 

Basically, Brazilian Italians intermarried more. For two reasons. The first is social status. In the United States (of the late 19th and early 20th centuries), Italians were in the middle to bottom of "white" people. With the key exception of the Irish, they didn't intermarry much with northern Europeans (the majority of the U.S. population). In Brazil, Italians were as high socially as any ethnic group, and could intermarry with any group they chose to. In Argentina, their status vis-a-vis the Spanish was intermediate between their status compared to Portuguese Brazilians and northern European Americans. The second (and ironic) reason is the fewer Italians (initially) emigrated to Brazil than to either the U.S. or Argentina, both in absolute numbers, and relative to the local population. If a group falls below a "critical mass" in numbers, it will more likely intermarry, than marry within its own group. For instance, a referendum showed that there were twice as many Italian citizens living in Argentina than in Brazil. even though Brazil now has more people of (partial) Italian descent. That suggests a greater "purity" of the Italian heritage and lower rate of intermarriage in the former. 

An "éphémère" is something that was "ephemeral," and disappeared quickly or early. France's "American" colonies fall into this category. These had only 80,000 settlers in 1750, even after 100 years of haphazard "colonization," which is one reason why the French lost the French and Indian War (the 13 colonies had 1.6 million settlers). A "comptoir" is something that you can "count on" for a somewhat longer time. They were, as you put it, overseas trading posts that were highly organized for two way trade. France regarded its African (and few Asian) colonies in that category. These were (mostly) the recipient of decent-sized infusions of French settlers, not just a few "wanderers" as in the case of the American colonies. For instance, France wrested Vietnam from China using 20,000 soldiers.