Assuming an active lifestyle, you need to start with knowing how many calories you need to maintain your weight. The easiest way to do that is to maintain a food diary. Record everything you eat and drink. The simple act of recording your caloric intake will remove all guess work. Once you've established how many calories you need to maintain, simply cut back (while maintaining the same activity level, or, increased activity level) on your daily calories. This method is not perfect, but, it is better than guessing at what to do. I'd also watch my intake of "Subway" as others have noted. 

Congrats on deciding to take control of your health and fitness. If this is your first foray into training, you may wish to consider bodyweight exercises first. There's relatively little cost and your chance of injury is minimal, but, not zero. If you'd still like to purchase a home gym, you should research each machine you're interested in before making a purchase. Knowing that you want to concentrate on back, biceps and triceps, examine the machine(s) to determine how and if they can help you achieve that goal. For example, how many exercise movements can you perform om the machine for a particular body part? Do some research on the types of resistance they use. Some are plate loaded, while others use bands, or, hydraulics. Some people claim they get a better training effect from using plates. While others like bands. If you can, try out the machine before purchasing. Then, measure the space where you will use the machine. Will it fit? Is the space accessible for installing a machine? These are some of the questions to consider before spending your money. 

There's nothing wrong with performing biceps concentration curls in the manner you describe as long as you do them in a controlled manner. There's actually no correlation between the style of the curls you perform and whether you get “stronger biceps faster”. Stick with what works for you. And, biceps concentration curls are typically done as a “finishing” (does not mean at the end of your routine) exercise in order to improve the peak of the biceps (think of the peak on Arnold Schwarzenegger's upper arms). 

What you’ve described is not an average training routine in my opinion. You’ve got a pretty heavy workload if you consider holding a job as well. You make no mention of the amount of weight, sets, or reps that you perform, so, I’ll assume from your description of not trying to build muscle, that those numbers are sufficiently low. Effectively, you’re asking if you run the risk of overtraining. While there are telltale signs of overtraining, you can ensure that does not happen by eating a nutritious diet and getting plenty of sleep. So, to answer your question, only you can decide if your workload is too much. Since we all handle exercise stress differently, you’ll need to make sure you monitor yourself for the signs of overtraining. And, I would suggest you take a break from training every six to eight weeks. If for nothing else, just to enjoy life and not make fitness training a “job”. 

If I were you, I would keep a food journal. It's free and you can record every aspect of your nutritional intake including protein, carbs, fats, calories etc. All that is required is that you read food labels and/or buy a calorie counter. Knowing what you're currently consuming will allow you to plan much better than guessing. 

Whatever you decide to do should be dependent upon your training goals (eg. Training for a competition or race, etc.). Missing a training day is not the end of the world as long as it does not become a habit. Life happens, and, sometimes it impacts your training. Often, this results in “training guilt” especially if you’re a person that regularly trains. You might feel uneasy/guilty about missing a session when, in fact, a short training break may be just what you need. So, take a look back at your recent training history, and, see if you’ve been pretty strict about it. If so, I would just skip the workout and perform some light training on your trip. Then, pick up your training when you return. 

This is a WAG, but, if I were you, I'd pay close attention to your symptoms. What you describe may be the onset of Piriformis syndrome which is common in runners. I would include a piriformis stretch in your routine if you are not already doing it. 

What you’re describing is Exercise Adaptation, or, “training plateau”. It’s a common response to exercise stress. From the National Academy of Sports… 

It’s important when you are prioritizing body parts to continue working supporting musculature. If you don’t, you run the risk of creating an imbalance. In your case, that might mean working the deltoids and upper chest, as well as, the trapezius. One of the better exercises, in my opinion, for pectorals is the dumbbell pullover. It’s a somewhat forgotten exercise that works lots of supporting muscles. I’d also recommend an incline movement like incline dumbbell press which work the pecs and the clavicular head. Lastly, you should consider working all three heads of the deltoids to balance out your upper body. Something like the Front Raise should help the Anterior head. 

Since these studies were relatively short with a small control group, more research is needed. But, the general consensus is that static stretching is best when performed at the end of your training session. 

School of Human Biology, University of Guelph, ON, Canada However, while caffeine may affect your mood and outlook, it will not affect whether your training routine “sucks”. That’s simply something you need to resolve on your own. And, as for its use in bodybuilding, there are other lesser known uses. In the 1990s, it was not unusual for bodybuilders to use caffeine with ephedra and an aspirin (ECA stack) to boost weight loss during preparation for competition. Since then, however, those supplements have been banned as reports showed they were implicated in heart attacks, stroke and death. I do not recommend this as a weight loss regimen. As for its usefulness in bodybuilding, you’ll need to assess whether it helps you train on those days when you can’t seem to get a good workout. But, rather than relying on caffeine as a training aid, you’d be better served to make sure you are eating properly, resting adequately, and recovering effectively. 

And, while there doesn't seem to be a specific recommendation for types of exercise or duration, the key point is to do some form of exercise that will induce a release of endorphins. In some people, exercise provides short term relief from stress, while in others, it has not effect at all. Either way, exercising has more long term benefits than just stress relief and should be a part of any healthy lifestyle. 

As a former competitive bodybuilder, I can tell you that there is no one recipe for gaining mass. My "pros" and "cons" for a routine would not be the same for you. That's because everyone is an individual. It's all about forcing your muscles to overcome their desire to adapt to workload. One sure way to help that is to change up your training routine as you've proposed. That may mean switching the order of body parts, days, etc. In the "old" days, we would switch up the routine every 6 to 8 weeks in order to not become "stale". As there are with diets, there are many "fad" training routines. Pick the one(s) that work for you and make small adjustments. Just be mindful of getting proper nutrition and rest. 

If it is a Baker’s cyst, then, stretching the hamstrings may cause some painful discomfort in the popliteus muscle. 

I would tend to agree with the advice given by your PT to concentrate on stationary bike. While it does primarily work the quads, you do get some hamstring work. However, if you feel that you can safely perform body weight movements, you should consider using a resistance band. Using one will allow you to perform Lying Hamstring Curls. Additionally, if you have access to a stability ball, you can perform Stability Ball Leg Curls. Using resistance bands and/or a stability ball should provide you with the ability to perform isolation movements at home. I would suggest you check with the PT to make sure you should be doing additional work on your own. Details: Lying Hamstring Curls can be performed by securing a resistance band to the bottom of a door or similar stationary object. Then, attach the band to the ankles, lay flat on the floor at a distance away from the door that provides sufficient band resistance. Then, perform a leg curl. Stability Ball Curls are performed by placing the heels of your feet on top of a stability ball and drawing them towards the glutes while extending the hips upward. 

Building any body part to its full potential without abusing steroids is hard work. Unless you’re genetically gifted, you’ve got to be willing to work at it for a long time. Unlike a steroid abuser, a natural training athlete must optimize all aspects of diet, training, sleep, and nutrition. And, let’s not forget genetics, a factor you have no control over. Having said that, if you train consistently, and, with a reachable goal, you should be able to build the body that you want. You may not achieve "3D deltoids", but, you can certainly improve upon what you have by using exercises that provide a progressive overload to your deltoids, and, target all three heads of the muscle (anterior, lateral, and posterior). For example, 

Weight training injuries tend to occur due to muscular overuse. Having said that, there are some exercises that should be contraindicated for some people. In your example, the behind the neck press has certainly been indicated as a potential injury maker. I think the key to your question is the phrase 

The first thing to realize is that whatever you decide to do, it will not be the same as CrossFit. That does not, however, mean you can't get in a good workout. In addition to some of the recommendations in the links you posted, I would look to purchase some resistance bands. They're relatively inexpensive, easy to travel with, and can offer a variety of exercises to train various body parts. In addition, don't overlook common everyday items that can be utilized in body weight exercises. For example, stairs. With a set of stairs you can do push ups, step ups, and triceps dips. There's also “packable workout gear” that can provide resistance work. Lastly, you might want to consider Isometric Exercises that do not require any equipment. 

While genetics does play a part in how your muscles develop, it is not the only factor. You may not achieve the exact features you're looking for, but, there's nothing stopping you from building a better looking chest. The first thing to remember is never let anyone tell you you can't improve a particular body part. You'll never know unless you try. As a former competitive body builder, I often looked for exercises that would add that finishing touch to my chest before competition. More often than not, this would mean adding isolation movements to my competition routine. This often meant using the pec deck, or, doing dumbbell flyes. In fact, a 2012 study funded by the American Council on Exercise found that the peck deck was nearly as effective as the bench press in activating the pectoralis major, one of the major muscle groups in the chest and in the picture you show.