All the above is from a BBC special on David Rudisha, the world record holder in the 800 meters. (By the way, this is not to disparage the Kenyans. There is a lot to be said for their training, and them often purposely avoiding a great deal of technology.) But let's run with it and say e.g. the top 100 cyclists have a better average VO2 max than the top 100 marathoners. Well, we have one potential reason covered already- the old business phrase of "you get what you measure." Cyclists focus on the number more, they're in the lab more, thus they get better values. It often gets forgotten VO2 max does not correlate too well with running performance. Many runners don't worry about it much. This is most pronounced at the elite level. This is why Lance, only a year removed from winning the Tour, with that high VO2 max, described running a marathon as the hardest event he's ever done.         Bodysize With VO2 max, we typically are talking relative measures. That is, we get a VO2 value, then we divide by bodyweight for normalization. Otherwise, it's simple: bigger body => bigger VO2 max (provided everything else is the same). Because bigger body => more muscle => more oxygen flowing. However, normalization doesn't quite do the trick. Muscle strength correlates well with cross sectional area. Body mass correlates well with body volume. 

(This is especially true if depth is kept constant. Notice how the right image is not squatting as deep. If you squat the same depth and allow more trunk flexion, you get the trunk even closer to the knees.) Well, just like not everybody can do a split, not everybody can bend their hips the same For example, if a person has a deep hip socket, the head of thigh bone will hit the hip bone sooner:                       This is one version of femoral acetabular impingement (FAI). If someone is getting pain in the front of the hip while squatting, such as a pinching, this is typically the cause. Often, they are running out of room. The bones are colliding. Conversely, shallow hip sockets means it's easier to squat deeper / bend your hips. Ballet dancers are notorious for shallow hip sockets. But...more mobility isn't always a good thing! Ballet dancers are notorious for hip dysplasia. Or think about someone with chronic shoulder dislocations. When the joint isn't as snug in the socket, it's more mobile. There is even more to consider. The more upright squat necessitates more ankle flexibility as well.                                                    

Credit. Therefore, a cell can't get the required nutrition after a certain point. It's like an animal getting bigger and bigger, without increasing the size of their mouth. At some point, they can't get enough food in anymore, putting a limit on their size. A natural position then is "So what? We can just make more cells rather than making our current ones larger." This is the difference between hypertrophy (current cells bigger) and hyperplasia (new cells). This has been debated for a long time, but last I checked no significant (skeletal muscle) hyperplasia has been found in, for lack of a better term, regular humans. 

In the first two exercises we work the pecs and lats (amongst other muscles). In the third mobility exercise, we loosen up those muscles. I typically either go this route of work an area, then loosen that area, or I break it up by body section. Where we work the upper body, then loosen up the lower body. In another part of the workout or another day, we'd work the lower body but loosen up the upper body. Most people's time between sets is either sitting down, looking at their phone, or walking around. Doing some mobility work is more productive, and not likely to take away from the lifts. We can also add some more work for that bum shoulder. (Because we're in the middle of the workout here, this is still primarily dynamic type mobility / flexibility work.)           Core work is towards the end It's commonly thrown out that 80% of people will experience lower back pain at some stage. The core can be part of this. But it's not usually core strength which is lacking. It is typically more a person's ability to use their core for long durations of time, or while fatigued. For instance, have someone do a plank, and it's going to be easier for their core to hold their back in neutral at the beginning of the workout than at the end. In this case, we actually want to feed into that fatigue. Translating that during the day, if a person has trouble with anterior pelvic tilt, they can typically hold themselves in neutral if they think about it. The tough part though is being able to do that for hours at a time. (This is just one example. Low back pain is rarely this simple.)           Cool down doesn't have to be cardio based People's most favorite time of yoga is the end. They often lay down on their back, work on breathing, and listen to some Enya. I like to do a version of this. I use these two exercises: Hip Rocking: $URL$ Belly Breathing w/Arms Up: $URL$ The theme of the cool down is relaxation. Think of it like a movie. If a movie is good 90% through, but the ending sucks, that influences disproportionately how one feels about the entire movie. Endings matter. By making the end of the workout as relaxed as we can, we can change how one feels about what preceded it. More details in Making your (memory of your) workout more enjoyable. Getting on a treadmill in a gym, where it's typically loud, busy if not zoo like, isn't the best. Hey, if you workout at home and can do a cool down by yourself on your treadmill, or out in your backyard with trees, then alright. But I usually put people in a corner or the aerobics room where it's quietest and have them stretch the thing most commonly tight- the low back, and work on some deep breaths into the stomach.           Summing up The bolded above are a solid order: 

Found. Original Source.                                                       Found. So, the higher your foot is off the ground, the more easily it can roll over to sprain. A shoe with a big heel lift provides room for the ankle to sprain: 

This is also why olympic weightlifters will wear shoes with big heel lifts. By elevating the heel relative to the toes, you plantarflex the ankle. Thus, you now have more room to dorsiflex before hitting your terminal ankle range of motion. Just like the hips, try to dorsiflex the ankles too much, and you'll start feeling a blocking or pinching, from the bones banging into one another. However, the hips tend to be the primary concern when addressing "correct" squatting. Here's more info on how they can vary person to person: