As a counter to @stali's answer, it is possible to have hot springs without volcanism or normal faulting - although these two scenarios do cover the most well known examples. Hot Springs, Arkansas exists because of the local geological structures (folding rather than faulting) that bring ground water up to the surface from deep in the Earth relatively quickly. Also radiogenic rocks (eg. granites) can increase the thermal gradient, making this scenario more likely. Eg. the UK's "hot springs". Okay they're not that hot, but shallow boreholes found 60C water at Buxton (and nicely radioactive); and hot water in a Lafarge mine/quarry in Weardale (?). The last I heard, there were plans to turn the latter into a spa... 

Conduction probably is the main method in the crust, but do not underestimate fluid convection. Every time you find a hot spring, then that is an example of fluid convection. Even volcanic eruptions could be considered convection. Possibly even larger than these too, there is vigorous convection of seawater through young ocean crust. This can be seen on Figure 10 of Muller eta al Digital Models of the World's Ocean Crust. This plots depth vs age of ocean curve. The "TBL" line approximates the curve that is expected for conductive cooling of the Earth's crust. Reality (the bars) are rather different. Although most of this cooling is in young rock, the accumulative effect shows in the older crust. (this plot is trying to demonstrate something else, but I couldn't find a good example of this classic graph that implied this convection must exist long before Black Smokers were ever discovered) 

The age of 4.55Ga for the Earth is actually a date of "hard stuff" based on Iron-Nickel meteorites, dated using radio-isotope dating. If you had enough meteorite samples it should be possible to identify those with isotopes that imply a different age. For example, when plotted, their Pb isotope ratios will have different gradients. We do not see this. 

In addition to @casey's answer regarding the conditions (which undoubtedly is the main answer), don't forget the issues of size and sampling. In the US, the tornadoes can be large and destructive. Therefore US authorities and citizens are very interested in tracking and reporting them. You also have good communication. In other words you get much higher reporting rates (unlike say the Asian steppes or Africa where communication and/or population is relatively sparse) Also compare to the UK which gets more tornadoes by square kilometer than the US (NOAA URL)! So why don't we think of the UK as the Tornado Islands? Well first, they tend to be quite small, they are usually in relatively remote areas, and UK citizens & authorities are not looking intently for them (they're not a significant risk). On the other-hand, I've lived in the UK for about 25 years including a fair amount of fell walking and have never knowingly seen or been near a UK tornado. I've lived in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex over 10 years now, have heard the sirens many times, and although I didn't see it I have been within a block's distance of a destructive tornado once (luckily it wasn't on the ground at that point!). 

The definition I've seen before is one of context. You know where a rock came from - eg. you may have recorded it in your field notebook. A stone has an unknown origin - eg. stones on the road, in a river, etc. As such, I guess most glacial erratics are technically stones rather than rocks :-) 

I agree with Speissburger that PostGIS (an extension of Postgre) has excellent Geospatial support. In the open source world, this would also be my recommendation. (MySQL claims to have some geospatial support but it is very limited in capabilities) For completeness, Microsoft's SQL Server also has good geospatial support - I think it was introduced as an extension to SQL Server 2008, and then standard after that. I have heard that Oracle also has good geospatial support, although I have never use it. 

The classic Troodos Ophiolite in Cyprus has been uplifted by a 'serpentinization event'. Upper mantle (peridotite) has been serpentinized creating a buoyant diapir. This has uplifted the ocean crust sufficiently for it to be thrust over continental crust (underlying continental crust has been inferred from gravitational surveys). The last sentence of the abstract of "Tertiary uplift history of the Troodos massif, Cyprus", AHF Robertson says: 

So wind is caused by differences in atmospheric pressure which in turn is a result of temperature induced density differences. 1. Required temperature diference: A quick search brought up this paper: Miller et al. 2003 SEA BREEZE: STRUCTURE, FORECASTING, AND IMPACTS $URL$ They calculate that a 10 degree difference between land and sea over 20km results in an accelaration of 7.2*10E-3 m/s. Now, this is an estimate. There are many more variables that will affect the complex fluid dynamics of the system. 2. Wind Intensity vs dT. Absolutely if you increase the temperature gradient (difference) the wind speed will be higher. from the paper they mention the sea breeze of Alcoa Bay, South Africa, where the strongest sea breeze occurs in areas with nearby dune fields: 

3. Wind Intensity vs dT/dt Now this is where it gets complicated. So thinking of this in a mathematical sense, the rate of increase in temperature is not going to matter that much because when calculating the wind speed at a given time what matters most is the absolute temperature difference between land and sea. For a temperature difference to occur the rate of temp change has to be fairly rapid as the system is always trying to reach equilibrium (i.e. remove the temp difference). So naturally if you have a parcel of air, it will reach a higher temperature if the heating is fast vs slow. If it reaches a higher temperature then it will result in a greater wind velocity. But if you wanted to make a more complex model of the system then you would need to look into the rate of change of change in Temp. 

Water molecules do interact with microwaves and in microwave ovens that operate at 900MHZ- 2.5GHz. This Radar instrument operates using Very High Freq Radio Waves at 193MHz [1]. At lower-than-microwave frequencies, the loss factor is much lower, and as a result the wave can penetrate deeper into the ice sheet with minimal absorption. The difference in permittivities between liquid water and solid ice is what allows them to visualise boundaries and identify the subglacial lakes From Nasa [2] 

The red line or piezometric line is the level to which the water wants to rise - if it were allowed to reach hydrostatic equilibrium. Artesian conditions are anywhere where a confined aquifer sits below the hydraulic head level (the level to which the water wants to rise). In this case the water is confined and cannot reach the water table even though it wants to - this means it is not at hydrostatic equilibrium. This aquifer is described as having a confining pressure or hydrostatic head. If you put a well into anywhere along this confined aquifer, the water will rise out of the aquifer to the level of red line. I think in your case its a bit confusing as the piezometric line sitting above the whole of the confined aquifer suggests the whole area is artesian but the 'flowing' conditions are only where the piezometric line sits above the actual surface, meaning the water will actually rise above the surface. Another example is that if you were to dig a well, to the left or right of the highlighted area, the water would rise to that level but would still be below the surface so conditions wouldn't be described as 'flowing'. ($URL$ 

In the figure: The top panel is the radar gram measured in depth below ice surface (m). It is flat because when you do the measurement it starts from the surface which is 0m. The distance from the aircraft to the surface would have been relatively constant but the plot starts from the air-ice boundary at 0m. The middle panel is a cross section measured in m above sea level showing the ice surface and bedrock (black), the hydraulic head (blue) relative to sea level. The hydraulic head is calculated by working out the pressure of the ice sitting on top of the bedrock. It is basically the water table of the ice sheet. Whats important is the differences in hydraulic head (gradient) which can tell you if the water is moving or not. The bottom panel is the reflectivity (black) and specularity (blue) of the basal surface. Specularity is a ratio of reflected to scattered energy. Simply put, high reflectivity means the boundary is wet and high specularity means the boundary is flat (Ice-Water), and low specularity means its rough (Ice Rock). 

A relative of mine has recently introduced me to the modern flat earth theory, which she believes in. Setting aside for the moment that it is ridiculous, and that sending up some balloons with cameras on would provide evidence to the contrary, how could one evidence that it is in fact spherical from ground based observation? I immediately thought about citing the observations of Aristotle and measurements of Eratosthenes, something that one can do themselves, but of course they have an answer for that regarding curving light to explain variation of the sun's elevation with latitude. Also refraction backed up by observations of ships on the horizon appearing to be above the horizon (due to refraction) and so light-based observations of a curved body of water are out. To make it even harder, the belief has been adjusted to allow for a flat earth that curves slightly but is not spherical, so objects gradually disappearing over the horizon aren't proof and neither is observing the curvature from a plane! For every argument there is a counter argument, and I, as a layman, don't know how to prove e.g. that the light isn't curving as described. Without getting into countering non-scientific flaws such as the massive amount of government-level collusion that would be needed to maintain this conspiracy, how might one go about demonstrating it or designing a practical experiment for which the conclusion cannot be refuted. Is this even possible when someone can claim e.g. light curving through the atmosphere in a particular way, without having to back it up? I'm not familiar enough with scientific theory to know how one establishes certainty, or if it is based on a balance of probability (i.e. more proof of one theory than of the contrary). Note: This is a thought exercise only, I do not expect to actually convince my relative while she is going through a personal crisis for which this is one of many symptoms, that is a separate issue. She holds a degree in aeronautical engineering so it isn't caused by a lack of intelligence. 

The earth's shadow cast on the moon during an eclipse. It is easy to observe and the flat earth counter argument is so insane that if it is offered you should just walk away. Shadows differ from place to place. The same experiment as Eratosthenes but you can carry this out locally with a piece of large card, 2 obelisks and a light source casting a shadow. Now bend the card and observe the change in shadows. The same effect could then be observed on the earth's surface. The counter argument of curved rays of light is weakened by the fact you can reproduce it locally. triple-right triangle: You move in a straight line for a long enough distance Turn right 90° degrees, walk in that same direction for the same distance Turn again to the right 90° degrees and walk again the same distance After this you'll end up at the starting point. This is not possible on a flat surface since you'd just be "drawing" a half-finished square. Not sure how practical this is as you'd have to walk a long way! Although not technically about the earth being flat, in a flat earth theory the sun orbits, or at least moves over the earth. A simple way to discount this is observing parallax with surrounding stars. It is not too difficult to prove the earth curves at least, such as by observing more objects over the horizon the further you go up. And even measuring the curvature is not difficult. Thus I believe a person could drive the length of the African continent, observing the curvature and measuring the straight line distance, and modelling that alone would show the earth curves beyond what could be acceptable on a flat earth, without all the water running off the edge! One I haven't seen mentioned yet is showing that the flat earth map cannot work. In a flat earth, apparently, the north pole is at the centre and south pole is a ring around the outside. Pick a land mass close to the south pole, and another on the opposite side of the map. The distance you would need to travel to reach one from the other by e.g. flying east around the map would be enormous and not congruent with the flight times or shipping times in real life. Earth is warmer near the equator, for obvious reasons in a non-flat world but the counter argument would have to be pretty imaginative. Sunrise and sunset do not happen at the same time for everyone on earth. The difference in timezones, which can be observed by taking a trip to different countries, cannot reasonably be explained by a curved but nearly flat earth. Experiments with gravity, but flat-earthers reject the complication of gravity (things drop just because). So I avoided this one, but it would be a compelling way to demonstrate why people on the other side of a spherical earth are not on their heads.