Fleece dries fast, and fleece is relatively warm while wet. It's probably the best you're going to get in normal clothing materials. But it's not an alternative to a wetsuit or drysuit, more of a "I'm going hiking with a light jacket in autumn" option, or an addition for below a wetsuit. If that's what you're looking for in terms of how wet you'll get, how long you'll stay wet and how cold the weather will be, it's a good option. Add a dry top/anorak to keep the wind out, and you've got a decent flatwater kayak/canoe combination. Thermal shirts (thanks for the correction Martin) sometimes called thermal underwear, often made from some combination of polyester and viscose or such, are a good option as well. They're a lot thinner than a good fleece sweater, but are form fitting and surprisingly warm for their thickness. A thermoshirt and an anorak works maybe just a bit worse than fleece and anorak, a thermoshirt alone can be nice of a warmer day if the water's not too cold. They can also be layered. When doing even light whitewater, sea paddling or longer trips think about it a bit, try to build up some experience so you'll know your limits and those of your gear. Better safe than hypothermic. 

Are there any other options out there? EDIT: May, 2016 (four years later): This video by Emily Graslie of The Field Museum in Chicago explains in great detail and from years of experience how women handle menstruation on field expeditions, including information she has gathered from other women in the field about what worked and did not work for them in practice. 

During the 1996 Summer Olympics, there were vendors all over Atlanta selling these: Cool bandannas. I think they're filled with polymer beads similar to the ones found inside diapers that hold moisture once you get them wet. I wouldn't say it kept me completely cool, but-- being "completely" cool in 96-degree heat is a fantasy, unless you're in air conditioning. I would recommend these-- or something like them-- as all you need to do is dunk them in a cold creek, and you're good to go. 

Using hormonal birth control to skip five months of periods is not an option for me. I'm concerned about the amount of space pads or tampons would take up in my pack, not to mention the amount of trash that would accumulate. I'm of the opinion that 27 is a bit young to be having a hysterectomy (though I have considered it). 

The gold you find while panning didn't originate locally. It came from a gold vein in a rock somewhere but was eroded to tiny particles, carried off with a water current and deposited somewhere where the current becomes weaker. If you see horsetail growing you've found an area where there is water and probably not too much current in any part of the year. It does not tell you if there are or were gold deposits upstream, it does not tell you how much or little current there is higher upstream and it does not tell you how long the situation has been like this. It's an indicator of one prerequisite for finding gold. You can use it when you learn indicators for other factors involved as well. 

With cotton clothing the main risk is hypothermia, cotton soaks up a lot of water but also easily exchanges water easily with a wet environment, it's one of the coldest things to wear when wet. Wearing nothing is colder, but that's mostly true as long as you stay wet. Nothing dries a lot quicker than cotton, and wet cotton doesn't provide that much wind protection. Fleece is probably the best "normal clothing stuff" to get wet in, wool is heavier but still relatively warm. Heavy clothing mostly starts being a problem in moving water. You bob up and down, but heavy clothing really limits the amount of up you can get, which leads to deeper downs. It also hinders any swimming you want to do. 

If you're old-school, here is a device I just learned about today (and it should fit into your pack): The Sunsetwheel. It's a sliderule type device, and may take a few minutes to learn how to use it, but it can give you data without having a smart phone on you at all times. 

How can I handle multiple months of menstrual cycles on a long trek like the Appalachian Trail? I am asking about how to handle the mess. Here are my personal considerations: 

I think someone may have mentioned a knife being an emergency kit essential item. Well, here is one great reason: A knife can be used as an improvised signal mirror. From today's news: Three Lost in Oregon Use Knife as Signal. I try never to go out into the woods without a good knife. I now have one more reason to never leave it back at home. 

I would recommend taking a small container of rubbing alcohol and some cotton balls, as described for cleaning yourself here. Plain old rubbing alcohol kills everything, and is not sticky like an alcohol-based hand sanitizer. A bottle like this one ought to do you pretty well. It should even fit in your pocket so you don't have to go fishing around through your gear to find it when you need it. If you want something that's pre-made, I've found a couple of threads on hiking forums that recommend carrying around a small container of baby wipes to clean your hands before handling contacts. I would probably shy away from these due to the residue they tend to leave behind (not to mention the smell!). Also, as @Russell suggested, you'll probably want to have a small bottle of contact solution to rinse your hands off with afterward-- just in case. A travel size bottle might be nice for that. 

It depends a bit but I would recommend twice as much water as you would need in a cooler time of the year for a similar hike. Perhaps 3 times as much if it is particularly hot. As best as possible, don't travel in the heat of the day. 

So, I just went hiking, testing out a pretty new pair of shoes. The test trail was about 6 miles round trip. I started to notice on the way back that the back of my heel was a bit uncomfortable, like it had been rubbing for a while. Is there anything I can do short of getting a new pair of shoes to help with this problem? 

In the area where I live, I have periodically seen a rattle snake when hiking, occasionally at the ready to strike pose. What should I do? 

Part of the reason that people don't die from snake bites is because they take the proper precautions. And while the bite of an adder isn't likely to kill you, it could make your return trip much more difficult. One thing you do not want to do is to try and suck the venom out, or try and wrap a tourniquet around it. These will stop your bodies native ability to get rid of the venom. Treat the bite to prevent it from bleeding, and then go as quickly as possible to a qualified medical facility, without straining too much. If you are more than 24 hours away from help, then you might want to simply get to a good area to camp, and relax during that time. But try and find an area where you can request medical help if needed (IE, has cell phone reception). You probably have a few hours of hiking before too many symptoms would appear. (Source: Treatment of Bites by Adders and exotic venomous snakes)