Yes, because you didn't communicate with your superiors about what was the timeline and what expectations did they have. Do you usually get a few weeks to work alone and just do what you want in your past positions? While I have had grace periods in various jobs, this is usually more than a little bit of a red flag and I have had some positions where I was terminated after a few months because of not performing to expectations. 

The point of the question is that if things aren't going well, what does a person do? Everyone will have moments where issues will arise and the key becomes how are these handled. Does the person know to pull themselves out of a room or a conversation rather than have a brawl? How mature is the person in being able to resolve differences of opinion? If you want an example, just consider the question of "What is the best operating system?" or "What is the best smartphone?" where there are lots of different personal answers that people have to figure out where is it worth trying to change someone's mind and where is it not worthwhile to try. I'm also reminded of a line from the TV show, "House" where he states "People lie" quite a bit which can be true and thus it can be worth testing someone in an interview setting and see what happens. If the person starts cursing and swearing while in an interview, then this person may not be a good fit for the company as they would be a liability just wanting to explode. Similarly, if the person just clams up and goes into the fetal position, that may also not be the best response to give. Getting the person to react under stress can be part of the process. Some people will be rattled and those are the people to not hire, or do you think companies should just take chances when someone wants to flip out from someone asking for something unreasonable? Have you looked at this from the company's perspective? If they hire the wrong person, how expensive is it to fire this person and hire a replacement? It can be quite costly in some cases. 

I usually ask what is the end result that is wanted. Is it some code? Is it a Word document? Is it an Excel spreadsheet? Is it researching some technology? This can give me some idea of what I am supposed to be doing. I'd also ask what is the deadline and how long is this supposed to take. There can be various ways to get clues so I can figure out what was asked of me. 

Thus, while one could have a profile on LinkedIn, there are more than a few other things you could also do with that site. 

Perhaps the company needs to save money and thus employees have to be "laid off" which is still a form of termination. There could also be issues where the employer doesn't like the employee's performance, personality or other factors and decide that their services are no longer needed. 

Are you wanting to work with people dumber than you? Think about how if you aren't the "stupid developer" then all your co-workers could be and then wouldn't you be right where you were initially? 

Generally there is a contract between you and the company asking that you provide services that make the software or system and get paid accordingly. In some start-ups, the pay may be equity in the company while other places may just pay an hourly rate with various combinations of options and cash in between existing for development jobs that can involve business analysis, software architecture, testing, system administration as well as the development itself. Also, companies may use different methodologies as some may prefer waterfall, some agile and others some hybrid of the two. 

Yes, just mention the expected salary as that is something to note in most employment agreements. I agree to be compensated at $x/hour or $y/year generally. This is useful in positioning where you are generally. Are you on the higher end, the lower end or something else. 

Generally though, if the conversation is about something factual, I can accept being the expert on this subject and I am prepared to defend my answer, I would interrupt to see if they want my perspective. Sometimes this is OK and other times they could be in their own little world. 

Yes as there will be times where you may have to do relatively mindless things that can well be part of the job. Would filling out a time sheet be something beneath you? In the real world, sometimes people may have to do work that may be thankless and not considered that valuable. If your manager is OK with it and has updated the timelines so that you aren't expected to do two things at once, I'm not sure I see where this is disrespectful. Sometimes you may have to take one for the team. 

Possibly though consider what role are you wanting to have in a company here. If you had the idea and initial execution that may not be quite as valued as the side of someone that scales things well and finds ways to be more than a one trick pony. 

There's the potential that some people in the company may be sick or the work load shifted recently that makes you a lower priority and so they may take a couple of weeks from when they said they'd get back to you to get back to you. In my experience, I'm used to companies not telling me I didn't get the job so that is quite typical. At the same time, be careful how quickly you write off this opportunity as it may be that if they are replacing a lead it could require executive approval that may take some time and if the executive is on vacation, this could delay things. 

This could be career limiting if one wants to live in their bubble of being restrictive of what they'll use and think nothing should change ever, sure. I'd also think this is a rather poor perspective to take. The benefit could be seeing how fast can you pick up a new skill, what kinds of formats of learning work best for you, and how willing are you to experiment with things at times. If you consider how many new things we have today compared to 10 years ago you may notice that lots of new things continually arise in technology and thus this can be a very valuable skill. 

What were the specific tasks you did, with what technologies and over what time frame would be how I'd frame this for the resume and job interview as chances are this will be something to discuss at that point. 

As for ripping off the company, I'd say no as your boss is aware of your activities. I would highly suggest making sure that the personal stuff you do when you don't have work does tie into that work somehow so that it can be justified as some places may have performance reviews where time management, quantity of work and other factors can be used to determine raises as well as if a company wants to keep you as an employee. 

"I'd like to withdraw my application from consideration at this time," would be how I'd phrase that I want to stop the process. If you bring in other details, that could lead to more questions that really aren't any of their business. 

How relevant is this to the positions you are applying? If you're applying to be an accountant in a large firm, then having this site running isn't likely to be meaningful. In contrast, if you plan on working for a company building web sites and generating leads this may be quite useful. The key is to note what would be useful for your perspective employer since it may matter to them what kind of traffic are you producing, what sales go through, etc. Not to downplay this too much but some may view your accomplishment as a way to get your family and friends to use your site. 

While you could ask, there is a good chance the company isn't going to tell you the answer as what is in it for them to tell you how you blew it? I'd likely consider asking your network and possibly walking them through answers to see if they could pick out what you did that wasn't great. This likely means you aren't passing the screen. While you could apply again, I would advise caution as it could be that more than a few are applying and the people that get the interview aren't doing well enough for the company to hire them. I have had positions where I applied for the job 5-6 times before finally physically handing my resume in at a career fair to get somewhere. 

Interesting question though I do think there are a few things worth noting here: How much communication is done over GMail chat? Is it hundreds of lines a day or just a handful? This is where I'd look to see how social or anti-social are people on the team being because there is a chance that things are being communicated and bonds are formed through something that while from an auditory perspective there is just the keys being tapped, there is a lot more for those that read the messages and understand the conversations that may be happening. 

Is there a reason for doing only 1:1 in these relationships? Could it be that the mentees each get a second or third mentor that may be a useful backup just in case the mentor gets too busy to talk to the mentee at that time? I'd be tempted to suggest having "backup" mentors for some students and this being assigned so that the students can have an idea of who else could they go if there is an issue. This would likely not change what is currently done but rather add another set of options for the mentees to know who else could they ask things. This also allows for multiple relationships to be built so that if that first choice doesn't work out, there is a way for the mentee to not get lost. 

In person would be best as there may be changes in the terms of your departure. There may be questions from your boss that are best discussed in private face to face. There could be questions about how your work will be re-assigned, what the timeline is and a few other things that could be discussed here. 

To some degree, yes and no. Depending on the style of work you prefer, I'd say it may make sense to know what's next in some cases and in others it may not be that advantageous. If you were told to study some new technology and it turned out the company didn't want to use it even though you thought it would be a good addition to the platform, how would you handle that decision? I would suggest asking your manager for low-priority tasks that may be worth doing in the background such as documenting systems, fixing minor bugs or other work that could be seen as useful but not critical to get done. There may be things they would like to see done but don't want to explicitly ask for it.