Why did the Buddha teach the mahayana? No, He did not teach Mahayana. Nor did He teach Theravada, Sarvastivada, Pudgalavada, etc. and the 18 or so schools that splitted from His original Teaching/Dhamma after His passing away. Fortunately for us, all the different schools still share the same "core" regarding the Discourses and Discipline: 3 characteristics, 4NT, 5 Precepts, 8NP, 12DO, etc. Of course there're certain doctrinal disagreements among the schools which is expected and unavoidable but if one sticks to those pillars of teaching, one'd find out that they have a lot more in common than difference. 

S/he's to be born into any place(devas or humans) and time where the conditions are conducive to guarantee enlightenment at most 7 more life times. 

In AN 2.9, shame(hiri) and fear of wrongdoing(ottappa) are 2 very important qualities which the Buddha described as "the guardians of the world": 

Imagine a school where only music prodigies or math prodigies attend, one would never have to worry about the decay of the school's reputation. The Pure Abodes are also like that. Since it's a realm where Non-Returners reside, it'll never face the problem of Dhamma decline there. Earthlings on the other hands, are much more inclined towards sensual pleasures and many other unwholesome deeds. It's the Dhamma on earth that's facing a serious danger of going into decline. In SN 20.7, although the Buddha didn't give an exact number on the life span of the Dhamma, He did give the clear sign and cause to its disappearance: 

Because the "I" still interferes with those meditative states. Do not hold on to self-identity and your meditation would go much smoother: 

Now, imagine a minute ago, you saw someone and recognized that she was a good old friend of yours. Then a minute later, you hear a loud boom and recognize 2 cars crash into each other in a terrible accident. Now ask yourself, doe the perception a minute ago still "stay together" with the rest of the aggregates now? Similarly, for the rest of the aggregates... if one's aggregates don't even "stay together" from moment to moment, how do you expect them to stay together from life to life? The last and probably the most important sutta reference to address your query on the aggregates' "togetherness". The root cause to this query is because there's an assumption that they're somehow "bound" to a concrete and immutable self. Here is what the Buddha said: 

In MN 77, the Buddha teaches a group of wanderers the five reasons why His disciples venerate Him and look to him for guidance: 1. Supreme aggregate of virtue 2. Excellent knowledge and vision 3. Supreme aggregate of wisdom 4. Teach the Four Noble Truths 5. Show the way to develop wholesome states. 

Unfortunately one would need to attain the supernatural power of seeing people's previous lives in order to see the exact working of kamma. Otherwise we should heed the Buddha's advice in AN 4.77: 

Of course Theravada monks returns to the marketplace everyday. They use their daily alms round as an opportunity to be around the lay community. It's just that the method they use to help people is different. One won't see them drinking wine to help the drunkards or become whore house's patrons to help the prostitutes, etc. Moral virtues and spreading the Buddha's words are their methods of helping. If somehow the approach seems to be a bit passive or weak, then the story of Ven. Punna in SN 35.88 should clear things up for you: 

Notice that back then, humans were yet to possess the kind of technologies capable of screwing up the environment at such stupendous pace and scale as in the 21st century. Everything was bio-degradable. There was no plastic, nuclear wastes, fracking, oil drilling, massive fossil fuel burning, etc. So the problem didn't exist to require a specific teaching about it. Obviously if the Buddha was around today, He would've given teaching about the importance of keeping a safe and clean environment. 

Well you'll never know. From a Buddhism point of view, it could very well be a blessing in disguise: 

The DhammaEye opens just once and will stay there when the noble disciple makes the breakthrough to StreamEntry, as said in AN 3.94: 

Maybe because Clinging/Upadana is such a powerful destructive force even advanced practitioners still have a tough time dealing with. So the non-clinging theme reflected thru insight into Emptiness/Sunyata throughout the sutra would be a great way to remind us about it. That's why in many Mahayana temples, this sutra is usually recited at the end of any session, after other sutras have been recited, sort of a reminder to the practitioner of the Clinging elephant in the room. Anyway, don't worry too much about why it's the most popular or most important. It's a pretty common stock phrase in Mahayana to say this or that sutra is the most popular or most important. You'll see the same thing being said in the Lotus Sutra, the Amitabha Sutras series, etc. Afterall the spirit of the sutra doesn't seems to deviate from the Buddha's teaching about the 3 characteristics inherent in all conditioned dhammas: impermanence/anicca, unsatisfactory/dukkha, and non-self/anatta. And the sutra simply reminds us that it indeed holds true for all "conditioned dhammas", including the Five Aggregates, the Twelve Ayatanas, the Eighteen Dhatus, the Twelve Nidanas, and even the Four Noble Truths! 

There're many planes of existence (ref: $URL$ The upper planes are where the devas (gods/godesses) live. Although possessing various supernormal powers, they are still un-enlightened beings like us humans and are still subjected to the cycle of birth and death. Prior to His last rebirth on earth, the Buddha resided on the deva realm called the Tusita Heaven. After attaining enlightenment, the Buddha was no longer a god for He's no longer subjected to the cycle of birth and death. 

The concept of relative/absolute truth in early Buddhism is pretty straight-forward. Ven. Bodhi's note from his "Middle length Discourses" says: 

It's not to be looked at ring by ring but slice by slice so that the components in the inner rings can be combined with those in the outer to complete the picture. According to the Pali exegetical tradition, Dependent Orginination can be looked at in 2 ways (ref: "Connected Discourses" - NidanaSamyutta - Bhikkhu Bodhi): 

Next time around, try to stop the cat from killing the mouse, and then give the cat some food to eat. That'd cover all grounds: saving the mouse's life without the expense of the cat going hungry. 

The same question was raised by a bhikkhu in MN 109, and the Buddha provided a great answer here Sutta's synopsis: 

It's like asking when one will become a master of martial arts or a master pianist if one starts training now. There're lots of different factors involved: the conditions of equipments, training facilities, quality of the teacher, one's own effort and time, one's own innate potential, etc. That's why the length of time will vary greatly from person to person. Just notice that while becoming a fulltime monk might gives some advantage in terms of equipment and "training facility", a person is still on his own regarding effort, time, and innate potential.. 

Space is one of the 24 kinds of derived-materiality (UpadayaRupa), which is one of the 2 kinds of materiality (the other is primary-materiality, BhutaRupa, which is composed of the 4 elements of earth, water, fire, and air). They're all conditioned dhammas. Only Nibbana is the unconditioned one. Further info. is available at Vism.XIV.34 

From Ven. Bodhi's "Comprehensive Manual of Abhidhamma", ultimate reality(paramattha) can be seen as 4-fold: citta, cetasika, rupa, and Nibbana. These 4 are further classified into Sankhata(the conditioned) and ASankhata(the un-conditioned). Citta(mind/consciousness) and cetasika(mental factors) belong to the Nama(mentality) group, while Rupa is the materiality group. Both are under Sankhata. Only Nibbana is under ASankhata. A quick layout as below: Paramattha(ultimate reality): |__1. Sankhata(the conditioned) |           i. Nama(mentality): citta(mind/consciousness) and cetasika(mental factors) |           ii. Rupa(materiality): forms | |__2. ASankhata(the un-conditioned)             Nibbana 

As you've said, it all varies from individual to individual. The bottom line is one should not do what other people expects one to do. Instead, do whatever is best for oneself in terms of peace, happiness, and most important, suitable and favorable conditions to the learning, contemplation, and practice of the Buddha Dhamma. Please see DN 29, where the Buddha taught about the 10 kinds of disciples that make up His spiritual community. Out of those 10, 4 are from lay folks like us: celibate laymen, householder laymen, celibate laywomen, and householder laywomen. Give it a careful read and it could be a useful guide to help with your inquiry. Good luck.. 

While the sutta did not state the nutriments are evil, it did give vivid and explicit similes of the son's flesh, the skinned cow, the man being dragged toward a burning pit, and a criminal being pierced with three hundred spears. Needless to say, one doesn't have to be very smart to think carefully before indulging oneself with the nutriments after hearing what the Buddha just said. Imho, SN 12.63 reflects the Dukkha inherent in all conditioned phenomena. And the Four Nutriments are no exception. For us regular worldlings, we tend to only understand the 1st of the 3 aspects of Dukkha, Dukkha-dukkha, for the obvious reason that it's right there in front of our naked eye. That's why we continue to indulge in the nutriments and sense pleasures. It would take a significant degree of cultivation and penetrative insight to understand the other 2: Viparinama-dukkha and Sankhara-dukkha. And until then, we'd still only be able to have some superficial understanding of what SN 12.63 was trying to say. Per ChrisW's suggestion, I've reposted as an answer and include the 2 very helpful links from Prof. Tan and Ven. Nyanaponika with detailed commentary on SN 12.63: $URL$ $URL$ 

Not sure if he's the "least developed" of the pilgrim. In terms of moral disciplines, he's much better than his brother Pigsy. Venerable Thich Thien Sieu wrote a great essay that provides deeper analysis on the role and meaning of each pilgrim. Unfortunately I couldn't find any English's translation to the original article here. About the meaning of those huge beads, not sure if they carry any significant meaning other than to aid sutras reciting (sort of like the rosary beads..). The character Lu Zhishen (Flowery Monk) in the novel "Water Margin" also wears similar things.. 

Because generosity alone can only get you so far. One's hindrances, defilements, ignorance, etc. are still there. Meditation and moral virtues are required to get one further on the Path. Matter of fact, through meditation, one becomes a more virtuous person and that itself is a superior kind of generosity. As taught by the Buddha in AN 8.39: