The nut you want to undo is at the top of this image, the one that attaches the brake to the frame. Note that it's recessed so you will probably have to slide the brake out of the frame and attach the fender to the brake side of the frame rather than the nut side. 

I'm thinking of building a dicycle, specifically a sociable one like the picture below but pedal powered. Has anyone seen one in real life, or better yet, tried to build one? 

I habitually run much wider tyres than that on narrow rims. My shopping bike has a 559 rear wheel with an Aeroheat rim that's 24mm wide. I run a "Fat Frank" 55mm tyre on it. That is, however, a low pressure tyre (4bar/60psi). On 406 wheels it's much more dramatic. I run high pressure flatland tyres 55mm or so wide at 6bar or more (100psi+) on my load bikes, and the rims range from 28mm on the back of my touring bike to some generic Taiwanese aero rims that are about 22mm wide. The answer is that once the tyre is Ʊ shaped at all it doesn't seem to matter. If you're running a 25mm tyre on a 19mm rim, you're already putting all the outward force on the rim that you're going to put, regardless of tyre width. 

Short answer: probably. As long as the stem and handlebars are metal, or composite that can handle the stress of the reversed position you're not going to have mechanical problems. Long answer: Unless you are riding with your hands off the handlebars what matters is the position of your hands relative to the steering axis. As long as your hands are a reasonable distance apart, most people can adapt to anywhere from about 20cm in front of to 10cm behind the steerer tube without much effort. That's the difference between drop bars and M bars. Look at the variety of positions that cycle tourists use, for example. If you're comfortable holding the handlebars that matters a lot more than minor changes to how the steering feels. drop bars M Bars I've ridden a wide variety of bikes over the years, and played with handlebar position at times to get comfortable when I've been injured. I ride a folding bike with the stem reversed when I had a broken arm, and while that was somewhat twitchy the very upright position made it much easier to ride with one arm in a sling. The extreme positions tend to be on recumbents because they have more variation in their designs. You could in theory use a long stem pointing backwards as long as the bars were long enough to put your hands in a sensible position. Some recumbents do this. Others have seemingly ridiculous forward extension and equally ridiculous backward extension on the bars. Below the silver stem is long as well as tilted down, then the bars bring the riders hands back to a comfortable position (the reason the bars go so far forward is to clear the riders knees) 

Short answer: no. The only fix is to mostly deflate the tyre (so it's just barely inflated, enough to hold it in place but soft enough that you can manipulate the bead) and work the slack in the bead around the wheel so that you have an even distribution. If you're really lucky there will be a matching place elsewhere that the bead has stuck in the middle part of the rim, and when you push the slack around you'll find that and everything will pop into place. That's the ideal solution. But this may also indicate that the tyre is slightly too large for your rim, in which case you're better off buying a different tyre. The way to find out is to fix it and see whether it happens again. When you are fixing this it's tempting to just deflate, push the bead down, and re-inflate. The problem will occur again very quickly. The actual issue is that you have a circular bead that's slighter bigger than the circular bead seat on the rim. If you arrange them so that they're concentric (even all the way round) that will work, but it's not stable until you pump the tyre back up to push it up hard against the rim. If you have a weird bike with odd-sized wheels it's vaguely possible that this is actually the wrong size tyre altogether. But that's unlikely. More likely you have a cheap bike with slightly undersize wheels, or a damaged rim, and a generously built (cheap) tyre. It's worth buying a bike pump, not just for times like this, but so you can keep your tyres pumped up which will make riding easier. And it's a step on the way to owning a puncture repair kit (which will save you money as well as time). 

You may be able to use a two-pin adjustable BB tool. That search pulls up a lot of images of the tool I'm thinking of, and they're available right down to $5 or so 

Those are the seat tube diameters that the derailleur will fit onto. Bicycle seat tubes vary in size for a range of reasons (which is also why we have different size seatposts). In this case it looks as though one derailleur is giving you a list of three sizes that work, the other is giving a range. I suspect they're equivalent, since the maximum and minimum are the same - I'd be surprised if either of them won't fit any tube between those sizes. What matters, obviously, if that you buy one that will fit the seat tube of your bike. So either of the ones you've found should work. 

The core problem is that you need the thread on the bottom bracket axle to attach the new crank, and that will have probably been damaged by your welding. If you can get the bolt out after unwelding, it might be possible to keep the current BB. 

One thing no-one else has mentioned is mounting the tripod vertically next to one leg of your front fork. You'll probably find you put it there instead of a front pannier, but with a bit of thought to the mount you'll have it readily accessible and reasonably well protected. I would be tempted to use a PVC pipe section with an end cap as the bottom end, perhaps only ~100mm deep, then a hoop at the top just under the point where the tripod legs pivot. I'd also make a cover for the head of the tripod to keep the rain and dust off it. 

The issue is that the frame was heat treated after it was welded together. So when you weld it again you're changing both the alloy and the heat treatment. As a rule what you get is both softer in some places and more brittle in others (Murphy's Law says it will be soft where it's vulnerable to abrasion and brittle where it flexes). Even so, that is definitely worth trying when the alternative is throwing away the bike. The worst failure mode is likely that dropout breaking off the frame, which will probably shove the wheel into the frame and you'll skid to a halt. So it's relatively survivable as such things go. 

the step-through height must be no higher than the top of the pedal stroke, since the rider will need to have their foot that high to ride the bike. The exception, obviously, is bikes for people who can't lift that high but can accept forced motion that high. But those are generally built for rehabilitation rather than primarily for transport, like the one below. Those do tend to be somewhat more flexible than is ideal, and often have quite low rider weight limits. (from CyclistChic) 

Another option is to modify a rack so you can attach a backpack to it. I've seen this done, but unfortunately we didn't have a common language to discuss how well it worked. This guy had built the whole rack himself so it included a stand as well as the pack. 

size of the idler you have (in millimetres or units of your choice) size of the idler you might buy (in pixels) length of the cage of your derailleur (millimetres or whatever) length of the cage of the one you might buy (in pixels) 

5.5mm spoke holes sounds ridiculously large and it would not surprise me if that's not correct. Ryde don't mention it on their generic V38 page nor do "Flying Pigeon" on their Westwood listing but they do suggest 2.0mm spokes. No mention of needing large head nipples though. If you can try the large head in the rim before buying definitely do that. Otherwise I'd be tempted to wait and see, since if you need the large head nipples you'll need to buy them separately anyway so you only lose time by waiting to see if you need them. 

The problem with sealing it tight is that water will get in, even just as humid air, then it can't easily get out. You'll get condensation, which will cause rust. It's much better to shelter the bike so that rain can't hit it or blow in easily, but leave the bottom open so that water than run out. A motorbike rain cover would be ideal, but a tarp thrown over with a rope looped around lower down to hold it in place will be fine. Try to cover the rear derailleur and the chain when doing this, as those are especially likely to rust. 

A chariot design would also work - make the towing arm 2-4 metres long to reduce the forces at the bike end of it. That would simplify everything except getting it to the event. The more I think about that idea the more I like it. You can just use 2-3 lengths of thick bamboo as the towing arm, strap the front end to your bike rack and even just run one length down each side of the trailer. If you did that you'd want 4-6m lengths of bamboo, but it would look quite cool IMO. 

Short answer: no. If you're lucky the axle is simply installed the wrong way round so rather than swapping the cups, swap the axle round and see if that fixes the problem. The two cups have opposite threads, one left hand thread and one right hand thread. If you swap them and force them in you will cross thread the frame, and that's ugly to fix. Unfortunately that also means you can't just get another lock ring and put it on the drive side as a spacer. But if you're lucky you'll be able to find another spacer from a modern BB with plastic spacers that fits. Or you could use a thread locking compound to reduce the amount of movement. What you really should do is get a BB with a longer axle, or a derailleur that fits the bike. But those BB's are old or cheap, and if you're buying a new one you should get a sealed/cartridge type bottom bracket (of the correct axle length for your bike). That will fix the problem and give you a BB that doesn't need servicing. 

Based on the image of their hitch that I found and added to your question, you're going to have to modify the hitch to make it work. It's designed to rotate (I don't think that's a good decision, but that's what they did). If you have enough clearance between the trailer and your rear wheel/mudguard, you could rotate the hitch forward and clamp it to the chainstay. I'd use a jubliee clip (hose clamp), and leave it there permanently. The problem with that is that you won't be able to remove the rear wheel without removing the clamp. If the chainstay sticks out past the dropout it's also going to bend the hitch when you do the axle nut up, which I would not do. The other option is welding a bump/tab onto the inside of that clamp as described by solson. I strongly suspect that mount is steel, so it's easy enough to weld onto. If you don't have a welder it's going to be 10 minutes work for a metalworker to do it, plus you will need to repaint the hitch afterwards. I would buy a second hitch for this, since Croozer sell them, and that way if you stuff it up you can still use the existing hitch. If you're paying, clean as much paint as you can off the whole hitch (welding will heat the whole thing up and burn off paint over much of the hitch, which is stinky, so if you don't do it you're going to be paying someone else to do it). Then work out exactly where you want the tab and scratch marks along each edge, from the hole in the middle right out and down the outside edge (so they're visible after the weld covers the scratches on the inside surface). The welder will put a blob that extends past the scratches (molten metal doesn't sit in nice box shapes), then you will file it back to get nice straight edges that will lock in place nicely. If the metal place is able, oil quenching after welding will harden the bracket which will be helpful. 

Since it's only about 10cm long, it seems to be about 2mm thick based on the image above. So Daniel might be right, it would work for holding cones and locknuts in place. Wandering the internet I haven't been able to find anything similar, unfortunately, but I recall seeing them in some collections of very old tools. 

(from Schwalbe who now use this one) Most of the charts and guidelines you'll see are fairly conservative, so if you're feeling experimental you could run 35mm tyres on a 25mm wide rim and see what happens. Be cautious if you do, they'll most likely fit but if you lean the bike too far the rim could hit the road and you will wipe out. 

It's a waste of water, unless you have lots. A sock around a waterbottle, wet, can help but if it's hot and dry it won't help much, or for long. Keep the water for when you need it. 

I just used a 5mm bolt with locking nut, and a ~15mm wide washer on the inside when this happened to my Ortleib. If you use stainless steel bolt, nut and washers it won't rust and the pressure against the pannier materials stops it leaking. I'd use the biggest washer you can find on the inside, but the biggest I could find was only 15mm. If you look at the other rivet you will probably find that the washer is smaller than that, and possibly that the other rivet is also about to fail. My repair has lasted several years of regular use, and I still have the pannier today as a backup (I bought new ones when I wore holes in the fabric after more than 10 years of use) 

In my experience cheap lights die, and some more expensive designs are prone to failure. Bike shops sell cheap lights because that's all some people will buy, and better they have a dodgy light than no light (there are enough cyclists without lights already). All the factors you list come down to one or two factors, depending on whether you consider "built to an excessively low price point" to be a factor. The other is poor design. It's not easy to make a bike light that works, and doing so costs money. If you search for bike lights on kickstarter those projects often document the design and testing (which is one of the few places you can read about it). I've had lights intermittently turn themselves off while riding, and that's either something hitting the on-off button or the batteries momentarily disconnecting when bumped. Rather than reproduce the latter I prefer to add conductive spacers with the batteries and see whether that solves the problem - add a chunk cut from a tin can or 5-10 thicknesses of aluminium foil at one end of each battery. I expect to pay ~$40-$60 in Sydney for a decent rear light, maybe $30 online, and if they don't last at least a year I take them back. And I do take them back. Maybe 5% fail within a month. For front lights I pay the same as a rear one for a blinky, ~$100 for a "to see by" light. But I also DIY and use dyno lights (more expensive up front, heavier, but cheaper in the long term). This is easier if you're running multiple bikes, whether for yourself, your household, or your group of friends. Or you have a decent LBS. Buy 2-3 different lights to test, pick the one you all like the most and buy one (or more ) each, plus a couple of spares. That way you know you're getting something that works, and have a communal spares pool. You can get a similar effect by buying what everyone else has. But buy exactly what they have, a lot of bike lights look very similar and a cheap clone is not the same as the real thing. I have lights regularly last until the LEDs are so dim the light is worthless. Specifically, I have a box full of "bike lights and bits" in the garage that contains 5-10 rear lights and 3-4 front ones, none of which I would use today as my primary light (I use them on trailers and take them to group rides to lower the suicide rate). The front ones I expecte to fail, white LEDs have a finite, short life that in a "every weekday in the winter" light means 2-3 years. Rear ones mostly just fall to the progression in LED efficiency, in that "the same" light bought next year will be noticeably brighter (front ones too, obviously).