papyrus and parchment are substitutes parchment would only be used if papyrus is not readily available even as an import good. (So papyrus is either much cheaper or of better quality; considering that parchment is very sturdy and has quite a few desirable qualities it is probably that papyrus is cheaper.) 

This would probably have varied over time. Further, it depends largely on what you mean by army (just the legionaries? all combatants? everyone accompanying the legions?). In the late Republic and the early Principate, the legions were exclusively composed of Roman citizens. Freedmen were not Roman citizens, but their children were. The navy, on the other hand, was happy to enroll freedmen. Actually, under Claudius especially imperial freedmen for command functions, many others as rowers. At other times, even slaves were eligible; in the second Roman-Carthaginian war, for instance (after the Romans had managed to get three different Roman armies annihilated by Hannibal Barca), Sempronius Gracchus led two slave legions in the battle of Beneventum. Marcus Aurelius again accepted slaves into the army as stated in the Historia Augusta 20.6. At any time, while freedmen could not ordinarily enrol as legionaries, there were plenty of freedmen (as well as slaves and others; as camp followers) in and around a roman army in the field (read about it here). Just to provide some intuition, Cassius Longinus ordered his freedman Pindarus to kill him during the 1st battle of Philippi, so it is safe to assume that he normally had Pindarus follow him around on the battlefield. Also, have a look at "Valerie A. Maxfield (1981) The Military Decorations of the Roman Army, p. 129": There is not a lot of evidence that freedmen received military decorations. There are some exceptions like Numenius and Aurelius Nicomedes, but the evidence in those cases can also be called into question. The point remains that it is not that they were not employed as soldiers, but that they were typically not considered to have sufficient status and standing to receive honorable positions and decorations. 

1. What exactly is being outlawed Note that it does not make sense to outlaw sexual orientations in the same way that it does not make sense to outlaw introversion, optimism, or perfectionism. Those behavioral patterns are parts of the personality that people cannot possibly do anything about. They are quite possibly already fixed at birth and most certainly partly hereditary. Those who outlaw homosexual behavior typically deny that homosexuality exists, for ridiculous examples, see here and here. They see homosexuals as sinners against some moral or behavioral code and outlaw the sin ("sodomy" etc.). That this leads to cultural animosity, harassment persecution of LGBT people as a group, and witch hunt like incidents, is a different question. 2. Who would be expected to outlaw homosexual behavior This is typical for religious fanatics, especially those in the tradition of the Abrahamic religions, although the degree to which homophobia is seen as a central element of the religion varies quite a lot with time and across religions. Currently, homophobia and persecution of homosexuals is a major element of Wahhabi ideology and of Islamist fundamentalism (since the Wahhabis are sponsoring and funding it, to some degree together with Iran) which finds some appeal in conservative Muslim culture in general. This has been very different in pre-modern times; Muslim states tended to be much more tolerant and liberal. Christianity on the other hand has experienced the opposite development and is much more liberal today than it used to be in the late Middle ages and in early modern times (although certain right wing elements in many predominantly Christian countries would very much like to reverse this and return to Middle age zealotry). 3. Who was the first to outlaw homosexual behavior anywhere on the Indian subcontinent The British came relatively late in the colonization of India, in 1612, after the Portugese and the Dutch were already there and shortly before the French and the Danish arrived. The Portugese were the first Europeans to arrive in India in 1498 and seize territories there as colonies from 1505. They lost no time to implement the Portugese inquisition against what they saw as "sodomites" and a lot of others. 4. Who was the first to outlaw homosexual behavior in all of the Indian subcontinent The British were the first and only Europeans that did conquer larger territories in the subcontinent. This did not occur before the 19th century, however, after they defeated the French. Note that the subcontinent was rarely a unified political structure until then, except for the periods of the Maurya empire the Mughal empire and possibly the Gupta empire (each at the time of their largest extent). Consequently, if the original question is referring to laws that would have been valid for all of the subcontinent, the answer is that there, was for almost all times in history, no one with the authority to create such a law. While they only reorganized Indian criminal law after conquering the subcontinent, they would not have tolerated "sodomy" even before that in the areas under their control. Neither would the other European powers, though none of them would have been quite as brutal as the Portuguese inquisition. Edit: Since it was criticized that the answer might be missing the point, I tried to structure it better with a tl;dr section and sections detailing the various aspects. The contents and explanations are the same as in the first version of the answer. 

But why were Herodotus & Co. so wrong? The wikipedia article suggests multiple reasons: propaganda and defamation on the part of the Greeks, a dislike for huge building projects (for which the pyramid certainly qualifies) in later times, or a misreading of the character denoting Khufu's name (originally read "Khufu", "the protected one", but later "Shufu", "bad luck", "sinful"). 

The story of the salting of Carthage was probably invented in the 19th century. (In the section quoted in the question:) The concept of salting destroyed cities originated in the ancient middle east and was revived in late medieval Europe. Specifically the Hittites and Assyrians used to ceremonially spread minerals and weeds across destroyed cities. Take an example, Ashurbanipal quoted by wikipedia 

Sihlu is some plant (of the thorny kind), Susa, Madaktu, Haltemash are elamite cities. So he says, he salted not just the cities but the entire country. What he actually wants to convey is that it is now pretty desolate; no happy farmers, no domestic animals, but weeds and wild beasts. I am, therefore, not convinced that it is meant literally, both in the sense that perhaps they actually scattered nothing at all (except for what accidentally fell over while they were looting) and in the sense that if they did, it was probably not valuable table salt but anything toxic they could find. (And, as has been pointed out, it would clearly have been ceremonially.) Note that much of the farm land of the middle east had to be irrigated artificially and was prone to salinization. So "scattering salt" may also actually refer to driving away the farmers that would tend to the land. With regard to the revival of the custom in medieval Europe (wikipedia cites Pope Boniface VIII), I would assume they just had red it in the bible (Judges 9.45) and thought it particularly godly to revive the old customs. It would still have been ceremonially. Though historical evidence suggests that they, perhaps different from Ashurbanipal, actually performed the ceremony. That having become a common cultural institution, it may in the 19th century have been projected back into Roman Antiquity. 

tl;dr No, it would have been the Portugese, see here and here. Let me detail the various aspects of this in the following order: 

As @Henry pointed out, the Wikipedia list seems to be copied from other lists that have been around on the internet for some time now. A similar one with more instructive explanations (of where the names came from) is found here. As you can see, it is a colourful mix or historically substantiated names and persons from mythology and literature; it also confuses rulers of the city with (alleged, probably mythological) rulers of all of Phoenicia. Bronze age king names Specifically on the bronze age section (the names before those given by Josephus): 

GDP GDP is a purely modern concept; it was proposed by Simon Kuznets in the early 1930s. All GDP statistics for earlier times are retrospective estimates, growing more uncertain the further back into the past the estimate goes. For pre-modern times, we are pretty much left with rough guesses based on estimates for population size and consumption per person, a few scattered statistics on icome and prices, as well as - indeed - tax revenues. Also note that (besides conceptual problems) there are many things not accounted for in the GDP, the informal economy, housework, etc. The share captured by the GDP differs between countries today (especially between developed countries and developing countries) and this would hold even more strongly compared to earlier times. Taxes Pre-modern taxation systems tended to be simpler than the ones we have today; mainly because it is important that taxpayers understand what they have to pay and tax collectors know how much they have to collect (both were not generally very sophicticated or well-educated people). Popular were for instance rules of thumb - like a tax rate of one tenth (see the word tithe): if you were not good in maths, you could just use your 10 fingers to count how much tax you had to pay, 9 for you and 1 for the tax collector. As the wikipedia article on tithe describes, it was used widely across time and regions from the ancient near east to pre-modern India to the middle ages in England. Of course, the way it was collocted differed from today, it was not so much an income tax (impractical with low population density) as a market tax (an early form of VAT if you will); if public finances would run low, the authorities would get creative, however, and introduce new taxes on the most absurd things, beards (Henry VIII of England and Peter I of Russia), coffee (France), windows (England and Wales) and curtains (Denmark, if I remember correctly). Early forms of income tax would estimate not your income but the value of your family home/estate (e.g. in the Netherlands), i.e. being closer to a property tax. Note that governments have a number of other ways to improve their finances, e.g. by debasing the currency or by defaulting on their public debt. Both has become rather unpopular in recent decades but was very very common in pre-modern and early modern states. Note that inflation (by debasing the currency) acts economically also like a tax. Forced labor would also be closely retaled to taxes in pre-modern and early modern systems. Some link this to the very emergence of money, but in any case armies (and the Royal Navy in early modern times) would capture unsuspecting civilians and force them into service; rich people would have been able to buy their way out of this. From this, you could potentially deduce - as a first approximation - a tax rate of around 10 percent. Note, however, that goods would likely be taxed as often as they would be sold (modern VAT is only applied once). Together with taxes for windows, coffee, beards, etc etc. this would in most cases probably yield a much higher effective tax rate. Also, corruption would have been rampant and very little of the collected taxes would arrive at the king's court (or whereever they should legally go); in fact, in Roman times, it was a commonly accepted fact that senior officials would conclude their carreer as provincial governors embezzling huge sums from the local economy. Does it still count as taxes compared to the GDP? Further, tax rates and efficiency of tax systems (even beyond corruption) differed widely. Note that the very definition of taxes also changed over time. Over longer periods, (the descendants of) tax collectors may for instance become feudal landlords and landowners - what they did, did not change, they continued to collect whatever revenue they could from the farmers etc under their control. (That pretty much describes the transition from Roman antiquity to the European middle age.) England under Henry VIII Now to your original question: the tax rate under Henry III of England - see here, the goods tax was 2s 8d on the pound, other taxes existed as well, that gives perhaps around 20%. Note, however, the obvious failure of the taxation system: they regularly raised only about a third of the projected tax revenues. 

Pliny even recounts that Ptolemy (the original one, 367-283 BCE) outlawed exporting papyrus for similar reasons and that his rival in Anatolia, Eumenes (362-316 BCE) therefore had parchment invented as a replacement (book XIII.21). This particular episode indicates at least that Pliny and his contemporaries were aware that 

that there were many different qualities of papyrus (standardized with names such as "Augustus paper", "Livia paper", "hieratic paper", etc. (book XIII.23) that the papyrus supply was sometimes (or maybe even always from the 1st century BCE) controlled by the government: Under emperor Tiberius (14-37 CE) there was a papyrus shortage that threatened to disrupt public life in Rome ("...as early as the principate of Tiberius a shortage of paper led to the appointment from the senate of umpires to supervise its distribution, as otherwise life was completely upset." book XIII.27) 

Is there evidence of Chinese exploration of Australia (before European contact)? There is no tangible evidence that Chinese explorers (or traders or any other Chinese for that matter) did land in Australia before the European exploration of the continent began. No Chinese ship wrecks in Australian waters, no Chinese records of having visited Australia, no Chinese artefacts in Australia, no remnant populations of Chinese expeditions, no invasive species introduced from China, nothing, nothing whatsoever. That said, we can, of course, not rule out expeditions that might not have left any evidence or that left evidence which has just not been found yet. The Chinese were busy people and able seafarers; they regularly visited south east Asia for more than 1000 years. In fact, they tried to conquer Indonesian states in the 1200s and there is a significant Chinese minority in south east Asia that descended from Chinese traders. They were certainly able to go to Australia, and maybe they did. Of course, there are fringe historians such as Gavin Menzies who profess to know that the Chinese were in Australia in the 1400s (and everywhere else short of outer space for that matter). Though this is occasionally cited in mainstream media it is not considered credible. Is there evidence of other non-European exploration of Australia (before or after European contact)? Well, there is clear evidence of Indonesian fishermen frequenting Australian waters from at least the 1720s. (Note that by that time, large parts of Indonesia were actually under European rule. But said fishermen were not controled by the colonial government of Batavia.) They were mainly after sea cucumbers, but apparently introduced new species (tamarind trees), left artifacts, had enough interactions with native Australians that the latter could produce rock paintings depicting a Makassan prau, and there are Indonesian records of said expeditions. For details, see wikipedia. This was after the start of European exploration of Australia (1606) but before the start of European settlement (1788) and the genocides against native Australians (promptly following European settlement). Some Chinese Qing dynasty coins from the 1700s have reportedly been found on an island off Australia; see here and here. They could, of course, have been brought there by the said Indonesian fishermen (who certainly had contact with Chinese traders) or they could have been brought there at a later date. In any case, this would point at a time when China was already very much on the defensive against European powers. There are native Australian legends about another group of people who visited Australia, called Baijini, which has been conjectured to mean 白人 (bái rén, "white people" in Mandarin), 北人 (běi rén, "northern people" in Mandarin), or 北京人 (Běijīng rén, "people from Beijing" in Mandarin). Needless to say, this is by no means certain and in the absence of other evidence doubtful. Coins of medieval African origin have been found in Australia; this is a bit odd, but unrelated to the present question about the Chinese. Finally there must have been prehistoric contacts a few thousand years ago. Among other things the Dingo was introduced, which greatly uprooted the Australian eco system. But again, this is certainly unrelated to China; the Chinese state in its present form did not yet exist at the time. Why did the Chinese not discover Australia? Chinese seafaring and exploration was very different from European seafaring in the age of exploration. China was almost always ruled by (one or two) centralized states; the central government always attempted to maintain a tight control over their population and their population's activities; they generally did not encourage emigration and settlement overseas (except in Taiwan after driving out the Europeans and incorporating it into the empire); they never attempted to establish colonies (except in Taiwan). They did occasionally send armies overseas with the objective of turning other states into Chinese vassals. Usually such efforts were devastating for those local states (especially if the Chinese commander would, as Zheng He did in Sri Lanka, decide to arrest the king and send him to Beijing to bow before the Chinese emperor). But China was interested in symbolic dominance, gathering tribute, and controlling and securing trade routes, not in colonization. They thus concentrated their efforts on other well-developed countries such as Malacca, Java, India, Sri Lanka (as well as Japan and Korea, and possibly briefly, under Zheng He, east Africa). They had little interest in regions populated by tribal societies such as Australia. If they did explore Australia, they were doubtlessly pretty disappointed in what they found. Further, there is a downside to be organized as a centralized state. A quirk of internal Chinese politics after Zheng He's voyages, saw the Chinese naval efforts stopped by the administration, and much of the procedural knowledge and human capital they had in this area destroyed and forgotten. Had this turned out differently, history might have taken a different course and it might have been the Chinese, not the British who murdered the native Australians by the tens of thousands.