It is perfectly possible to grow stronger muscles by working out two times a week. Make sure you train every muscle group once a week (not more). Your muscles need time to rest. Keep your workouts under 30 minutes. To make that happen do the following: Two different exercises each only one set per muscle group. Don't rest more than 1.5 minute between sets. Make them burn! Go all out. You should be breathing heavily for 30 minutes after the workout. 

You get energy through a process in your body that's called metabolism. You have two kinds of metabolism: carbohydrate/sugar metabolism and fat metabolism. You can train your body (and you have genetical tendency towards one or the other) how well both those processes are functioning. Carbohydrate/sugar metabolism tends to give you fast and a lot of energy, but it also creates a sugar crash* after a period (about 2 to 3 hours). Fat metabolism takes a longer time to transform fat into energy but it is very consistent. This makes it ideal for activities that take longer than 2 hours. If you read journals from some people that did amazing performances such as running 1000 miles in 11 days (Stu Mittleman), you read that they only eat fats. Creating a well functioning fat metabolism might take a while, it will take your body some time to develop that part of the metabolism. It is worth the effort. I do not recommend you to only rely on fat metabolism because you do need carbs for a healthy functioning body. I advice you to eat fats (biological meat, fish and coconut/olive oil) until 18 hours for the race and carbs after. As a snack during the race: raisins and almonds are a good combination as well as banana's. I won't advise you to take energy bars to soon in the race but pack one just in case you feel very hungry in those last 10 miles. *Sugar crash means a sudden absence of sugar in your blood. This results in a tired feeling, mentally and physically. 

The science is that when your legs are sore it's because you've damaged some of the muscle fibers slightly. They'll grow back bigger and stronger but take a bit of time to do that. If you've done a really solid workout then trying to do any other really solid workout the next day isn't as effective as waiting a day or 3. 

If you want to be a runner then leg exercises in the gym aren't going to help you much. You will get better running specific strength adaptations by doing hill repeats. However, your goal may be to build leg muscle for other reasons. Some coaches believe that running lightly the day after a long run helps recovery. If you're really going for distance then a normal training technique is to do back to back long runs. This means learning to run when your legs are tired but definitely prepares you for ultras. 

Remember the standard advice for all things running: we are an experiment of one and you need to find what works best for you. You haven't said what distance you're warming up for or if you're talking about racing or merely training. Stretching Yes, the research on this is discouraging or, at best, mixed. However, a great many health professionals will advocate for it - based on experience. Personally, I know my body and I know that if I do a certain stretch before I run then I don't get calf tightness. I ignore most other stretching directly before or after running. I do, however, stretch most mornings to keep my back loose. Racing If you are preparing to race then the length of your warmup is inversely proportional to the length of the race. So, if you're about to race 5km you might do a 1-2km light run as a warmup. This is so your muscles are in operating condition right at the start and you don't have to wait a minute or two before they're at full speed. However, on an ultra you've got plenty of time for things to get going so nobody bothers. Training If you are out to do a speed training session then generally you would want a few kms of a light run first so that your legs are operating at peak. You're speed training to run fast when your legs are in that state so you need to get into that state first. 

Honestly I think one or the other is good. In my opinion, stick with the Amplified Wheybolic Extreme 60. Whey protein formulas are usually among the best, if not the best. I'm not sure exactly what this recovery formula from beachbody.com is, but I can't imagine it being better than Whey, or adding to your results by taking both. In terms of taking your protein two times a day. I think you should. I remember when I used to work out at P3...a pretty popular training facility for athletes, I got some info from those guys, some of which had PhDs in kinesiology and such. What they told me was this: It's important to take protein 15-30 minutes after a workout if you want to recover fastest and get the most out of your exercise. I can't tell you exactly why, but I'm going to take their word for it. I always had thought up till then as long as you eat within an hour or hour and a half after a workout, you're fine, but they stressed getting a good protein shake in you DIRECTLY after the workout. They even had their own protein mix at the P3 facility to make sure you got it in you. So as long as you're doing two different types of workouts (training different muscles) I would take the protein right after each workout. I wouldn't recommend working out the same muscles twice a day though....that can lead to problems down the road. 

Abs I really don't think you need any equipment to build abs. I never have used any and my abs are fine. 

Here's my advice. It has already been said, but I'd like to say it in a different way. Have you really tried rolling? Like actually doing it correctly? Here's how to do it. You need to roll BEFORE and AFTER the workout. Rolling before is even more important than after. Also, try getting in the habit of rolling for several weeks before trying to run on concrete again. Rolling can do quite a few things for you. The obvious is it can roll your muscles and such to make them more flexible and smooth so they don't cramp and kink...tear or pull. If you actually do it on the bone though, it can strengthen the bone (well sorta, but think of it that way, really you can calm down the nerves around the bone)! How do you think UFC fighters take such harsh blows to their shins constantly? These kind of kicks can sometimes break an average person's shin. They strength train their bone so it doesn't break as easily. Of course, there are a plethora of exercises to do this which I don't think you need to get involved in, but rolling across your shin can calm down the nerves and strengthen areas that cause soreness in your shins. So if you haven't tried dedicating yourself to rolling for several weeks, do that. That's the only fix I can think of. Also, it's a well known fact that running on concrete is the absolute worst thing for your knees and shins. Coaches don't even let their runners run on concrete it's so awful. I mean I know you want to road run, but I'm pretty sure you can avoid concrete. Asphalt is still not great, but it's better than concrete and should help significantly.