Yes, but evolution would likely be even slower than it is on Earth. Any time that you're passing on genetic information, evolution can happen, but the problem here is that we don't know whether information IS being passed on. Consider the case where there are three fathers, just as an example. Each father gives about a sixth of the offspring's genetic code (a third of the male half). Now, suppose that one of the fathers had some evolutionary advantage from sheer random happenstance. Even supposing it's a dominant trait, there's only a 1/6 chance that it gets passed on - if the code for it was in an sequence that a different father provided, it's not helpful for the kid. An interesting corollary here is that evolutionary changes go faster when the mutations occur in the females, because then they're more likely to be passed on. 

It's not looking good for your machines. They're currently about $6*10^{14}$ kg. The bomb dropped on Hiroshima released about 60 Terajoules of energy - about $6*10^{13}$ J. Therefore, by definition of what a Joule is, if we were able to harness 100% of the Hiroshima bomb's energy, we could accelerate your machine by 0.1 $m/s^2$ through one meter. Current worldwide energy consumption per year is about $6*10^{20}$ J. Harness 100% of that and you can accelerate your machine by a million $m/s^2$ through one meter, or one $m/s^2$ through a million meters. But at that point you're using the same energy that the planet uses in a year and you're only moving a thousand kilometers (for those in the US, that's not quite the distance from New York, NY to Knoxville, TN). Only you wouldn't make it that far, because that doesn't take friction into account. You'll have a lot of friction force due to your large mass, so the acceleration you have won't get you moving very quickly; much of the energy will go to simply fighting friction. And even that doesn't cover the fact that as you said, they're breaking the Earth's crust every time they move. They'd sink into the Earth a bit just by existing on the surface due to their mass. As such they have to fight against gravity as well as friction. They aren't simply moving along the surface, they have to move upwards too. And, of course, we can't harness energy with 100% efficiency. Physical impossibility (given what we know blah blah blah). Best case: make them smaller, particularly in the radius (since there's a square on the radius, cutting it in half cuts the end volume [and therefore mass] in four), and have incredibly efficient incredibly powerful fusion reactors. Otherwise, get used to your new scenery, because they aren't going anywhere. 

Meditation, or Mindfulness, this can be achieved through genetic mutation, by increase few brain chemicals for alerts and decreasing or eliminating flight or fight responses. This could happen through lack of predators, easy accessible resources, but some reason to be in present. In our world when the practitioner attains certain level of mastery in meditation and mindfulness, their sleep acquires a character of meditation. It's not like they don't sleep at all, but they do retain certain level of deep awareness during their sleep. Specifically, when they see a dream, they know it's a dream. They remain aware of their body lying down on the bed. They remain aware of the content of their consciousness no matter how disjointed it gets during a deep sleep. If something happens around them, they wake up easily to provide their help if needed. Mediators also have been know to sleep less, more like 2hours a day. And here is a old BBC article about monks who sleep upright. Something similar but more genetic/biochemistry in nature, so it happens to all members the species. Culturally it would more like spirit walk than a dream because they can if necessary return to real world. Due to it being genetic it would more prominent, it would be really interesting society. 

Maybe Yes Man running on water has been the subject of several scientific papers. In particular Google for papers by J. W. Glasheen and T. A. McMahon. They studied the basilisk lizard, but their results can be extrapolated to humans. It's debatable how reliable such a large extrapolation is, but the result is that the required speed is so far beyond human ability that we can safely conclude it's impossible without some artificial aid. There's a summary of the results from the papers in this article and a more general summary here. The conclusions are that you have to run at a speed of 30m/sec, almost 3 times as fast as Usain Blot (10.4 m/sec). Which doesn't sound too bad, but you'd need to generate a mechanical power of 12kW to do it. Trained athletes can just about manage half a kW, and most of us would struggle to generate 200W. If you generate 12kW, you would probably be roasted from within. You can reduce this by having wider feet, webbed feet, stronger muscles, some way to dissipating heat, the most ideal way would be to reduce its height and weight. Even then it would hard for a being to keep it up for a more than a few seconds time. 

Honestly, I don't think it would be all that different than this reality. The Hindenburg Disaster happened in 1937. World War Two started two years later. War often leads to technological innovation as each side tries to get the edge on their opponents, and World War Two saw amazing leaps in jet engine technology. The first flight by an airplane powered solely by jet engines took place on August 27, 1939. By the 1950s, almost all combat aircraft had moved from propellers to jet engines. The question, then, boils down to "Would civilian aircraft make the transition from airship to airplane?". In all likelihood, yes. The Hindenburg's class of ships had a top speed of 81 miles per hour. A Boeing 747 has a top speed of 614 miles per hour. It's a much faster way to travel. Jet planes might have taken a bit longer to catch on so fully in the civilian sector if the airship era hadn't ended so suddenly, but it would have happened soon enough due to its efficiency. 

Recalls. Large unknown corporations will likely be in their position by controlling smaller corporations. Consider how even in the real world, there are ten mega-corporations that are the source of just about everything we eat. If they're becoming powerful enough to actively wage war on each other, they probably act as an umbrella corporation over some of these ten. Then they fake some data that gets sent to their holdings. Turns out that there's a strain of [insert generic bug like E. Coli] in the [food]! We need to recall all of the [food] shipped out to the stores in the past two weeks! Recalls happen all the time. Nobody will really care. People pretended to care about the Chipotle health issues earlier this year, but that hasn't stopped many people from eating there. You get a temporary dip in public approval ratings, but your profits aren't affected, especially when you take on the cost of dealing with all of the disposal. The stores will ship the [food] to a disposal location, say, Abbeville, South Carolina, the corporation reimburses them for the shipment, and the [food] is then moved from the trucks into the secret base. Alternatively: You could just ship the food to the base yourselves. Drive down an interstate highway some time, and count how many big semi-trucks you see. One time as a kid, I counted over three hundred on the road between Milwaukee and Chicago. You can pack a ton of food onto a truck and just ship it to Abbeville, and nobody will think twice of another truck on the road. If anyone asks, just say that you're testing the savings that could be gotten by building a distribution center there. Better yet, actually do build a distribution center there, so that you'll have trucks coming and leaving constantly. As long as nobody is actively measuring how much food comes in and comes out, you can say that you're holding things in storage there and they'll never know the truth. 

What is the nature of the appearance; What type of ground is the manor on; and Where did the manor really come from. 

Assuming 21st century health care so that women can survive birth and their children survive to adulthood and there's a social system to support the children, then look at modern countries, you could reasonably foresee a Total Fertility Rate of 6 or more (on average a woman gives birth to 6 children during her reproductive period). Combine that with an Infant Mortality Rate equal to the best around now, which is less than 1%. Assume no dicking around with sex selection, so you get the rough 50/50 split in births you'd expect, with equal expectations of growing up. Assume you have only 3 generations alive at any one time. Each generation, we'll take of 1% or so of newborns to represent infant mortality. Each generation represents all the children born to women of the generation before. So, Generation 0 has 50 men and 50 women, total population 100. Generation 1 has 149 men, 149 women (average 6 children from each Gen 0 couple, with a 1% or less infant mortality rate), total population 398 (Gen 0 + Gen 1). Generation 2 has 443 men and 443 women, total population 1,284 (Gen 0 + 1 + 2). Generation 3 has 1,316 men, 1,316 women, total population 3,816 (Gen 1 + 2 + 3). Generation 4 has 3,909 men, 3,909 women, total population 11,236 (Gen 2 + 3 + 4). And so on: here's the summary of total population: 

Hotshot transporting. For the uninitiated: "Hotshots" are unscheduled, emergency courier deliveries, typically industry related. Say an oil rig drilling in the foothills in Alberta breaks a hydraulic pump and needs a replacement right away. They call a hotshot company to pick up the replacement at a supplier and deliver it to the rig, whatever the time of day or night. Because of the nature of the business, many hotshots are small businesses, perhaps only a single person with a pickup. Their cargo tends to be small, and they're on call 24/7. Even a larger company offering hotshot services may contract out the actual work to independent drivers. This is ideal for your teleporters. All they have to do is have someone show up at the supplier with a small truck, grab the item, go to a hideout they run, and teleport the cargo to another place of theirs with an identical vehicle closer to the delivery site, which they then use to make the delivery. They putter around for a while before showing up with the delivery, slightly faster than someone theoretically could driving the whole way, but not too much faster. Say they were transporting a part from Edmonton to Calgary. A normal drive is about 3 hours, but they show up in two hours fifteen minutes. That kind of time is possible, but you'd have to be speeding to pull it off, not have any traffic or other delays, so on and so forth. So how do you make the money? First, you get a rep for fast delivery, which bring you business. Second, you save a fortune on fuel and maintenance: your trucks aren't driving nearly as much or as far. Third, you're more efficient. In the above example, if you were delivering a part from Edmonton to Calgary, at least half the trip is waste because you're traveling empty. If you can teleport the cargo, then after the driver teleports his cargo from Edmonton to Calgary, the vehicle is still there in Edmonton to handle other business; it's not tied up for at least 6 hours going to Calgary and back. Even your teleporter can get in on it. In the time they spend killing to pretend to be driving, they can also be doing other short jobs. Now, someone doing an in-depth audit would note that the mileage shown on the vehicles doesn't and gas expenditures add up, but if you're careful and pay taxes and follow normal rules, the odds of someone actually looking would be minimal, especially if your claimed deductions are truthful (you really only claim the fuel you burned). And due to the nature of the service, odds are no one would notice anything strange. 

I will assume that there exists a centralized semi-autocratic government which can enforce all these ideas, at the cost few civil liberties, and has sufficient basic resources. The best possible situation is when you see humans as resources to optimize and invest in. Cities and Buildings City designs and building designs would be completely different, most building would consist of both residential, retail, entertainment, school/university and work. Most people will work, reside and be capable of living in the same building drastically reducing travel time. All buildings would conserve space, resources and be utilitarian, rather than a status symbol. Even things inside the houses would be utilitarian all costly decorative things would be discouraged. Some devices or objects would communal for maximum efficiency and usage. Travel Cars/Vehicles would be fully automated, the reason it is hard to make a self driving car is that AI has to compensate for human errors. By enforcing mandatory automated vehicles, you can bypass the problem increasing efficiency and speed. Air Travel would be very limited, a rare luxury, same for Cruises, and any form of recreational vacations. Most transport vehicles/ships used for inter-city trade would be limited to essential raw materials. Any objects which adds to transport would a luxury, this includes but not limited to artisan products, crops/plants/animals which do not get cultivated locally, ornamental objects. Energy We currently have technology to make 100% safe nuclear reactors with no radiation leakage, which automatically shuts down to avert possible catastrophe, without the stigma associated most of energy will come from nuclear with some renewable. Centralized energy efficiency would lead to automated factories shutting down at evening to accommodate the increase in usage due to people returning homes. Energy intensive systems would work nights and afternoons. Unused public lights, house lights would automatically and if necessary remotely shut down. Refrigerators, ACs, heater would be forced to run at limited near optimal range of temperatures. Computer Computers will always be connected to decentralized system which will be used to spy, delegate excess computational capabilities, information from people will be used help them psychological and used to assign optimal jobs. Blockchain and other better technology will be used to optimize all possible resources. Centralized education to enforce ideas and culture of conservation. Others Standardized components, limited choice, mass producible objects, a system similar to decentralized communism. Having a hobby would become a luxury. Outdoor entertainment would be replaced by online games. Guns, weapons and military would be limited to bare essentials. Religion would be non existent, or be forced to spread the values of optimization and cooperativeness. Spying would allow easy detection crime and fraud. Even forcing only genetically better hand picked in-vitro babies. Democracy and free media would be banned/restricted as it starts propaganda warfare, all jobs/positions would be merit based. There would be a lot cultural changes forced upon people.