I'm pretty short (5' 2") would this be a hinder in my chances getting into the team or have any significance as to what position I play in the team? It will certainly have a negative effect, but that should not discourage you. You need to specialise, and make sure your height does not hinder your game. A great role-model is Nate Robinson who is 5' 9" and has been performing against big boys in the NBA. To make my point, here's a video of him blocking Yao Ming (7' 6"). As for positions, I suppose it's reasonable to say that you will be playing PG or SG, depending on your particular skills and on your teams squad. What is the main thing I have to worry about over the summer, if I want to tryout for the school's team? Well, this is a tough question, especially without knowing what you are good/bad at. I suppose you need to improve your game overall, dribbling, passing shooting.. you name it. Oh and focus on your vertical leap to negate the effect of your height. I would also "scout" the teammates, and the coach, it might give you insights as to what kind of player the team needs the most. Good luck! 

I agree with the basic exercises concept. Passing and shooting are by far the most important aspects of the game at that age. Some exercises that will probably be fun for them: 

Juventus-Real Madrid Champions League semi-final game is being played now and I am completely dumbfounded by how Carvajal managed to get away without seeing a card in connection with the penalty situation. The facts are: 

I have been looking for a replacement basketball, and thought of getting the new Euroleague ball, which Euroleague sells from its official store for 80€. 

Red card means suspension, however how long the player gets suspended might vary. If the player was shown a second yellow card, and thereby a red card. He typically misses the next game. On the other hand if the player gets a direct red it's often a longer suspension. I recall something about a two-match default suspension (against which you can appeal) and a referral to the discipline committee, for possibly longer suspension. But I can't find a clear cut reference about it. At any rate the following is what the English Football Association has about suspensions: 

This will change dramatically based on the tactic employed by the manager, and the position a player plays in but typically midfielders run the most and cover about 10-11 km over 90 mins. Beyond 11 km is not unheard of but is considered to be a "hard-worker", especially 12+ km. Those players would typically be central midfielders with defensive focus, alternatively defensive midfielders. References: 

The Eurobasket 2015 homepage is a disaster IMHO, although I can find simple information about players, I can't sort players by physical attributes or age etc. Are there any pages which follow up the championship that have better roster pages? Alternatively is it possible to find the entire list of players (with stats) in raw text which I can play around with in R? 

Best leagues in Europe are almost always on pay channels, which end up cashing in serious sums of money from fans, especially from pubs and cafés that show the game to their guests. In some countries you could see ads added on the dead spots on the pitch (e.g. behind the goals) and even overlaid on the fans sometimes. It's pretty annoying to have invasive ads like that but public channels don't have many other options that to rake in as much money from ads as they can. 

As mentioned by others it is a part of the game. To understand it better you need to realize that football is a contact sport (not as much as rugby but still) and it's physically demanding. For that very reason players (especially in amateur divisions) will use physical intimidation as a way of winning the ball. Keep in mind that, going into a tackle if you are thinking that you might be hurt or whatever, you've pretty much already lost the ball. :) That being said you do not need to start kicking people around, or strangle them by hanging on their shirts. In terms of pushing I believe you mean shoulder challenge whilst running. In that scenario it's very important to take stable steps, so that you have a solid balance when you take on the player. See to that the contact happens in your terms, as in be mentally and mechanically ready for the collision, and try to make sure that you go in with your hip or your shoulder. These are stronger joints, that way hopefully the momentum of the collision will not get your off your balance. If you are referring to pushing while keeping/shielding the ball, then you might need to get a bit dirty. A lot of players will play rough in an attempt to intimidate opponents from reaching to the ball. Try to tilt his/her balance by pushing your opponent off balance. It helps trying to pay attention to how stable his/her stance is and how his/her weight is distributed. Trivial example; if the opponent has one leg on the ball and using his body to shield the ball, you obviously want him to move his pivot leg to block your movement. WHile that leg is in motion, the player is off balance and will most likely lose the ball if you push in a bit yourself. These are my two cents, hope I didn't misunderstand your question. Good luck and keep in mind to have fun out there in the field. That's what matters really ;) 

I used to have pretty hard shots up until I had a persistent injury to my lower back, probably due to sedentary workdays coupled with irregular training. Well, a few months of physiotherapy and changing my work environment I have overcome this injury now and play football without any problems... except my shots seems to have withered altogether. I can run, tackle, dribble but have no real intensity in my shots these days. That got me thinking; what does the shot power really depend on? What distinguishes players with incredibly hard/fast shots from others? Something I find particularly interesting is that there is no direct dependance on the body frame of the player, in other words some small and thin player can still have tremendous shots despite being undersized compared to others. So it's not all about being pumped.. As a follow-up, how can one improve his/her shot power? 

Seeing that Del Bosque is insisting on playing without a real striker in the Euro games, I came to wonder whether the 4-6-0 tactic he's trying to implement really ever worked for a team at this level. On a side note, one could say that Torres is not on his top form, but Llorente is an amazing striker who constantly gets underestimated, and pretty much ignored in the national team. Interesting enough I believe their gameplay overall would lift having a player who takes deep runs and has some presence in the box. So over all it's clear to me that it's a matter of choice rather than making due with a limited squad. Any such examples from the history? 

In an amazing comeback Seahawks got a TD less than a minute on the clock. The running back Marshawn Lynch seemed to fumble the ball, which was then picked up by the center and carried in the end zone. I realize that the score was reviewed, but not sure on what grounds... What was the final decision in that case and which rules govern that situation? Edit: Perhaps the question wasn't clear enough. What I am asking is: 

Besides the basic concept above, there is the mental aspect of the game. I have never been a good dribbler so I cannot tell you how you avoid "freezing up". I can only say that the moments where I somehow out-played the defender against me, is when I was too tired or caught-up-in-the-moment to think what I was gonna do, but just did it. It works wonders, not thinking but just doing. So my best advice is out of a Nike ad: "JUST DO IT" :)