It depends somewhat on your relationship with company A. If company A is basically what I call a "body shop" - a way for company B to avoid having to deal with independent contractors - I'd describe myself as working for company B. If on the other hand company A is a services organization, and you get sent from one company B to another, with your tasks assigned by managers from company A, then it makes more sense to describe company A as your employer. As for the title - if you work for a company with non-standard titles, or extremely broad vague ones, it may make sense to use an accurate 1-3 word role description as the "title" on your resume. Your goal is for the reader to understand what you were doing. 

So, I've been getting a variety of emails attempting to recruit me for years. Some are worth responding to; others are clear misfits, or look like the sender never actually read my LinkedIn profile. This I understand. But over the past year or so, I've been getting repeated low quality recruitment emails from the same source, with the followups having text like "Just wanted to follow up one last time to see if you would be interested in hearing more about xxxxx! Please let me know and I would be happy to set up a quick chat!" It's not one recruiter or one company, and it's in-house recruiters as well as body shops. The main thing they have in common is that the original email feels generic, or in some cases is peddling obviously unsuitable positions. What I'm wanting to understand is when and why recruiters send these emails. Does it imply anything about their difficulty in filling the position(s) they are peddling? Does it imply anything about their evaluation of the email recipient (me)? Or is it most likely just that they've adopted a new (and annoying) practice of retries even for generic stable-building, perhaps encouraged by some new recruiting software package? [Edit: I'm asking about the meta-recruiter spam in particular - spam encouraging me to respond to earlier spam from the same recruiter. Some answers seem to just apply to recruiter spam in general.] 

There's a very useful principle, KISS Keep It Simple Stupid Never make anything more complicated than it needs to be. If something might be re-used in the future, that doesn't mean you write the re-use now. Write what you need now for the features you need now. Of course that doesn't mean you don't think of the future. This is where the tricky balance comes in. Do not write in ways that will prevent re-use in the future, but at the same time do not try and think ahead of time of all possible future requirements. I can almost guarantee that the future requirements when they come will not match your flexible class and you will end up needing to change it anyway. So this is why simplicity is key. The class should be simple, and easy to understand, and easy to refactor in the future as more requirements are known. Once you realise that no matter what you do your code will need to be refactored in the future then it becomes clearer what you need to do. All the properties of good behaviour like loose coupling, easy understanding, single responsibilities, etc are about making it simpler and safer to do that refactoring. Making an all-singing-all-dancing class will end up with you building a lot of features that are not needed and at the same time not providing the one feature that it turns out is actually needed. 

It most likely means that they don't have anyone with relevant experience able to test you so they are relying on you to honestly describe your skills. They are then trying to evaluate your honesty to decide how to accept that. This is what references, employment history, interviews and suchlike are about after all. I've had similar things before, I was interviewed for a Java coding job and the guy interviewing me was technical but not Java. He tried to give me a Java test and I could tell almost instantly he wasn't very familiar with Java. In my case that didn't matter as I wasn't exaggerating my skills but if I had been so inclined I could easily have blagged my way through the test with only limited Java knowledge. In fact after I was hired they put me on all future Java hires to do a proper Java test. Until they had a senior Java dev they knew they couldn't test it properly but were just doing the best they could with what they had. This may actually even be a good sign - this could be your chance to build something new from the ground up and be in at the start. 

The world has moved on. Normal email etiquette from the Usenet days simply looks weird to most people, and cannot be accomplished conveniently with many email clients. There are some areas where the old rules still apply, notably the mailing lists of many open source projects. But every employer I've encountered recently uses either Microsoft Exchange + Outlook or Gmail as the company standard. Outlook can manage plain text, but has pretty much no support for the rest of old fashioned email etiquette. I currently send some office emails in plain text, but only because the default fonts on our Korea office PCs mixed badly with the default fonts on our California office Macs, and going to plain text was the easiest way to stop inconveniencing my Korean colleagues. But I reply to incoming messages in the format received; I don't even update subject lines when the thread morphs (Outlook doesn't follow the appropriate email headers, threading solely based on subject line, AFAICT, so changing the thread name creates confusion.) And I stopped pruning the 20 past messages off the bottom of my replies once I realized that some versions of Outlook show you prior messages in the thread by using the attached quotation spew, not by looking at the prior emails. I suggest you tailor your email style to the recipient, and consider using two separate email clients, and possibly two separate addresses - one for open source lists and your old technical friends from way back when; another for non-technical people and most younger techies. On the specific question - plain text emails are OK, but 72 character lines with hard breaks won't make you popular. And messing up quoted text is a bad plan. My personal policy - Outlook-style emails at work; mutt-style emails at home, with my spam filters prejudiced against html emails, particularly those with no alternate plain text version. When I need to communicate with an html-addict from a personal address, I use an alternate email account. 

You feel bad because you are being asked to lie (by omission) to someone you are working with. That's a natural feeling, it's only human. Unfortunately though needing to keep information you know quiet is quite common in business so it's a skill you will need to aquire. Telling anyone by "back channels" is a really bad idea so your only options basically are either telling your boss that you aren't comfortable (in which case they will most likely avoid telling you things in future), working out how to live with it, or quitting. The latter seems like an over-reaction. :) For all you know your boss is right now working out the best way to reallocate resources to allow the project to work successfully but fix whatever it is that is causing them to make the change. You interfering could jeopardize that process by causing a stink before he has finished his proposal, and at the same time will place you into the firing line. On the other hand though this could well be an inter-departmental politics situation happening way above your head. Sticking your nose in could be unhealthy. If it is a power struggle between two people playing office politics you really don't want to get involved. Getting dragged into that sort of nonsense very rarely ends well for anyone. The thing to ask yourself is whether you are being asked to do anything unethical. Personally I'd say that this request isn't great, really departments in one company should be "on the same side". Keeping confidential information confidential though is part of any job with any level of seniority at all, no matter how closed the loop is on that confidential information. And that's all you have been asked to do. 

Really it depends on what you are asking for and why. If you went to your company and said that you wanted to take an extra 2 months unpaid leave every year they would probably not be too happy. On the other hand if you said to them that you wanted to take 3 months unpaid leave as a once off to travel the world they are likely to be more agreeable. There's no guarantee, but if you can organize things to the company so you take time out during a quiet period then a surprising number of companies will agree to it. After all the experience and motivation that you gain during that time will add value to the company when you return. I was recently offered a contract where they wanted me to fill in for someone because he was taking 6 months out to go volunteer for a charity in Africa. In that case the company weren't just allowing the unpaid leave but willing to pay contractor rates to get someone in to replace him for that time!