No. CaO will not exist in most environments for any significant time in the presence of CO2, it will react to form CaCO3. I doubt CaO is the primary source of Ca in our world. Silicates are likely the original source of Ca in our oceans $URL$ CaCO3 will partially dissolve or corrode in water to form an aqueous solution of Ca +2 + 2 HCO3 -. The dissolution of the CaCO3 in water is an equilibrium reaction based on the acidity and temperature of the water, this is why the acidification of the oceans is a concern for our marine life. I am not a chemist or a biologist but organisms will extract the aqueous Ca +2 ions found in the water to form shells etc. Because these organisms are not evenly distributed in the ocean their shells and skeletons will and have accumulated the CaCO3 in distinct areas. 

I have found a wealth of information using Harmonic Constituents to calculate tide levels. H(t) = Amplitude * cos ( t * harmonicSpeed + phase lag). Yet when I try to apply this to constituents from the NOAA the results never match the tables produced. I have since found that the NOAA constituents require an additional term, the Equilibrium value with the resulting constituent function looking more like H(t) = Amplitude * cos ( t * harmonicSpeed + EquilibriumValue + phase lag). I am looking for any hints on how this Equilibrium value is calculated or derived. Addendum: The constituents are found here, this for San Diego, Ca Constituents for San Diego. Sorry cannot find the source of the Equilibrium value but will when I get home from work. 

Your image looks very similar to rocks we get here on the West Coast of Vancouver Island. We have some rock boring bivalves that will effectively drill into the rock which breaks off and erodes into a shape similar to what you are showing. $URL$ or $URL$ There are also echinoderms that will bore into rocks, Strongylocentrotus purpuratus, $URL$ $URL$ but the holes from these creatures tend to be larger than the image you present. I a confident that the holes are created by some form a boring bivalve. 

The thing is, we don´t have any instruments(to my knowledge) to measure the intensity of that radiation. But, we measure the intensity of atmospheric emission from space with satellites, which is seen as the "effective temperature". Logically this is the same as the net radiation downwards. And heat transfer then confirms that no net radiation arrives at the surface. Which is equal to "no radiation at all". Because "net" radiation is the only radiation that can heat anything. There are lots of people claiming that measurements done with IR sensors and pyrgeometers confirm backradiation. This is not true and it is based on a misunderstanding of the function of the device, as well as misapplication of the stefan-boltzmann equation. Both IR-thermometers and pyrgeometers use the s-b equation in combination with a thermocouple or thermopile(pyrgeometer). They are both a kind of more advanced and more sensitive thermometers. The thermopile consist of a sensor measuring a gradient across itself indirectly by changes in resistance acting on a current through the thermopile. So, by determining the gradient in the thermopile, it can sense the amount of heat transferred to the surroundings using the s-b equation. When someone claims measurements show "back-radiation", they refer to measurements done with these devices. As most interested people understand, a measurement of heat transfer away from the device, cannot show incoming radiation from a colder atmosphere. If you measure something hotter than the temperature of the thermopile, sure, then you have high accuracy. But a measurement of "back-radiation" from the atmosphere is per definition a measurement of something colder than the device. Because the atmosphere is almost always colder(exception is inversion, but that is not relevant). So any measurement of backradiation made from the surface, is a measurement of nothing. It is simply what the device doesn´t measure coming from the atmosphere. This is what I mean with "misapplication" of the s-b equation. It can not, and should not, be used that way. That is, to add flux densities that are not calculated as "net" transfer. In regards to your suggested experiment. Unless the gas is hotter than the instruments(if using IR-instruments), you will measure a heat sink, not any backradiation. And, yes, that is what greenhouse gases really are. Heat sinks. The earth emit its heat to the ultimate bottomless heat sink in space, the only observed infinity, and greenhouse gases are added heat sinks along the highway for heat, that leads to 3 Kelvin space. 

Building with timber is more sustainable than building with concrete at least in terms of the production of green house gases. A timber building is using a raw material, trees, that have been sequestering carbon till they are cut. Cement, or concrete, on the other hand is made by cooking off carbon dioxide from the calcium carbonate, limestone, to produce the lime which makes up a large part of the concrete. In the production of lime you have CO2 released from the limestone and from the fuels used to heat the limestone, see Lime in Wikipedia. In addition the timber panels are significantly lighter than the cement components which should also make the timber construction more sustainable. Most trees used for timber production are grown in sites that are not generally ideal for other types of agriculture, though this is a gross generalization. They get their phosphorous through local sources, primarily the soil, so forest growth wouldn't have an impact on the phosphorous used for agricultural processes. The following quote from the North Carolina State University project site summarizes the overall impact on timber construction. It is important to note that until the advent of CLT, cross laminated timber, it was effectively impossible to build larger structures out of wood. 

I am pretty sure that it is bulk or recycled glass. It might have been a discarded or lost piece left from previous users of the land. Glass rocks have also been used for landscaping which might fit with the discovery location. I haven't seen any natural rock with such blue and uniform coloration. At various rock stores you can find similar material, it is often called "Slag Glass". I encountered material very similar to it in Quartzite Arizona. Slag Glass Slag glass for sale Slag Glass on eBay 

Add a heat sink. A heat sink is an absorber of heat. So add co2, or dry ice as we usually call it. It is an excellent heat sink. 

I have made a modified blackbody model that predict earth temperature distribution with high accuracy. It doesn´t include mass or gases. It is based on the initial thought that all energy above surface is solar heat, and heat transfer must apply to the system. Just some simple modification to the perfect blackbody surprisingly enough gave very accurate results. I answered a question with these equations, but a moderator deleted it for unknown reasons. It is only numbers, and no speculation, so I really can´t understand why. The greenhouse effect uses The Stefan-Boltzmann equation to add fluxes, stacking them, and that is not allowed in thermal physics. It is a balance equation and should only be used for "net" transfer. I show why it is wrong to use an average value of solar irradiation over the whole surface area, it is because intensity is instantaneous. You cannot use average, because that means that the sun would only be ~5C. Or -18C depending on what solar average you use. Solar heat is about 105Celsius at TOA, that makes a big difference. I show how surface temperature and atmosphere temperature distribution is connected to the solar constant all the way. It is not shown here, but the model also show direct and total irradiation at zenith, with accuracy. Anyway, since it was deleted without explanation, I get the feeling of censorship, since it falsifies the greenhouse effect. Now I ask you. What is wrong with it?: I use Stefan-Boltzmann equation and temperature. Solar heat is absorbed according to the geometric difference between the blackbody and earth, two volumes with shells. $TSI/(4/3^2)$. And since only half the surface area is irradiated, $(1/2∗TSI)/(4/3^2)=383W/m^2$ or 286.7 Kelvin. The effective temperature is found by heat transfer to the surface and inverse square law, $1/4∗(TSI−((1/2∗TSI)/(4/3^2)))=244W/m^2$, or 256 Kelvin. Tropopause temperature: $((1/2∗TSI)/(4/3^2))−(1/4∗(TSI−((1/2∗TSI)/(4/3^2)))=138W/m^2$ or 222 Kelvin. As you can see, heat dominates everything, and just modifying the blackbody to observed differences, absorption in depth of a volume + irradiation of only half the surface, gives a accurate distribution of temperature. The numbers are, from my POV, unquestionable. Such a good fit falsifies the greenhouse immediately, especially since no experiments show the effect where cold gas can increase the intensity of the heat source heating it, which the theory claims. So, what are your opinions? 

Your rock looks like a concretion. The varying hardness of the layers are typical of concretions in many areas. I don't know exactly how they form but they occur in sediments or sedimentary rocks. Often the center contains some impurity or fossil that was likely the nucleus of the concretion when it formed. There are many locations with concretions. The Wikipedia page Concretion contains many examples and includes mention of a location in Kansas where concretions are found. 

The face of the rock with the round center portion looks strongly like a Rugosa or Horn Coral. I suggest it is a Rugosa coral because of the center with the radial lines out from the center and the clear edge surrounding the radial lines. See $URL$ 

The web site "Map Place" has a number of maps if you have internet explorer and can download an autodesk plugin. Table of Maps from Map Place I have used this site to find locations with limestone bedrock but also to find old claims to look for areas with unique mineral samples. I will caution you that the old claims in particular are not very accurately mapped. A lot of the initial locations are based on hip chain and hand compass surveying, or even worst based on a location pointed out on a topographic map. There has been little work to ground proof the old locations. Some of the locations can be 500 meters or more out which doesn't seem like much, that is until you end up in dense forest looking over a 70 hectare area for an audit or cut. Data collected since about 1994 and later started to be based on GPS ground measurements and are more accurate. The majority of data now collect is based on tighter location data. You may also find some issues with the datum used. A lot of older data is based from NAD27, but the transition to NAD83 and WGS84 was over a time period and the data collected during the transition time wasn't always recorded with the datum information. Obviously the accuracy issue will depend on how you plan to used the data, it is likely ok for displaying zones of interest on a map.