The above comments and answers are all really spot on. I just wanted to add that if you plan any group rides or get into more competitive riding, the CX bike will be noticeably slower. I rode in a good number of rides, and trained for a century on a CX. But after 50 miles of trying hard to keep up, i noticed how much more fatigued i would be compared to my friends and those in the group. I later picked up a nice full ultegra carbon road bike, and picked up 2- 3 mph, with less effort over a 50 mile average. 

I ride the same distance. And normally im a huge advocate for being clipped in both road biking and mountain biking. But for commuting i really like just having flat steel pedals with some teeth. I wear what ever shoe i feel like for the day. I ride a hybrid bike as well and often wear flip flops, running shoes or dress shoes. Proper riding position and a general level of cycling fitness should be more than enough to avoid leg pain. Also making sure you pedal with the ball of your foot centered on the pedal. I ride 200k a week between road cycling and mountain biking. So my commute is a bit more leisurely as I dont want to be sweaty and tired by the time i get there. 

Talcum powder, baby powder even flour will keep it from sticking to other items or itself. Long term storage you need to worry about the heat. if its older than a year i would worry about it dry rotting. 

Yes there are a few full suspensions in that range, they will be heavy, and mid to low level parts. Saving a bit longer and waiting (hard i know) Maybe £1200 - 1500 would get you much further. Your current bike is 17kg. a £1000 bike may only save you 1 - 2 kg. A nice hard tail within your budget would be very light (12 - 13kg) Another option would be a 29er. the bigger wheels, and high volume tires will really help with overall comfort and capabilities on rocky technical trails, while still being fast and lighter than the full suspension in that range (but likely still 14 - 15kg) 

On a road bike its probably a toss up. Seats can be raised or lowered. Stems can be brought in or out. As long as the standover is comfortable, you should be fine on the large. 

I say visit yakima and thule websites, and use their tools to see what and how their racks work. Im sure you have a short lost of cars you are interested in. The great thing about yakima and thule is that its fairly easy to change cars in the future with a small mount change. I have had the same rails and crossbars on 4 cars and each car change is generally less than a $60 change in clips, and i usually ebay the old ones. 2 door cars, and cars with built in factory rails also make it tough to fit some racks, or the cross bars end up too close and have stability issues. 

Chances are they misaligned the gears a little. I've snapped a few new chains and the most common circumstance is after I've messed with my gear indexing (I'd say "sorting out" but breaking a chain indicates it didn't work). There IS a chance that it's just a bad chain but it's also possible you did something wrong too. I'd call the bike shop and tell them and see what they say rather than accusing them. If you bought the chain online, call the online retailer and speak to them too. 

Unless the pedals have bonded to the thread in the cranks, a longer lever is usually the way. As that seems to have failed, I'd get the cranks off, pop them in a vice and drill the cranks out. 

If you're talking about an old specialized bike with biopace chainrings it may well be that the chain set is worn. Take a look at the chainrings and cassette and see how worn they are. Measure the chain and see if its stretched. I'd imagine you're going to find that the whole lot is just worn out and needs replacing. Whether you can find spares on ebay or a local store I can't say. Generally, given that biopace chain sets stopped being made in 93 you (or you plus previous owners) have had over 20 years of riding out of it at least so it's pretty good value. 

The BCD shouldn't make any difference to how the cranks work, just which chainrings you use. As long as the BB matches the cranks go ahead. 

A generic USB cable will have the Edge switch to storage mode but I've found the Garmin cables allow charging whilst using. I have an external battery pack which I used on day-long back-country rides in the alps and could plug it in whilst on a chairlift or at a bar without interrupting the tracking. Arguably I didn't need to but it does mean that when I get a USB dynamo hub I have the cable ready to go. 

If you're really that concerned, get a roll of 3M "copter tape" and cut it to the same size as the cleat. Given the cleat should never move, the most you should get is a bit of marking where the cleat sits which you'll never see as the cleat should never move (and it's helpful when you're replacing cleats) 

I have to say I never consider which pads I'll be using with rotors when I buy either. I buy organic for best stopping power and metallic for longest life (kevlar somewhere in the middle). For mountain biking, the weather and type of mud/grit you're riding on is a FAR greater killer of pads than a rotor; you can easily get through a new set of pads in a few hours in sandy and wet conditions. 

It's a Mongoose Detain frameset. Originally retailed for around 200 dollars at Walmart as a complete bike. Comparing the op's frame to the one above it's clear they're not the same if only because the backwards circle has a double seatstay sort of thing. Anyway, the frame matches a google image search so I'm 99% sure I'm right 

Anyone know of a bike trailer that is narrow (like a BOB Yak) for kids? We have a co-pilot trailer, but the width is pretty wide, often maxing out a sidewalk making it hard to pass or be passed. We have twin 4 year old boys and need an easier way to get them to and from school. Its a bit too far for them to ride on their own yet. 

Resting. A week out you need to be taking it easy. You dont have time for muscle recovering or time for injuries. Keep it easy, light rides if anything at all. I tend to stay low a week out. My last century i was in the top 75 of 500 riders with this method, and felt great on race day. 

I found that almost every Spy sunglass model can be made into an Rx lens. No insert, which i really like since inserts can be too close to my eyes, or fog too quickly. i use the Spy Logan which is a full wrap. The breathe well, and fit by large head. They are pretty affordable, and took the prescription well. 

Good rim brakes perform just as good as a light disc brake would. I love disc brakes on my mountain bike, And up till last year, I hated rim road brakes. But then i upgraded my road bike and the new one has Ultegra brakes. Wow they stop amazing. Flying down 2000ft descents over 5 miles with no issues at 45mph. 

If you are committed and serious about your biking, which sounds like you are if you already ride 120 a week, I think a road bike would have more pros than cons. Keep your other bike for the coffee shop and errands. I have a commuter hybrid bike that i dont mind locking up, getting groceries with, and such. I put on a chain guard and flat pedals and love the casual ride to the office. 

The fox shox are really hard to beat. I was 230 at one point and really threw a lot at my RL. Keep the air pressure up to the right PSI for your weight and lube those stanchions with a teflon lube. You'll get a decade of use out of that fork. 

Road bike tires are indeed different than what you are used to. IF your tires are aired up right (yes likely 100+ PSI per the sidewall recommendations) you should NOT be getting pinch flats. Avoid potholes and curbs. Yes you can hop a curb on a road bike, but but takes grace and a soft touch, and you have to pop up the back wheel a bit. you can not just pop the front and bash the back. Even with the right tire pressure you can break the rim. Glass is a road bike tire's worst enemy. It will slice or gash a tire. Also watch out for chunks of metal and bolts. I slit open a tire 3" on a piece of metal i failed to see. Braking power is a different thread. But good brakes will go a long way. I went years on cheap textro or low level shimanos and simply thought road bikes never stopped fast. Then i picked up some Ultegra's and wow what a difference. I now stop on a dime, just as fast if not faster than with dic brakes on my mountain bike. I have since added some shimano 105's to my commuter, and while not as good as my ultegras, they are 2x better than the stock junk. I picked up the 105 calipers used on ebay for $40. Worth a look. 

Most helmets (certainly the last 6 or 7 I've owned) have the pads held in by velcro so can be removed and washed or replaced. A lot of people I know wear either a headband or a "buff" (google it, it's a brand name) to help a bit with the sweat. All that said, I'm surprised your helmet pads don't dry out. I also live in Luxembourg and I can ride morning, noon and evening and each time come back to a mostly dry set of helmet pads. 

One option you're not considering is that the freehub body on your wheelset maybe be upgradable. Given you don't say what wheels they are but I assume given they're almost certainly disc hubs to use cx1 you may find this is an option. If you update saying what wheels you have on the rear and what hub it is then it's a good start 

There's a few possible answers: 1, For racing yes but as Jahaziel says, you will reach a point where either the effort is too great to increase speed or actually you're just spinning out 2, On a ride for fun or fitness there's no NEED to pedal downhill but I find that if it's downhill followed by an uphill it launches you into the hill with more momentum which at least starts the climb better 3, Obviously you might be trying to better a descent time in which case treat it like racing. Obviously all this is dependent on the conditions, your skill and your experience. 

Are the spokes correctly tensioned? You shouldn't get several mm of flex from a new wheel just from climbing or accelerating. 

If you're never walking on the cleats and can track-stand at junctions and traffic lights they should almost never wear out. There is minimal wear clipping in and out. The reds are 9 degrees of float before unclipping which may increase the wear though. I use the black cleats (0 degrees) and I wear out the bottom of the cleats through walking and stopping/starting long before I wear them out from riding. In fact, I'm on only on my second pair in 4 years. 

They are most likely bosses for a "Crud Catcher", a type of mudguard usually clipped to the downtube. Some frames allow them to be bolted to it rather than fastened on with rubber o-rings. 

Three things to check: 1, Is the bead seated correctly. It's pretty common to get tyres blowing off the rim if they're not seated correctly. That said, this usually leads to an exploding tube rather than the tyre just coming off 2, As Daniel R Hicks said, are the rims so worn they're expanding? 3, Check the rim for dings and warping as Malarky sort of says, but not just the area for the bead. You may have a bent rim Chances are, though, that the tyres are done. The pictures would make me think they're on their last legs. I had a pair of 20+ year old ones recently that ended up in the bin as they just weren't reliable enough for me. Some things aren't worth saving a few euros/pounds/dollars over, and the contact points on a bike are some of those things for me. If the rims seem fine new tyres are where I'd go.