This sounds like a complicated and overpowered version of an Einstein-Rosen bridge. Details about which can be found here. There are simpler and less overpowering ways to conceptually do what you want. An Ellis wormhole with Gauss-Bonnett gravity, which for your purposes you locate in scale space, is recommended as it will give wormhole travel without the fear of spaghettification. It also does away with exotic matter being needed to keep the wormhole open. The concept of stretching two black holes to form a giant wormhole is too full of unknowns to know whether it's conceptual feasible or not. It could pass the test of simply being a piece of scientific patter that sounds sciencey enough to provide all the rationalization your average reader needs to accept the concept. But if the two original black holes were rotating their combination, into a single black hole, might form a large Kerr black hole which might traversable. There are two problems with black holes. One, once you've formed one how to get rid of it. Two, black holes are so 1980s science fiction. Basically stay away from black holes and go for wormholes pure and simple. 

Your sugested ideas about what constitutes an animal are narrow. Basically, just vertebrates. Animals with bones and especially backbones. There are invertebrate animals that resemble plants, for example, sea anemones. Coral polyps also qualify. There is a whole range of sessile animals that sufficiently resemble plants. They are immobile organisms, usually in their adult form, and they lack chlorophyll. It is their immobility that makes them plant-like (superficially, at least), but their larval stages are highly mobile. The unicellular organism Volvox, which does form colonies, contains chloroplasts. It is both a plant and an animal. It is microscopic. There are also stick insects -- if camouflage fits your plant-animal category. In principle, it is possible to imagine there could exist alien lifeforms that camouflage themselves as plants and might even possess chloroplasts. The main drawback to plant-animal cross-over organisms is that photosynthesis doesn't confer much of an advantage. It would only supply, at best, a few percent of the energy intake for an animal. In general, animals can easily get all the energy they need by eating plants (herbivores) or other animals (carnivores) or both (omnivores). In principle, creatures with both animal and plant characteristics might exist. So they are possible, but most likely they are highly improbable. In a big enough universe even highly improbable organisms must exist somewhere. 

The only thing that seems capable of lifting a landmass the size of Staten island airborne or floating for around an hour before falling to earth again could be a form of antigravity. Having established the existence of antigravity, then that can be used to rescue people from the airborne deathtrap because it's no more advanced that the technology that got it airborne in the first place. So there! Since we now have antigravity, send in squads of police, armed force, ambulance corps, fire fighters and emergency services volunteers who will fly in courtesy of the standard antigravity flight-suits that would be standard equipment for rescue and emergency personnel. While they can fly individuals from the floating landmass to the ground, but this will take too long. Hundreds of floating antigravity loudspeakers are sent over the landmass and its 500,000 people. Order them to run to the edges of the floating landmass and jump off. A large-scale antigravity field will allow all the falling people to waft gently to the ground (but most definitely not in the impact area). Persons with a fear of heights and who will be unable to jump off any floating landmass, will be transported to the ground by the personnel with antigravity backpacks and/or flight-suits. The people who jump will enjoy the wonderful experience safely to the ground. Those who are transported to the ground by individual fliers will do so with with eyes firmly shut. Some of whom may simply to have kept their eyes closed as the fliers might simply transport from them deep inland of Staten island, carry them to the edge where the Staten Islanders can be dropped into the gentle arms (metaphorically speaking) of the large-scale antigravity (AG) field. Because a large-scale AG field is operating below Staten Island this will in all likelihood extend the time Staten island is a floating landmass. But it also allows the setting up of an even larger scale AG field to keep Staten island airborne for as long as it takes to evacuate everybody. There remains the minor problem of what to do with the floating landmass that Staten island has become, but this WB SE question isn't about that, so I will leave that as an exercise for the reader. Personally, and this is just me, I'd waft the runaway Staten Island to where it originally came from and allow to gently settle back down to terra firma and it can resume being the Island New Yorkers love and cherish. YMMV. I am sure people will be aware this requires a lot of social organisation to enable squads of trained personnel equipped with antigravity to rush to rescue of people trapped on floating landmass. Also the ability to deploy antigravity field generators capable capturing falling people and lower them gently to the ground. Good points! However, once antigravity is available then will be always the chance that some megalomaniac will fling landmasses the size of Staten Island in the direction of Up and suitable countermeasures will be put in place, in advance, to take care of emergencies like this. if you want to protest -- But antigravity isn't part of today's tech kit. Yes how true. But if we didn't have antigravity, then there's no way Staten island would be sailing through the air for an hour before crashing. No need to rescue anybody. Basically you can't have one without the other. You know it makes sense. 

The potentially world changing entities, of course, will notice. Either in their own right or through the agency of observers acting as their proxies. They have the chance to make the statement: "Joe will never know or be aware we exist. If Joe even suspects we exist, that thought will be immediately blotted from his mind, leaving no trace in his memory. Nothing Joe changes will change or affect us and our observers. Joe will never say anything to affect or change us." This safeguards the other world changing entities. Now they might decide to set up a control to Joe's world changing activities. This can be any ordinary person like Fred or Marge whose memories will be engineered by the other world changing entities to be unaffected by Joe's world changing statements. The only other way has already been proposed by Matt Bowyer and would have been by Erik (if Matt hadn't struck first). Namely, that Joe himself nominates someone to remember despite his changes. Thanks, guys, for beating me to this solution too. There was one other faint possibility worth considering. That, irrespective of what Joe says, the world changes require his intention about what changes. There could be things and people who exist in our world about which or whom Joe is unaware. If so, when the world changes including its past these people and things remain unchanged. For example, a Mongolian taxi driver with a PhD in nanotechnology (a category of person Joe had no inkling existed and therefore wasn't changed by Joe's latest edict) might wake up to discover Joe was now president of the USA when yesterday it had been Bernie Sanders. If the world changes were mediated by 'something' that had to interpret his words about what world change he wanted, and possibly had to reconcile this with his intentions. There is the possibility that some persons or things will be left behind unchanged. perhaps over time as more and more the world is transformed by Joe less and less will remain behind unchanged. In which case, during the early phases of Joe's world changing he might be confronted by Mongolian taxi drivers waving their nanotechnology PhD degrees in his face and demanding to know why the world keeps changing. "Don't worry," said Joe. "I'll soon fix it." 

The blue trait has a recessive gene. This is demonstrated by the fact that where both parents are blue non-trait (J & K) and trait (L & M), at least, one progeny has the trait. This is simple Mendelian genetics. 

Ground truth is a term used by geologists in surveying what the structure of a piece is like. Robot probes will be sent, but manned reconnaissance will also be dispatched. Because after several generations in transit to another planetary system it will be necessary to have living humans touch down on a planet to get a sense of what it's like to be on a planet again and how well they adapt to the experience. Readjustment to planetary life will be a major factor. Plus there will be preparatory work to be done prior to landing more personnel. Things like landing sites, habitats, manufacturing centres, and possibly farms and gardens to feed the settlers. Also, they may want to do research into any lifeforms on the planets before humans come in and trample the landscape. To survey, record and investigate the pristine environment. If there are any sapient inhabitants somebody has to start talking to them because there will have to a lot of adaptation and accommodation. Possibly, inhabited planets will be forbidden for human settlement. But from the perspective of the native sapients they have to share their planetary system with occupying aliens. Somebody has to do all this work. We can't let robots have all the fun. 

I doubt if this scenario of plant life above the clouds is feasible for an earthlike planet. Apologies if this deviates from your earthlike environment starting point. It's just that there are other possibilities worth considering. However, there might be autotrophic, photosynthesising aeolian or windborne organisms drifting above the cloud layers of a hot jupiter. Organisms of this type might be not quite plants as we know them, but closer to metazoan versions of volvox species. Creatures that have plant-like stages in their life histories or which may revert to plant-like phases due to environmental conditions. While they have animal-like phases at other times. Sort of plant-animals. The volvox reference is for comparison to something similar here on Earth. Hot jupiters would have the winds to support soaring or drifting lifeforms. Plus they would be close enough to the primary stars for lots of sunlight. The light and heat conditions on a hot jupiter should produce huge quantities of prebiotic molecules to kickstart the evolution of life there. Probably, more than enough for a rich biosphere. Life will colonise every available niche. This will include the atmosphere and winds above the clouds.