A related consideration is that before a cow, particularly a male cow, becomes food, it is also a major source of muscle power for all manner of purposes from hauling sledges (carts would only come thousands of years later), to clearing forests, to ploughing fields. I've seen other members of the Bos genus of several species used in this capacity, but I've seen a lot of American Bison (the city where I live owns its own Bison herd), yet I've never seen one used as a beast of burden and I seriously doubt that Bison would be well suited to this role. Bos also has a longer lifespan than Bison (36 v. 25 years in captivity and proportionately less in the wild). If meat is the primary objective, this makes Bison is superior, but if you want a beast of burden, you would prefer a longer lived animal. This fact is suggestive of the idea that cattle may have been domesticated primarily as a source of power for horticultural efforts and only secondarily as a food source in its own right. A beast of burden first, food source second model is also consistent with the reality that eating the grains that cattle eat directly is about tens times as efficient a source of calories as eating beef. You don't want to waste precious grain growing capacity on cattle feed and thereby reduce the percentage of grain grown available to feed people on cows, unless the cows can do work that increases total grain production by more than their own dietary needs reduce food production. Getting enough calories was the primary consideration in the early Neolithic period - population densities were increasing by a factor of as much as 100 fold as quickly as population growth could get it there, while calories per person actually fell from the previous hunter-gatherer era to the early Neolithic before humans had fully mastered farming. So there would be considerable pressure to use domesticated beasts of burden the wasted less calories than Bison would. Another piece of corroboration for the beast of burden first, food source second model for cow domestication is the popularity of the mule on small family subsistence farms in the U.S. as late as the mid-19th century (recall the swan song of "40 acres and a mule"). It is much harder to cultivate enough crops to feed an entire family without a beast of burden than it is to do so with one. But, mules are even smaller than cows which makes them desirable on a small farm because they eat less, yet are still big enough to get the beast of burden jobs done and are more manageable than cows. Did you know that cows kill more humans every year in the U.S. than poisonous spiders, gila monsters, snakes and sharks combined? Mules, not so much. The benefits of mules relative to cows as beasts of burden on small farms like those of the early Neolithic era due to their smaller size would apply equally to smaller than modern cows relative to European Bison which were apparently bigger and wilder than American Bison. 

Biological Reason for Low Incidence Rate: There is some genetic detail of the force so that can't be easily passed on. Maybe sensitivity is a non-inheritable genetic mutation. Maybe it requires an additional chromosome similar to a favorable down syndrome or Turners. Maybe a mother, especially one who is not force sensitive, will be damaged by a force sensitive fetus resulting in a miscarriage or maternal death. There are many ideas for this, some interesting and some limiting storywise. Lack of Reproduction Among Upper Class: I don't think this takes much explanation as it is a real phenomenon. Rich families often produce fewer children than individuals with less wealth. Explain this in your world, however, you like: they don't want to sacrifice their me time raising them; private schooling (force training) is expensive; too busy working since they have the hard ruling party jobs; their religion dissuades attachment or sex. This won't help a specific noble family, however, unless they wait too long to start trying. Culling: It is dark but good for story. Someone seeks out and kills younglings. Maybe it is a secret organization. Maybe it is public knowledge. Be creative as to why. Maybe they aren't killed but kidnapped...how is that for a story? Other Removal from Gene Pool: Force users are likely to become infertal (or specifically unable to bring force sensitive children to sexual maturity). This would be best if it has nothing to do with the force but is a result of inbreeding to try and produce force sensitive children. Accidental Self Injury: Force users can do amazing things but they don't realize the downside. Some force sensitive children experience SIDS as they use their powers without control on themselves as infants. Older ones playing with their abilities don't know how limited their self control is...until it is too late. Maybe all of them incur some degree of physical damage to their body through the use of their powers and that leads to chronic illness or acute fatal symptoms a fraction of the time. Asymmetric Heritage: This is different from 1 but similar. Midoclorians (I don't care enough to check spelling) are inspired by mitochondria. These are passed on only from mother to child. Maybe only the mother can pass on the force so the father's procreation rate doesn't matter. Not knowing this, the matriarch of the family is the result of adultery/secret adoption and, as they bring in force sensitive male suitors, nothing helps. The remaining force sensitive men obviously can't do anything, as much as they get to try, unless they mate with the force sensitive woman who can't just be paid to act as livestock for breeding. 

Notably, despite the fact that Northern Ireland's Protestant majority is largely a result of migration from the Scottish borderlands (which also was the primary source for the population of Appalachia in the U.S.), no one has ever seriously proposed merging Northern Ireland and Scotland into one political unit to which its ethnically Irish Catholic minority feels no ties. 

Puerto Rico would declare its long overdue independence. It might not join the DSA. It would have historically strong ties to the Federated States of Greater New England where many Puerto Ricans live, and would fear military aggression from the SAC. It might seek stronger diplomatic ties with Mexico and other countries in Latin America and might join a Latin American equivalent to the DSA that might emerge in the face of less predictable neighbors in Anglo North America. Alaska annexed to Canada. This would probably be a poor fit culturally and leave succession rumblings sounding on and off. Alaskans are cold weather cowboys and not a "civilized" as Canadians. Canada wouldn't be part of the DSA. But, given the great distances involved and the small number of people involved, there might be enough elbow room to prevent conflicts from bubbling over. Alaska might be broken into several parts - a Northern and Bering Strait Alaskan territory, a coastal greater Juneau province, and a greater Anchorage province, perhaps, to more manageably integrate it into Canada since it might be hard to digest whole. The U.S. Virgin Islands would merge with the British Virgin Islands and would absorb other Caribbean U.S. possessions (except Guantanamo Bay which Cuba would reclaim) making it part of the U.K. It wouldn't be part of the DSA and few people would notice the difference. With the U.K. Navy defending it, it wouldn't have to worry about military and international affairs. 

I don't believe my own answer but Mars One claims that they will send up the first colonists who will live the rest of their lives there in 2024. While it will depend on delieveries for maintenance items, this is very soon. If funded and supported, one would expect the technology we currently have would allow us to make it self sustainable within 20 years after that. I am not fully convinced, however, that their predictions/plans are reliable. I also do not believe that they will be able to make it completely self supported. Please note that mining and agriculture are very necessary for a physical structure to be build/repair itself and that is going to take time to setup. While the computer systems will reasonably be able to be replaced via shipments, the eventual colony would need very advanced manufacturing inorder to construct these replacement components. This is by no means a simple goal and it would require many people to operate. 

I think you need to figure out what your selkies are. If you want their folklore, you should ask this on mythology. As this is worldbuilding, your selkies are subject to your decisions. Selkies, to me, always felt like the result of either a fairie magic or the mystery of the sea taking people and turning them into seals. As they breed, some of their offspring can shed this magical skin and visit land. They, however, miss their family and the world they were born in. You could, however, easily reverse this by making true seals be turned into humans by their own or some third party's magic. Alternatively, you say they are a creation of nature the same as seals and fairies and have just always existed. If it is the first, they are essentially human but foreigners. They have all of the same instincts, feelings, behaviors as us but are not familiar with our specific customs. If they have no human origin, expect them to be mockups of a human. They may be kind and social but, for instance, they won't understand facial expressions or be able to learn language as a whole anywhere near as well. The first group may be able to talk immediately after leaving the water (if in a different tongue). The latter will be more silent. Personally, I would suggest you look to folklore and to the most familiar selkie story in modern times: "The Little Mermaid". Yes I know she is a mermaid technically. She is, however, a sea half-humanoid who shed her aquatic skin and came ashore looking human. Despite being from a different world and having difficultly communicating, she falls for and marries a human. This is clearly a "mostly human origin" version of course. This means that she behaves and acts like a playful (hey seals) young human who understands humans emotions and behaviors. She is, however, excited and vexed by what humans consider mundane. This is an easy but fun character to deal with. 

Air Force In the Air Force, very few personnel actually enter the "battlefield" on a plane, about 95% of the personnel supporting each aircraft are ground crews, where issues of physical strength could be addressed with greater use of machines for lifting and applying strength. The number of pilots in the Air Force is sufficiently small that your recruits can be very gender atypical, e.g. in emotional and personality character, and still easily to secure in sufficient numbers. Physical strength and size aren't particularly important in pilots, and the crew portions could be adapted in size for women fairly easily. The Air Force is currently 19.1% female. A meaningful subset of the Marines are part of its own internal Air Force to which similar considerations would apply. Navy and Coast Guard Many positions in the Navy call for sailors who are actually below average relative to men generally in size, especially submarines. And, relatively few positions on a modern ship call for exceptional physical strength that could not be replaced by more intense use of machines to assist in lifting and moving things. If anything, an all female ship or submarine might more easily achieve a cohesive crew on a long deployment than a ship with only men. Most of the hand to hand combat training in the Navy is directed at sailors maintain order vis-a-vis other crew members who get unruly, and protecting ships that are docked when it is not necessary to carry lots of heavy gear over long distances on foot. The U.S. Navy is currently 18.1% female, the U.S. Coast Guard is currently 14.8% female. Army While some specialties in the Army fit the traditional stereotypes of what a soldier is, many do not. The U.S. Army is currently 14.2% female. Lots of soldiers in the Army and lots of Marines (which is currently 7.7% female) have jobs like driving supply trucks, providing medical care, maintaining equipment within forward operating bases, feeding the troops, reviewing intelligence from drones and satellites and troops in the field, and so on. In military lingo they are called "Fobbits" because they work in "forward operating bases". Certainly resources like artillery have become more accurate and have required less crew support over time, requiring fewer personnel to achieve the same military outcomes. Another role that was traditionally in the front lines and considered to require physical traits associated with men was operating a tank, even though there were maximum personnel size limitations on tanks. But, the number of tanks in the active duty force has declined greatly, because they have become less militarily useful in modern conflicts, and the tanks that remain have become more automated. Many proposals to make tanks even more automated have been rejected because they weren't a priority, but could be adopted in an all female force. New positions like drone operators also don't have very gendered demands on personnel. Neither do some quite front line positions like helicopter operators. Certainly, positions like infantry and special forces would be very strongly impacted, and how those posts in the military would change is very notable. But, those positions are a minority of the modern military, and the changes would be far less dramatic than they were in the days when infantry fought with swords rather than firearms. Analysis If one assumes that the Air Force, the Navy, the Coast Guard, and the aircraft operating part of the Marines won't be much different, those components of the military, which make up about half of the U.S. military personnel, wouldn't change very much in character or capabilities. The Army and Marines would certainly be impacted more, but probably only about 1 in 3 members of those forces would be in the kinds of positions that would be impacted very much. Perhaps up to 250,000 personnel out of almost 1,355,000, or about 18% of the force would have strongly impacted by the transition in how they could or would operate. Thus, about 82% of the force wouldn't change very much, while about 18% of the force would change a lot in some of the ways discussed in other answers. How that 18% would change is very interesting, but one shouldn't overstate how representative that portion of the force is to the entire military force either. Transition Period Duration There would have to be a transition period during which men were phased out of the military and women were phased in, because lots of military skills can only be learned by doing under the supervision of people who know those skills. But, this wouldn't take terribly long because the military is constantly cycling through personnel. Much of the active duty force serves for four to eight years before returning to civilian life, ten years would be longer than average, and twenty years is about as long as a military career gets. So, over twelve to sixteen years, a very large part of the transition could be completely relatively seamlessly, without catastrophic loss of skill sets limited to experienced veterans. If there were a greater rush, an eight to ten year transition could still be manageable although it would carry higher costs particularly in the loss of skills at higher ranks where personnel turnover is not as rapid. 

It depends on what you define as a legal person. Currently the punishment for animal cruelty is much less than murder. I think uplifted animals will almost immediately be seen as human for the case of being victims of violent crimes. A cute smart doggie should not be a victim. Likely capital punishments for criminal uplifted animals will remain in place for a long time even if your setting wouldn't otherwise have the death penalty. That is the current procedure for violent animals and it is easy to argue "the procedure didn't take properly". There will be some support for even punishment, however. There will be an even larger fight against animal-human marriage than with gay marriage (because ew). Which ever party gains the most by supporting voting rights for animals will heavily argue in favor of it while the other party may fight it. I essence with all this differentiation, laws will not be exactly the same for an elevated animal and a human. There are minute differences in laws for women and men (usually legal precident concerning paternity, divorce, sexual harrassment, etc.) and we pretty much the same. Between different species of animals there are differences. As a result, expect large protests fighting for these rights and a more silent majority against these changes. Expect that all species will eventually be viewed slightly differently under the laws based on intellegence potential, physical ability, and population. Insects will never be able to get an equal right to vote (can't ever be 18 anyways) while the voting age for dogs will drop to 2.5 human years (18 dog years). Final note: if a completely new country forms after this change with large enough populations of each uplifted species, you can expect voters to be represented by species in a simular way to how they are by state in the united states. Cats can decide their own appropriate voting age but their alloted number of seats in congress will be decided by some combination of total population, potential intellegence, and lifespan. 

A separate New England confederation was seriously discussed in the early 1800s and might have included some of the Maritime provinces of Canada. Alaska was part of Russia until it was purchased by the U.S. in 1867. Hawaii (f.k.a. the Sandwich Islands) doesn't necessarily have a secessionist movement, but it was an independent kingdom and there are efforts underway to give native Hawaiians recognized under a trust created by the former king legal status as an Indian tribe. The legal term for territory in the United States subject to Native American tribal sovereignty is Indian Country. 

Many islands are semi-autonomous dependencies of other nations. Reading the nation by nation profiles in the World Almanac is a good way to get familiar with them. 

Indeed, plain old thermodynamics would probably set some of these winds in place even without intervention and would significantly alter your hot desert/ice hell/terminator line conceptualization of the climate zones of the planet with an Earth-like atmosphere that the original question contemplates, so the settler's terraforming would only need to give these natural global prevailing winds a little nudge. You only get that kind of clean three part division on a planet with no atmosphere or a very thin atmosphere. Fluids naturally moderate extremes of temperature. Mirrors And Energy Generating Filters That Power The Giant Fans 

Reactor Design It doesn't have to be a mistake. It can be a necessary part of something else that is a feature. If the basic recipe for nuclear fusion propulsion is to have a nuclear fusion bomb-like chain reaction and the only thing that normally prevents it from destroying the ship is an active containment system that "squeezes" the reaction so that it happens more gradually, turning off the control mechanism while the chain reaction is in progress will blow up the ship. But, you might have an manual override for the containment system, because sometimes engines experiencing multiple chain reactions of nuclear explosions need some repairs and the idea would be to do so normally, when the fuel for the fusion drive is exhausted, so that the containment system itself doesn't kill the repair crew. It needs to be manual because one of the things that can break is the sensor that says a reaction is still going when actually, the fuel is exhausted (which would otherwise be the fail safe to prevent a shutoff of the containment system when it could self-destruct). Indeed, that's one of the most fragile parts in the system (just like the warning indicators in my car). But, once you have a manual override, you have a manual override and it can be used at inappropriate times, turning an EMO into a self-destruct system. 

Of course it's possible. Most theories don't have any practical application. Right now we're using just a few % of major discoveries since WWII, and less than 1% of new scientific knowledge discovered since the 1970s. That number goes further down if you start counting all the "discoveries" rather than just bona fide ones. It's hard to think of any discovery since the Cold War that is now in use, and it's been almost 3 decades. It takes a separate layer of highly talented people - not simple engineers, but scientists-inventors (and they have to be both at once!) - to turn advanced theory into something with practical applications. Without an inventor that understands the theory (important), has the resources and dedication, and (most important) a lot of luck, the discovery will go unused. 

Three business days. That would be the most likely time, 50% chance it's sooner and 50% later. Takes two days to get the first images, one business day to process the discovery. There are ~150 observation satellites orbiting Earth, with the typical orbit being 800km. Each satellite scans about 200*40,000=8,000 km^2 every 100 minutes. Earth's surface being scanned is ~360 million km^2 - the other 150 million near the poles is largely ignored. This amounts to 120,000 km^2 or 1/3,000 of the surface scanned per minute, or 1/50 per hour. There is a lot of overlap between scan areas, hence the 50% qualifier in the beginning of the answer - can be sooner, can be later. Still, in four days, it's all but impossible for the island to stay undiscovered. While earlier discovery by shipping or aircraft is possible, it's highly likely to go unreported due to simple assumption one is mistaken and the "someone else's business" effect. 

There is a floor of private consumption of sufficient low quality food to prevent starvation, and minimal clothing and shelter for the environment (the less hostile the environment is the lower this threshold is since clothing and shelter are less necessary and easily available food and water may require little work to produce). This is going to be true for every society no matter how it goes about securing these things. From there, think about long lasting tangible personal property and structures and food reserves. Another way to think about it is to look at what percentage of the population is engaged in food production. In the poorest society, 100% of the labor force spends all of its time feeding itself with no resources to support anyone doing anything else. (Within those societies, the percentage of the population in the food producing labor force as opposed to caring for and being children and dependents, and the number of calories per person per day can be good proxies for per capita GDP.) As of 1800, in the United States, 1,405,000 people out of a labor force of 1,900,000 were engaged in direct food production. So, the standard of living that could be supported was about 35% higher than one in which everyone was engaged in direct food production. Right now, about 2% of the labor force of the United States is engaged in food production, while the other 98% of the labor force is free to do other things, so the standard of living that can be supported is about 5000% higher than one in which everyone is engaged in food production. The percentage of people engaged in direct food production has declined almost every single decade from 1800 to the present. This isn't a perfect measure (e.g. it doesn't distinguish between different levels of productivity of non-agricultural workers), but it is a good starting benchmark that can be estimated from information that isn't completely impossible to obtain, and can be used as a staring point. Figure out how many people who rulers, scribes, entertainers, priests, soldiers, craftsmen, bankers, traders, etc. and use those estimates to figure out what percentage of the population was engaged in direct food production. Then convert that to a percentage and multiply by a base number for minimum subsistence. For much of early history, society was largely Malthusian. Per capita GDP was kept fairly constant and any excess resources were used to increase population until the theoretical floor of private consumption was reached.