A "(very) bright star is still up even though it's midnight (6 hours after sunset)." in the east at this time of year is likely Sirius, the brightest star in the sky. 

Looked for studies w radar echoes from moons of Uranus and Neptune, as well as Pluto/Charon, none found. The data may be out there. 

There is no "far enough away" to see the big bang. The bang was the creation of space and time, so every view within the universe is a view from inside the bang. To see it from outside, you'd have to view the bang from whatever space the universe is embedded in; assuming it is embedded in a higher space, and that space has something like a time-axis. The 3.7°K microwave background photons hitting us right here, right now is the best view of the consequences of the bang that we'll ever get; barring exotic SF scenarios of course. 

Those heavy elements are consistent with the comet being at least being partially composed of rock. So Jupiter is known to contain at least some rock. In fact, gas giants are thought to form around an initial small rocky or metallic core, which has sufficient gravity to draw in hydrogen, helium, water etc. from the protoplanetary nebula. By 'small rocky core' something with the mass of two or more earths is usually implied. The gravity field of such a body makes it difficult for even hydrogen to achieve escape velocity. 

More info here: Detect known exoplanet with DSLR/telephote lens The star in question, HD 189733A, has a visual magnitude of 7.6. Dimmer targets would naturally require more light gathering power than an old telephoto lens can supply. 

Not much is currently known about the object. We'll no doubt learn more from the January 2019 encounter. More info from Emily Lakdawalla and Casey Dreier at the Planetary Society: New Horizons extended mission target selected 

A large CME will run 700km/sec at earth's distance from the sun. Proton flux can get up to 20 protons per cubic cm. For a 1 square cm object facing the sun in earth orbit that amounts to being hit by a mass of 2.3e-18 kg traveling 700000 m/sec every second. That works out to a force of 0.000001127 Newtons per second. Not much push. (barring math errors of course, they love to creep in) 

The Sword of Orion includes the Great nebula in Orion (M42), which is naked eye visible. Depending on the seeing, the nebula can be mistaken for a star. 

A lunar eclipse on earth is a solar eclipse on the moon. The earth takes up 2° of sky from the lunar surface (vs 0.5°), so you'd see less corona in your space suit. The moon's speed through earth's shadow is only about 1 km per second, so you'd have up to 107 minutes of totality. What with earth's atmosphere, I doubt you'd see much in the way of Baily's beads, but there'd likely be a spectacular round the world sunset glow to make up for that. 

I expect stars would belch mightily, neutron stars and black holes would explode. Stars are only held at their steady state size by the opposed forces of gravity and radiation, so eliminating gravity for 1 second will cause expansion, followed by collapse as gravity kicks in again. A Neutron star's compactness gives it a surface gravity of up to 7×10^12 m/s², and expanding from 20km to ~70 billion km (or 300000km when c limit is considered) over the course of 1 second constitutes an explosion. Black holes tend to have higher gravity values at the event horizon (same ref) so the result would be even more cataclysmic. 

The sun is an excellent source of light for all the planets and moons, although it gets a little dodgy way out near Pluto. The moon reflects about 10% of the sunlight that hits it, that's why we see it. Venus' albedo is about 0.75, what with its clouds and all. That means 75% of the sunlight that hits it is reflected back into space for us to see. 

If a star 300,000 km away from you explodes, it'll normally take the radiation from that explosion one second to start vaporizing you. If the space between you and that exploding star inflates to 2.6X10^23km (28 billion ly) one half second after the explosion, the radiation will take 14 billion years, plus a half second, to reach you, and won't vaporize you. Of course the expansion need not be instantaneous. You can plug in about any function you want there. The important thing is not the distance between you and the star at the time of explosion, but the total distance the photon must travel on its path to you. That distance must take into account the expansion of space between the emitted radiation and you, the observer. 

Naked eye nova are fairly common, several per year. Here's one. Naked eye supernova are far rarer. SN1987a in the large Magellanic cloud was naked eye visible (vid). From this list, it appears the supernova in 1987 was the most recent naked eye supernova. There was a naked eye gamma ray burst in 2008, but I don't think anyone actually got outside in time to see it. If you have 50 years to look at the stars, you might see a supernova. If you have a small telescope, you can pick them up pretty regularly in nearby galaxies. 

Deep Impact, the NASA comet probe, not the movie, may be as close as you can get to what you want now. Here's a video of the action when 370 kg of copper hits a comet at 10.2 km/s. There may be better video out there, but the movie trailers really mess up the search. 

Article also includes multiple links to live webcasts of tomorrow's events. Opportunity rover comet image here as well as orbiter status update. Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter comet images here. 

So yes, material from supernova can end up triggering the formation of new suns, and material from supernova do end up mixed in with the nebular material that makes the new stars. 

This idea has been around for decades, so I'm not sure who first came up with it. Here's a reasonably sourced article on the involvement of supernova in solar system formation:Exploding Star May Have Sparked Formation of Our Solar System 

The changing angle between sun and moon does cause some slight nutation in the earth's axis of rotation over an 18.6 year period. 

Seems to me that moons are regularly subjected to tidal forces that comets, asteroids and the like are not. Repeated stress, such as rocks in a rock tumbler, or two circles of glass on a mirror maker's table, tends to smooth things out. I'm sure there's a pile of academic papers on sub-disruptive levels of strain tending to increase the symmetry of many types of systems, likely even some formal proofs, but I can't search at that level this morning. 

Go out in the daytime and practice lining up on the leaves of trees on a distant hill or some such. It's easier to find targets when they aren't against a nearly featureless black backdrop. If you have a finder scope, likewise align it to the scope's view using a distant daytime target. At night, look first for the moon to get a feel for how aligning works. 

Sadly, a well referenced answer to this question likely lies behind academic publisher paywalls. However, Wikipedia claims: 

In addition to the requirements that it be night, and the ISS be overhead, the space station must also not be eclipsed by the earth's shadow. With earth taking up roughly 88 degrees of sky from the ISS's typical altitude of 420 km, eclipses correspond to night-time on the space station. They're each 45 minutes long, and happen 16 times a day. Harmonics between earth day/night cycle and ISS day/night cycle account for those mysterious gaps in visibility noted by aman207. The start of such eclipses are oten observed from the ground: You'll see the ISS come over the horizon like a ball of fire, get halfway across the sky, then fade to nothing in a minute or two. 

Video: Space Station Astronauts Grow a Water Bubble in Space Surface tension tends to draw the water into a nice sphere. 

For really low orbits over an atmosphereless body, the body needs to have a uniform density. Otherwise the gravity field is not symmetric, the orbit changes shape over time, and you end up with a crater. NASA had trouble with this, lunar Mascons, during the Apollo era. In one case: 

Yes. Here's an ISS photo from the 2002 eclipse over the Indian ocean. This year, 2017, the ISS will see the moon's shadow on earth once, over southern Illinois, at 43.9% totality. 

Hubble orbits at about 569 km. If you point it at the earth and take a photo, the speed of light (300,000 km/sec) will result in you obtaining a photo of the earth as it appeared 1.9 milliseconds before you clicked the shutter. 

You've put in the moon filter, right? The moon is awfully bright without it. In any case, take the scope out in the daytime, and try focusing on distant objects; the tree at the end of the block, or the radio tower on top of the hill at the edge of town. A scope is easier to learn how to use when you can see what you're doing. 

The Local Group contains 54 plus galaxies. Don't know that that counts as much of a cluster. Next up in scale, the Milky way is part of the Laniakea Supercluster That contains about 100,000 galaxies, so it's a bit on the large size to call a simple cluster. The well known Virgo Cluster contains about 1300 galaxies. So it's clearly a thing of intermediate scale. 

This might be it: Astronomers Say Giant Disco Ball in Space Is Bad for Science Three foot diameter faceted mirror ball launched late January 2018. I don't know either designation or orbit. 

The simple answer is that atmospheric refraction makes the disk of the sun visible at sunrise or sunset, when it's actually half a degree or so below the horizon: 

Sodium was used in the linked article, however any molten metal or conductor, should do, and sodium, at 0.97 g/cc is just not dense enough to sink to a planet's core. You'd have to do some hand waving over "an iron poor/aluminum rich Bok globule", but I think you could get your planet, with a sufficient magnetic field to fend off solar winds. 

Bullet cluster We've already seen an example of a large galaxy stripping dark matter from a smaller one. 

The credit for that green image includes SOHO. SOHO routinely uses that green for images of the sun in hard X-Rays at 19.5 nanometers. Visible light only goes down to about 390nm for extreme violet. The picture looks like it's taken in hard X-ray wavelengths. ••• Later: Sorry, I meant hard UV/soft X-Rays. Don't know where my head was when I wrote this answer. SOHO's still the green pix in hard UV source though. 

Cruithne and J002E3 were detected using ground based astrophotography. J002E3 is thought to be "the S-IVB third stage of the Apollo 12 Saturn V rocket ... It is thought that J002E3 left Earth orbit in June 2003, and that it may return to orbit the Earth in the mid-2040s.1" Ground telescope also found 6Q0B44E which orbits beyond the moon. 2002 AA29 was found via automatic sky survey. Several of these objects are in horseshoe orbits. Regardless, the discovery of these objects usually comes via conventional astrophotography. 

You could probably get away with replacing molten iron, 7.87 g/cc, in the core with aluminum, 2.70 g/cc, and still generate a substantial magnetic field: Molten Metal Magnet 

Micrometers and blink comparators allowed considerable precision. Pluto was discovered with the aid of the latter. 

Newsreel video, put together from the camera footage at the time shows several persistent white spots towards the top left of the camera frame. You can see them moving with the frame as the camera pans through the blackness of space, and later even against the limb of the earth. If there are any stars visible in the original linked image,they are no brighter than any of several obvious pointlike lens artifacts. I don't know what the smudgy objects are, but doubt that they're comets or the clouds of Magellan, as seen from New Mexico. There were no bright comets in 1946. 

Unlikely. Plugging numbers into the Stefan–Boltzmann law gives us a temperature near 273°K (0°centigrade) for bodies near earth's orbit. The exact answer for atmospherless bodies depends on albedo. Any water on nearby asteroids will thus boil until it freezes, and then sublimate. That's why the search for nearby ice is focused on lightless, cold regions of craters near the moon's south pole. Space probe Rosetta and its attendant comet are still 200 million km from the sun, and already outgassing water. IIRC, that started back in January, when the comet was 390 million km from the sun, well beyond Mars. Black body temp. out there would be around -100°C. Looks like I was wrong about when jets first appeared: More jets from Rosetta's comet! September 19, 2014. On that day, the comet was 500 million km from the sun. That's outer belt. No spectra that I know of, so possibly not water. Water seems most likely though. Likely we'll have to go out at least that far to find ice on small bodies. 

-Source for citation 63 has disappeared from the internet. However, the Veritas asteroid cluster, and the Karin cluster reportedly formed by the collisional disruption of 140 km diameter and 25 km diameter diameter objects only 8.3 and 5.8 million years ago. These numbers obviously cast doubt on the Wikipedia claim. This piece Small asteroid collisional characteristics from 2002 states: 

Freeze-out is indeed a chemical term. It happens in the midplane of accretion disks where density is high enough to block UV ionization/chemical dissociation and limit heating from the central star. No one seems to have gotten around to writing up a layman friendly article on the subject yet, but these refs give the gist: Protostars and planets V Accretion Disks 1: During Star Formation Organic Matter in Space (IAU S251) Evolution of Organic Matter From ref 2: 

There are radio telescopes at many sites in the southern hemisphere. Here's a list. Chile has a big one going in at Llano de Chajnantor and several already operational. See second link for details. 

Now that the gravity field of the moon is mapped, it turns out that there are some low orbits that are reasonably stable: 

A blueshifted photon is a more energetic photon, and nothing seems to be losing energy to make up the difference. Article is from 2010 though. This may all be sorted out by now.