Shoulders are not to be f'd with. Find a lifting coach and have them take a look at your form. You could find them at a local Olympic or powerlifting gym, CrossFit box, or a well-recommended personal trainer. Make sure they know Starting Strength and how to overhead press before you let them tell you how to do it. Pay them for a private lesson if necessary. Your shoulder health is well worth the fifty bucks or so. You might also want to look into your shoulder mobility generally. You can try to self-diagnose by searching places like Kelly Starrett's site and gymnastics forums, but in-person evaluations are again king. 

The common approach for strength and conditioning for sport is to establish a baseline of strength and cardiovascular endurance separate from the sport, then work on sport-specific strength, endurance, and conditioning. Strength work is maintained while working on other attributes and tapered before competitions. I like Kurz' Science of Sports Training for specifics on this topic, though it may be too much detail not focused on tennis for your specific situation. In addition to strength, you should consider the attribute of power, which is a separate quality that is derivative of strength. It is best developed by submaximal weights moved explosively. Cleans, snatches, jerks, and push presses are the most common techniques used. One should have a foundation of strength before focusing on power movements. The first step is to take a novice resistance program such as Starting Strength. It may be necessary to modify its programming according to your sport schedule, but one to three strength workouts per week should be possible even around regular sport training. After you have a baseline level of strength--perhaps a bodyweight squat, greater than bodyweight deadlift, and the ability to do several pull-ups--it would be reasonable to look at tennis-specific strength and conditioning and power workouts. Some recommend even greater levels of strength, such as double bodyweight deadlifts and 1.5x bodyweight squats, before sport-specific movements should be incorporated. 

The best thing for you to do right now is recover. Your body is already working overtime to repair your damaged ankle. You don't need to be taxing it further by trying to exercise and risking injuring it more, particularly with the options you've listed. Want to exercise, anyway? Do rehabilitation work, if you can, and ideally under the supervision of a physical therapist. That's your job right now. I cannot stress this part enough. Even though it doesn't feel like it, your body is already doing a lot of work repairing. Think about it this way - if you do advanced training for something (let's say weightlifting), one of the big things trainers stress is rest days, not? Most programs are 3-4 days per week. This is to provide the opportunity for the body to rest and repair itself. Likewise, getting enough sleep is of utmost importance. Why? Because during these rest times, your body is actually doing things, and it needs the resources to do them. If you divert them to other things, then your depriving your body of those resources, and risk setting yourself back even further. Abs are revealed in the kitchen. You want to shed fat? Then turn to your diet. No amount of exercise will trim the fat off your body if your diet is crap. 

The Merck Manual has a table of normal ranges of motion for each joint. (If someone could help me get the table into this answer that would be great--I don't see a simple method.) I haven't gone through every one, but for some movements that I require for lifting, running or sport, I have compared myself to what can be reasonably expected of a functional human being. It is immensely interesting to find out the mobility problems and weaknesses that driving and desk jobs can do to our bodies! The Indian Journal of Palliative Care, in a study about hematomas and graft-versus-host disease, has a table that includes normal range of motion. Ignore the T-sub-zero, T-sub-one and delta-percent columns; they refer to the disease treatment. Personally I prefer exrx.net to figure out what each one means. In other words, I'll use it to look up "shoulder flexion" to make sure I know which direction that means. They also have a set of assessment tests that unfortunately appear not to have normal ROM values. 

and so on. That is you slowly increase volume each week for 3-4 weeks, then drop back for a rest week for recovery, but not all the way back to nothing, and thus you start back building from a higher point each time. Your problem is you are starting at 4 miles, and you want to get to the point where you run 18-20 miles in training in a single run. Doing this in 12 weeks will be problematic, and will require some big jumps in distance which your body may not be able to handle (thus the concern about injury). Of course your mileage may vary. The more I think about this, the more I would suggest if you are determined, to pick a marathon a bit later in the year. There are races almost every single weekend of the year in North America. Even in the fall season, they start in September and run till December for big name races. (Toronto has an early September one, Chicago/Cincy/DC are in October. November is NYC/Philly, and then there are some in December as well, even Jan for Disney and when is Vegas again?) This is really risky. If you do go ahead, be prepared for injuries, and be willing to bail on the goal race, as it will just hurt you if you push through the injuries. As for the rest of the questions: Gear: Get the proper shoes. Find a reputable running store (Not Footlocker, or big name shoe chain. You want a running store. Running Room in Canada, JackRabbits in NYC, or some other style store). If they do not watch you run on a treadmill, or watch you walk a straight line, or make you balance on one foot to see which way your foot falls, walk away. (All those are valid methods). Get the proper clothes: It is summer, it is hot in most of the northern hemisphere. Get wicking clothes, they work, and make a huge difference. I like a water bottle, on a bottle carrier. Others prefer the silly smaller bottles on Fuel Belts, whatever. On the long summer runs, you need to carry (Or stash ahead of time on your route) water and drink it. Sites like Mapmyrun.com are excellent at integrating with the GPS in your phone to track where you ran, show you a map, and store for later review. Or else simply map it later on Google Map or GMaps Pedometer. Or else get a GPS watch and upload the save sets to some mapping site. Otherwise this is all about teaching your legs to run (muscles) and your heart/lungs to handle the demand (Cardio). There are no short cuts around those two things. The best way to train to run long distance, is to run long distance. TANSTAAFL. Alas. 

I'll try to relate a picture from Starting Strength 2nd Edition, to illustrate my point. Envision an underdeveloped thigh from the side. Since it is relatively thin, the forces applied by the quadriceps and the hamstrings are not far apart. Now envision a well-developed thigh. Its mass widens the space between the two forces, making a longer and more efficient lever arm. Think of trying to close a door by pushing it close to the hinges, as opposed to pushing it near the handle. It's on page 83 of SS2E: 

These are all solid ways to progress to pull-ups and to develop pulling strength generally. So, too, can the pulldown machine. Each can be used improperly or recommended inappropriately. One of the major concerns with the pulldown machine is that people who are fully capable of achieving pull-ups stall on the machine. This happens with other methods as well, but machines seem to be the place where more people get stuck and never move on to more challenging movements. For whatever reason, machines are one of the places where people lose sight of the main goal, which is progressing towards more general, more useful movements. 

Most of these programs will have either a 3x/week plan (ie - full body, three days a week, with 1-2 rest days in between), or a rotating 5-6x/week (ie - upper body M-W-F, lower body T-Th-S, day off completely on Sunday). Rest days are important! You're "breaking down" your muscles when you work out, and building them bigger and stronger when resting (the act of lifting creates microtears, resting rebuilds those and makes those parts stronger). Keep in mind, too, that getting the 6-pack is considered "80% diet." That is, what you eat matters, especially once you're body fat percentage gets down close to and into the single digits. Some tips: 

How do you have the activity level in MFP set up? If you have it set to anything less than "active," are you logging your exercise? If so, are you eating the calorie allotment that MFP is giving you? MFP calculates your calorie needs based on your height, weight, activity level, and your weight loss/maintain/gain setting (for those that don't use MFP, it's basically the Katch-Mcardie formula). The deficit is built in to the number it gives you, and so, when you log exercises, you'll see that number go up. That's because it's programmed to keep you at the calorie level that you need in order to change (or not change) your weight. If you spend calories by exercising, you have to "eat them back" to keep the difference from your usual calorie expenditure. Additionally, your weight fluctuates throughout the day, and week, sometimes by more than 5lbs. Judging by your name, it's also possible your hormones are at work, too. Women often retain water the week of or prior to their period, which packs on the pounds. I wouldn't worry about a 3lb or even 5lb change if you haven't been doing the same routine for more than a week or two. Finally, 5'6" and 137lb puts your BMI at 22.1, which is squarely in the "healthy" category. I wouldn't worry about your weight too much, and I recommend getting your body fat percentage checked and consider doing a "body recomposition" routine, which is designed to lose fat and gain muscle (usually in a cyclical lose fat/gain muscle manner). The MFP forums contain a number of valuable posts. I highly recommend checking out the Success Stories section and looking for the ones from women who have taken up lifting programs to get an idea of how body recomp programs affect the body. 

If you're deadlifting about as much as you weigh with a double overhand grip, there's no need to worry about your grip as a specific thing. The deadlift itself will develop your grip strength just fine for a while longer, with just a minor tweak or two. The Least Intrusive Grip Improvements The important thing to do is to challenge your grip as much as possible without interfering with your progress on the deadlift itself. For that, I recommend: 

The American Heart Association used to say (and the government agreed) that virtually anything would satisfy the bare minimum for avoiding that "sedentary lifestyle": 

If deadlifts are too much to do every workout and power cleans are off the table then more chin-ups is fine. Something like the following would be fine: 

If your goal is strength, you're doing fine. Five sets is a lot, seven reps in the beginning isn't too shabby for where you are, and your reps are going up. You're getting stronger. If anything, the rest periods are too short. Less time between sets makes your conditioning and strength-endurance a more significant factor. More time between sets keeps the focus on strength. Going up to three or five minutes between sets might be better. If you're doing other strenuous training, three sets might be plenty. If this is your primary training, I'd keep the number of sets as-is. 

If your base is 3-4 miles, and you intend to run a marathon in 12 weeks, you are very likely to either hurt yourself, or fail to succeed. While it is possible you can do it, you are starting from a very low volume point. I would suggest considering training more to build up a stronger base before considering a marathon. Usually the plan is 10% improvement a week, on a 4-5 week schedule of 

As a commenter notes there is probably no way to really answer this question. What you can say is that it more than just length of distance or time. For example it depends on how your training has been going. And of course your personal physiology. Obviously going out for 26.2 Miles on your first run is stupid, and could potentially kill you. But if you trained running shorter amounts for a couple of years, then slowly worked up to it, a marathon would probably not hurt you at all. (Though I am hearing on the news that there is some heart issues being reported by long term exercise). Of course there are people out there running 125 mile races (Marahon Des Sables across the Sahara desert over 7 days) or other ultra distances. But none of those folk started with that distance on day one. So there is no absolute max, it depends on so many other variables. 

It's very possible that your progress with the Starting Strength model has more to do with a focused approach rather than being predisposed to a certain rep range. Starting Strength does only a few exercises, with very little variation from workout to workout. That sounds like a big change from your prior training. Maybe that's a major chunk of the new-found progress. It's also the case that nearly everyone who hasn't done a basic compound progression does well on it. That's just how novice linear progressions work: focus on adding weight on a few heavy full-body exercises. The reps are kept moderately low, but that's only part of the difference. It's possible that once you've completed your novice progression (the last workouts of which, I warn you, should leave you brutally drained) you'll find that you do better with a lower rep range, such as doubles and triples. Or maybe the 8-12 range will suit you better. I would recommend against basing your perception of the types of muscle fibers you have on your progress with Starting Strength. Maybe you're fast-twitch dominant; maybe you aren't. This isn't the time or way to tell. As to muscle hardness, that's probably because if you're following the Starting Strength program properly, you're eating like a horse and adding some fat as well as muscle. Good. That means you won't look as "hard" or lean as a bodybuilder, because you're prioritizing size and strength at this stage. Later, you can cut weight and your muscles will again look "hard" once the fat is not obscuring them. I am not familiar with German volume training so cannot advise you on that point.