In his landmark judgement, the Rt. Hon. Sir Edward Coke drew upon a history of cases and declared that Acts of Parliament might be voided. Under what circumstances this might take place is debated; it seems that at the very least he meant laws that were clearly repugnant could be set aside, but more generous interpretations argue Parliament could not contradict existing common law. Regardless of which he originally meant, Lord Coke's judgement helped establish the concept of judges voiding invalid laws. Within England, what makes a law invalid was debatable due to the lack of a formal Constitution. While repudiating a law that's repugnant to natural rights might be supportable, Parliament obviously should be able to override normal common laws. This eventually meant Parliamentary Sovereignty became established doctrine after 1688. In the Thirteen Colonies, moreover, it was an established principle that colonial legislation repugnant to the laws of England were void ab initio. Judicial review of colonial laws in English courts was thus very much an active process prior to the Revolutionary War. A number of colonial legislation were thus viewed by the Privy Council, and at least one, a 1699 Connecticut Intestacy Statute, was declared null and void in 1728. After 1776, the principle persisted in the states, reasoning that state constitutions ought to be applied before regular state laws. Thus, the concept of judicial review, already well established in the common law of the colonies, informed both the drafting of the Constitution as well as the operations of the Supreme Court thereafter. It would have been assumed that judges would simply continue doing what they've been doing all along, and invalidate any law that's repugnant to the Constitution. In summary, Marshall's Supreme Court did not "gave themselves" a new power. They applied a widely understood and accepted legal doctrine. In fact the early Supreme Court actually conducted judicial reviews in a number of cases prior to the landmark Marbury v Madison. There has been records of at least dozens of cases of judicial review, both by the Supreme Court and on local/state levels, before the 1803 case. 

Even some minor powers such as Saxony, Warsaw and Westphalia raised some cuirassiers. The British did actually have cuirassiers too, but they were not styled as such and never saw action wearing them. Three regiments of the Household Cavalry were equipped with steel armour after Waterloo: the 1st and 2nd Life Guards, and the Royal Horse Guards. The irony is observed by the aforementioned Major Beamish: 

Lastly, although Chinese commercialism were traditionally restricted by prejudice, it eventually began to flourish. Overseas trade became active (albeit with ups and downs) during the Song and Ming dynasties. By the early modern period, some Chinese settlements began to take shape in South East Asia. Examples include Sulu, and parts of modern Malaysia or Indonesia. 

Framing of the Constitution Arguably @MarkCWallace was correct in saying judicial review was not "discussed" ("The power is not in the constitution, and was not, to the best of my knowledge, discussed in the formation of the constitution") in the Constitutional Convention. However, that would be misleading. It was not "discussed" because it was universally, or near universally, agreed to be a judicial power. With no dissent there, was no reason to debate. People do not discuss the sun's rising from the east either, and that is not evidence that some thought it rises from the west. In fact, the framers of the Constitution mentioned judicial review several times, especially in relation to an executive veto. Unlike the executive veto, which was debated as a proposal, judicial review was assumed to be already assigned to the judiciary. 

The bloodiest civil war I can think of is the Taiping Rebellion in 19th century China. That conflict is generally thought to have a death toll of 20 million. Note that this is an estimate made by western observers. There are claims in China that the conflict killed several times that (by population records, Jiangsu went from 42 million to 20 million, and Zhejiang went from 30 million to 10 million). Actual figures are difficult to determine - those extraordinarily high numbers seem quite dubious. However, what is certain is that it was an extremely bloody conflict where both sides massacred civilians regularly. Chinese records of the time is replete with phrases like: 

(Not explicitly shown is the expansion of the states into previously encircled barbarian lands) Notice the northeastern expansion of Yan around modern Liaodong and into Korea; the southern expansion of Chu towards Vietnam; the northern expansion of Zhao towards the steppes; and the dramatic expansion of Qin in pretty much all directions. This was colonisation, in the same way that Russia colonised Eurasia. 

The exact details of early human movement into North America is disputed, but it may well be that they didn't. The earliest concrete evidence of human settlements in North America dates only to about 15,000 years ago, yet genetic studies indicate that Amerindians diverged from Siberian populations over 25,000 years ago. One explanation for this not insignificant gap is that those humans were stuck inside the Beringia refugium during the worst of the ice age.1 From about 17,000 years ago, rising temperatures began unlocking routes out of Beringia. In other words, migration happened after warming rendered conditions less extreme. As ice sheets retreated, humans probably followed the expanding vegetation out into the rest of North America,3 ahead of the flooding that began to submerge their former refuge beneath the Bering Sea. This is known as the Beringian Standstill Hypothesis, proposed in 2007 by Erika Tamm et al. It is as yet unproven due to a lack of archaeological evidence - perhaps because humans settled in the lowland areas of Beringia, which are now underwater. References: 1. Tamm, Erika, et al. "Beringian standstill and spread of Native American founders." PloS ONE 2.9 (2007): "The finding that humans were present at the Yana Rhinoceros Horn Site dated to 30,000 ybp suggests that the isolation in Beringia might have lasted up to 15,000 years. Following this isolation, the initial founders of the Americas began rapidly populating the New World from North to South America." 2. Fagan, Brian. Fishing: How the Sea Fed Civilization. Yale University Press, 2017: "Were there humans in the refugium during the LGM? It is certain that there were, not because of known archaeological sites but because of newly acquired genetic data from modern populations. Native Americans are descended from groups that lived in the refugium and were isolated from their mainland Siberian ancestors during the LGM. This scenario has groups of hunter-gatherers living there during the coldest millennia." 3. Hoffecker, John F., and Scott A. Elias. Human Ecology of Beringia. Columbia University Press, 2007: "Not only is there a correlation between the spread of people and shrub tundra into the lowlands at 15-14 cal ka, but also there's a correlation between later movement of shrub tundra and human occupation into upland areas as well . . . increase in wood fuel was the factor." 4. Cribb, Roger. Nomads in Archaeology. Cambridge University Press, 2004: "Hunter-gatherer migration is centred on procurement and consumption . . . the territorial system of the hunter-gatherer is based on moving himself towards his resources, or moving resources to people, for purposes of consumption." 

They are defined by their position relative to their own political systems. Those who defends the status quo, or wishes to roll back to a real or imagined status quote ante are considered right wing. Those who supports change in the other direction are then considered left wing. This classification originated in the Estates General during the French Revolution: those who supported the king, hence the status quo, were seated on the right; those who supported the revolution, the left. Beyond this simple contextual divide, there is no absolutist, universal political measure. This is also why the left-right spectrum is generally not applied to pre-Revolution figures. Which is also why assigning "liberal" or "conservative" labels to historical figures usually is a complete hogwash. One exception in your list is Cato the Elder. Cato was a conservative because he believed in preserving antiquated Roman views. This is a rare non-ambiguous case of being conservative in the literal sense of the word. As for the rest, Thomas Jefferson was a "liberal" only to the extent that Hamilton was a "conservative". And Hamilton is only regarded as a conservative on the basis that he advocated for institutions, strong central authority etc, i.e. what was then the political mainstream. Hitler was right wing, but less "conservative" and more of a reactionary because he wanted to "restore" Germany to a glorified past. Stalin, likewise, was a left wing dictator, but not really "liberal". Communism was simply regarded as left wing because it challenged the prevailing capitalist systems of the world. Ultimately, there is scant little difference in substance between the two brutally authoritarian tyrants. Not all Republicans were "extreme left" during the American Civil War. The Radical Republicans were a specific faction considered far left "radicals" because they wanted to abolish the institution of slavery posthaste. This was defined in contrast to the moderate Republicans led by Abraham Lincoln. The latter were regarded as more conservative because they were willing to be more muted on slavery or even tolerate it in order to save the union.