I would argue a skeptic argues even more than you claim. You say "A skeptic would argue 'There's no scientific evidence to suggest that God (or crystal healing, or indigo children) exist.'" That would be the argument of a scientific skeptic, one who trusts science but does not trust anything else. A full skeptic would also say that we do not know that scientific evidence is indeed a valid justification for any knowledge. This is part of the reason why it is generally accepted that you cannot force someone to change their mind, only encourage them to do so. If one starts from the assumption that minds can be changed, one can attempt to change their mind by deeply exploring their beliefs. This can take years, if not a lifetime. At some point, you may find a edge with which you can move their opinion. And who know, maybe in the process you'll expose an edge that lets them move your opinion. After all, isn't that what learning new things is all about? Alternatively, nod, smile, give them distance, and find a way to benefit from their belief. It may be as simple as enjoying more smiles from them than you'd receive if they did not have said belief. Remember others are allowed to have beliefs other than your own, unless your beliefs state they are not allowed. You don't have to believe them, they don't have to believe you. 

This question is as broad as they come. The only question I have heard in philosophy which is potentially broader than this is, "What is the meaning of life?" and even then its highly likely that the two answers are intimately related. This question is certainly far too broad for Philosophy.SE, but I think I can speak to the broadness in an answer and provide more value to the forum than a mere vote to close, so I will do that. 

Like all good questions, the answer is "it depends." One must define "logical" to arrive at an answer, and it gets defined in different contexts. If the context is highly mathematical, it is likely that the definition of "logical" has to do with formal logic and proofs. Most formal systems such as First Order Logic are very binary in their approach to the validity of arguments. An argument is either logical or illogical in such an environment. Some formal systems do permit gradients between logical and illogical. Alexander S King's answer goes into detail on one of them, Fuzzy Logic. If we expand beyond the realm of simple mathematical contexts, other gradients do come forth. In conversational situations, it is common to provide only a high level sketch of an argument rather than digging into every little detail. The other individual then can pick which parts of the argument they feel they wish to see more detail. In such an environment, one could argue that a "logical" argument could be an argument that one feels can be turned into a rigorous mathematical style proof, and an "illogical" argument is one that one feels likely cannot be turned into such a proof. Beyond that, one may explore other meanings of "rational." In Rational Choice Theory, the meaning of "rational" is chosen to be quite different: 

I think this may be close to an opinion question, because there are ways it can be answered both yes and no. It is very dependent on how you define "person," and that definition is not agreed upon. Consider the legal hoops. Siamese twins are considered distinct individuals legally, even though they share a body. On the other hand, if this were easy, consider "expendable" yous. If you could clone yourself just before committing a murder, and have your clone do it, did you get away with murder? Each religion, of course, would have its own thing to say about cloning. If you followed a religion, it should have something to say about this cloning event regarding ownership of "the real you." In the end, the answer may be that you are each yourself (no special behavior there). However, society is going to have to give you room to share a history between yourselves. Or, along those lines, you wake up as "one person in two bodies" and effectively get a divorce from yourself, where each gets half of your "life." After all, the only things that cannot be shared are things that must, for one reason or another, be owned by a single mind in a single body. Most consider the best parts of life to be those you can share. 

Many social phenomena demonstrate gestalt behaviors, where the behavior of the whole is different from the sum of the behaviors of the parts. Reductionism makes it very tempting to ignore these effects, and quite often you find you are left with nothing. In theory, if the world did indeed derive all state from some primary substance, as reductionism suggests, it would be possible to capture this gestalt behavior simply by measuring the state of everything at that primary substance level, and then simulating it. However, in practice, this measurement is not attainable. The measurements at this level are constantly fluctuating in real time, and it can be neigh impossible to capture the gestalt behavior unless you can freeze time. Thus, even if reductionism is true, it can still be an ineffective tool for exploring the world around us. 

The concepts of causality, free will, and morality will be unaffected for the most part. Most of the discussion on those topics assume that there is something more than the continuous physical world, so a shift to a discretized physical world would not cause much of a shift in discussion. Obviously the discussion which does focus on the continuous physical world would shift... in particular the discussion of free will if one assumes there is no metaphysics will get interesting, but it's interesting already! One thing that would change is any discussion of chaotic systems. Right now, it is believed by the majority that we exist in a 3-dimensional Euclidean space, with one dimension of time. In this continuous environment, chaotic systems can form from a finite number of linear components. If it were discretized, one is obliged to either have nonlinear components, an infinite number of components, or chaotic systems cannot form. Given that most of the rules of physics we are familiar with are defined in linear systems, this would be a big deal. How much would this affect the greater discussion on those topics? Probably not all that much. It is a hot point for me because I have seen reasons to argue that one of the challenges of identifying a metaphysical "consciousness" is that we cannot define it in a way which excludes all purely-physical chaotic systems. Phrased another way, it appears possible to construct a P-zombie using chaotic systems. If it was possible that the rules of the universe prohibit true chaotic behavior, it would be possible to define a test to separate the purely physical from any metaphysical consciousness, answering once and for all whether we, ourselves, are concious. However, that is not a widely held opinion, so it should not be thought of as a statement about the wider discussions on freewill. 

If one considers the pairs of phrases to not be quite identical, it suggests that "my body," i.e. the atoms in my body, are not quite exactly the same concept as "my self." Thus, replacement of the atoms in the body is probably not sufficient to be a change of self. 

The limit to your logic is the assumption that "the fourth dimension" means a clearly specified dimension that 100% of people will all agree upon. That agreement has never been achieved. The best you could say is "a fourth dimension." The funny thing is, it doesn't do what you say it does. You say, "The fourth dimension, instead, is a dimension of space that we humans cannot possibly imagine, because we have no way of observing it." That is actually false, because we have people who visualize four dimensional systems all the time. In fact, if you're really feeling masochistic, you can explore infinite dimensional function spaces which are the basis of Quantum Mechanics. Or, if those are too exotic, you can consider String Theory, which requires 11 dimensions to operate sanely. You are welcome to suggest there is a fourth dimension which is spatial, and explore its properties. However, to switch from the indefinite pronoun to the definite pronoun requires a level of agreement that is harder to get. 

The answer to this question depends on the philosophical school you ask. You did not specify one, and I find the most applicable school for such questions is that of the skeptics. A skeptic would ask how you know that life has no meaning beyond what you give it, and that everything is a random event. Can you actually know that? Or are you just assuming it because you think there's no other option? In my opinion, the natural result of questioning such things is to consider one of three possibilities: 

It depends on your definition of information. If you use the information theoretic definition, self-evident truths do not bear information because they say nothing about the universe that was not already presumed to be known (no possible states were ruled out by the statement). That being said, it is admittedly a circular reasoning for information theory requires some basic axioms before it can be written down in a form which permits calculation of information content. On the other hand, self-evident truths are often used as a shortcut for a long line of reasoning ("it can be shown that..."). Those self-evident truths would have quite a lot of information content, though it may not be obvious to the person using it! On the (third) hand, a search for the smallest truth which one must call "self evident" for a theory to hold true has interested quite a large number of scholars. The school of reverse mathematics is basically an exercise in how little one can assume when proving a point. As an addendum, you might be very interested in the Aggripan trilemma (aka Münchhausen trilemma) which is the basis for a strong skeptic argument along the lines you are exploring. 

This is not actually as easy of an assumption to make as you might hope. The truth is that we don't have an agreed upon notion of exactly what consciousness is. By making the assumption you made above, you immediately limit yourself to a specific class of philosophies known as physicalism, which state that consciousness "supervenes" on the physical world, which is a fancy word which basically means that consciousness is merely a product of physical results similar to how lighting a lightbulb is merely the product of many millions of electrons all moving in roughly the same direction through a wire. The trick is that, if you start from this assumption, you have already decided to reject every other model of thinking out there. There are many other approaches to consciousness, so be aware that you've ruled them out already at this step. You've decided on physicalism and you must be ready to deal with the consequences of this. Physicalism doesn't always lead to answers which jive with our intuition (or religion, for that matter). Going deeper: 

One could easily argue these are theories of everything, though one is a little pressed for details. All of them certainly have predictive capacity. 

Welcome to words. We use words this way =) Actually, what you hit on is a rather fundamental and interesting detail. Even in philosophy, we must define the "domain of discourse," which is that which can be discussed in the discussion. Informally, it defines what "everything" is for the purposes of talking about it. In the case of the "Theory of Everything" in physics: 

From my questions I've asked on the topic, The Scientific Method is understood to be the process you describe, perhaps omitting the last step. However, not all results acquired via The Scientific Method are accepted as legitimate by The Scientific Community. Attached to The Scientific Method is a prologue: what sorts of assumptions you made before starting the experiment. Also attached to The Scientific Method is an epilog: how you aggregate the piles of results produced using The Scientific Method into usable knowledge about the world. I find the demarcation problem is mostly in that prolog and epilog. Science, as a whole, includes both this prolog and epilog, not just The Scientific Method. One thing to remember is that the results of The Scientific Method can never prove a hypothesis to be true. They can merely demonstrate that an existing hypothesis is more statistically false than this new one. The abductive step of converting from this process to knowledge about how the world works is not part of The Scientific Method, though it is clearly part of the greater concept of science itself. If you try to define The Scientific Method to include these steps, then I agree that it ceases to be unambiguous. The difference in opinions of Kuhn and Popper should be more than sufficient to demonstrate just how much ambiguity there is. 

I've played with such compatablistic definitions of "soul" before. The biggest challenge you face is people just nodding their head and saying, "yeah, sure." "Soul" is just a word. It's four letters. That's it. Nothing more. Period. And therein lies the problem. People assign that four lettered word a meaning. Christians, for instance, assign it a meaning to refer to the part of themselves which will go to heaven when they die. Buddhists may choose to assign it as the part which gets reincarnated after death. Musicians may call it the essence of what separates a great performance from a merely good one. The word has meany meanings. When we talk about "soul" we are typically using the word as a symbol for one of these deeper meanings. Your definition of "soul" may meet the needs of how you view the world, but may not be useful to a religious individual who uses the word to refer to something very specific with specific properties. So to really push your definition forward, you have to argue why it's a good enough definition to satisfy both your needs and that of your audience. If you can show how your soul is just another wording for what they already call a soul, then they will accept it easily. If there are stark contracts, then you will find you will need to call it something else until people can realize the value of your meaning. That doesn't mean it's wrong; it just means this is how language works. Myself, I would challenge the definition along gestalt lines. Often we find the whole is not the same as the sum of its parts. In fact, I find a common thread among all definitions of "soul," from religion to music, in that when it comes to "soul," the whole is always different than the sum of its parts. For me to accept such a definition of "soul," I would have to work with you to deepen this from a summing concept into something greater. Then, maybe that greater way of looking at things would be sufficient that I would call it a "soul." I'd also pay attention to the word "legacy." Legacy has meanings which are very close to the definition you are going after, so it is entirely possible that the concept you describe is actually "legacy" rather than "soul." (Although the idea that the two are one in the same is a fascinating possibility to explore)