When hearing language, we can distinguish articulations, such as whether the vocal cords are vibrating or the tongue body is lowered in the mouth. A phone is the sound made by a certain state of the articulatory organs -- tongue, lips, vocal cords, and so on. When the sound of a language expression is described as a sequence of phones, this means that it was produced by a succession of changes of the organs of articulation. We worked out the basics of how this system works over 2500 years ago when the ancient Greeks devised the alphabet, and since then, this way of describing human speech has been elaborated and refined to be more useful for recording the various human languages. The exact perceptual mechanisms in the ear and brain that allow humans to estimate articulatory changes from acoustic signals is something others could perhaps tell you about. My impression is that much is still unknown. 

It's not an answerable question. There is no general understanding among phonologists about such notational differences -- you have to know the theory or the intent behind the use of the notation. You use square brackets in part of your question, which are generally used for phonetic transcription, and slashes, often reserved for phonemes, in another part of the question. That's confusing. I'm going to assume you mean to be asking about phonetics. A phonologist might have noticed a difference in place of articulation between syllable onset [i], as in "yacht", which is similar to the vowel [i], and syllable offset [i], as in "tie", which is more like a barred-i. A reasonable use to put the alphabetic distinction between vowel and consonant would be to use [i] for the offset sound in "tie" and [j] for the onset sound in "yacht". C.-J. Bailey (in Southern States English) once gave a minimal pair for the onset and offset sounds in "Maya" (as in "Angelou") versus "Maya" the mesoamerican indians, which following the above could be written [maia] versus [maja]. However, Bailey's idea was to distinguish the two by where the syllable boundary comes: [maj.a] versus [ma.ja]. Another idea, due to Ilse Lehiste and probably other phoneticians, is to classify such sounds as vowels when they have a prolonged steady state, during which the articulation remains constant; otherwise, as glides. Yet another plausible use of the notational difference [i/j] is according to syllabicity. In casual speech, intervocalic syllable offset alveolar stops can be flapped in some English dialects, and even lost entirely in faster speech, giving rise to two syllable pronunciations for a word like "toddy", [tai], which is still distinct from single syllable "tie", [taj]. 

I believe in binary branching, but not your binary branching. In HPSG (and Categorial Grammar), constituents combine by the application of a function to a single argument. Function and argument -- that's two, so it's binary. The order of application is determined by the obliqueness of arguments. The most oblique arguments are applied to first. The following is my interpretation of an HPSG-like theory. I don't know what HPSG (Head Driven Phrase Structure Grammar), the true theory itself, says about your example. In your example, "Fred gave Bill a present", the dative "Bill" is most oblique, the accusative "a present" is next most oblique, and the nominative "Bill" is least oblique. The constituent structure is given by the applications: 

Here is a demonstration of a rather analytical approach to this learning about a completely foreign language when there is no common language to guide one. It is by Dan Everett, a student of Kenneth Pike, who was a master of the technique. Pike taught many students at the SIL, one of whose interests is translating the Bible into every language. The introducer, Sally Thomason, has been editor of Language for a number of years. Daniel Everett's monolingual demonstration 

Supposing a diphthong not to be a special kind of phoneme, but rather just a combination of a vowel phoneme and a glide phoneme, then if a glide phoneme is uncommon among the languages of the world, so should the corresponding glide part of a phoneme be uncommon. In your question, you mystify us by writing the glide parts of diphthongs as if they were vowels. 

The loss of t in "exactly" is a special case of a general rule that deletes an alveolar stop (t, d, n) in English between consonants. At least, this general formulation works for my own speech, except perhaps when the preceding consonant is a liquid (r, l), nasal (m, n), or glide (w, y), so probably the preceding consonant must be an obstruent for the deletion to happen. It happens across word boundaries, by which I mean that the consonant following the t that is lost can be the first sound in the following word. For instance, try saying phrases like "exact same", "act stupid", "fact check", "last call" and see whether the t can be lost. It is interesting that you notice this loss of t, because it bears on whether the rule that deletes it is an allophonic rule or a morphophonemic rule. Allophonic rules can produce non-phonemic results, but morphophonemic rules act on and produce phonemic forms. We expect morphophonemic rules to produce results that are readily perceptible to native speakers (because phonemes are easy to hear), but we do not expect such rules to apply across word boundaries. Evidently this rule of English does work on phonemic forms and produces phonemic results, and you have noticed it. So it seems to be morphophonemic, yet it applies across word boundaries. 

I'll refer you to, first, @BillJ's comment above, which I agree with, then to McCawley's analysis in the The Syntactic Phenomena of English, which makes restrictive relative clauses modifiers of N' (N-bar) and non-restrictive relative clauses as modifiers of sentences. The syntactic relationship between a non-restrictive relative and the NP it goes with does not appear to have a counterpart in traditional grammar -- McCawley calls it an "adposit". 

They adapt the sounds that are not in their native phonological systems by applying unsuppressed processes of that system, according to the theory of Natural Phonology. Here is a bibliography of some online papers: natural phonology