This makes it sound like the passion is for each other; I suppose that it's possible that the passion referred to here wasn't for each other, but this seems like an odd interpretation to me. However, the next verse refers to this individual as "my friend" in the present tense: 

At one point in Les Miserables, Victor Hugo inserted a fairly lengthy disclaimer (I don't recall the exact chapter number) explaining that his knowledge of Paris was basically accurate but several decades out of date. Why did he spend so much time explaining the point? 

At the press conference that Dagny Taggart and Hank Rearden gave announcing the opening of the John Galt/Rio Norte Line, Rearden stated that the formula was secret: 

In the Dune series, various religions have undergone drastic transformations. Judaism seems to be largely "intact," but both Christianity and Islam appear to have been substantially mixed with Buddhism. For example, Wikipedia's list of religion in Dune includes Mahayana Christianity, which it describes as 

His superiors were thoroughly baffled by the reference. It's unclear if they even knew who T. S. Eliot was, and it caused a flurry of activity thereafter. What's the significance of using T. S. Eliot here? Was he used merely because he was a famous and successful poet who the book's readers would've been likely to have heard of, or is there additional significance behind this? 

Is this accurate? Did such an interview take place? If so, what was the subject of the interview, and what did they talk about? Did Ayn Rand use the material from the interview? If so, how, and on which project? Did Rand believe Oppenheimer to be evil at the time that she interviewed him, or did she only come to that opinion later? If she believed him to be evil at the time, why did she interview him? Was Oppenheimer aware of her opinion of him? If so, why did he consent to the interview? 

One of the primary ways that the Party differs from other dictatorships is that they know full well what they are doing (seeking power for its own sake), so it's perfectly natural that O'Brien would be aware of it. In a sense, the fact that he accepts that is evidence that he's not a thought criminal, and him refusing to accept that would be thoughtcrime. So, the Party's actual philosophy was a lot different than what it projected to others (big surprise). That being said, O'Brien did, in fact, believe the Party's philosophy - it's just that agreeing with the system means that he agreed with the Party pursuing power for its own sake. With regards to the telescreen issue, it's worth noting that conversations held while the telescreen was supposedly off were still recorded. (It's not known if that was because the telescreen was on the whole time or if O'Brien was simply using a different recording device). The book tells us very little about other members of the Inner Party or the specifics of its internal governance structure, so it's a little unclear whether Inner Party members would still be watched by the Thought Police or by other Inner Party members. We do know that the Inner Party is structured as an oligarchy, and that it's very debatable whether Big Brother actually exists or not; these facts at least suggest a relatively flat power structure, but the point isn't directly provable from the books. So, again, it's not clear exactly what the actual mechanism would be to hold another Inner Party member accountable for thought crime would be (especially if there's not actually a central "leader," so to speak). It's also worth noting that O'Brien insists that the Party declaring something to be true could quite literally make it true; given that he appeared to be truthful about the Party's philosophy in other places, it's safe to assume that he actually believed this himself. This belief is related to - but definitely different than - solipsism. The Party wants to rewrite the past? Well, the past only exists in peoples' memories and in written records, and the Party controls both. The Party says that 2 + 2 = 5? Well, it's true because they claimed it is. Presumably that belief would entail some kind of doublethink on his part. So, O'Brien's fully aware of the Party's malice and also believes that the Party can literally control truth. And yes, as @Gaurav pointed out in the comments, "all animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others." 

In Line (a one-act play by Israel Horovitz), the characters constantly jockey for position in a line. All of the characters seem to have a very different idea of what they're even waiting for, or why it's so important to be first in line. Why are they so determined to be first in line? What do they think that they're going to achieve? Also, do they ever figure out how different their conceptions of what they're even waiting for? In short, to what extent (if any) do the characters recognize the absurdity of their situation and behavior? 

seems to suggest the latter interpretation. Or is there a completely different interpretation entirely? 

The first thing that we're actually shown is Snape's modifications to the Draught of Living Death potion. Some of his modifications, like crushing the bean instead of cutting to release more juice, seem like reasonable things to try. Even adding juice from 1 extra bean seems like a reasonable thing to try. However, the stirring directions (7 times clockwise, 1 time counterclockwise) seems absurdly specific. The directions say to stir twice clockwise. How do you get from "stir twice clockwise" to "stir 7 times clockwise and once counterclockwise"? How did he know to do 7 times rather than 6 or 8? Yeah, I know that 7 is a magically significant number, but 1 (the number of counterclockwise stirs) isn't, and neither is 2 (the number of stirs in the original directions), so really, I could ask how either of them came up with any of their numbers for stirs - it seems quite arbitrary. Also, his Levicorups spell shows multiple attempts to get it right. How did he "figure it out" - guess at the incantation or something? What might his previous experiments have looked like, and what were the results likely to have been? Presumably, they had some effect given that he had written them down, but the fact that he crossed them out implies that successive attempts were better somehow. Better how, though? TL;DR How did Snape figure out the stuff he had written in his book? 

Virtually all of the Strikers were American - it included, for example, Judge Narragansett (Illinois), Midas Mulligan (Chicago, IL), John Galt (Ohio), Ted Nielsen (Colorado), Roger Marsh (Colorado), Hank Reardon (Minnesota and Pennsylvania), Dagny Taggart (New York), among others. The two recorded exceptions were Ragnar Danneskjöld (born in Norway, and possibly living at least part of the time in Norway while he was a Pirate) and Francisco D'Anconia (who was born in Argentina and was the only person definitely recorded to have lived outside of the U.S. much of the time). It is mentioned in passing that most of the People's States were barely getting by on handouts from the U.S., so presumably if the U.S. was no longer able to export anything, their governments would collapse along with the U.S.'s. Was John Galt's speech ever broadcasted in those countries? What was the plan for them? 

The "deadhead sticker on the Cadillac" is obviously a piece of deliberate irony - owning a Cadillac is a symbol of upper-middle-class suburbia and "deadhead" is a symbol of youthful rebellion. I'm particularly interested, though, in the line 

The 4th verse makes a passing reference to God, but only after a reference to the "Daughter from Elysum": 

Related: Why wasn't O'Brien considered a thought criminal? It's possible, but we don't have to assume that that's what he meant. By his own admission, O'Brien helped create the Goldstein myth in the first place and to have helped write "Goldstein's" book. He calls the ideas in the book largely true, but calls the program set forth in it to overthrow the Party "nonsense." This seems to make it highly unlikely that he was a dissident in the same way that Winston was. Other people have pointed out how well-read O'Brien seems to be. This is perfectly true, but this is probably a product of being an Inner Party member. As an Inner Party member, he'd have to be aware of and "in tune with" the Party's true aims and philosophy. That being the case, what it means to be a loyal Inner Party member was very different than what it meant to be a loyal Outer Party member. For example, he shows a good deal of awareness of the Party's malice, but, far from making him disloyal to the Party, he wholeheartedly embraces it. For example: 

Prince Caspian also implies that numerous animals had "gone back" to being "dumb" animals again. That being said, the conditions under which a talking animal can cease to be conscious appear to be very different than the conditions under which humans can cease to be conscious. That being said, the fact that the animals ceased to be conscious doesn't necessarily imply that C. S. Lewis thinks that the same thing will happen to humans (although it's certainly a possible interpretation). I think that it's likely that C. S. Lewis was trying to avoid that controversy here. Most likely, he didn't think that this was the best place to address that kind of controversy (or to go into details about exactly what happened to them). TL;DR We don't have to assume that C. S. Lewis was teaching annihilationism here (although it's certainly a possible interpretation). It's more likely that he was dodging the question, leaving it to be addressed in other books.