Directed graphs are simply a bunch of connected points (in this context, the points are called 'worlds', the connections form the 'accessibility relation'). Labelled directed graphs are directed graphs but with each point having a label that tells us which propositions are true at that point. We want to show that: 

Yes. For the first, observe that ~H -> H is simply H v H, which is simply H. That contradicts the right conjunct of (1), viz. ~H. So you can conclude anything you want. This is known as the explosion principle. For the second, observe that S -> (B -> H) is simply ~S v (B -> H), which is simply ~S v (~B v H), which is equivalent to ~S v ~B v H, which follows from H by disjunction-introduction. 

holds for modal logic L. The answer depends on which logic this L is. Confining our attention to normal modal logics, we choose the strongest (S5) among them and see whether (1) holds with respect to S5. If (1) does not hold with respect to S5, that is, if we can invalidate it, then we can invalidate it in all normal modal logics weaker than S5 (i.e. logics B, S4, T, D, and even K)! Before we get to the counterexample, let's understand the meaning of (1). We start, as usual, with the underlying language: 

van Benthem, J. (2010) Modal Logic for Open Minds, Stanford, CSLI Lecture Notes #199. Holliday, W.H. (2012) Modal Reasoning, Lecture Course (Spring), UC Berkeley. 

This resolves the worry you have about Aristotle's claim that particulars (e.g. Socrates) cannot be said of anything. Since {Socrates} is not a particular but a general term, it doesn't contradict Aristotle to say {Socrates} of Socrates (after all, Socrates &in; {Socrates}).                                                                      References Ackrill, J.L. (1963) Aristotle's Categories and De Interpretatione, Clarendon, Oxford. 

This is, as I stated at the beginning of my post, simply one view I personally find attractive. It's not an uncontroversial position, but I think if one is able to postpone immediate disagreement upon reading the remarks on metaphysics and ethics, one may come to find the view quite attractive. 

You can prove it indirectly as follows (if steps (5) and (8) are acceptable to you, of course). 1 Suppose, for contradiction that: ¬((A → B) ∨ (B → C)) 2 Push the negation in with De Morgan: ¬(A → B) ∧ ¬(B → C) 3 ¬(A → B) by conjunction-elimination from (2) 4 ¬(B → C) by conjunction-elimination from (2) 5 ¬(¬A ∨ B) by the meaning of material conditional from (3) 6 (A ∧ ¬B) by De Morgan from (5) 7 ¬B by conjunction-elimination from (6) 8 ¬(¬B ∨ C) by the meaning of material conditional from (4) 9 (B ∧ ¬C) by De Morgan from (8) 10 B by conjunction-elimination from (9) 11 &bot; from (7) and (10) Therefore, ¬¬((A → B) ∨ (B → C)) ≡ (A → B) ∨ (B → C). 

1) ∃x∀y(Dy ↔ y=x) There is somethingx such that: everythingy is a dog just in case ity is identical to itx. 2) ∃x(Dx ∧ ∀y(Dy → x=y)) There is a dog and every dog is identical to it. 3) ∃x(Dx ∧ ¬∃y(¬y=x ∧ Dy)) There is a dog and there is nothing else that is a dog. 4) ∃xDx ∧ ∀x∀y((Dx ∧ Dy) → x=y) There is a dog, and any two things that are dogs are identical. 

van Benthem, J. (2010) Modal Logic for Open Minds, Stanford, CSLI Lecture Notes #199. Holliday, W.H. (2012) Modal Reasoning, Lecture Course (Spring), UC Berkeley. McNamara, P. (2010) Deontic Logic, The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2014 Edition). 

The second one (often called corner quotes) is mostly found in contexts where one's dealing with two languages: an object language and a metalanguage, and it's very important to keep the distinction in mind. It maps expressions in the metalanguage to expressions in the object language. Your example: 

My interpretation of the question is that "answers" is referring to (in this example) 1-4, not A-D. If that's the case, then A-D say: 

As usual, as I was typing the answer, Mauro ruined it by giving it in simpler terms in the comments! In Categories, Chapter 2, Aristotle divides things into two types: things that are said, and things that are. For these things that are, he gives a fourfold classification schema based on a fundamental distinction between two types of predicative relation: 

So you can ask person P question Q and if the answer is 'yes', P is a truth-teller, if 'no' then P is a liar. 

It turns out, however, that "[t]ruth in models is not appropriate for bringing out such correspondences" between formulas and properties of the accessibility relation, "as special valuations [in our terminology: labelings] may validate axioms even though the underlying frame has no nice behavior at all" (van Benthem 2010, p. 101). So what we really want to show is that: 

The task is to prove the correspondence between the so-called T axiom (φ → ♢φ) and the reflexivity of the accessibility relation. To do so we must be very explicit about the following important distinction: 

In the context of dynamic epistemic logic, this represents the process of learning, and can be used to give explications of belief-revision and so on. Here are some references to the relevant literature: 

It's not a logical truth that an apple is not an orange, but it's nevertheless analytic with respect to the meaning postulate: if predicate P holds uniformly of object a, then for all predicates Q contrary to P, ¬Q(a). For example, if something is uniformly black, then it's not of any color that is contrary to black (say red). Recall that predicates A, B are contraries iff they cannot simultaneously be true of an object: 

This is the set of those propositions φ that are actually true. Depending on which set-theoretic relations hold between Ω and Σ (e.g. Ω ⊂ Σ, Ω ∩ Σ = ∅, etc.), Sonmi's version of the truth may or may not coincide with the actual truth. Now let's look at the things S says: 

The characteristic feature of paraconsistent logics is their rejection of the principle of explosion, which says that from a contradiction anything follows. Dennis linked to a survey article of various logics belonging to this family (see esp. §§3.6–7). Relevant for our purposes here is a fact mentioned in §1: 

I have tried to guess how Aristotle might have justified the claim that medical man, medical instrument, and medical problem are homonymous. But the explanation I've given rests on Aristotle's assumption that "the definition of being" denotes a unique object, an assumption that you and I might not share. For example, we might, as the OP has, propose a definition of 'medical' in such a broad way that it can act as a definition of being medical for all three things; and so on. There are lots of other avenues open.                                                                     Reference Ackrill, J.L. (1963) Aristotle's Categories and De Interpretatione, Clarendon, Oxford. 

Relation R &subseteq; A × B is total iff for all x &in; A, there exists a y &in; B s.t. (x, y) &in; R. In other words, every element of A is mapped to some element of B. Relation R &subseteq; A × B is deterministic iff there is no x &in; A for which there are y, z &in; B s.t. (x, y) &in; R and (x, z) &in; R. In other words, every element of A is mapped to no more than one element of B.                                                                      Application These notions are applied to natural language semantics exactly in the way you described. Consider: 

Disproof. Let φ = q. Consider the model M described above. In M, φ is actual at w1, since V(φ) = V(q) = {w1} = {@}. But is φ necessary in M, that is, is it true that for any world w &in; |M|, we have M, w |= φ? Since w2 ∉ V(q) = V(φ), we have M, w2 |/= φ. Therefore φ is not necessary, so Claim 2 is false. Therefore, (Fact 1) doesn't entail (Claim 1).