The problem is that there is an entire field called "Information Technology" or "IT" which is centered around networking. In most companies the development staff and the IT staff are completely separate. When you said you were specializing in "networking", the interviewer naturally assumed you wanted to go into IT and had been taking IT courses, not programming courses, so he lost interest. 

If you were fired/dismissed, then you should indicate that in the system. If you misrepresent your reason for leaving a previous position, it is grounds for your employer to fire you instantly if they discover it later. Also, it is unlikely you will be able to hide the fact that you were fired. Any new employer will verify your employment and whether you were fired or not. Look at it from the prospective employers perspective, which is worse: somebody who got fired, or somebody who lied to you? Personally, I will definitely hire people who have been fired (depending on the reason). I have been fired from jobs. I will never hire somebody who lies to me, though, or tries to fraudulently depict their work history. 

I assume here you are working for some kind of employment agency. Requiring you to keep secret your pay is standard. The reason is that if you tell the "client" what you are paid, then the "client" might try to hire you away or even get a different agency to hire you instead. Another serious potential problem is that your pay could be revealed to OTHER workers from the same agency working at the same client. For example, let's say the agency has 3 workers at the client. They are paying 2 of them $35 an hour and they are paying you $55 an hour and all three of you are doing exactly the same thing. Now, suppose you go and tell the other 2 programmers that the agency is paying you $55 an hour. What do you think will happen? The need for a confidentiality agreement should be obvious from this example. 

Speaking from experience, I used to write a blog. I kept at it on a daily basis and I had creds to back it up, like being a speaker at major industry conferences and author of many articles in well-regarded journals and magazines. I took the steps to get the blog high ranked on search engines. For example, I got linked on Slashdot, which generated literally a million hits; it almost brought my server down. I also had a lot of "resource" links on my site, that made it a valuable web site for a lot of developers for reasons having nothing to do with my blog. Needless to say, doing all this was a LOT of work. Was it worth it? I had fun doing it, but career-wise it was probably irrelevant. Best case scenario is that it made me more of a "known quantity", but at the end of the day, I doubt it had any effect on hiring decisions. I never had a recruiter contact me from my web site. In general, I would say the risks outweigh the possible rewards for the average person. If you enjoy doing it, keep blogging away, but I would not recommend just trying to blog because you think it might boost your credentials. It doesn't, and it is so much work, you will leave off doing it, then it will just look stupid because you will have just a handful of articles and it will look like you are a shirker or don't carry through on things. Remember you can't erase it, once you publish it, because it says in cache and in the way-back machine and other archives. Also, the content is risky. Unless you are a very good writer, a blog can come off making you look bad. From the wording of your question, you appear fairly literate but somewhat unfocused and rambling. My guess is your blog will be the same way. That will definitely not help you. Rambling on aimlessly will not impress anybody, and could give a hiring manager the idea that you are a time waster. Another risk is that you could spend time writing about topics that have nothing to do with the position in question, which can make you look inappropriate for the slot. All in all, to repeat what I said above: if you are already blogging and enjoy it, do it for fun, but do not blog as a resume filler. 

This answer does not answer the original question about blacklisting. However, I think it's important enough to deserve a separate answer rather than a comment. She needs to be very careful with this. If she is currently on FMLA leave (Family Medical Leave Act) and quits while on it, the company can require repayment of the company's share of health plan premiums that they paid while she was on FMLA leave. They can also stop health care benefits (subject to COBRA) immediately upon learning that she doesn't plan to return to work. Some info here. The particular statement is in 825.311 and more detailed information in 825.213. Many companies probably won't bother trying to recover the premiums. If word got out, it could be a public relations nightmare, but the possibility is there. Thanks to Joe Strazzere for a link to better information. 

When trying to get out of this role, try this slant. You should be earning more than the support analysts--the company is wasting money by having you spend time on this rather than developing full-time. 

If you had experience with a project or a company that practiced six-sigma, I would say iffy but okay. Because it appears that you have neither training nor experience in six-sigma, just don't do it. You'll just upset your interviewers when they ask for details of your six-sigma experience. 

Americans also have greater personal distance. Two American colleagues will stand farther apart than two European colleagues. That will also tend to raise the volume. I don't know if this is the case in your workplace, but I could see Americans more likely to talk across a cubicle wall (or two) or "shout" across the hallway. Edited to add a reference and to limit comparison to Northern Europeans. 

Ask for references! That is, people who are currently using the space. The space manager could still give you bad contact info just as they could lie in a phone call, but that might weed out some of the possibilities. 

Because the report is not freely available, it's difficult to be sure. My assumption is that "hours available" are the possible hours of training provided by the employer. These could be applicable courses, equivalent of reimbursable tuition, etc. The report's finding is that employees are only using 2% of their opportunities for training. 

It would be inadvisable to bring up such a topic for several reasons. For most people it may seem pseudo-scientific and a bit weird. People in HR will not like it, because they have an anti-testing cult due to EEOC brainwashing. Any mention of IQ tests, standardized tests, personality tests, or anything else like that typically will trigger a negative reaction from HR. Of course, they do not make the hiring decision, but nevertheless it is unwise to alienate them. 

You need to bail and find a new position pronto before they fire you. Since you are now "disgruntled", you are living on borrowed time. If you wait until they fire you, then when you are interviewing they will call up your ex employer who will give you a bad review. If you interview while you are still employed, they cannot call up your current employer. 

Uh, what? You are planning to try to shake down your employer for a bonus that has nothing to do with your work performance? Not a good idea. Sometimes an employer will re-negotiate a salary, especially if you were hired provisionally at a lower salary and you have subsequently proved your worth. If you are looking for a better position (which it sounds like you are), just go to the better job. Trying to extort your current employer or making threats like, pay more or I leave, will not accomplish anything positive. 

Throwing a bunch of people in a room to yack about problems most of them have nothing to do with is not a "team". Most software developers work on particular problems to which they have been assigned. It's not really a "team" activity. This isn't football (or rugby, lol). Trying to inject a fake team sense by having "scrums" just wastes people time. Did it ever occur to you that some people don't like being on "teams" or being forced to interact with other people? What I have observed in "scrums" is that the busybodies, often the lower productivity people or "analysts", stand around complaining about random stuff which is usually irrelevant to 90% of the people in the room, while the productive people stand around saying nothing while thinking to themselves "I hope this is over soon, so I can get back to work." If you want to boost morale: 

Let's assume you're stuck with this role in the short term. I think there are some things you can do to make it easier to live with. Some of it would fit better in Productivity SE! 

I have a few ideas. Follow @paparazzi's advice (move the magnet inside your cubicle). Round up some fellow alumni to join in and put magnets on the outsides of their cubicles. Try to acquire magnets from all the universities in the group and put them all on the outside of your cubicle. Tape the magnet to your cubicle. Or otherwise secure it. If you're putting it on the metal edge of your cubicle wall, run twine or string over it and secure with pushpins. Or, you're an engineer--think up some fun solution! 

Americans, in general, are louder than Northern Europeans. We (yes, I'm an American) just talk louder. I've personally seen it when visiting or having meetings with colleagues who are based in Europe. I have to consciously think about lowering my volume to match theirs. Not a published research paper, but a reference from the Divsersity Council: 

One thing you can say to your colleagues is: "I'm working with my doctor to try to reduce the symptoms, but so far, this is the best we can do! I'm sorry that you find it annoying." Hopefully it's a true statement, and you are working with a doctor. It acknowledges the problem and lets them know that you are actively working on the issue. Side note: I haven't tried it, but I have acquaintances who swear by nasal irrigation (search 'neti pot'). One races bicycles semi-professionally so comes into contact with a lot of allergens. Have a study. 

As far as possible, arrange a specific time for a customer call via email so you're not calling multiple times. The customer will likely also appreciate this. Alternatively: have one of the analysts call. If they connect, they can transfer the call to you. By 1st level support, do you mean the run-of-the-mill questions or the escalated/complex issues? You should only be handling the latter personally. If the former, see about escalating the calls to 2nd level support. Connected to (2), if they don't exist yet, start publishing more FAQs, canned responses, etc. to reduce the number of calls that must be reviewed or handled by you. Particularly on developer days, set up specific times when you will review/sign off on support issues. Try also to have one person collate the information and present it to minimize the disruption. Finally, see if there is anyone that you can train to take over this role or even specific duties. You may need to convince your manager that this person or persons should have different titles and raises. If you can identify a new team lead or supervisor who can handle some duties, particularly on your developer days, that will make your life much easier. 

No. Your bosses aren't as clueless as you think. If this guy is typing with one finger, they know about it. Just because your bosses don't tell you "Pedro is an idiot." doesn't mean they don't know that. Most bosses know far more than you would imagine. Remember, they have the eagle's eye view. Even if there was some dirty secret you were sure your bosses didn't know, it would still probably be a bad idea to reveal it. You don't want people to think of you as being a rat. 

If you are F1, you are not authorized to work in the United States. Lying on an employment form is not a good way to initiate your entry into the United States. 

It's too late now, but giving 2 months notice was ill-advised. You know, if they fire you, they escort you out the door by security guards that same day, right? You owe them NOTHING. Sticking around for two months just gives a lot of time for bad blood to build up. Do not get emotionally invested in your projects at this point, just put in your hours and focus on documentation and transferring knowledge since that is all you can do. If I were you, I would create a summary of what you will be doing to finish up in terms of a list of documents and so forth you will be leaving. As far as "finishing" your projects, you can forget about that. It's somebody else's problem now. 

In some cases a comment like this is an invitation to the candidate to declare themselves and their motives. In other words, the comment may have been intended to discourage the "average" candidate. If you were determined to get the job, a possible response would have been: 

Your behavior is completely logical. You want to understand in detail the exact way everything should work so that there is no ambiguity about what needs to be done. Unfortunately, the average person is a moron who does not believe in understanding things before they do them. The average person thinks the way to accomplish tasks is just to dive in and try something and if something bad happens, correct it later. Such people (who are 90% of the population) do not appreciate scientific thinkers who want to get it right the first time. Another problem is that the morons you are working with are not certain how to answer some of your more technical questions and that makes them feel embarrassed and angry. That's why they are complaining. Your only option is to stop relying on other people for information and try to figure out what to do solely on your own. If something bad happens, just say "I was never told how to do X." Another way to look at it, is that asking ANY question is an imposition on another person, so at a certain level interrogating someone is rude. So, look at it as an etiquette thing. Polite people don't ask questions.