Proper names are nouns, albeit with specific characteristics, so they play the roles other nouns play in syntax (subject, object, etc). They also partake in morphology; if a language has genders, it will distinguish between Cláudio and Cláudia just like it distinguishes between gato and gata; if a language has cases, it will have Cladius and Claudii. The etymology of proper names can be studied just like that of other words, and it is subject to the usual phonetic transformation (Charles vs Carlos); proper names can also be borrowed from language to language. They can even be productive in terms of derivation: Newtonian, Trotskyist, Spoonerism, Franco-Germanic. So I guess they are a quite proper object of Linguistics. 

it seems obvious to me that these sentences are not synonymous, either with the original sentence, or with each other. On the other hand, adverbs like "luckily", "hopefully", "understandably", behave in a similar way to "yesterday": 

As others have pointed out, the evolution, both in Latin/Romance and in Old/Modern English is contrarywise. The old masculine word (wer, vir) went extinct or archaic or suffered a semantic shift (Portuguese varão, male person, only used in literary register, but also barão, baron; English were, male person, now extinct); the old neutral word (homo, man) shifted to mean just male person except, but even this is going obsolete, in an abstract sense, as the name of the species) and was replaced by the Latin (grammatically feminine) word (personna -> English person, Portuguese (still grammatically feminine) pessoa), while the feminine word was kept (wyfman -> woman or replaced by euphemisms, neologisms or, like in French, just by the word for female (It. donna, Pt. mulher, Fr. femme). I suppose that this evolution is similar in English and Romance rather due to coincidence than out of some universal linguistic pattern, though my ignorance of anything beyond the already mentioned languages makes it impossible for me to demonstrate. But there are, or so I am told, languages completely devoid of gender, such as Japanese, Hungarian or Turkish, so it cannot be completely universal. In Romance languages, anyway, the whole masculine and neutral genders of Latin collapsed into what is called the masculine gender, but is perhaps closer to Latin's neutral. Also, there is some confusion between semantics and grammar almost always when speakers of English try to understand gender in other languages: a word can be grammatically of one gender, but semantically refer to something of the opposite sex - or with no sex at all. And such confusion tends to get politicised in English, with misguided attempts to root patriarchy into linguistic features of modern European languages, usually through anachronisms or false etymologies. 

The "why" of it is essentially a question of whether the participle refers back to the subject. The être verbs all refer to a changed state of the subject — which is particularly obvious with naître, mourir, tomber and rester. Now you might ask: why just those thirteen verbs? Aren't there many more that can be construed to involve a change of the subject's state, and hence require "be" rather than "have"? Why is "I have grown up" J'ai grandi, not *Je suis grandi? That's a reasonable question. In fact, there are languages that are more consistent about be/have, such as Danish: Jeg er vokset op "I have ('am') grown up", as opposed to Jeg har set noget "I have seen something". It must have been the case with French at some point as well, before avoir began to take over, so that only thirteen être verbs remained in the end, most likely because they were common enough for their existing perfect forms to survive as set phrases. 

Both you and your friend are framing in terms of "simplicity" vs. "complexity" what's really a slightly different issue, etymological transparency vs. etymological opacity. Or, in the most basic terms, native vs. borrowed. Most people speak a language that has a layer of "erudite" vocabulary borrowed from the language of a more influential, and usually "older", culture: depending on where you are in the world, it's usually one of Latin, Chinese, or Arabic. This means there are certain lexemes, and sometimes a certain amount of grammar, that you have to learn from scratch on top of your native language if you are to understand this "erudite" layer. For example, most speakers of English can break down the word "independence" as far as "depend", which is still a borrowed "erudite" word; speakers of Romance languages have it easier, since the Latin root is still transparent to them as meaning "hang", in the most everyday sense, and so indépendance or indipendenza still discernibly contain the metaphor of no longer "hanging off" of something (over a presumed cliff). So the solution — if you choose to think of this as a problem — is not in "pruning" the language, but in nativising its vocabulary. It's already been done in a lot of languages; the German Unabhängigkeit, or the Russian nezavisimost', are exact translations, or "calques", of the Latin independentia: "non-off-hang-ing-ness". That said, both Russian and German still contain a lot of Latin vocabulary, although much less that English. Very few languages have gone the way of near-complete nativisation, Icelandic being one famous example. It's hard to tell whether it did or did not lead to any greater political awareness, but it clearly involved no "pruning" of the language — if anything, it was the opposite, a massive infusion of new words. Another point must also be raised: political vocabulary is essentially jargon, no different in principle from the jargon of seafaring or video gaming. By which I mean, it developed as a form of communication between people with specific shared experiences, trading transparency of meaning for speed, efficiency, and not the least, the ability to identify with the group. The reason we have Latinate political terms such as "consensus" was that, a long time ago, it was part of a jargon shared by people who (1) knew Latin and (2) had political phenomena as part of their everyday experience; then it was handed down generations to people who didn't necessarily know Latin anymore, but for whom a certain amount of Latin vocabulary came with the job requirements (as well as general social status). It's understandable that they weren't in any way motivated to abandon this vocabulary in favour of something more transparent to the less educated populace — unless they were of a specific type of political creed, nationalist or "national revivalist". Movements of that sort in several different countries have in fact affected many languages, and in a generally positive way at that. But they were dedicated movements. By default, it's still up to the individual speaker whether they feel it necessary to expand their vocabulary with Latinate (or, say, Arabesque) political jargon. Not everyone has equal opportunities here, as regards time investment and the availability of knowledge (though that's less of an issue now that we have the internet). So your friend has a point. "Complex" speech isn't necessarily always inherenty valuable; often it exists just because a relatively small circle of people has found it convenient. However, you can't just decree a sweeping language reform, or manufacture the political will and popular support for it out of thin air. It's still mere reality of life that if you want to understand politicians, you might have to take time to learn new words. I'm not sure, however, that this is one of the "better" reasons, or that such better reasons even exist, beyond the most basic "knowing more is better than knowing less". 

The third and fourth categories are more commonly composed by names of non-domesticated animals - and the fourth is more usual among borrowings from Tupi-Guarani. But the issue is somewhat blurred. Some would say that "elefante" does have a feminine form (and then disagree whether it is "elefanta" or "elefoa" - placing the word in the second category above - or "aliá", which would make it an instance of the first category). And definitely there are cases where there is inflection, but one of the genders is more or less automatically used when the sex of the animal is unknown - "raposa" (fox) does have a masculine form, "raposo", but the feminine is used whenever the sex of the animal isn't important. Now, a use such as "Seu Esquilo" (Mr. Squirrel) is unusual - it is either children talk or a peculiar subset of the literary register, pertaining to fables or fairy tales. And then the rules are much laxer than in standard or colloquial register. If the animals come in couples, it would often be natural to call them "Dona Onça" and "Seu Onço", even though the latter would be weird in colloquial speech. This is however very irregular, and the use of one of the forms may sound weird even in a fable ("Seu Furão", ?"Dona Furona"; "Dona Zebra, ?"Seu Zebro"). Also in fables, the modern (and somewhat colloquial) masculine "Seu" could possibly be replaced by the archaic "Dom" - as in "Dona Baratinha e Dom Ratão"). So, in the case in point, I think the most natural thing would be to call the squirrel "Seu Esquilo", unless for some reason one would assume it is a female (the word does have a feminine form, "esquila"). If it was a fox, it would be more natural to call it "Dona Raposa" unless for some reason it was assumed to be a male. If it was a jaguar, it would be "Dona Onça", with the alternative "Seu Onço" only if we intended to stress it was a male, if we are telling a fable; in colloquial or standard Portuguese we would call a male jaguar "onça-macho" (and use the feminine articles and adjectives - "a onça-macho estava furiosa".) 

The question worth asking here is, how "instrumental" is the Slavic instrumental really? "Instrumental" is just a name that grammarians gave it, after its most common usage; but I don't think the pre-literate speakers of Proto-Slavic would think of it as a case for expressing instrumentality. To them, it just was what it was. The case for instruments and passive-sentence agents, as well as the case for times of day/year, as well as the case required by the prepositions for "behind" and "in front of", as well as the case for being or becoming, as well as the case for modes and manners (every -sky adverb in every Slavic language is historically an instrumental, plural, neuter adjective. По-русски is a technically ungrammatical contamination of rusьsky with po rusьsku.) And that latter meaning can probably elucidate how instrumental "felt" to speakers of Proto-Slavic — as a "modes and manners" case, which could equally be modes of doing — as in *maltomъ "with a hammer" or *slověnьsky "in Slavic", "the Slavic way" — or modes of being, as in *byti dobryjimъ "to be good". Or circumstantial modes such as *noktijǫ "at night". 

Hominis and agricolae are not in any way "less" fusional than andrôn — because singular is not an absence of number. They combine singularity and genitivity. As opposed to agglutinative examples such as the Turkish evde "in the house" where -de only carries the locative, and the singular is technically expressed by a null ending: ev.Ø.de, as demonstrated by ev.ler.de "in the houses". 

I fear that this question is premised upon a naïve idealisation of science. Science does not prove anything, except the falsety of its own theories. And no, this isn't a bug, nor it should not do anything different. What we call "truth" is always provisional, no one can be in direct contact with the Kantian "thing in itself", everything is mediated by our perceptions, which are not the "true thing". Why would linguistics be different from particle physics? Both languages and subatomic particles are part of "reality", and can be discussed, labeled, theorised, spoken about. There is a scientific method - propose a theory, isolate variables, design an experiment, perform the experiment, compare the experiment's result with the theory's predictions. This is no different in linguistics than in any other science. If linguistic theories are in any sence worse than subatomic physics theories, this is a problem of the relative development of each science. Yes, physics as a whole is more developed than linguistics, due to both historical (scientific linguistic is newer than scientific physics) and structural (recursivity in linguistics is more immediate than in physics) factors. But then physics was a mess two centuries ago, too. Physicists disagree on a lot of things too. Which is a good thing; how would physics ever progress if physicists adhered to previous results as dogma? We would still believe in epicycles, I suppose. 

In languages that express grammatical number in nouns with suffixes, usually there is either a suffix added to an unsuffixed singular to form the plural (cat—cats), or the suffix (or inflectional ending) is replaced (Italian gatto—gatti). Are there, however, any languages that consistently use unsuffixed plurals for nouns and add a suffix to form the singular? I'm aware of Arabic examples such as ghurfah "room" — ghuraf "rooms", but they're rather sporadic and involve internal flexion. Collective nouns such as al-ˁarab being the basis for ˁarabîyyun "an Arab" come closer, but I'm not at all sure they're technically the same noun in different numbers, as opposed to separate nouns. Theoretically, I can think of two scenarios in which suffixed singulars and unsuffixed plurals could occur: one where the plural inflectional ending is lost historically but the singular one remains, making it seem as though something is added to form the singular; and another one where all of the old inflexion is lost and there is no number distinction for a while, until a partitive suffix of some sort is grammaticalised as the new singular. 

When listening to recordings of spoken Albanian, I sometimes note what sounds like a retroflex /r/; it's less pronounced than in American English, and seems to occur in syllable codas. Now Albanian phonology resources say the language does have two /r/s, but they're a flap and a trill like in Spanish (and reflected the same way in writing, as r vs. rr). Neither does the Wikipedia page for the sound list Albanian among the languages that have it. Is it a dialectal feature? Or am I hearing things? 

As pointed in other answer, starboard comes from Middle English sterbord. What wasn't pointed is that that would mean "steerboard" - the side of the steerwheel, relative to pilot of a ship, as opposed to "backboard". So, Spanish estribor (like French tribord, Italian stribordo, Portuguese estibordo) is a loan from some Germanic language, not the other way round. 

But it is more complicated than that, with some weird exceptions (for instance, ele está morto - he is dead - with estar instead of ser, albeit one would wonder what could be more permanent than death[1]), and the fact that both verbs are also auxiliaries, and the difference in the use of either as an auxiliary is much bigger than their differences as main verbs. Ser is the auxiliary used in the passive voice: 

Other contradistictions possibly exist, but it is not easy to spot the illogicalities in one's own language. 

And then there are a few names that do not inflect, but accept articles of either gender, according to the sex of the animal: 

Since the context is informal, they may call each other informal pronouns (você and its popular contraction cê). It would be more respectful of both to use formal pronouns, but it is optional. On the other hand, the use of formal pronouns in informal contexts may be intended as sarcastic, as in parents calling their children o senhor during reprimands (and so, depending on context, the usage can easily be perceived as less respectful than the use of an informal pronoun). Also, archaic usage often sounds formal to our ears, even though it was intended as informal at the time it was uttered. We tend to hear English "thou" as formal because it is in the Bible and nobody speaks like that anymore; but it was informal, as opposed to formal "you", a few centuries ago.