In all likelihood, they fail miserably. Too many things to be done all at the same time, and humanity tends to not like losing. That being said.... In order for it to work, they have to do it fast enough that humanity doesn't have a way to fight back, or at least make it not worthwhile to fight back. The problem, of course, is that they're working from a vast technological deficit. Detroit can quickly call for help if given the chance. Ultimately though, it starts to look like a standard fast-infiltration mission. They'd need to plan simultaneous attacks, preferably at night, on the political system, emergency services, and communication networks. Cut power to cell towers so that the humans' communication to the outside world is reduced (try to get the internet down, but that's a lot harder); decimate the emergency services (particularly the command structure) to reduce their immediate ability to do damage control; remove the politicians so that it takes longer to get the governor to send in the National Guard. Once the communications, emergency services, and politicians are down, the dogs have bought themselves a day or two at most. They have to make the most of it. As soon as people start waking up in the morning, start causing as much fear and panic as possible. That should be easy enough, as packs of intelligent wolves roaming the streets would cause anyone to freak. People start panicking, they soon start rioting, and when they realize that the police aren't doing anything the riots start to grow bigger and bigger. This is where things start to go downhill. There are two ways to empty the city of human life: kill them all, or convince them to leave. As much fear as the dogs can instill in the citizens of Detroit, they're not going to be able to convince everyone to up and leave within a day or two. They're then left with killing the humans. Given the population of Detroit, each dog would need to kill around 100 people, on average (assuming the dog's population has gone up a bit from the original 5000, just to make the math easier). They're vastly outnumbered and lacking in technology. I don't care how hard the dogs can bite, they're done if they get whacked in the head with an aluminum baseball bat. Supposing they manage to clear the city of inhabitants, the National Guard and/or Army will be showing up eventually. That's where things really get messy. They can't fight the military, so they'd need to basically start a guerrilla campaign, constantly attacking the cleanup crews. Give it enough time, eventually people will start to question whether getting back Detroit is worth so many lives. But it'll take a while. 

Of course it can. All it takes is groups of people with different levels of extremism. The way I see it playing out is the rebellion starts off with The Roost being the main rebellion. A few people start asking if they're really doing enough - "They've held us down for so long, what makes anyone think that they'll just let us be equal? The only option is for US to be in power, to remove them entirely!" Over a bit of time this viewpoint permeates through the rebellion, feeding off of the generations of inequality, until they finally split off as the Black Mane when they ultimately decide that their two goals are incompatible. 

The orbit: sure it's feasible. Gravity is gravity, it doesn't matter what the source is. We could replace the sun with a black hole, and as long as it was the same mass all the planets would keep revolving exactly the same (with the minor exception of Earth experiencing a sudden loss of all life). So for your neutron star, it's exactly the same. Ballpark it as having a mass of 1.5 solar masses (per Wikipedia). Now, we'd need to shift orbits out a little bit to accommodate for the mass increase, but that's just a matter of messing with the numbers. To deal with the other part of your question, the temperature, neutron stars are about a thousand times hotter than the sun, as you said, but the emissions are mainly x-rays and gamma rays. Those don't interact with matter as much as lower energy emissions like from our sun. As a result, they're hotter, but don't warm a planet as much as a normal star at the same distance. So we're left with a dilemma of needing to be further away to balance the mass increase, but closer to balance the temperature. And, of course, the dilemma that the output of the star is x-rays and gamma rays, which aren't exactly conducive to life in large quantities. Ultimately won't work, unfortunately. 

Step one: Ask yourself why you're only bringing 100 men rather than bringing 1,000 and simply crushing them through overwhelming numbers. You've had time to prepare, and you've got the home-field advantage, as it were. Why give yourself a handicap by forcing an equal fight? Step two: Twice as fast as an average human isn't that fast. It basically means you're fighting Olympic runners. So right off the bat, it isn't as hard to win as it seems from the title. Soldiers, in general, would be faster than the average human simply due to their training. Therefore make sure that you're bringing professional soldiers, not recruited commoners. Now, let's think about how the battle can play out. You said a hundred meters apart, so let's say (since they're at Olympic level) that it will take about ten seconds to cover that distance. You could probably get two volleys of arrows off in that time, so let's say have fifty archers shooting. They do two volleys, then draw their melee weapons, preferably blunt weapons like maces or hammers. Meanwhile you have shields/pikes as a front line to deal with the initial charge. After the two armies meet, the maces from the back come in and finish cleaning up. Alternatively, just have a hundred mounted knights do a cavalry charge. Long story short, moving twice as fast as average humans doesn't give too much of an advantage in the scenario you have. It's not so fast to be outside the realm of possible for a human, so it basically just devolves into "How to battle top-condition humans armed with knives and chain mail" - and that's something that humanity has been answering for centuries. 

Double Jump: Nope. The problem here is Newton's Laws. In order to jump a second time in mid-air, you need to apply a force to something (Second Law) - something to jump off of, basically. In order to do this we'd basically need jetpack boots or something like that, which (1) are not modern tech and (2) at that point why are you worrying about jumping, you have jetpack boots. Wall Jumps: Yes. The hard part is moving your body fast enough to get a good next jump - you don't want to be jumping backwards. Obviously there are limits as to how far apart the walls can be, but that's primarily defined by gravity rather than how good your jumping ability is - if the jump is far enough you will start dropping, no matter how strong you are. Direction Reversal: Nope. Again with Newton's Laws, you'd need to apply a force in order to change directions and you just can't do that feasibly without some sort of jetpack-type-thing.