= सन्धिः sandhi without ऽ - सन्धिः the two ऽऽ denote that आ in the latter word has been replaced due to सन्धिः 

Some words appear in all three genders, and these are also marked appropriately by the usage of special words in verses. I've seen or to denote (masculine), for and for feminine. Here's another example that enumerates synonyms of 

Each of the sentences in the verse has a causative verb e.g अगमयत्, अवेदयत् etc. In the non-causative form, each sentence can be written as 

Before understanding the mantra, we need to break it down into individual words. It is not an easy task to understand the words used in a vedic mantra even after breaking it down into words. If my memory serves me right, the separate words in the first mantra are: 

Only a commentary on the mantra can resolve this ambiguity. The word is an indeclinable (also called in sanskrit). It is used in many meanings, one being in the sense of raising a question. Hence there's no possibility of the word appearing in the mantra. There's some kind of sandhi happening at - the trailing त् at the end of a word is replaced with a This must've caused the confusion. From Apte's dictionary: $URL$ 

The word at the end signifies that each of the words in this verse are all in स्त्रीलिङ्गः (feminine) only: 

There's a deeper reason for selecting the विभक्तिः (case-ending) for each of the words. The basis for this is Panini's sutra (पाणिनेः सूत्रम्) 1-4-52 गतिबुद्धिप्रत्यवसानार्थशब्दकर्माकर्मकाणामणि कर्ता स णौ It mandates that when any of the verbal roots (धातवः) in this sutram (or other roots which carry the same meaning as those in the rule) is used in the causative sense (ण्यन्तावस्था), then agent of action (कर्ता) in the non-causative sentence (अण्यन्तावस्था) shall become the object (कर्म) in causative sentence (ण्यन्तावस्था). The example given to demonstrate application of this rule is 

Consider modern Russian, which has six cases: nominative, genitive, dative, accusative, instrumental, and prepositional. In the first declension these are indicated for the most part by single vowels. 

The short answers are "probably" and "we don't know". PIE didn't have quite the same categories of participles that we have today, because its tense-aspect system was very different from English's. (The primary distinction was between perfective and imperfective verbs, like in some Slavic languages today.) And everything we know about it is reconstructed, so there's disagreement about what certain things actually meant. But *-nt- did create a participle usually described as present active, and *-t- did create a participle usually described as past passive. These are the same participles that survived in Latin: from the stem ama- "love" you get amant- "loving" and amāt- "loved". As for where they came from…unfortunately, nobody is really sure. PIE is the oldest stage we're able to reconstruct with any certainty. There have been theories proposed about older versions of the language, but none are widely accepted. So PIE is about as far back as you can get. 

German did lose its dental fricatives early on, but not quite early enough to avoid affecting the orthography. The transition from /θ~ð/ to /t~d/ is usually considered part of the High German Consonant Shift. But this generalization can be misleading. This change did start in the same region as the other High German changes. But /θ/ shifted significantly later, around the 10th century, and spread significantly farther, affecting all of the West Germanic languages except English. By this point, German had just begun to be written down. "Th" was chosen for /θ/, by analogy with Greek theta (transcribed as "th" in Latin, and now pronounced /θ/). So the cognate to English "think" was written thenken (modern German denken). But then /θ/ disappeared from the language. With the distinction between /θ/ and /t/ lost, it was no longer clear which German words should be written with "th" and which should have "t". Thus "th" appeared in some words like Thal, which originally had /d/ (compare English "dale"). A similar process in English created the "th" in "Thomas" and "Thames". Eventually this use of "th" fossilized. Words like Thal were permanently written with "th", while words like denken were permanently written with "d". In 1901 the orthography reform finally removed this distinction, replacing Thal with Tal and Thier with Tier. "Th" now survives only in proper names (Goethe) and Greek-derived loanwords (Thron). Source: I've been using Duden Online and Wright's Old High German Primer, which has good information on Old High German orthography and the consonant shift. However it was also published in 1888, so my information may be very out of date. Please correct me if so. 

Each of the verbs used in the above example are directly called out in the sutram, or have meanings of one of the verbs explicitly mentioned in it. Hence, in the causative construct, the agent of action in each of these sentences becomes the object. Applying the same sutram to the verse 

Apte's dictionary ($URL$ is also a great resource for learning the लिङ्गम् of words. However, the most authoritative source would be a कोषः such as अमरकोषः, मेदिनी etc. The अमरकोषः has words arranged in categories (for e.g names of Gods, plants, etc.) and is in verse form. Where applicable, the verse also indicates the gender of words. For e.g here's one verse that gives synonyms for the word 

It is the same in all genders, case-endings and sentences. That which never changes is called अव्ययम् 

is obviously in पुँल्लिङ्गः but the next two words (i.e nominal stems) (प्रथमा-विभक्तिः forms are )and (प्रथमा-विभक्तिः forms are ) are in स्त्रीलिङ्गः Finally त्रिविष्टपम् is in नपुंसकलिङ्गः There's a commentary on written by Bhanuji Dikshit and published by Chowkhamba. It contains all verses and a brief commentary to each verse where the derivations of some words is demonstrated with Panini's rules. Sanskrit grammar is an ocean and takes several years to learn. The best way to get started is to find a teacher/scholar in this subject. If you have some foothold in the basics, you can view recordings of Siddhanta Kaumudi here: $URL$ or from youtube $URL$ $URL$ has enough material to keep one busy for a few years - the daily examples show how to use Panini's rules to derive words. Video recordings of select portions of Ramayanam, Raghuvamsam, Introduction to Sanskrit and Panini's rules are also available: $URL$ 

Additionally, it is also possible to glean hints of the original glottal stop that gave rise to 上聲 within the Sinitic varieties. Just as page 322 of Baxter's A Handbook of Old Chinese Phonology states: 

Hence by 1632, the pronunciation had shifted to かわい​い although the meaning had only shifted a little, from embarassed to pitiful. From there, the shift to adorable and cute is quite straightforward but it is also something that has occurred in the last 400 years. 

This question isn't just about spelling, because when these spellings were standardised, it is highly likely that all these words ending with "-ear" were pronounced in the same way. However, gradually between the 15th and 17th centuries as standardisation was setting in, the Great Vowel Shift occurred, changing the pronunciation of the vast majority of the vowels in English. This group rhyming with "ear" is usually called the lexical set in modern English, and was pronounced /eːr/ in early modern English; in Received Pronunciation this is usually /ɪə̯/, often smoothed to [ɪː]; in the General American standard, it's usually /iɹ/. A set which was distinct but similar in early modern English was that pronounced with /ɛːr/, as exemplified by the spelling "-are" as in the lexical set . This is /ɛə̯/ in Received Pronunciation (smoothed to [ɛː]), whilst in General American it is /ɛɹ/. If this is what time did to sounds of , why were words like , , , , as well as , , , (compare with the spellings of , and ) so different, ending up joining the set? In fact, something analogous happened to , and . Were they to follow the regular pattern set down by and , they would have merged into the same set as /eː/ by the end of the 16th century, and then changed into /iː/, modern lexical set by the end of the Great Vowel Shift. Instead, they only went as far as /ɛː/ by the end of 16th century, then went to /eː/ and then to modern /ei/, lexical set . These are all exceptions to the Great Vowel Shift. Notice that these exceptions represented by and by appear to be closer to their older pronunciations than their lookalikes and . It appears that the former pair resisted the Great Vowel Shift to some degree. But why they were able to resist it, and why they resisted it, are questions as yet unanswered. On a practical level then, these ones should be seen as exceptions and memorised (one particularly relevant one is the dual pronunciation of , which splits according to meaning). One paper from 1962 complains specifically about how divergent the pronunciation of the spelling is in modern English, despite the fact that most of the words with this pronunciation are of Anglo-Saxon origin. 

As per Apte's dictionary ($URL$ the word means . In Sanskrit, we can form a verb out of a noun by adding special prefixes against it. (Similarly a noun can be created by adding a suffix to a verb). The rules for making such transformations are given by Panini's rules. Without going into too much detail, there's a गणसूत्रम् 

In these 6 tenses/moods, the knowledge of whether a verb is सेट्/अनिट्/वेट् is very important. In the verb is always duplicated and undergoes many modifications. While it is easy to spot the duplication when you come across a conjugated form in reading, deriving the same (or sometimes identifying the verbal root itself) from a verb is non-trivial. In too, there are many rules that govern the modifications to verbal bases and sometimes to suffixes. Memorizing the conjugations of all verbs in all tenses/moods is a daunting task. One of the main benefits of studying Panini's grammar is that conjugating a verb in any tense becomes trivial with sufficient practice and knowledge of the rules. Someone who hasn't undergone such training may be able conjugate verbs to some extent but will always fall short when special knowledge is required in some places. A sanskrit verb has just one part. The conjugated part is derived by adding one or more suffixes to the verb. 

The avagraha ऽ is used to denote सन्धिः between two vowels. As @zwiebel noted, this convention is not strictly followed in print. For e.g can be written in two different ways: - sandhi without ऽ - the single ऽ denotes that a short अ has been replaced with आ due to सन्धिः 

In conjugating verbs for these tenses/moods, it should be noted that a very specific suffix falls in place between the verbal root and the suffix that indicates person/number. For e.g