The one time I took my bike overseas (in a hard-sided case), I regretted it. It's expensive ($200 each way on United) and inconvenient -- I had a hard time finding a cab that could hold us and our two bikes (we ended up taking 2 cabs to our first night hotel, fortunately our hotel helped us find a larger cab to take us to the start of our biking journey) and we had to deal with lugging them around on the last few (non-biking) days of our trip. A bike case takes a surprising amount of room in a small hotel room. Now I spend some time researching quality bike rentals and only carry my pedals and helmet along. It's much much more convenient. And if for some reason we change our plans (like, say, due to a injury), we don't have to figure out what to do with our bikes. If you plan on multiple overseas bike trips, another option would be to get a quality folding bike that fits into a suitcase sized case. A friend that does this regularly did that -- I think his bike is a Brompton. It's a pretty decent bike, I've ridden on some century rides with him and he has no trouble keeping up or doing the distance, so it seems like it would be a good option for travel, and if it saves $400 per trip in oversize bag fees, it wouldn't take many trips to pay for itself. 

I'm not aware of a guide that compares all pedal styles, but there are not that many pedal types in common use and most styles are different enough from each other that you can easily tell the difference between them. 

Biking in the dark isn't as scary as biking at dawn/dusk When I first started bike commuting and the sun got low in the sky in the evenings, I'd leave work and try to get home before the sun went down. I didn't realize then that that was the absolute worst time to bike because the low sun meant that it was in driver's eyes, making bikes very difficult to see, even with lights and bright clothes, I just wanted to get home before it got dark. Now when the sun starts getting low, I wait until it sets before leaving work rather than try to beat the sun home. Once the sun sets, then my lights and reflectors are much more visible to cars. And with a decent headlight (which is much cheaper now than it used to be), seeing the road is not a problem at all. You still have to worry about nighttime visibility and watch for cars without headlights.... unlit cars are exceptionally hard to see against a background of headlights (and early in the night biking season, car drivers aren't used to turning on their headlights when leaving work so might drive quite some time before they notice) Bikes too are more difficult to see against a background of headlights/taillights, but even so, I'll still take biking in the dark over biking at sunrise/sunset when drivers are struggling to see against the sun. I've biked behind some cars at sunset where I couldn't see through their windshield myself due to dirt and/or scratches, so I really don't think they could see well enough to drive. Make sure you have adequate lights and reflectors. At a minimum, front and rear lights and reflectors, reflective spokes or tires, and reflective pedals or ankle bands (the motion lets cars know that you're a bike). I have a helmet headlight/taillight since I feel that the higher position makes it easier for cars to see me, especially if I'm stopped in traffic. 

I'm trying to troubleshoot my 24 speed hybrid bike. As it was, the front shifter was having very little effect. I would change gears and not much would happen. When I had a chance to look at it, I noticed that the derailleur seemed to be barely moving when I shifted from 3rd to 2nd, and not at all from 2nd to 1st. I tried a few troubleshooting steps to tighten, loosen the cable, but nothing seemed to help. Now I have completely disconnected the shifter cable and the derailleur is sitting in between 3rd and 2nd gear. I'm wondering if that's normal resting place, and if it's reasonable to see very little movement when shifting like that. 

I have a kryptonite U lock and lately it's been sticking a lot while trying to turn the key. Usually I can eventually get the key turned. It was getting worse though and a few days ago I (unable to find any lube/wd-40 etc) cleaned it out with soap and water which seemed to help a great deal. I also started being very careful to make sure the little key-hole guard engaged. Last night when I was totally unable to get my bicycle unlocked and had to leave it there and walk home. The key would fit into the lock and turn half way and then stop. I'm going to go try and pick it up now, but I don't know the best way to try and make sure this doesn't keep happening. It's winter here and I wonder if that might have something to do with it. Edit: I ended up at the hardware store and the guy there (who had built his own bike in his garage, conveniently) recommended jig-a-loo. This made the lock move really well but I still couldn't get it open. This is when I noticed that my key was twisted (From trying to force the lock probably). I flattened the key back in a clamp and was able eventually to unlock it, but I can't seem to lock it again, so I ordered new keys. I'll have to wait till they come to see if that solves anything or it's actually a problem with the lock... Edit again: Some graphite and new keys seemed to do the trick! 

It's hard to tell exactly what your angle is in that picture, but it looks like it's close to 60 degrees, so you're not getting much mechanical advantage from the yoke angle. If you can decrease this angle either by shortening the tranverse cable, or by widening the cantilever arms by sliding the brake shoes closer to the rim (which would help "flatten" the transverse cable, decreasing the yoke angle), you can gain significantly more mechanical advantage. You don't want just go for the greatest amount of mechanical advantage since you'll run out of available cable travel if it's too high, but you can definitely tune the brakes for greater mechanical advantage. There are additional cantilever adjustment tips on Shelden Brown's cantilever adjustment page. 

I've tried using clip-on SPD platforms with regular SPD's, and found that those platforms are not very stable, can be difficult to snap in/out, and tend to fall off - they might be ok for a quick trip down the block, but won't stand up to a long commute. Platforms for other clipless styles (like Look) might be more stable, but I like SPD's for commuting since it's easy to walk in (some) SPD shoes. I also tried some combo pedals with a platform on one side and SPD clipless on the other (I think it was the Shimano M324), and found it too annoying to have to make sure the pedal was flipped around the right way. So finally I settled on these dual sided M424's, and have been pretty happy, the platform is comfortable for riding with regular shoes and while clipping in to the SPD's took a little practice because of the platform, it now feels as easy as clipping into bare SPD pedals. The SPD part is spring loaded and sticks up a little to make it easy to clip in, but it's not a very strong spring, so it folds down easily with regular shoes. It's not fully recessed under the platform when pushed down so it's possible that would cause some foot irritation on a long ride, but I've never had a problem with it. When I had a 4 mile commute, I used the platforms with regular street shoes almost exclusively (except for longer rides), now I have a 15 mile commute and use SPD biking shoes almost exclusively (except for shorter rides) and I'm pretty happy with the pedals either way. 

This is probably going to depend on a bit more than just your height or leg length (though I'm sure a rough idea can be gleaned). Your specific bike (geometry) and riding position will also affect crank length a bit. Here are a few good links on the subject that go beyond my knowledge on the issue. 

Anytime the fork bob is robbing you of power. That can include flats, sprints, climbing... Best advice is probably to try it out on all the terrains you ride and decide where it works and where it doesn't. 

You'll need new hubs to mount the disc on (probably whole new wheel). They used to make clamp on adaptors for forks that didn't have disc mounts so you may just be able to get one of those and keep the fork you have. You can go with cable discs (cheaper but not the same stopping power) or hydraulics (best stopping power but more $$). 

This is fairly normal. Many of the screws are are stainless but where you use the hex key on them they still rust. My best guess is that this is because you scuff the metal when you remove and put them back in. I'll also mention that this happens on whitewater kayaks. Again typically in the places where a screw driver has touched the screw/bolt. To my understanding stainless steel is a trade off between stainless and strength. The more stainless it is the weaker it is and so on. 

You'll probably have the best luck with disc brakes, any other type will loose their power in the wet and snow. 

I wear my MTB shoes with my road bike all the time. A number of the other guys in our group ride also do, nothing wrong with it at all. Road shoes are often stiffer than MTB shoes but not always. My SIDI's are just as stiff as the road version. 

You might interest a friend of similar skill in a 40km time trial? You could both work on beating the other which might help you with the mental toughness outside of a race. 

Your best bet for weatherproof and crash worthiness is going to be a pelican case. They have a whole series of cases for laptops. $URL$ I've personally taken a 'hardback' case on a paddling trip and it held up great. Many pelican products also have a warranty against failure as well so if the product does leak you've at least got a new case and a replacement laptop. If you get one of their other cases you can also lock the case which will assist in keeping it secure from a thief. Yeah it's not going to stop a determined person but at the least it will give you time to realize and change any vital personal information. Past that make sure you backup your data with something like Mozy.com. At some point you'll have a drive failure no matter what.