I agree with you the best Answer is A. Hamilton is famous for championing a strong Federal Government in control of a well regulated national financial market. Hamilton has this reputation in no small part due to the compromise on Revolutionary War debt of 1790 brokered with Thomas Jefferson to re-assume this debt from the States. In the decades prior to Hamilton's bid to make the Federal Government responsible for the Revolutionary War Debt, there is no evidence congress gave any concern with regard to War for their systemic failure to pay foreign debts. During this time Congress would disband the Navy and Army. Congress actively debated the need for a standing Army and standing Navy. Jefferson thought they were a danger to the republic outlaying their utility. What brought John Adams around was the Barbary Pirates and their ever increasing demands for bribes/tribute not fear of war over debt. Congress also failed to pay their own Constitutional Army veterans wages resulting in: 

Oh and by law the US military was not permitted to have Tank divisions. The Defense Act of 1920 restricted tanks to infantry use only; as a result, the Tank Corps was disbanded, with the remaining tanks distributed among the infantry. So to wrap it up. The US army prior to WWII was not an institution which had much financial support to pursue innovative high reward projects with long research cycles like radar. They did not even have the financial support to pursue proven technologies like torpedoes, fighter planes, and tanks between WWI and WWII. During their massive build up of 1939-41 they were focused on overcoming the logistical chasm the US lack of commitment had dug in proven military weaponry and just providing the basics to a military which was growing 800% in three years from 1939-1941. Even this modest goal they barely had enough political support to accomplish. 

No coincidence Algeria declared war on the United States the very same year. Which we solved with Annual tributes.. (for a while) source 

So why did Rome defeat the Macedonians. Because after Alexander died, the Macedonians returned to fighting like all the other greeks did. They again grew overly dependent upon the phalanx. This weakness wasn't well understood when it was occurring because all the greeks uses single formations armies and thus could not well exploit the weakness of the post Alexander Macedonians. When the Macedonians fought Rome however, Rome did have a mixed formation army which is ultimately how they won. Rome had learned the lessons of the Macedonians under Alexander, better than the Macedonians did removed from their great leader. 

This is pertinent to your question because RFD opened up the Postal service to hire tens of thousands of new postal carriers. These carriers were initially responsible for purchasing and maintaining their own transportation. Initially this meant horse and buggy and I came across many advertisements for specialized carriages catering to RFD mail carriers even as late as 1910. All these adds given be low mention RFD mail carriers and target them as potential customers. 

The US armored infantry was fully equipped with M2 and M3 halftracks. In the British and Commonwealth armies, "Type A armoured brigades," intended for independent operations or to form part of armored divisions, had a "motor infantry" battalion mounted in Bren Carriers or later in lend-lease halftracks. 

The Naval build up / arms race didn't begin until 1937 and then it wasn't the British in competition with the US. 

The Democratic nomination convention in 1924 held in New York City was known as the klanbake because so many attendees were klansmen. There absolutely were times and places that being in the klan was a political asset. A significant part of a political machine. The answer to your question: 

The United States was mostly an isolationist power from the time of George Washington to the entry into WWII. WWI being the significant exception to that rule, which I will talk about below. But to understand the British US relationship you don't want to look at the conflicts or near conflicts between the governments, you want to look at the inter-coarse between the people. The trade and other close economic ties which all fall out of common language, common experience, and general familiarity with each other. If you look at 1794-1795 and John Jay's Treaty I think it's indicative of the question you are asking. In the early 1790's the US and Britain were at the brink of war. Britain did not respect US neutrality in their war with France, Britain would stop American ships on the high seas and seize cargo and sailors. The US government was livid about it, and yet they negotiated and ratified a very one sided treaty favoring the British over the French. One which still allowed Britain to impress American Sailors, and stop and seize US cargo at sea (French Cargo, being carried on US Ships). Why did the Americans do this. 

Everybody knew that Slavery was on a dead branch of the American family tree. The North knew it. Lincoln knew it. The south knew it, that's why they seceded. It had no future in the Union. That wasn't Lincoln's doing, It was the Kansas Nebraska Act which cut off slavery from growing or even keeping pace politically with those who would oppose it. It was the Dred Scott decision, which made it so the more populous and economically successful north could no longer ignore slavery as now it was on their doorstep. And it was 90 years of constant struggle in the Senate which had exasperated the opposition party into reforming itself as an abolitionist party. Lincoln who was an abolitionist, was willing to let slavery die a protracted political death of 1000 cuts, if he could avoid a civil war. It would be a terrible thing if slavery lasted another 10-20-40 years, but if a civil war which killed 600-800,000 men could be avoided, Lincoln would try to avoid the war. He wasn't bargaining on ending slavery, he was bargaining on the timing. Which leads to the question why did Lincoln go to war, certainly not because of slavery. The only thing worse than a Civil war would be to allow the south to secede. Succession itself was the cases belli of the civil war as far as the North was concerned. That's all the justification which Lincoln required to go to war. The founding fathers from the north and south through Federalist Papers #6-10 warned that if the United States fractured, America would be condemned to fight 1000 years of wars as Europe had experienced. Two nations similarly suited would compete religiously, culturally, geographical and economically; all of which lead to War in the European experience. That is what Lincoln was even willing to go to war to avoid... Now once he was at war and had paid that great price, he made damned sure he got slavery finished off too. Which was his personal belief, the platform his party was created to accomplish, and the platform he personally was elected to pursue. 

As for Roman times, Jews may not work on the Sabbath, and not working includes starting, extinguishing, or tending a fire. Scriptures give us a clue here. 

My question: Why was Amerigo Vespucci honored thusly, given he followed at least four earlier explorers to reach the mainland of the continent, including: 

The two organizations had similar goals and methods, but there were enough philosophical differences to keep the Nation of Islam from forming an alliance with the Black Panther Party. This is supposition though given how the Nation of Islam interacted with other organizations it would be uncharacteristic for it to form an alliance with the BPP. The fact these two organziations weren't proximal(Detroit vs Oakland) is a significant reason why their wasn't much interaction between the two groups. Likewise the fact the two groups were so small and geographically diverse, especially the BPP, is probable the reason why they never competed seriously for either attention or recruits and thus never came into contention. Similarities: - Both groups believed in Black Power / Nationalism - Both groups dismissed Martin Luther King's non-violent movement - Both recruited from within the prison system - Both established support systems for African Americans (economic, medical, social ) - Both groups sought political influence and in similar ways Differences: 

Eaton would then be called to Tripoli to help another Adams appointee and thats where all the wheels would come off. Eaton found the Barbary Pirates detestable, and he was an ideologue caught up in American fervor. He basically starts the first Barbary war. Get's recalled by Jefferson, and then returns largely on his own dime and invades Tripoli with like a half dozen marines, and almost wins. (Yes that's where the lyrics to the American Marine Hyme come from.. shores of tripoli"... Anyway the story is a great one.. I can't find all the sources right now, and it's out of scope. Maybe a future question. 

(*) One reason the west was so blind to the weakness of the Soviet Union was frankly Ronald Reagan. Reagan had won the Presidency in 1980 on the platform that Russia was eclipsing the United States and the West in military power. That through laziness and bad political deals in the west and through diligent hard work in the east; the Soviets were opening a gap of power between the West and East. This was the popular belief in the West in the 1980's and justified a massive rearmament process under Reagan which nearly tripled the national debt. 1 Trillion to 2.8 Trillion under Reagan's 8 years. When George Bush came to power in 1989 I think the West was realizing the Cold War was coming to an end due to Gorbachov's policies. Bush cut military spending 10% in all four years of his Presidency and still ran massive deficits. The only Western advisor who I know who predicted the collapse was the discredited Jimmy Carter's National Security Advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski. Zbigniew had lost credibility during the Iranian hostage crisis under Jimmy Carter who's entire foreign policy was not "particularly effective". In 1989 however Zbigniew would come ragging back. Shortly before the Berlin Wall came down Zbigniew published a book entitled, The Grand Failure: The Birth and Decay of Communism in the Twentieth Century(Published March 1, 1990). 

By 1920 the postal service was providing the vehicles and the United States Postal Service had the largest civilian automobile fleet in the world. 

Sources:. United States Library of Congress wikipedia: Federal Writers Project wikipedia: Slave Narrative Collection 

This example of the communist Marshal Tito's aid to NATO to the detriment of the Soviet Union was not unique. And the example you site wasn't the most important aid Marshal Tito performed for NATO in that period. In 1951 Tito closed Yugoslavia's boarders to the Soviet backed guerrillas operating in Greece and the post WWII communist revolution in Greece Collapsed. A Little background Tito and Stalin had split in 1948. In 1948 when it became clear Stalin wasn't backing Marshal Tito's plans to take over Greece, Albania, and Bulgaria; and equally clear to Stalin Tito would not allow Yugoslavia to become a puppet state; Yugoslavia fell outside of the Soviet sphere of influence. Yugoslavia's brand of communism, with its independence from the Soviet line, was called Titoism by Moscow and considered treasonous. Party purges against suspected "Titotes" were conducted throughout Eastern Europe. In his memoirs, Nikita Khrushchev asserted that he was "absolutely sure that if the Soviet Union bordered Yugoslavia, Stalin would have intervened militarily." Tito expected Stalin to invade and started to take steps. This period is called informbiro and it spanned seven years of 1948 to 1955. The United States aware of the split started courting Tito: 

Christopher Columbus is widely credited with discovering the new world in 1492 as the leader of an expedition which included 3 ships financed by the kingdom of Spain. Columbus was a seasoned sailor, navigator and captain who theorized the existence of a shorter more profitable path to India. He sought out many financial backers over years to support his proposed exploration and finally found such in Queen Isabella and King Ferdinand of Spain. The first European settlements in the "Americas" are associated with Christopher Columbus. The settlement of La Isabela established in 1492 made up of Colubus's crew which remained in the new world after his initial crossing. And the first permanent European settlement in the New World, Santo Domingo established by Christopher Columbus on a subsequent voyage in 1496. While Columbus was discovering and establishing settlements in the new world(1492) Amerigo Vespucci was working as a financial agent in Florence cleaning up estates of wealthy merchants(1495). After that he worked as a contract provisioner collecting supplies for ships going on long voyages, filling this need for at least one of Christopher Columbus expeditions to the new world, perhaps two. Wiki: Amerigo Vespucci. At the invitation of the King of Portugal Vespucci was invited along as an "observer" on several trips to the new World from 1502-1507. He wasn't a captain, didn't navigate the passage, nor was he even a sailor. He was an observer. Amerigo Vespucci subsequently would write accounts of two of his 3 passages as an observer, and would become famous in Europe for these accounts. A German map maker(Waldseemüller) would write America over the continent of South America in 1507 a continent Vespucci did not discover but had explored and first identified as a new continent and would publish one of the two letters where Vespucci claimed to have identified the new continent. In 1538 the name for South America would be extended to the northern continent as well. However Questions now exist to whether Vespucci even wrote the letter which identified the new continent. 

Steel workers industry wide 1898, 9% died on the job annually. I found this on a history channel production. From “The Men Who Built America”, S01E07 “Taking the White House”. Counter 00:03:48 1898 

Mountain Democrat, California's oldest Newspaper established 1851 El Dorado CA. The Calaveras Chronicle, the first weekly newspaper published in California, was established October 28, 1851, at Mokelumne Hill. The Weekly California express established Aug 5th 1852, Marysville, Yuba Calif Marysville herald, Marysville, Yuba Calif. : established 1850 The Daily California express, Marysville, Yuba Calif : established Jan. 14, 1865 The Steamer express, Yuba Calif: established May 1, 1855 

I will take the American Colonies. It's extremely difficult to quantify revenue because often Parliamentary Acts were passed which favored British industries at the expense of colonial industries, or transferred the cost of direct expenses individuals in the colonies rather than asking for revenue. What Drove the British Taxation System in 1760s and 70s: 

Vietnam From 1964 to 1973, 6,359 Soviet generals and other officers "visited" Vietnam. Soviet-guided surface-to-air missile (SAM) regiments were deployed to encounter US warplanes. Thirteen Soviet servicemen were lost in action during these years. In Indochina the US lost over 60,000 men and 8,612 aircraft. ... 

Long Answer: The British were not concerned with the possibility of a war with the United States during the interwar period. 

They negotiated (the five nations treaty, 1922) to organize a Naval draw down. The Terms of that Treaty were extended at the London Treaty of 1930 which stayed in effect until Dec 31, 1936. The fact that Great Britain the most powerful Naval power for centuries at the time accepted parity on paper in 1922 with the United States demonstrates that Great Britain didn't think the likelihood of a war with the US was significant. The fact that by treaty the United States could build a Navy equal with that of Great Britain but chose not too, demonstrates there was no concern on the US side of impending hostilities from Great Britain.