However, neither of these passages states that ruling over God's creation is God's purpose in creating humans. They simply state that giving humans dominion over the remainder of creation is something God has done. It could just as well be said that God's purpose in creating humans is for them to "be fruitful and multiply," or to be "a little lower than God, and crowned with glory and honor"–which God is also said in these passages to do for human beings. In short, what God does for humans is not necessarily God's purpose in creating humans. Scripture suggests that God's purpose in creating humans is to be in relationship with them. Taking any one or a few verses from Scripture in isolation and using them as the basis for major conclusions about God's actions and God's purposes is a fundamentally faulty way of reading Scripture. Especially considering that much of Scripture consists, not of philosophy and theology, but of a narrative, a better approach would be to look at the overall themes of Scripture for clues as to why God created humans. And a key theme of Scripture overall is the concept of "covenant." In fact, this concept is so central to Scripture that Christians have actually named the two major divisions of their scriptures after the covenant between God and humanity: "The Old Testament" and "The New Testament." "Testament" is another word for "covenant." Now, a covenant is a relationship between two parties–in this case, God and humanity. And if we follow the biblical narrative, we see that God is continually making and renewing covenants with humanity. For example (emphasis added in all cases): God made a covenant with Noah: 

This answer comes from the perspective of the Christian philosophy and theology of Emanuel Swedenborg (1688–1772). Key point: The false premise is #2. God made humans for the purpose of ruling over His creation. This also falsifies premise #4. Scripture does not say that God's purpose in creating humans is for them to rule over God's creation. The idea that God created humans for the purpose of ruling over his creation is based especially on Bible passages such as: 

A little example I really like: Let's say you messed up a test in school and now you are going to get a bad mark. There is another test ahead. An apathetic person does not care about the marks at all. Bad, good, it doesn't matter. This person is not going to do anything again. A stoic person would recognize the part they had in the bad mark. Did they not study enough? Did they not understand it? Did they have a bad day? Were they overloaded with other work? And so on. Just as the apathetic person, the stoic person will not care about the bad mark in the previous test. However the stoic person does not care about it because there is nothing they can change about it now - the mark will count. If you were unhappy with the mark in the last test, try to fulfil the things in your control for the next one and you will get a better mark. A stoic could say: "I do not care about the mark I will get in the next test.". A lot of people say this, but for the stoic this also includes "I accept the bad consequences that come from it." Non-stoics do not accept this trade and will be bothered by the mistakes they have made in these trades. Like you: You made a deal to trade the job interview against slow walking. You gladly accepted your end of the bargain but you seem to regret not getting the interview in the long run. You were not ready to accept the deal after all. And now you are unhappy or at least bothered by it. 

I think you fell for a common misunderstanding about what it means to "let go of things out of your control". To be more specific, you accepted things to be out of your control when they were really not and you accepted failure for the sake of not caring. Let's look at your situation and fit it onto a stoic viewpoint. You spoke of "being late" so I will just assume you were invited for a job interview. It won't matter. When you got invited it is completely in your control to get there in time. You know it days/weeks I'm advance, so usually there is plenty of time to prepare. A stoic would definitely call this "in your control". So do something! Take a bus earlier, get up earlier, walk faster, ... . Being stoic does not mean to not care for the sake of not caring. That's apathy. When you chose to not do any of these things and accepted to either arrive late, or at least have a chance of arriving late, you gave it out of your hands. And there is actually no problem with this. At least if you accept the possibility of your failure and recognize your part in it. If you could have walked faster you should have done it, if you wanted to arrive on time. When you made the decision to not do so, you should have said to yourself "It is under my control to arrive on time. I choose not to, because I do not feel like walking faster. I accept the trade of a successful interview against the pleasure of walking slowly.". 

Is it okay to break a promise? A scenario for you. You and a close friend, known by the nickname Moonlight, have made a promise. This promise is serious and both of you fully understand the consequences of it and mutually agree to honour the promise. This promise has a slight but noticable negative impact on both of your lives, but by both keeping it you believe it does more good than bad. Moonlight was the one to suggest the promise. Many years pass and the friendship between you and Moonlight crumbles and vanishes. You no longer talk to Moonlight and haven't for many years. You have no means to contact them anymore and they have no way to contact you. There is no potential for you and Moonlight to ever get back in touch. You think about Moonlight a lot and their actions when you were friends and one night you suddenly come to a shocking conclusion. You have strong reason to believe that Moonlight made the promise with malicious intent! You toy with your new thought, analyse it carefully, and finally conclude that you are 90% sure the promise was created with malicious intent by Moonlight. Is it now acceptable to terminate your promise? The promise was a vow of silence on a particular sensitive matter. If you break the promise, it would have serious consequences for Moonlight - even though you do not have contact with them, your choice will massively influence their life. You think to yourself: what if I'm wrong? What if it is that 10% and the promise was made in good heart? Would you break the promise? If you choose to break the promise you will still have no way to get in contact with Moonlight. Their life will be changed forever and you will have no way to explain your actions to them or find out how their life has changed. In effect, Moonlight is nothing more than a stranger to you now, but they are a stranger who once trusted you deeply. You do not wish to hurt them if they are a good person, but you are finding it hard to maintain the promise because of the continous drain on you over a long time period - it has lowered your quality of life but only by a little, yet significant amount and will continue to affect you for the rest of your days if you do not take action now. Is it acceptable to end the promise? Would you? Does the 90% chance of malicious intent change anything? What if you were 99% sure? 50% sure? 100% certain? Does that change your answer? Other things: