I'm a novice bodybuilder (getting converted into strength trainer). Its been 3 weeks since I'm hitting gym. All my ego is shattered in past couple of weeks. I used to think I was strong but I'm so wrong. That is why, I decided to go for strength training. Coming to the point, while I made some progress in terms of strength & gaining muscle (increased weight by 5kgs and my body looks little bulked up). But I feel that I'm not doing it right. Bit by this increase weight in each workout bug (probably to satisfy my ego) I've been adding weight but my form is getting compromised. For example, in t-bar rows, initially I was able to reps with 15kgs in proper form (no rounded back, chest up, tight core, weights touching chest) but now I'm doing it with 25kgs my current form is (no rounded back, chest up, tight core, I use momentum from the jerky start to lift weight and even then weights don't touch the chest). I'm still doing reps this way by making myself believe that I'm pushing muscles to extreme & hence creating strong stimulus. With bent-over barbell rows, I do it with 15kg but my back is not as straight as I maintain in squats & presses (I try to keep it straight but I just can't with this weight & in this position) and the bar doesn't touch my abs. I just bring it some what half way. With Press (standing), I do it with 25kg but I'll be hardly able to do 4-5 reps (I need to do 8 reps) so rest 3 reps I try really really hard but I tend to use my right side of the body more to this push the weight up. There is a voice in me telling me that my technique is deteriorating. But I'm unable to convince myself to stop it. I'm afraid inside that if I reduce weight, I wouldn't be creating required stimulus and moreover it means I'd be doing same weight through out week or two which means no progress. Can some one give strong reasons why technique (proper form) should be preferred over weight & no. of reps? 

I'll get back to my town and thus to Olympic Lifting in an year or so. Currently I'm 1 month into StrongLifts 5x5 and squatting body-weight (60kgs). In this program, Deadlift takes care of lifting weight off the ground to knee level. Over Head press takes care of lifting weight from shoulder to over-head. What I think lacks, and even miss, in this program is lifting weight from knee-level to chest level (or even over-head) which is key component of Olympic lifting. Power Clean or Snatch or Clean and Press integrates all 3 segments of lifting into one good compound exercise with long range of motion. How can I integrate any of such exercises into this program? To be quite honest I am really missing the rigor of training I had under coach. We used to train everyday, both morning & evening. Working just 3 days a week and that too 3 exercises per workout, seems quite lazy to me. Can I add any other exercises which will help me further in my Olympic lifting? 

I didn't lean too much forward at the bottom of Ass-to-grass squat. Only Approx 30 degrees I didn't lift my elbows up behind as high as I could. I stopped where I felt was sufficient. After holding air inside my belly, I squeezed my abs to the maximal possible extent. When I was struggling to rise up, during that short span of struggle, I squeezed and pulled the bar into my body, as if I'm slicing my body with bar, and simultaneously, I pushed my chest towards chin with force (Honestly, all of this happened naturally). I felt this really helped in preventing upper back from rounding. Another cue, which happened by accident but really helped is, for around 15 sec before approaching the bar for a set, I stood with chest up and I stood for 5 sec in front of the bar with chest-up position and then started a set. I don't know, somehow it really helped me. 

This amounts to around 2800-3000 calories. I work 3 days a week in gym (for 2-2.5hrs) and otherwise I just sit infront of desk (so other 4 days is strictly sitting at desk). Here is my workout of past 4 workout days: $URL$ Good thing is that, I've gained weight. My arms, chest, lats thighs (credit goes to squats) got bulked up. I'm happy but I've accumulated quite a bit of fat around my belly. Even though I've very thin body, I've quite a bit of fat around my abodmen, especially in lower abdomen area (hereditary). Now in this past 3 weeks this increased quite a bit. This is raising doubts about my diet. Am I eating too much? Should I reduce my carbs? Am I eating enough? How many calories should I exactly eat for building body? Also because I'm not doing anything except sitting, during 4 days a week should I eat less during these rest days? 

Another answer recommends Abdominal Roll-outs. I'd not recommend you to directly jump to the Abdominal Rollout exerceses shown in that answer. Its an advanced exercise. My recommendation is start with physio ball or Exercise Ball ab exercises and then proceed to Ab roll out workout. Even in ab roll workout start with the most versions and work your way up to advanced exercises in a duration of 3-4 months. This video shows you all the progressions. The speaker in that video was a Profesional Physiotherapist for baseball team, mets and he knows how to avoid injuries: The Ultimate Ab Rollout Progression (BEGINNER TO ADVANCED!) 

I've been doing StrongLifts 5x5 program for past one-and-half month. Currently my squat has just crossed my bodweight. And my deadlift is 10kgs more than my squat. My goal is to squat 2 times my bodyweight and deadlift 2.5 times my bodyweight. I squat ass-to-ground and I've been doing all exercises barefoot on a concrete floor covered with 1/2 inch rubber padding. I don't have any mobility issues and so far I didn't face problems of any kind. Can I safely continue like this? Even Arnold did the same: 

It also makes me wonder, if going barefoot is safe then why would people always recommend weightlifting shoes? I'm bit confused. Honestly I cannot afford weightlifting shoes. I have running shoes but I read that running shoes are worse than barefoot. I don't know if this has anything to do with going barefoot. But after today's workout, I'm feeling a burning sensation in my feet. I read online that it could be due to Vitamin B12 deficiency (and I was recommended Vitamin B12 in the past, though not for the same reason) 

I did Olympic weightlifting for 4 months with dream of becoming a competitive lifter but unfortunately had to move out of town and here I don't have access to any coach or even a proper gym for that matter. After 8 months of getting frustrated & sitting idle, I started StrongLifts 5x5 and following standard program: 

Based on our discussion via comments, I cannot emphasize enough the importance of Coach especially in your case. Why do I say that, you ask? Well firstly because, Olympic lifting is mix of strength, power & technique. What beginners often fail to understand is that technique is not a static thing. It is dynamic. With increase in weight on the bar, your technique & form deteriorates and constantly you've to be corrected for the errors that creep in. That is where coach plays a crucial role. Secondly, teaching a complete novice is bit easier than someone who is accustomed to certain exercises. In body building (through machines) muscles are isolated and trained. When such training is done for a long time, one develops imbalances in strengths of different muscles. But Snatch and Clean & Jerk, are full body exercises and practically every goddamn muscle is used. As we know, a chain is only as strong as its weakest link. Hence your ability to lift weights will be limited by those under developed muscles. This is where, again, coach comes into picture. He is suggests supplementary exercises that are needed & more suitable to your body. Your age when combined with what you did in Gym for 3 years decide your mobility. I don't know where you stand on this front, but my guess would be that you need to work on your mobility too. With all of that said, assuming you'll do your best to get trained under a coach, taking unavailability of good coaches in to consideration, is there anything that you can do by yourself? Answer is YES, there is. 

I've started weight training and I'm in my 4th week now. I'm seeing big improvements. Now I want to start tracking my workouts & diet. Is there a software or a website which allows me to do that? 

Background: For past 3 years my weight was 55-58kgs. 3 years ago, I was able to do 25+ pushups w/o break, 10 pull ups (from dead hang to chest over bar), 10 dips. For past three years I survived on bare minimum diet (with hardly 10gms of protein per day and less than 1500 calorie diet). Its been three weeks since I joined gym and having proper diet. My weight is 63kgs. I'm still able to do around 20 pushups w/o break. Not a single pullup and 1-2 dips (but my elbows hurt). As the saying goes . I suspect my inability to do pullups & dips is even though my gained muscle mass, my tendons & ligaments are not strong enough. I want to incorporate joint training exercises into my everyday workout. What joint conditioning exercises (esp. for upper body joints) can I incorporate in to my workouts? Probably I'll train them everyday for better reults. 

I felt burning in the abs after every set. I also did Over-head-squat at 30kg @ 3sets x 8reps, just after Squats. They were just forcing me to keep everything in order. I really loved them. I'll update again when I reach the 75kg squat. 

The title is little ambiguous. But my situation puts that into context: My weight 60kgs & height 5'6". I've started weight training for body building for past 3 weeks. Its written every where to eat huge. So I started eating huge. My typical diet contains: 

During deadlifts, when the barbell is in its higest position (off the ground), I'm loosing my left hand grip. I'm trying my best to hold tight but I couldn't stop my fingers from uncurling the bar. During this my right hand grip is still tight enough. Its because of this left hand I'm unable to add on more weight to barbell. What should I do to overcome this? 

I want to be able to lift my girlfriend in arms and hold her while walking for a while. It of course shouldn't seem struggling and I should be able to talk, laugh or even kiss while doing this. 

Practice technique with an empty bar Don't load weight for Snatch and Clean&Jerk, until your technique is decent. While beginning, do the movements in slowmotion and take care of all the cues you learnt. Keep in mind, that through this you are trying to learn the technique and not increase your strength or power. So, go slow and focus. You don't want errors to creep in, do you? Be part of the weightlifting community on reddit and keep posting your videos and get feedback from the community. I would even suggest going through all the top voted posts. Also be part of Catalyst Athletics & California Strength through their social media & youtube channels and their newsletters/magazines. Stay motivated and keep watching actual competitions :) 

Work on your mobility (if you lack it): Coach Christopher Sommer, of Gymnastic Bodies, has an excellent Foundation series. This series runs in two tracks, one track is for body weight strength training and another is for mobility training. Mobility training has very well thought out progressions. Best thing is that, they don't mostly interfere with your weightlifting. Feed technique into your brain via watching & reading: 

Inverted Row This is really best exercise for beginners who can't do a single pull-up or chin-up. One can adjust the inclination (angle of the body w.r.t ground) to adjust the difficulty of the exercise. The following picture shows Inverted row (for pull-ups) just use palms facing toward you (supinated grip) you'll have exercise for improving chin-ups. 

I'm the one who asked this question. I'm answering my own question after 4 days. What changed in these 4 days? I've hurt my shoulder and my back. I'm unable to sit properly. My shoulder is hurting badly. Proper form is far most important than stupid increase in weights or reps. If I'm unable to maintain proper form implies that our body (bones, muscles, tendons, ligaments) doesn't have enough strength to maintain that form. I should have listened to my god damn body. I now probably have to rest my body for a month without weight training :( EDIT after 1 year+: After recovering from above injury, after a while, I couldn't still keep my ego in check. I just wanted to do more. I mistook Dead Lift to any other exercise. Using the weight that would give me single set of only 5 reps, I did 3 sets. I didn't feel anything then. The next day my back was so painful, I was unable to sit for 2 min continously. Back pain was so severe, I visited doctor and took bed rest of 15 days while taking medicines. After couple of months of such suffering without any improvement, I went to a weightlifting coach and he suggested a weightless exercise program for a month. The pain started decreasing gradually. My back is to perfectly normal state. Lesson learnt again. Fast forward few months, now I'm Strength Training again. My squat has crossed my Body Weight and I'm consistently making pain-free progress towards my squat at double the body weight. Now, when I miss even a single rep in a set, I repeat the same weight in next workouts, until I can do it without too much effort. My prime focus is on form and technique rather than weight. Another important reason why everyone, especially novices, should focus primarily on technique/form is, because it prepares you for heavier weights. At heavier weights, every small mistake is going to be a costlier mistake and can do irreparable damage to the body. Even though my weights are not as heavy, I can feel the potentiality of injury due to lack of form. Clearly, we want to build body not break it. Right? 

Gymnastic Strength Training is a perfect option for you in my opinion. It is very well designed program with tons of progressions and requires almost negligible equipment. 

I think I've hurt my right shoulder. I don't know what caused it but it is painful. I noticed it today while taking bath. I clean my back by applying soap with my hands somewhat like this: 

My current bodyweight is 65kg and I am doing StrongLifts 5x5 for past two months. I am stuck between 70-75kg squat. Until 65kg squat it didn't matter much how my form was. I know that, I used to neither engage my abdominals & obliques by holding breath nor used to keep my 'chest up' and keep my upper body tight. As a result, my squat used to look more like GoodMorning Squats. But I continued squatting with such terrible form till 75kg. But then I couldn't make any further progress. Realising my mistakes (based on formcheck on reddit), I deloaded to 67.5kg and started incorporating 'chest up' & 'holding breath'. My form improved very much. But I was unable (I was trying my best) to maintain 'chest up' during last 2-3 reps of 3rd, 4th & 5th sets at 70kg. I tried on the next workout day but face same issue. I deloaded further to 65kg and started working my way up. I could hold it at 65kg & 67.5kg but at 70kg I faced same issue. I then started doing 70kg squats for first 2 sets and 65kg for last 3 sets but I am still facing the same problem during last 2 reps of 4th & 5th sets. Question: However hard I try to keep 'chest up' my upperback is collapsing and rounding while moving up during last reps of last sets. What do I do? Should I do any supplementary exercises? Is this problem going to go away? Am I going to make progress further? Will I reach my dream of squatting double my bodyweight? Also I'm starting to dislike squats. I actually want to love them but I'm getting that resistance in my brain. EDIT: I'm quite happy with my progress in other exercises. DeadLift: 95kg, OHP: 33kg, BenchPress: 42.5kg, Barbell Row: 45kg. I don't know if it is relevant but during deadlift, while pulling, my upper back is rounding but once I reach the top most position, everything is locked and I attain perfect 'chest up' EDIT 2: Update after today's workout session incorporating suggestions given in the answers I had a wonderful workout session today.I've deloaded my squats to 62.5kg, as suggested by StrongLifts App and for the first time ever, squats felt more like an Abdominal workout when I incorporated following suggestions in doing them: