I've given a few dozen different 'network monitoring tools' a shot over the last year and quite frankly, all of them fell way short of what I wanted except for one. Part of the problem is that 'network monitoring' has become very convoluted. Most 'network monitoring' tools are trying to be more than just a network monitoring tool, ie. watching servers, applications, complex alerting mechanisms... I didn't like SolarWinds. What I was looking for was a network monitoring tool that can monitor my network devices and report on the traffic moving through their various interfaces: snmp traps, netflow compatibility, e-mail alarms via a threshold, daily notifications, real-time bandwidth monitoring on individual ports - the only tool I found that had everything I wanted is something called PathSolutions. It's a bit pricey, so if you don't have the money to spend, it may not be right for you - but for me it's absolutely invaluable. It's especially useful in a VoIP environment. I use this tool to monitor network switch and router interfaces across our three sites. I have just over 1,000 interfaces being monitored from an old server with no issues. No databases required - this is starting to sound like an ad, so I'm going to leave it at this: for a network monitoring utility, this thing rocks. For our servers, I use OpManager. OpManager claims to be able to do general 'network monitoring', and yes - that is true in a 'down/up' sense only. For network devices, not quite so useful. But the breadth of automation available by being able to call scripts off of monitored event is pretty awesome which is the primary reason I use it to watch our servers. Unfortunately, it's a bit bloated requiring a database back-end. Worth the extra effort though, when compared to the other tools I've played with. Most people seem to really like Nagios. For what it's worth, we gave it a shot. We spent a year hassling with it and were very happy the day our sys admin just 'forgot' to turn it back on. We've moved on since then. I'm not going to say Nagios is terrible. A lot of people have great success with it - it's just that our team didn't quite meld with it so well. 

Your best bet is to figure out which registry keys and directory locations that the program needs access to, and give your users access to just those areas. You can use a tool, like Process Monitor from Sysinternals for that. Simply log in as the user, start Process Monitor, and run the program and make note of the areas denying access. I would probably use a Security Group in AD, and then give that Security Group access to those system locations. All you would have to do then is add users to that Security Group and they will be able to use that program on that system with their own credentials. 

This produces c:\temp\email-addresses.txt, which, although it contains a little extra garbage characters, it can easily be parsed out with a search & replace in Notepad++. 

That's the network service profile folder, which is a user folder for the built-in network service account. The purpose of that account is to authenticate the computer to the domain for the purpose of accessing certain resources on the network. See the below article for a bit more information on local/network service accounts. $URL$ If I remember correctly, Windows XP will just restore the folder upon reboot. I would recommend, if you have a desktop that you can afford to "break", simply rebooting a machine and checking it out. 

A4: Watch out for sql injections, old versions of software: apache, phpmyadmin, mysql - keep those things up to date and always use SFTP or SSH to remote connect to your host. Change your passwords as often as reasonable for your work-style for all systems; database users, root, ssh accounts... etc. 

I'm not used to doing NAT on Cisco devices, and I'm tasked with bringing in traffic being sent to a public address that is routed to our gateway. I would like to NAT the traffic from our gateway (a Cisco 2901 router running IOS 15.0) to a private address. From what I've read, I think this might work but I have a feeling I'm missing something. 

I commented on your question with questions of my own. I might be able to help if you can elaborate a bit. Either way, you'll have to forward VPN ports on your wireless router to your DC so your DC can handle the VPN traffic. 

My assumption is that Spam Assassin thinks the message is OK and is forwarding it off to Exchange. Update I've verified that Exchange is receiving the message and generating an NDR. However, delivery of NDRs are disabled to prevent Backscatter. Is there something that I can do to get Exchange to send a bounce message to the sending mail server (or verify that message is being sent) so the sending mail server can notify its sender of the bounce? 

However, when trying to e-mail these addresses, I get a local "NDR" telling me that the mail account doesn't exist. I've used aliasing extensively (just never for this reason) to provide additional e-mail addresses for employees (such as when they get married and change names, or need temporary mail addresses, etc.), so this is not new to me. However, I don't understand why this isn't working. Is it because these addresses used to be associated with an Active Directory account and Exchange has yet to purge them from the GAL? The old accounts are still showing in the current GAL, but if I look in System Manager > Recipients > All Global Address Lists > Default Global Address List > Properties > Preview, the two accounts in question do not show up. Do I just have to wait until the next update interval? Is there a way to force this update to happen? Update: Upon further research, I'm able to send these e-mails while using a client that isn't running in cached mode, and they end up being sent to the primary address for the account they are assigned to. Trying to send to these former addresses while using cached mode results in the message being rejected. Pretty positive this has something to do with the GAL on these cached mode clients. The clients we are using are Outlook 2003, 2007 and 2010 and it is policy to use cached mode on all Outlook clients. 

If you're looking to save some money and aren't looking for enterprise-level protection, you can just plug in another disk and use Windows to mirror your current disk. As long as you are keeping regular backups, this will (most of the time) keep you running should a disk fail. If you can afford a third disk and a decent RAID card (3ware, adaptec), RAID 5 would be nice for a web server. Provides more resiliency and greater read speeds. It will write a little slower, so be aware of that if you are hosting your database on the same machine. If you can afford a fourth disk, it would be worth it to have a hot spare ready. Nothing like a disk dying and you rebuilding the array immediately. Same-day recovery is awesome. 

I would start by making sure the SQL Server services are running. They may have been stopped during installation. Administrative Tools > Services 

Windows XP has the ability to run an SMTP server via IIS. This article may help in getting you setup. 

Situation: I have a few users that want to manage their own distribution groups through their Outlook client. How can I give these users rights to add/remove from these specific Distribution Groups from Outlook? 

We use PayPal as our payment gateway with the PayFlow Pro service which gets us access to an SDK, their API and other tools that we can use so that our customers never leave our registration application. It's all done in our code. As another poster said, you can also use the Website Payments Pro service, but I have no experience with that service so I can't really comment. 

The issue: When an external sender sends an email with an attachment larger than 10MB, Exchange, as configured, does not receive the message. However, the sender of that message does not receive any notifications from his own mail server that the message could not be delivered due to attachment size. However, if an external user tries to send an email to a non-existent user, they do receive a message from their mail server indicating that the user does not exist. Why is that, and is there anything I can do about it? It would be nice if the sender received notification that the attachment file size exceeds our limits and their message was never received... Update The Exchange server has a SpamAssassin box in front of it... could that have something to do with it? Here is one of the last lines from SpamAssassin's logs when searching for my test e-mails: 

Is it possible to configure a Windows Server 2000 OS to synchronize it's clock to a domain controller if it's not on the domain? If so, how would I go about doing that? Just to be clear: 

If you own both systems, you should already know this... testing should be as easy as starting an SSH session to the Linux machine. 

This may be because they did not log out the prior night. Nevertheless, this is a bit too much and is very counter-productive for our users. Here is a bit about our environment: Our users are running and are part of an . WSUS is being applied via . Here is a snapshot of the GPO that is enforcing the WSUS rules: 

I would suggest you keep backups of just your data: your site files and your database data. Keep those backups off the system. If you get infected or the server gets compromised, you can have your host "initialize" the server (reset to original state), you copy up your data and you are back online with a clean server. I also suggest that you sweep your system and find out how you got infected/compromised in the first place and implement measures to prevent that from happening again. 

I'm trying to gather a list of all e-mail addresses being used by our Exchange 2003 system, which includes not only the normal user addresses, but distribution groups and aliases as well. I also need the output formatted like: user@domain.com - although, we only have one domain, so even if I can get the user part, that would work. I don't care about account-association here, I really just need a list of addresses. How can I go about doing an export of all smtp e-mail addresses from Exchange 2003, including distribution group and alias addresses in the user@domain.com format? I would prefer something that can be accomplished via the command line so that it can be generated by a script, but it would be just as useful if there is a way to do this manually (read: point and click) as well. Any ideas? I don't see anything within System Manager that can do this, and my searching isn't turning up anything that can fulfill all the above requirements. Solved This is how I'm using the accepted answer: