Locomotion could be more efficient? Particularly at high speed. Hence, saving food. Obviously if you run/march more efficiently, you need less caloric intake each day. Thus, in answer to your question it's quite possible that when moving at high speed a Foxtail would need less food each day. The general point (as far as we know) of a tail on things like leopards, dogs, is some sort of counterbalance system while moving along at high speed. (Check out awesome videos about this in regard to leopards.) It's possible that, quite simply, Usain Bolt would be faster over 100 with a tail. And that for conventional joggers, you'd use less energy - maybe much less - over everyday 5ks and 10ks. Certainly, in a story-telling sense, it would be totally feasible and reasonable to assert this. (Note that, indeed, human or any animal biomechanics is a fascinating field. Particularly with robotics coming along trying to equal it. The two human gaits of walking, running, are astoundingly efficient. There are some really fascinating results - for example, as any nutritionist / sports medicine person will tell you, when humans run, interestingly they use the same amount of energy per kilometer - it doesn't matter if you run fast or slow; energy use during walking gait is totally different again and interesting in other ways.) Again, in a story-telling sense, it would be totally feasible and reasonable to assert that adding a tail makes, in particular running, maybe all locomotion, a little more efficient - so you need less food per day! To put it another way, it's a commonplace thing in scifi that adding a monkey-tail makes it "easier to climb around in trees or zero gravity". Similarly, you could say adding a "balance tail" (think of those leopards) makes locomotion a bit more efficient - needs less energy, can go simply faster at top speed. Thus, in answer to your question it's quite possible that, particularly when moving, a Foxtail would need less food each day. More efficient locomotion == less calories needed each day == less food needed each day. Maybe it helps your story! 

To make the rich do something is very difficult. The simple answer is this: For tax paid over one million per year, each child you have eliminates one quarter of your taxes. (Note too that, especially, the system includes death taxes) They'd call it the "25% kid" rule... So to be clear - 

Regarding point 1, of course - obviously - you might need staggeringly big rockets and other astounding engineering difficulties. (You may well need fusion! or anti-matter! engines to make huge amounts of electricity - whatever. You would surely need some sort of astounding laser technology to blast out of the way any micro-particles in front of you - etc etc.) Once again, thanks Einstein - any speed at all, whatsoever, is identical to no speed at all. There is absolutely no difference between speed and no speed. (Note that indeed our planet (indeed, our galactic group) is whipping along at an astounding speed; when we take off to the moon we just "add speed" - the "original" (staggering) speed of the planet means absolutely nothing.) Speed and no-speed are the same. In contrast - point 2 - traveling at light speed (or higher) is utterly and totally different, requiring utterly new base mathematical concepts, totally and completely unknown to us. 

Classical era civilizations usually lack motivation: They're the only big fish in the pond, they don't have to seriously compete with anybody, their main concern is internal instability. Roman Empire could conquer any swath of land they wanted but had troubles ruling what they already had. For them, the whole Europe and North Africa was ripe. Same thing for classical China. Capacity is here but motivation isn't. European naval powers (Portugal, Netherlands, England) had a little territory with high competition. Overseas was their only direction to expand. How you can fix this? Make landmass smaller. Archipelagoes instead of continents maybe. Several clashing classical civilizations? Note that it might fail miserably, see "invasion of sea people". Consider also exodus instead of colonization. Like flight of Aeneus to England but for real, or how there are Chinese in Indonesia. Leave in a small group, remake the place of arrival. Kinda like Andals in GoT. 

Imagine someone putting a battleship over a country, always in sight, in order to threaten them to not try anything funny. Imagine tech that allows to suspend the ship is not a problem. How high is it possible to put a starship in the atmosphere in order for it to be visible clearly on sunny day? As a dark figure cast against clear sky. What's the radius in which it will be visible, on the ground, assuming Earth is the planet? What size should the ship be in order to be the size of moon from the surface? UPD: To clarify. It's not the ship's size that is a problem. It's the atmosphere. It scatters light from the sun, otherwise the skies will be dark. But, this means if we place ship outside atmosphere, it will probably not be visible unless directly between the sun and observer. Let's agree that the ship does not shine (is dark) and is visible because it blocks or absorbs light. 

Conscripts are fighting to avoiding turning back on their comrades. I've heard that it's the primary motivation. You might have zero incentive to risk your life, save that your inactivity will cause your pal, who you leave unprotected, will be slaughtered easily by enemy forces. Of course that won't work if everybody in the troop has zero or negative motivation, and everybody just pretend to fight. I've heard Syrian army fights like that. 

The most effective method for contraception will be infant mortality. Mind you, there will be enough for it for fertility cults to occur. Avoiding pregnancy will be considered as throwing money out of window would, today. 

The only thing that would matter is the moment of inertia tensor. (Which physicists and engineers often just call the "moment" usually.) $URL$ There's no other consideration, at all: since there is no air resistance. (It's surprising nobody else has pointed this out.) Note the excellent example animated-gif of four rolling objects on that wikipedia page. Depending on your desired strategic approach, your engineers would create objects with different moments of inertia. (Each would have different advantages - consider an ice skater pulling in her arms during a spin.) In space nobody can hear you scream, there is no surface effect physics, no viscosity physics (aerodynamics, etc) - but there is your moment tensor. Which changes everything and is the "whole" design. 

Note. OP's question was not clear if the travelers were "instantly" transported in an FTL sense. If the travelers are instantly transported, then as I explain it's trivial. If OP means moving billions of years in time, the question is meaningless. (There's no way whatsoever to predict where everything was/will be over huge time periods.) 

A plot point might be that the rebels use "rebel local time" just to make a point how ridiculous the Empire is. 

a handful of rebels would scoff at the idea as one of the ridiculous notions instituted by the Empire; most would just go along running the concentration camps. In any totalitarian society the majority just mindlessly go along and do what they're told. 

Say you are going any speed, whatsoever. Any speed. To go faster, you simply attach a rocket at the back and light a match. Once again, no matter what speed you are going, to go faster you just fire a rocket. There is utterly no difference whatsoever, at all, in the fundamentals. Regarding travel at light speed, like a photon (or faster than light speed). This is simply utterly impossible, based on our current deepest understanding of mathematics. 

It's clear that you need a magical script copyright agency ! in the real world, copyright is enforced entirely and totally by the action of legal bodies, civil actions, and industry-national pressure groups. (A great example is the "DOC" system in France - the notion that nobody worldwide is "allowed' to call anything other than Champagne, Champagne: surprisingly this actually happens.) So, much in the tradition of Time Lords, etc, you need a magical enforcement agency, for magical copyrights. Technology is of zero help in enforcing copyrights, in the real world and the magical. 

It's trivial: our observable universe, in fact contains only a few very large structures, which are easily identifiable. You'd just look for and identify the sloan great wall, the Bootës void, and the 3 or 4 biggest superclusters. (Obviously, this would take incredible telescopes and a few years.) {Note that we already have "incredible telescopes". Read up on Europe's GAIA space scope, which is pure "sci-fi".} Vashu has already included in his answer and overall map of our observable universe, which shows how obvious it is. 

You should probably start a secret order. This has upsides with becoming a god - religions change. And with starting a nation - which can be conquered. Operate a dense network of brothers in hierarchies of all dominant religions and governments of all important states. Help them with 10% of force and 90% of information (you've got to have a lot of it, being long-lived). Make them help each other while doing their jobs, especially with promotions. Make them invent complicated ranks and rituals. Make only a select few know the truth about you and make sure they never know each other. 

Leave a present. When artificial radio waves are detected, blow up a mountain that the present is left under, and send your message in the skies on e.g. metallic plates in many many copies. It's not hard to choose a mountain that will not have many people around when this happens, but draws attention nevertheless. You can also think of many triggers besides radio. 

Maybe asteroids are considered to be owned by people who man them? When you have unmanned stuff on asteroid, it is considered discarded property for anyone to take. But if you have an actual person, whatever they have under their boots is presumed theirs? Why this arrangement might come to life: Imagine UN want to avoid the race to claim the bodies in Solar system without actually using them. So you can't claim rights to what you aren't using. It's easy to fake using with mechanisms, but with humans it's harder. 

Sneak attacks will be even more popular. Much less fighting in big numbers. Maybe sophisticated traps (bear traps used as mines?). More usage of fire and poison. You really want to deliver your blow out of blue since it means it will land. 

I've read about LDS communities which permit having multiple wives. As they strongly prefer to mate inside the group, there's enormous pressure to drive boys out of the group as they get of age, for the older and powerful men to avoid competing with them for a limited pool of brides. I can imagine how they would favor girl babies knowing that girl have much greater chance of sticking around. 

A massive release of Iron in oceans, via e.g. tectonic processes. Iron binds oxygen, forming iron oxides (that's how we get iron ores). This consumes a lot of oxygen. Augment it with carbonate-bicarbonate process that flushes carbon monoxide out of atmoshpere and into the ocean, and plants don't have enough CO2 to replenish oxygen with. 

Say you're paying 10 million a year tax. All you have to do, is have four children ............... and you now pay basically no tax!! (You only pay the modest baseline $1m a year.) For the profoundly rich who pay 100s of millions a year in tax, it would be insane to not have four children: every single truly rich person would have four children: it would be absolutely ridiculous to not do so. As mentioned above - especially - death taxes are the truly hated thing amongst the rich. Consider tycoons with a wealth measured in the billions. When they die, basically the government takes most of it. By simply having four children, they get to keep ALL of their money (ie, the inheritors get it all, the government gets nothing). The above system would certainly and absolutely ensure that everyone who pays more than, say, about $2m a year in tax, would, almost certainly have four children - it would be crazy not to. 

In that case the only answer to your question here is: A whacky "one time zone" world would would signal to the reader a very strong, overbearing, somewhat ridiculous centralized government... (Note that, simply, China currently does this: it's an overbearing, "centralized government" move - a holdover from their overbearing, "centralized government" days!) So for example, in the movie Brazil, or perhaps the classic book 1984, it would be a plot point if the nutcase world government in question, established "one time zone worldwide!" (for "planetary unity and order!") 

Note that one huge social effect would be: women who want to have many children would be in incredible demand amongst the super-rich. (Indeed, it would apply to men too: imagine a super-wealthy family and consider one of the females in that family. It would be totally ridiculous if she married a man who "only wanted one or two kids" - you'd be literally throwing away billions.) Almost certainly women (and men) would start having children very, very young (why risk billions of dollars on an older partner - fertility declines with age, there is chance of not being able to have the four children, when one starts older). One plot point could be .... perhaps women would tend to have one "demonstrator" child at a young age, I mean to say as a single mother, at say 16. They would then be really "proven" (i.e. to the world's rich) that they can easily bear healthy children. Conversely older men with lower fertility, would be summarily discarded by the world's female rich: there'd be no room for niceties in the need to quickly reach four children. Don't forget, for the truly rich you'd be throwing away 100s of millions a year, until you got to the "four quarters"; every year you waited until getting the four children would be more zillions down the drain; it's possible very young marriages would become the norm again (as for all of history before about 100 years ago).