I have a Sturmey Archer 3 speed hub and have similar ticking sounds. I suspect it's the various parts of the planetary gear meshing and rolling against each other. It's a pretty complex little mechanism. 

I think clipless pedals are definitely the way to go. With the pedals always moving under your feet, it's even more important to have your feet firmly attached as it's too easy to lose contact with the pedals otherwise. I find the first time I ride it after having ridden freewheels for a while I'll forget once or twice and get a bit of a jolt through my trailing leg to remind me to keep those pedals spinning. Also from Sheldon Brown's site: 

I'm considering buying a TT bike that has a full SRAM Red group. I'm wondering if it's possible to use my Shimano Ultegra 6700 left-side crank in place of the SRAM Red crank. Why? I've got a Stages power meter in the Shimano crank that I use on my regular road bike. One of the main reasons I went with the Stages meter was the flexibility of swapping the crank across multiple bikes. So, naturally I'd like to use my power meter on the TT bike by just swapping it. I'd appreciate anyone's thoughts on using the two systems together! EDIT/UPDATE: I ended up buying the TT bike. As the answer below says the SRAM crankset is not compatible with the Ultegra crank. So, I bought a used Ultegra crankset and put that on in place of the SRAM one. There was a spacer on the left side of the bottom bracket that had to be removed in order to get the Ultegra crankset to fit. I just tapped the bearing out, removed the little sleeve and tapped the bearing back in, took about 10 minutes total. The new hybrid SRAM-Shimano drivetrain functions perfectly, I even swapped out the big ring from the SRAM set for the Ultegra one (SRAM ring is a 55 which I like having on the TT bike). It looks a bit wonky with the mismatched crank/ring combo but everything works fine! 

I have an old 10-speed bike (presumably 80's vintage). I'm trying to remove the bottom bracket and cranks but have struck a problem. The crank bolts have a plastic cap over the top of them and I'm not sure how to remove it. They look like they should unscrew based on what I could imagine it would look like before they were trashed by the previous owner. I tried to unscrew them gently but they didn't move and as you can see from the photo below they're very fragile. 

I use a 23mm Continential GP4000S on the front. I love these tyres. They're super sticky and I've never had one slip out(!!) On the back I'm trialling 23mm Continental Gatorskins. They are cheaper and since the rear wears out so much faster than the front I'm hoping they'll still grip well but not cost me too much. So far I've been riding on it for about 3 weeks and have had no trouble. 

It's all about core strength, not arm strength. If you want to ride like this for long periods of time you should be supporting most of your weight with your core muscles - not your arms. Your weight should be on your sit-bones, anchored on your saddle. Then your back and abdominal muscles stabilize your pelvis and share the load with your arms. Your shoulders should be fairly relaxed and your grip loose. I've have good results from following Tom Danielson's 'Core Advantage' book. It's specifically about core exercises for cyclists and has a stepped approach to take you from untrained to pretty fit. 

I can't think of an actual physical problem this would cause. Most folks run the lever on the QR on the left, but that's just convention as far as I know. If you want you could just unscrew the nut end of the QR and flip it around, then your tire would be going the 'right' way and the QR lever would be on the correct side as well. 

I was chatting to the guys at my LBS the other day about how they get my bike so clean when I take it in for a service. They said they use compressed air to clean it. They warned I shouldn't use any high pressure water because it can get into the sealed bearings and cause damage. I also noted on the user manual for Campag cranks (right at the end) that you should "Never spray your bicycle with water under pressure". How much of an issue is this? Rinsing the bike with the hose is such a convenient way to wash off loose grit and then the soap after washing. How do you clean your bikes? 

One option would be to use an iPhone. If you use software such as MapMyRide you can integrate it with ANT+ sensors to measure speed, cadence and even heart rate. These sites also have excellent mapping, training review and history functions. Pros: 

First off, you're best bet is to go to a bike shop and ask for some help. They'll be happy to help you out and teach you what you need to know. That being said, if you don't want to or can't make it to a shop, here's my two cents: Those don't look like cantilever brakes to me - they look like linear pull (or V-Brakes). mikes' answer is correct in pointing out that you need the ones without threads on the posts. Something like this will probably work: $URL$ 

I would recommend using your power data to make sure you aren't going too hard out of the gate, like with any time trial. Try to keep your power in the Threshold-VO2 max range, with a high cadence, until you're within striking distance and then drop the hammer to the finish line. More on determining power levels here. This assumes you know how long you can hold a sustained AC level (aerobic capacity) effort. I would try to pace it so that you are ramping up your power into the finish, not a big burst at 200 meters out and then a gradual taper in. It really depends on the character of the climbs, I think some pre-riding of the course would be as, if not more, beneficial than power data for such short efforts.