it can be great to work in these circumstances but it takes solid communication skills on your part to make sure both are getting the level of information from you that they want. 

One thing to remember is that when most managers ask about your accomplishments they want to hear what you actually did. Anyone who answers with "My responsibilities were..." is not going to be looked on as having answered that question favorably. So in your case, talk about that difficult bug, what you did to research and solve it. Talk about the internal app you enhanced, what features did you add or what did you add to the code to make it more maintainable. I want to hear enough technical detail in your answer to get a good feel for whether you actually did the things you claim on your resume as well. When answering this type of question, consider the business needs of the company you are applying for. Give examples that reflect an understanding of how what you did in the past is a good match for their job now. For instance, If I have a job opening that has significant database responsibilities as well as web development, you might try to find examples in your experience that show both sides of that. If they are looking to change to a process with more formal QA or TDD and you have some accomplishments that include doing those things make sure you mention them in the description of what you did. You are selling yourself with this question and it is often a critical make or break question. Companies may vary in the exact qualities they are looking for depending on the position, but for most businesses showing your actions saved the company money or retained a large client or solved a long-term problem or showed initiative are all helpful things to let them see about you. This is far more critical when you move up to a more senior position. Excellent senior devs are generally very aware of business needs because they often interact with people at those levels. A junior dev who is not aware of these things yet is OK, so this time around you may not need to be thinking that way, but start to look at things from a business perspective in your next job so that when you start to look for more senior roles, you have accomplishments that reflect those things. You need to stay aware of what types of accomplishments you are doing before you decide to interview for the next job to ensure you are building the experience you need to move to a better position. Since you are very junior, people are not going to expect you to have wildly impressive accomplishments. And while it is nice if you have given some technical talks or provided training to your peers, I am not going to rate those as very impressive unless I already am impressed with your technical abilities through the answer to this question or previous questions relating to technical matters and I won't care about a talk at all if you have not produced any actual development accomplishments that you have talked about first. So save those things for last when you interview unless you are a high-powered consultant who is expected to give talks for a large percentage of their normal duties. 

Helping co-workers is a good thing. Helping too much is a bad thing and as you get more experienced you will learn to know when it is time to back away. If you were staying late to get your own work accomplished,you were on the borderline of helping too much. If you didn't get your work accomplished because you were helping, then you have helped too much. There is a distinction that needs to be made beween people who need some help and those who are helpless. The ones who need some help, don't ask the same question repeatedly. They learn form the help you give them. The helpless just want you to do their work for them. When someone is helpless, the best thing you can do is back off and make them start to learn it on their own or get fired. It sounds as if your boss determined that your co-worker was in the helpless category. These people suck the life out of a team and cause a lot of resentment, it is best to get rid of them as soon as you are sure that is what you have. You did the right thing - you tried to help, you got your own work done and thus you probaly impressed your boss. Your co-worker just wasn't getting it and his inability to do the work, was probably slowing the work down. It was in no way your fault that he got fired. It was his fault. 

Politics at work are what gets things done in organizations. The larger the organization the more politics happen, but they are there even in small firms (and sometimes more corrosively there at the small places). Ignoring them or pretending to be above them is a bad career move. Yes some people play the game just for themselves and are dishonest in what they do. These people are the people who get credit for what others did and who will stab you in the back in a heartbeat. The best way to keep the bad people from succeeding though is to play the political game yourself. People can't take undeserved credit for what management already knows you did, for instance. But if you have good ideas and want them adopted by the organization, if you want to get promoted to the next level, if you want to protect yourself and your reputation, you need to play the game. Technical people hate to be told this, but it is true. No one can afford not to be part of the political game at work. It makes you more effective. So what types of actions are political? First and probably most important is building alliances with other people. That way when you have an idea, you aren't a lone voice in the wilderness that everyone is free to ignore. So make friends and do favors for people. Support others when they make suggestions that you think are good (or at least not harmful). Help out people who are in other fields not just your own. Help out people who are senior to you in the organization. If there are social events, attend them. Publicly give credit to others when they do something good (I write up a lot of awards and almost always tell the boss of some one who did something good that helped me). Volunteer for special projects and cross-functional groups. If you are a developer and the users of your software are in the business you work for, then talk to them. Find out what is the biggest pain point they have with your software and fix it. Next is protect yourself from credit grabbers and promote your own work. Make sure that your boss and his boss know when you have accomplished something. If someone gives you a compliment on something you did, ask them to tell your boss. If you get an email thanking you for a good job, forward it to your boss. Support your boss whether you like him or not and whether you agree with him or not. Do things like timesheets in a timely manner (Bosses much prefer people they don't have to bug about doing tedious, but necessary tasks). Do not let your boss be blindsided by a problem. Let him know if you are going to miss a deadline or if a client or user is going to be upset about something or if the last push to prod went wrong. If he might hear about the problem from somoen above him, you had better make certain he heard about it from you first. Make yourself and your boss look good, by giving him potential solutions when the inevitable problems come up. It's OK to disagree technically on a issue before a decision has been made, but once it has, then do what you were asked to do without complaining and try your best to make it work. When you do disagree, it is not enough just to argue (that gets you labeled as a troublemaker which is never good for your career). Present real, formal analyses of the issue (decision analysis, cost-benefit analysis, risk analysis - all these techniques should be something you know how to do and actually do when you want to finfluence a decision). If you know a decision point is coming up on something and you have an idea for how you want the decision to go, line up your supporters beforehand, by talking to them about what you think is a good idea and get them to both critique your presentationa and support you when the presentaiton is actually made. Now there are going to be some people who are in the political game and are succeeding without being qualified. These are people like the friends of the company owner, the CFO's nephew who recently graduated, the CEO's girlfriend, your boss's wife. If you can make friends with these people, it will help you int he long run. But I recognize that some of those people are so awful you can't make friends, so in that case at least try not to make enemies. You will never succeed in opposing these people, so don't try. It if is really horrible, then move on to a different organization. I've seen far more of these people at small privately-owned companies. 

How about an afternoon walk break? Everyone knocks off for 15 minutes and walks around the office park. You get to socialize, you get in some exercise which makes you healthier and the break will probabaly be good for productvity too. 

One other thing to consider is that the good companies to work for are going to be the ones who rule you out for being too cheap. The companies who are thrilled to get someone at the lowest rate possible tend to be the very bad places to work group. 

Different companies have different cultures about how acceptable this is. However, if your current boss has directly told you not to learn something on company time, then you are at risk of being fired if you do so. Once a boss has forbidden an action, then don't do it. You say you view it as a win-win, but clearly your boss does not and his opinion matters more than yours as far as what you spend your time on at work. If you genuinely think it is a win for the company then make the business case, but the boss is the final decider and you need to accept that gracefully if he decides against what you want. Find something acceptable to your boss to do during down time. It might be a language that you need more depth in that the company currently uses. It might be creating a proposal for some new system you would like to implement. It might be learning more about the business domain. It might be cleaning out old file cabinets! The company owns your time during the work day, it's their choice what they want to pay for. If you want to get qualified for things your company does not use or intend to use, then do that on your own time. It is the same as if I decided I wanted to be a doctor, you wouldn't expect my current company to pay for a qualification like that that they get no direct benefit from would you? Learning a tool that they don't use is useless to them and they are entitled to decide not to pay for it. There are always things you can learn that will help in your current job. 

I think you are focusing on the wrong thing. I can think of nothing any company could do that would make me trust them enough to leave with the kind of feedback you appear to want. Sure if they dropped a major benefit (like when one company went from having good health insurance to a high deductable plan) then you get an immediate flurry of people leaving and they may feel it is safe to tell you that is why. On the other hand if people suddenly start leaving at a higher rate right after management did something stupid like deny pay raises to everyone or dropped their health insurance, well then you can probably figure it out without asking. But if the problem is their immediate supervisor is an ass, not so much. And if the person's boss doesn't know have a good idea why that person is leaving based on the conversations he has had with the employee over the last six months or so, then chances are he or she is a large part of the reason why the person is leaving. Bosses should know their employees well enough to know what kind of things bother them. What you might be better off doing is looking at trends. Do people leave in higher numbers in the next two months after a major change is announced? Good chance that is part of the problem. I've seen large clumps of people leave: 

Ask yourself if the work enviroment would really have been one you would have enjoyed in the long run. Often when you aren't the right fit, you would have hated working there if you had been hired. Did they seem more bureaucratic than you want, did they seem as if they wanted more experience not just a willingness to learn, were the office spaces ones you would have been comfortable working in? Did you like the people who did the interviewing? Did there seem to be alot of tension in the air? You are often going to interview in places where really you can be happy you didn't get the job, yes even in big name places like Amazon or Google.