Different rep schemes produce different effects on the body. If you use enough resistance so that you can only do 3-5 reps, you'll primarily develop strength and power. If you use a lot less resistance so you can do 30 reps, you are primarily developing muscular endurance, pain tolerance, etc. Moreover, you should track how many reps you can do and what resistance you used so you can track progress. Increased strength/size/endurance/etc is the body's adaptation to stress. However, the body adapts exactly and specifically to the stimulus that stresses it. This means that once your body adapts to handle, say, 10 reps at some weight, if you keep using the same weight/reps over and over, your body will NOT adapt any further. In other words, if you don't progressively increase the difficulty, you are not increasing your fitness and are just spinning your wheels (well, maintaining your fitness, at best). 

Toss them in the wash as needed. If they get a real nasty smell that doesn't come out, soak the VFFs for 30 minutes in a mixture of oxy clean and hot water and then toss in the wash. 

Rhea's answer is pretty good. I just wanted to expand on #4: track your progress. Seriously, this is massively motivating. Going back through a workout journal and seeing the progress you've made is amazing. As always, there is an xkcd comic for it. If you are running in particular, an app like RunKeeper can do a lot of the tracking, exercise planning & coaching for you, including recording distance, pace, intervals, plotting the run on a map and more. Having said that, running isn't the only way to get in shape. If you don't enjoy it or can't get into it, consider other physical activities instead. Regularly play sports. Learn martial arts. Learn to climb & boulder. Try swimming, biking, or rowing. Take up weight training or Crossfit. Find something that you enjoy and can do consistently and the fitness & health improvements will come along for the ride. 

Just curious I regularly do 225 front squats and was wondering what are the long term effects on the spine with this exercise or any squats for that matter? Since the bar is placed in the front and racked on the shoulders I always thought there was more pressure on the core to stabilize the body under load. Will they significantly compress the spine long term or is the same amount of compression one experiences through out the day from standing/walking? If its the former, what type of stretches would be advised to decompress the spine? 

About 8 months ago I started my internship at a software firm. Its a 9-4 stationary job. Ever since then I been slowly putting on fat around my waist. This has been very new to me since I always worked my core through compounds and have always been active so I was surprised to see a pair of infantile lovehandles when I took off my shirt. My calorie intake is around 2k and have lowered it to around 1.8k due to my internship. If I lower it anymore, I run the risk of losing strength since I'm lifting 3-5 times a week. I'm not exactly sure what the culprit is since my calorie intake is at the bare tdee and I haven't put on any weight in any other areas of my body such as face, legs, or arms. I'm thinking its due to poor posture or high estrogen. The latter which is possible but I doubt due to the fact I'm constantly seeing strength gains in the gym. The former which is true (My sitting posture sucks). What can I do other than cardio, and more core work? Cutting calories isn't an option for me. More info: 20 years old, 6'0 180 lbs. Lift 3-5 times a week, mostly strength work (Candito's). Big three: 190 incline bench, 240 front squat, and 50lb pullup (can't do deadlifts due to bad back) Calorie intake varies a bit but mostly 40% carbs 40% fats 20% protein. Get around 90 to 120g of protein a day. Cutting carbs and upping protein isn't an option since carbs are very cheap unlike protein, unless someone can kindly point out cheap sources of protein besides whey and chicken. 

Grip is a big part of the deadlift, pull-ups, pull-downs, etc. It consists of not only muscular strength, but also the skin toughness and pain tolerance to hold a ton of weight. It is very common for grip to be the limiting factor early on. Don't give up - grip strength is incredibly useful in all aspects of life (working with tools, climbing, opening jars for the ladies) and will improve quickly if you work at it. Stronglifts has a great guide on improving your grip for the deadlift. Read it through carefully. The only things I'd add to that article are: 

From a weight loss perspective, the most important factor, by far, is overall caloric intake. The exact timing is far less important. If you eat the same number of calories overall, it doesn't matter if you eat something 10 minutes before sleep vs. 10 hours before sleep. Of course, meal timing can have an impact on hunger/energy levels, so eating more frequently can help from a psychological standpoint. However, most things you hear about meal timing - including "eat more frequently to boost your metabolism" - are total myths disproven by many studies (this article mentions a few). 

I'm sorry to be the bearer of bad news, but after watching the videos you posted, what you are doing is barely a half squat. Your technique is pretty damn far off and it has very little to do with "heel flexibility". I strongly recommend that you start from scratch. 

Take care of your hands and calluses. Calluses take some time to develop, but are very useful in protecting your hands. Taking proper care of them not only prevents tears, it also makes them less noticeable to anyone you might be touching. In addition to mixed grip, another grip option is the hook grip. Don't use straps and don't use gloves. Straps are a crutch and will prevent your grip from getting stronger. Gloves (a) don't prevent calluses/blisters particularly well, (b) increase the bar thickness, making the lift harder and (c) make you useless for lifting heavy things if you happen not to have them on you. It's sad to see a lifter who can't deadlift because he left his straps or gloves at home. On the other hand, I always have my calluses with me. In addition to static holds at the end of a deadlift, other exercises that strengthen the grip include farmer's walks, pull-ups, cleans, snatches, and climbing.