I have read questions such as these two about aliens adapted to environments with high atmospheric pressure experiencing negative effects when exposed to Earth's comparatively low atmospheric pressure. This question is different because I want to know how to prevent negative effects from occuring with the opposite situation. Mars has ~1% of the atmospheric pressure and 38% of the surface gravity of Earth. Some Martians, who are comparable in mass and body plan to Humans, want to visit Earth for cultural exchange. But exposure to a hundred times the air pressure and nearly three times the gravity under which they've evolved will very probably kill them. Humans offer to provide them with pressure suits, but a Human spacesuit is designed to maintain high internal pressure compared to vacuum. Would a suit allowing a Martian to withstand Earth's conditions, by maintaining low internal pressure, have to be significantly different in structure and design from the spacesuits that Humans use? If she were supplied with the CO2 and H2 she breathes instead of deadly oxygen, could a Martian gear up in a standard Apollo-era NASA spacesuit with no design alterations and survive on Earth? Otherwise, what changes would be needed for the suit to maintain low internal pressure without collapsing? Also, Earth's gravity isn't really an issue addressed by spacesuits made on Earth, but even with proper (de)pressurization, would it need to provide her with additional support to stand and walk under Earthly gravity while wearing it? 

Racism has been a defining trait in how human civilizations have interacted and developed in regard to each other. It, however, is founded on differences which separate us visibly but not functionally. Can of worms; 'nuff said. What if there were real differences? Presume a species with a baseline level of intelligence and interbreedability; assume them to even be humans for now. However, say there is a very distinct sliding scale of physical functionality which begins to emerge upon puberty: on one end, they are possessed of superhuman strength and endurance, but have post-puberty lifespans of only a few years before their bodies fail. On the other hand, they are practically biologically immortal, yet utterly frail and weak. Assume, again, a normal (bell-shaped) distribution along this scale. Most importantly, there is a very visible external indication of this, whether it is body size or some other manner of odd phenomena (skin markings, hair color, eye size, whatever). How would society develop? What if the distribution is very lopsided in one direction or another? 

I do not need these slimes to have big cartoony eyes like they have in some games. Naturally, some questions follow this: 

Foreword: I am asking this question primarily to decide if a nocturnal race makes sense for my purposes before I develop them in too great a depth. This means I do not have much detail to provide on their biology or culture, just a basic outline. Hopefully it's enough. Permanent settlements are dependent on sustained agriculture. A sapient extraterrestrial nocturnal race are omnivorous and capable of tool use, and are already at what we would call an early Neolithic level of technology - i.e. they have blades, art and clothing (or their equivalents), but no domesticated animals. They are not cave-dwellers. They wake at dusk and go to sleep with the dawn on their world, which has a day-night cycle and an axial tilt similar to Earth's, and perhaps several small natural satellites. They are not necessarily humanoid, and likely resemble a non-primate clade. How does a population of this race come to develop agriculture on a scale that can sustain a permanent settlement and thus lead to civilization? Chiefly what I'm asking is, if you're asleep during the day, how do you manage crops, take care of them, and guard them from intruding diurnal animals, among other things, well enough to settle down? Would they have large farms of grass/grain crops like we do, or would they need to farm something more unusual? (Again, they don't dwell in caves, so I don't think they would farm cave-dwelling life like bioluminescent fungi.) Or to put it another way, are there any standard and necessary agricultural processes that are particularly difficult to accomplish at night? I would prefer that their agriculture take a form recognizable to us as agriculture (you see their farm and think "farm"), but only if it's justifiable. (There's no need to address the domestication of animal livestock for the moment, but it's welcome if you do. Assume their livestock could be either diurnal or nocturnal, probably something they would already be hunting, or it could be for non-food products.) Edit, promoted from comment: The reason I think developing agriculture at night would be a problem is that I feel that being awake during the day would give one a better chance of coming to understand what kind of nutrition and resources plant crops demand. It would take a lot of work staying up past one's bedtime to determine how to lay out fields for the best sunlight and such, which I feel would be too much fine detail for a population on the initial cusp of agriculture to accomplish or to have a sense for. 

Physical tokens of money and discussion of money and economics are considered vulgar and crass in this culture, yet there is a vast economic gulf between the very poor and the very rich. There is a large pressure to be able to maintain outward appearances at even great cost; otherwise, one would try to avoid being seen in 'cultured public' and to constrain their interactions to only other underworld lowest-class like themselves. Just to be clear: there is money, and it's used often. Just not talked about or done 'in public'. I imagine middle-class shopkeeping and merchandising professions would be looked upon with contempt and disgust, which would further divide the social classes. Additionally, little to no economic theory would be developed--again, reinforcing the current status quo. However, what could the origins of this society be? What could some historical/cultural influences be which would cause this society to have developed? E: a bit more information: Friendly 'gifting' (really a form of barter) plays a large part in day-to-day life. Commercial stores are typically built and placed to allow discreet entry and exit. Once purchased and paid for, the product will typically be delivered to the buyer's home address, where they will give a token gift to the deliverer, thus making it clear it's just another friendly exchange, nothing so dirty as a money-related transaction. Many people do their own spending and moneykeeping--as much in the privacy of their own home as possible--but many more hire others, and rarely if ever learn the state of their own accounts. But why could such a taboo develop? 

Foreword: I'm aware of the limitations of the square-cube law involved in sizing an animal up, as these limitations have been relentlessly stressed in every discussion of realistic fantasy creatures. In this case, I'm discussing not an animal, but a slime mold with animal-like motility. Slimes Slimes in fantasy video games are all rather similar to each other in appearance and behavior. They are macroscopic and generally sphere or droplet-shaped, and capable of moving under their own power, often elastically bouncing meters into the air. They absorb solid matter directly through their gelatinous surface, and it's often implied, stated or demonstrated that this is how they eat. Though they are extremophiles found in every biome (e.g. forest, tundra, island, volcanic mountain, swamp), they are fairly weak creatures, and they can be dispatched with the first sword you get. I want to construct a more realistic slime. I've looked for the largest slime molds that exist in the real world and have identified Brefeldia maxima as a potential candidate for improvement. It's a single cell approximately a meter across, and it can weigh 20 kilograms. It's not spherical, though - it's a layer about a centimeter thick. Nevertheless, its size is interesting. The traits I am looking for are: 

Giant winged beasts such as the Roc and the western dragon feature strongly in mythology. Is there a maximum size on a biological winged flying creature? How would an atmosphere different from Earth's change such a limit? 

Conquest and discovery has been an important part of developing the global political structure of today's Earth. After we expand and settle other planets, whether within the same solar system or not, eventually the colonies will grow and develop to the extent where they feel able to self-govern. Given that extraterrestrial colonies and their resources would be incredibly valuable to their parent government, they would be naturally hesitant to let them go, whether because of fear of a lack of control or fear that the new government will be forcibly assumed by a competing terrestrial government. Easily, historical examples can be found by looking at overseas colonies - except for two incongruities: firstly, the process of setting up not only a self-sufficient extraterrestrial colony, but a self-expanding extraterrestrial colony would require much more assistance than, say, setting up a self-expanding overseas colony. Additionally, the area available for a colony to expand into is much greater than historically: there's a whole planet out there! Would the self-governing colonies, after they finally stabilize, cover much greater area than their parent nations? Would it be continental, global, or even include the local moon(s)? Would they be powerful enough to peacefully hold this territory, or would competing, established governments/colonies be conterminously fighting for greater resources? How would the situation differ were the planet found inhabitable as opposed to requiring a (possibly international) terraforming project? In short, what type of interplanetary political structure would be most likely to develop, and what historical parallels are there to support your claims? 

In the mid-21st century, humanity has an interplanetary colony system principally spanning the Moon, Mars, and Titan (as per usual). The furthest established colony is on Proxima b. Humans have FTL drives that can reach 12,500 times c without time dilation effects, and which can accelerate to this speed in under a minute. However, we are still reliant on light-speed signal transmission. We send data back and forth very frequently between our colonies. Some people on Proxima b, while waiting for the previous Summer Olympics results, figure that beyond a certain distance, it's more efficient to just strap an FTL drive to a hard drive and lob it upwards into space than it is to send a signal and wait for it to arrive at c. A hard drive will need time to accelerate and decelerate to avoid damage, and it will need to be processed at its destination to access the data. This processing could take less than a minute if, say, a satellite net of some sort catches it, plugs it in, and then relays the data at c to the colony below, or several hours if the hard drive has to actually land. The FTL drive can launch from the ground. But let's say they've already got the former system set up. This is a two-part logistical problem. Firstly, what is the break-even distance for sending a light-speed signal versus sending an FTL hard drive? It's not simply a matter of the distance from the source at which an FTL hard drive overtakes a signal at c, it also involves what people would find more convenient, and it might involve signal decay by the inverse square law (I don't know). For example, I don't think an FTL hard drive would be worth it between the Earth and the Moon - 3 seconds of ping time beats the processing time, even if it gives Lunar Dota 2 players a headache. Secondly, given the colonies I've noted, do any of them have differences in their maximum and minimum distances from each other such that they would pass break-even at different times, and one method would be more convenient than the other for part of the time? In such a case, would one method of data transmission still be preferable to the other? (I'd like to credit xkcd for partial inspiration.)