I have looked through the German Propaganda Archive and haven't found any references to the British occupation of Iceland in 1940. So I would hesitantly guess that if the occupation was used by German propagandists, it was not used widely. 

Legends around Ninja, the category of men trained for espionage and assassination, begin around the late Heian period in the mountains around Kyoto. In the Kōga and Iga provinces, east of Lake Biwa, entire villages were established to develop this specific set of skills. Ninja were organised in three main classes: 

A deep, well protected harbor was incredibly valuable to a new colony that would rely on support and contact with Britain to survive and, in the long term, trade to prosper. I imagine that the proximity of such a harbor makes Phillip's decision even easier. 

This landmark measure was a major step in the disfranchising of the samurai estate and vastly strengthened the regime's authority by creating a force capable of dealing with countercoups and providing internal security. Quotes and references from: James L. McClain. Japan, a modern history W.W. Norton & Co, 2002 

The Charter Oath promulgated at the enthronement of Emperor Meiji of Japan on 7 April 1868 includes several parts that identify the reasons for the radical social restructure that followed the Meiji restoration and an indication of the motivations for the dissolution of the warrior class that had been a defining characteristic of Japanese society. 

The Hakkas were the exception because their heartland was actually a mountainous area peripheral to several river systems. In the early Qing period, they migrated in large numbers to several different areas that were expanding economically, but by the 19th century changed economic conditions and overpopulation led to conflict between immigrant Hakkas and the core speech group (Cantonese in the Lingnan region, for example.) This conflict took on an ethnic character, so we could actually say that the speech groups within what is now called “the Han Chinese” behaved like ethnic groups in some ways. Yet according to Leong, there wasn’t much in the way of pan-Hakka solidarity across regions, even when the Hakkas in, say, Lingnan banded together for self-defense in the face of Cantonese discrimination. So generally, linguistic/ethnic divisions within the “Han Chinese” can be explained by looking at regional systems within China. Reference: Sow-Theng Leong, Migration and Ethnicity in Chinese History: Hakkas, Pengmin and their Neighbors (Stanford UP 1997) 

Source: keliauk kitaip aruodai There are other legends concerning Trakai, for instance one about a secret tunnel between the castle and the Dawn Gate (Aušros vartai) in Vilnius. About the banned women, I think that by the nature of oral literature, details change in the telling. This one doesn't seem to have any basis in historical fact. Maybe someone has confused the Grand Duchy with its northern foe, the Teutonic Knights? 

I guess this does not only happen to corn, but also other American favourites such as cars, gun ownership or "too big to fail" banks. [1]anti-pattern is a Software Engineering term referring to an anti-productive pattern/recurrence. The author is a software engineer at Google, I guess this is why he used this term 

But I'm not sure how he could perform these job during a battle. My understanding is that in a battle, knights normally acted as the heavy cavalry, who were required to ride in formation, hold certain position and charge when necessary. Did the squires just trail behind? How could he manage stuff like carrying the knight's paraphernalia, replacing the knight's horse or weapons, protecting the knight etc. when there was a battle going on, the knight was in his own formation, and he was also supposed to protect himself? 

Greek-based philosophy and sciences were taken up in the medieval Islamic world. A lot of these works were translated into Arabic, and were later developed further and these contributed to the flourishing of the sciences and the culture in the Islamic world (e.g. the "Islamic Golden Age"). Many notable Muslim philosophers from this time built on the classical Greek tradition, e.g. in the West, Ibn Bajja and Ibn Rushd from Spain, and in the East Ibn Sina in the Middle East. There was a lack of similar development in Medieval Western Europe, except in Muslim-held areas like Spain. Why is it so? Culturally, geographically and linguistically, Western Europe seemed to be the more suited successor to the Greco-Roman tradition. 

There may not have been a movement in Britain, but there were certainly individual left-wing anti-colonial intellectuals from the British colonies who wrote works in this vein. C. L. R. James from Trinidad was one, recognized even today for Black Jacobins, a history of the Haitian revolution published in 1938. This event (contemporary to the French Revolution) seems to have inspired anti-colonials, whether they wrote in French or in English – Césaire also wrote a history of it. James’s first version of the story was a play, apparently, and he later wrote the first novel by a West Indian published in the UK, according to Wiki. It might be instructive to compare his biography to Césaire’s. After the war Césaire managed to become the mayor of the capital of Martinique, and he was instrumental in setting up the arrangement where the island remained a département of France on its own terms. James was more of a loner, his leftist politics never achieved anything concrete for Trinidad, and he ended up mainly writing about cricket! Concerning the Négritude movement, it’s worth remembering that its founders were not only anti-colonial activists, they were also poets and novelists who wanted to gain recognition as such not at home in the colony, but in the metropole (Paris). French writers, especially on the left, were more likely to form movements at that time (the 1930s and 40s) – would André Breton, leader of the Surrealists, have recognized Césaire and supported his poetic efforts without the calling card of Négritude? Perhaps not. In Britain in those days, on the other hand, literary movements were unusual – only Pound’s Imagism and Wyndham Lewis’s Vorticism come to mind, and these were both on the right politically. So for James or his friends, founding such a movement might have been rather pointless. I think it’s this, more than the different ways Britain and France managed their colonies although there may also be linkages in this regard, that answers your question. 

The name "Omar" is used as a given name in Western countries, one of the most famous one is Omar Bradley, a US World War 2 general. Is this given name related to the Islamic Caliph Umar? How did it come to be used in an English-speaking Christian-majority country like the US? 

The Ottoman military had a very weak performance in World War I (1914-1918), completely defeated in the Middle Eastern theatre and ended up losing almost all of its non-Anatolia possession. This was also the case shortly before WW I, for example the Italo-Turkish War (1911-1912) and the Balkan Wars (1912-1913). However, shortly after World War I, it fought pretty succesfully against its former WW I enemies, including Greece, the United Kingdom, France and Italy (see Greco-Turkish War and Turkish War of independence, 1919-1922) I understand that during this time the Ottoman Empire was abolished and replaced by the Republic of Turkey, but other than this, how was such rebound in military performance achieved? For example, did Turkey significantly improve its military equipment? Did it replace the officers and by chance the new ones were much better? 

According to this, the VOC only controlled some ports, cities (like Batavia/Jakarta) and its surrounding. Yet, it seems to be a very successful corporation, mostly benefiting from the natural resources of what is now Indonesia. How did they become so rich without controlling most of the territories? Why couldn't the locals make that much themselves?