Zombie 'preadators' modern cities have a bad enough bird problem with bin scraps being left all over the place add to that rats, mice, house hold pets, insects and water based critters if the zombies work in rivers or sewers. That's not only a constant maintainance problem for your 'automation' but a major public nuisance. It could perhaps be fixed by 'spiking' zombies with poison or flavour. Fires! Decomposing flesh releases flammable gas which if zombies work indoors could build up and become a problem without ventilation. Its unlikely and not horrendously dangerous but still a problem. The many obvious psychological ramifications of the dead walking the city streets. (Though to be honest people would probably adapt). 

The (very) old fashioned religious argument of "the world is just and righteous therefore the disabled probably earned their place through sin" If lost in a war it could be the case that that specific war had no "good side" the entire war was/is viewed as a pointless power struggle between 'evil' nations who's soldiers are not looked upon kindly. There is only one source of prosthetics that advanced, and no one likes them. Evil company, crazy AI etc... There is no reason and your characters just paranoid. They have connotations with something people have a genuine gripe against. (Sort of like who in WW2 German Americans his their culture and accents despite having nothing to do with the Nazis. Some government, cult, church, charismatic leader, company etc.. Is spreading an ideology which is 90% common sense 10% "we must protect the ideal human form" 

Imagine you had a flat earth scenario, in which the world is essentially a giant disc floating in space (I know that in reality any such world would be pulled into a sphere by gravity, but for the sake of the question assume that gravity just pulls "down" instead of towards the center of mass). Now direct your attention to the edge of the disc: without something to stop them, all of the air is just going to pour over it, leaving the planet incapable of supporting life. What measures could be taken to prevent that from happening? One thing I've thought of is placing giant mountains along the entire rim, tall enough to hold in the whole atmosphere, but I'm interested in whether there are any other passive solutions that would work in the real world (ie, no magic or teleportation). EDIT: A recurring question seems to be "why wouldn't the Earth and everything on it be falling at an equal speed?" Let's hand-wave it away by saying that the Earth is already at the "bottom" of the universe, and so cannot fall any further. Things on the top, however, can still slide, jump, or fall off and then descend through space until they reach the "bottom" too. Arbitrary, yes, but I think it allows us to focus more on the question itself: how do we keep the atmosphere on top of the flat surface, besides adding huge mountains around the edges? 

In the plane, there are two warring states (political entities). The territory of each is constituted of many islands, about 100 in number. There are 15 front islands on each side. Each side has about 1,000,000 military crafts (including support crafts, but not including fighters). The ships fight slower than light but can jump into FTL with recharge time 60 minutes. The weapons are mostly projectile weapons. Projectiles travel far below lightspeed (about 150 km/s on average). I think the major problem which puts an attacking fleet at a disadvantage is that attacks are far-flung expeditions; maintaining a supply line that long is very expensive. The defenders have clear advantage. Another thing I thought about is if a side would attack the capital right away (fleets are hard to stop when travelling on cast fabric) or island-hop little by little starting with front islands. In short, my question is 

Here, star systems are connected with "wormholes". The wormholes facilitate travel at $250\ c$, regardless of mass. They are made using special ships. Any travel (including military vessels) not through the wormholes is well below light-speed (not more than $0.05\ c$, ). It takes a road builder ship $50$ years to make each endpoint and $30$ years to make a light-year of "road". So, for example, to connect two systems $10$ light-years apart, a road builder ship takes $400$ years. A road cannot be constructed by more than 1 ship, not even by building from opposite ends. All of a road has to be built by one ship. Additionally, roads cannot intersect in the middle. Here are some more information on the setting: 

Deep sea fishing, pretty much everything in the very depths of the sea does not depend on sunlight but scavenging from what falls below and on hunting other deep sea life. high pressure fishing submarines (probably robotic) could probably gather a significant amount of food from down their for centuries before even that ecosystem collapses. Even then tube-worms could still be a source of food. Radiotrophic fungi some fungi in chernobyl have shown the ability to survive off only radiation this process is inefficient but a nuclear power could if they so wished dedicate a significant number of resources towards building a "farm" of these that could feed a significant number of people and last many years. if our survivors have a nuclear reactor (a near certainty if its a government effort) they could even use its vitrified waste to expand theese efforts processed fossil fuels while not necessarily a great addition to the human diet and certainly providing no vitamins/minerals/fibre/protein etc...can be made into edible calories in the form of simple carbohydrates like alcohol. many of the facilities required to do so already exist in petrochemical plants and are simply not being used for this purpose (for the first few years at least) the slowly rotting carcasses of everything else, bone marrow locked away in their skeletons and the remaining canned food. ideally large scale "moving edible stuff to the south pole and burying it in 40 ft of snow" operations would be set up. recycled dietary fibre (no i will not go into more detail) though that obviously won't provide calories. 

Unbeknownst to them, they have been instantaneously transported to another planet, perfectly earth-like (same/extremely similar flora/fauna, same size/gravity, same sun type, same moon type). There is absolutely zero chance of making contact with Earth, or returning (the planet is on the other side of the Milky Way, or in another galaxy altogether). So here's the question: How long does it take them to get out of this dire strait, onto dry land, and to develop a new social order/civilization? I'm looking for estimates with good reasoning behind them, taking into account the number of people, their 21st century knowledge, whether whatever items they happened to have in their pockets could play a significant role, as well as whatever you think may be important. The climate that they've appeared in is Mediterranean. The preferable unit for an answer would be generations, but feel free to give one in an actual time-unit as well if you think you can make a good case for it. This has been getting some great answers! Here's an edit to clarify some points: 

They are currently treading water in the ocean about one hundred meters off-shore . A ton of trash, loose objects, and furniture that could serve as aids to flotation seem to have accompanied them in the transition. 

The day on Earth begins as normal. People go to school, go to work, eat ice cream; nothing is amiss. Then, without warning, the sky seems to break open in a cacophony and flashing lights, and one-million unrelated people from around the globe find themselves falling upwards and into it. When they are able to orient themselves, the multitudes make two important discoveries: 

my answers are for Neptune specifically, rather than for any liquid cored planet, though many principles used are generalise-able. on a "small scale": you would need to use robots to physically go down and collect the liquid in the core from the gaseous atmosphere. there are two approaches to this. firstly you can make a robot-plane able to go all the way from the 'surface' to the deep high pressure centre, alternatively a sort of relay system could be made so many robots pass the liquid between each other each staying within their own band of pressure and altitude with an internal pressure to match. the relay goes all the way from the bottom to the top though no one robot does. both are viable and doable, though I strongly recommend the second. on large scales: use a "centrifugal straw". the internal pressures in Neptune are a massive problem, however the temperatures are apparently not (being significantly under 5100k which while extremely hot is kind of workable with something like graphite since the high pressures raise the boiling point). back to pressure their is fortunately a way for a pipe to overcome arbitrarily high pressures. spinning the pipe (or rather an internal "support" in the walls of the pipe) will counter the inward force of the atmospheric pressure. since you can spin something arbitrarily quickly there is no theoretical limit to the pressure such a system can be built to withstand. the pipe could not be a suction pipe ($URL$ and would need to support its own weight using buoyancy. power would be provided from large solar arrays in orbit or at the surface. sadly the only information i could get on neptunes core temperature is this very uncited image that looks like its from 2003 but that being said I will still be using it on a very large scale: like eggs in a microwave! the core is big meaning it has a large volume to surface area ratio so if parts of it are heated they will keep that heat for a vary long time. so using an oscillating magnetic field, radiation or some kind of high pressure tolerance nuclear bombs dropped deep into the core you could heat the core up substantially. hot matter rises (admittedly you need to make it very hot if its going to rise through hydrogen and helium but its still doable especially given how cold neptunes atmosphere is) so large thermals of the core substances will start blooming in the atmosphere for 'easy mining'. odd but doable for any K1.(a bit) civilisation. on an absurdly large scale: just mine the whole planet layer by layer with a vast legion of robots until you reach the juicy core. I mean why not? you were probably going to be mining the outer layers anyway, right?