I am trying to get 2 servers to talk to each other through server manager both running Windows Server 2012 R2. SERVER1 is able to refresh all the server information without a problem. I can see all the status of SERVER1 & 2 without a problem. SERVER2 says that the RPC server is unavailable and that it cannot find SERVER 1. When I do the following command from SERVER1 I get an error mainly meaning it cannot sea SERVER2. winrm quickconfig shows that it is setup and manageable on SERVER2. It is allowed through the firewall using GPO which is applied to both servers. I have tried these fixes: Fix 1 Fix 2 Fix 3 Fix 4 I have checked the following: 

Found an issue where I moved the child domain DC out of the Site in Sites & Services and the DNS records were missing in DNS. I moved the child DC back in and remade the records and all is talking again. 

As stated in this question this setting can be very confusing. Since it says that setting it to "Not Configured" or "Disabled" it should be allowing the traffic and the use of the WinRM Pool but I guess for it to be fully accessible, then you have to have it set to "Not Configured" 

EDIT 4: I rebuilt the server and was able to add/remove features before I joined it to the domain. When I joined it to the domain I get the Runspace Pool error. So this has to be a GPO thing. Suggestions on GPO settings to check? Remote Shell Access is set to NOT CONFIGURED so it should be allowing connections. 

Found out that my Server 2008 R2 machine is not running firewall as it should. When I enable the firewall and try to open GPMC it states that it is unable to access the GPMC or the Primary Domain Controller. I am doing all of this on the Primary Domain Controller. How is the DC unable to see itself if it is behind its own firewall? And also since I can't access the GPMC I can't allow firewall rules. Any help would be greatly appreciated. EDIT 1: Firewall enabled and opened GPMC. It says unable to find server so I pointed it at the backup DC. GPMC opened but when I opened the Advanced Firewall Rules it gives me the following error: 

Just rebuilt my WSUS Server 2012 R2 x64 from a VLSC disc. Added drivers and then joined the server to the domain. I then tried to install WSUS. I was able to add the feature. Then during post install I get the following error: 

At this point it seems to be a catch 22. Firewall off but can't edit Advanced Firewall rules on GPMC but with Firewall on can't access Advanced Firewall rules at all. EDIT 2: Answering questions posed. 

This allowed for a longer amount of time needed for Windows 10 to connect and check for updates, Reset the connections for all machines and allow for more memory for processing of updates which was a suggestion I found on a google search. 

Upon doing some research it states that my Terminal Services have been out of licensing for 120 days. This is where I get confused. NEVER have I had a licensing server running on any of my machines. All the RDC connections to work stations and Domain Controllers work without a problem; it seems to be just these 2 servers. It was working earlier this week and this just randomly started happening. Servers are running Windows Server 2008 R2 and is just for databases etc. Is there a way to get my RDC back without installing a Licensing Server since I didn't have one before and things were working or doing the Registry Stop gap of resetting the 120 days? Thanks. 

On my two DCs that are running NPS on the RADIUS Clients I have the 2 switches set and a secret key is set. The switches are communication with the RADIUS server. If it wasn't it would give me an error stating "Can't Reach RADIUS server". When I try to SSH to my switches with my username and password for the domain it says access denied and closes the connection. I can only login with admin account. I can ping both RADIUS servers from the switch. Switch Authentication Configuration: 

Want to know if it is possible to assign a network port on my server to only be accessed by the VM on that server. This would mean the host computer would not be able to use it to access that network resources. Configuration: 

I am looking to replace 2 servers with one server and run the original servers as virtual machines. I am looking to use Windows Server 2016 as the hardware server and the VMs also running Windows Server 2016. I am wondering about the math that goes into the amount of memory and CPUs I need for each VM that the hardware server should have. Currently both servers run 8 CPUs and 48GB or RAM. I done some research and they are saying to have 4 extra cores besides each VM to run the hardware server. Many hardware manufacturers only look like I will be able to run 2 or 3 Virtual Servers on them. Is my math or understanding wrong or is there a rule of thumb to calculation the amount of CPUs and RAM to run virtual servers on a hardware server. 

Or the 80070043 error stating that there are no permissions. Permissions on the share are for everyone to have all permissions. Can anyone tell me why the GPO cannot map the drive on to these computers? I have tried altering the Map Drive settings over and over but it still gives me these errors and does not show the drive. Server is Windows Server 2008R2 x64 Computers on Windows 7 Professional x64 

So I am having an issues installing/removing features and rolls from a Windows Server 2012 R2 Server. I consistently come up with this error no matter which service, role, or feature I installed called WinRM Runspace pool invalid. Now I know the two servers can talk to each other through Server Manager and I know they are using WinRM and WSMan but I don't understand how if they can talk to each other how their getting a Runspace pool error. So I guess to better understand the error after all of the fixes I have tried is to try and understand what a "Runspace Pool" is and how to troubleshoot it? I can't find any information from Microsoft on what it is. Can anyone explain and maybe how it affects my error I am getting? 

I am applying a Domain level group policy to all my machines including in Domain Controllers. The PDC is getting the policy correctly but the other domain controller is not showing the "Account Policies" correctly. It is showing them as "Not Configured". This includes the Account and Password Policy. The strange thing is when you do something that complies to that policy, such as logging in on an account incorrectly 3 times, it locks you out. That is the correct for the policy. When I run rsop.msc it shows all of the other settings in the policy correctly just not the Account Policies. Any ideas of what I can do to make them show up correctly? When I rand a GPRESULT it show everything applied but the Account Polices. 

If I go the browser and go to $URL$ it successfully downloads the cab file. So it can reach the location. I cannot figure out how to get ELTs and the WindowsUpdate log to show me any USEFUL information since they moved it to that stupid ELT through PowerShell configuration. What am I missing or am unable to see why my client cannot connect to WSUS?