Though Greenberg's sample was small, I can't seem to find later counterexamples. The closest thing I could find is the standard reconstruction for Proto-Indo-European; accusative -m and accusative plural -ns could lead one to see the latter as n-s = ACC-PL (see #7 here), though when I look at the whole PIE paradigm, I think that's kind of a stretch. 

As mentioned by @guifa, a commonly used term is semantic widening (as opposed to narrowing), dating to Arsène Darmesteter (1887) at least and also used by Leonardo Bloomfield, Stephen Ullman and many others. An equivalent term is generalization (as opposed to specialization), used by Paul Hermann (1880) and also by Bréal, Blank and many others. Depending on the specific semantic theory, these technical terms may be given more specialized or narrower (wink) meanings. The Wikipedia page has more examples. 

Forget about measuring the two-thirds; it's very hard to introspect the exact tongue position. Instead, try to locate the IPA sounds in a language you know; for example, if you look at the wiki page for close-mid front unrounded [e], you’ll find it's contained in English “play” (which for some speakers is [e] and for others, [eɪ] – pay attention to the start of the sound). Now just try to pronounce this English sound and compare it to the sample French recording. I believe you’ll find it to be close enough most of the time; if not, try to experiment until your voice sounds like the recording. (In fact there are minute differences in the exact position of a typical English [e] and a typical French one, but as long as your [e] is closer to French [e] than to [i] or [ɛ], it’s more than good enough.) Some vowels may not be present in any language you know. For example, [ø] isn’t in English. In this case, start from a vowel you know, and then try to modify it until it resembles the recording. Comparing the IPA descriptions, you’ll find [ø] is just like [e] except it's "lip-rounded". Try to find any vowels you know with this feature – e.g. [u] in English "boo" is also rounded. Now produce an [e], but round your lips as in [u]. You should get the hang of it soon. Whenever in doubt, record your own voice and compare it to the native sample. 

As far as I can tell, the only difference between these two ways of describing classes of words is that 'syntactic categories' actually relies on evidence of use for determining categories, while 'parts of speech' labels can just be applied without any appeal to evidence. There is also the term 'word classes' which appears to be similar, but also used without specification. Are they simply used by different sub-disciplines of linguistics? Or are there more specific differences? 

It is quite common cross-linguistically to have ergativity marked optionally. McGregor (2010) talks about this in impressive cross-linguistic detail, arguing that while in some language ergativity may be obligatory, in other languages it can be used optionally. This optionality is not entirely arbitrary, and there are commonalities cross-lingustically. These include a tendency for ergativity to be more common in past tense costructions, with animate or human subjects or to indicate a high level of volitionality. Other articles in the Lingua special that McGregor's paper appeared in also discuss optional ergativity in specific languages. McGregor. 2010. Optional ergative case marking systems in a typological-semiotic perspective. Lingua 120:7. pp: 1610-1636 

Using epidemiology as way towards understanding language use and spread is a good start! See "Linguistic Epidemiology" (Amazon link) by Nick Enfield - he's an excellent field linguist using features of epidemiology to look at contact situations. There are many other ways sociology can help you in field linguistic, at all levels. Any grammatical description worthy of attention these days will include a fairly detailed description of the social context in which the language is spoken. That includes social dynamics, power structures and other features. From there, it really depends what you're looking at. These days field linguists can do a whole lot more than just study the grammar of a language. We're also interested in how migration affects language use, or the power relation between the local language and the national language (or even in some cases, the local dialect and the more common one). You may want to look at the rise of the use of small minority languages on the internet, in which case social networking theory might be useful. You might find there are less direct benefits, for example some areas of sociology put better emphasis on quantitative methods than most linguistics majors do, which might give you a better grounding in statistics, which might help with corpus analysis or phonetic analysis. Even if the study of sociology doesn't directly relate to any future linguistic study you do, the grounding in critical thinking, research methodology and the ability to think from the perspective of cultures other than your own are all going to help make you a better linguist! 

In English, we call "double-u", referring to the original representation of [w], which looked like , or two s. Then, in French, they pronounce it "double-veh", presumably because the modern form looks like two s or "veh". The question is: do all languages which utilise the Latin alphabet do a similar thing, giving a name to the letter which refers to either the letters or ? Or the converse question: is there any language which has a unique name for , whose etymology is not linked to another letter in any recognisable way? 

What is the syntactic category of "probably" here? Is it an adverb? If so, what substitution test should I use to verify that it is an adverb? 

It's interesting that English uses the verb "to drink" intransitively exclusively when talking about alcohol, as in: 

In p.26 of An Introduction to Syntactic Analysis by Sportiche et al. (2013), the authors specify that syntax trees aren't allowed to have more than two children: 

I'm developing a phonology for a conlang. Many languages distinguish aspirated and unaspirated stops as different phonemes e.g. /p/ vs /ph/. Are there any languages, however, which lack an unaspirated realisation of the stop phoneme? As in, all realisations of that phoneme must contain aspiration - so /p^h/ cannot be realised as [p], for example. I want to know how realistic it would be to make aspiration required in certain stops, and whether this constraint is found in any natural languages. 

I'm studying phonetics as part of a Linguistics degree, and in my textbook, the author discusses how we make our vocal folds narrow, almost touching, such that air passing through vibrates. This is how we produce voiced sounds like /ɑ/ or /b/ or /iː/. The question is: why does simply contracting the vocal folds produce this vibration? The textbook only says: 

I want to know if many languages make this distinction, or have a separate verb entirely for drinking alcohol to drinking non-alcohol? I realise that "many" and "other languages" are vague terms, but I'm just looking for a general indication as to whether this is a common phenomenon, or isolated to English. 

So by the seventh colour term they basically concede that there is no way to predict order of inclusion in a language. Given that their constraints have been even further relaxed since this analysis I would not find it surprising if there were a language where a separate lexical item for 'light blue' were found before others in rule 7 above. 

I'm sure you've found enough information on Wikipedia and other places that make it clear that Albanian isn't closely related to any other living language, but for those who haven't the most concise summary I've found is at Krysstal's Language Families ( $URL$ "The Illyric Branch [of Indo European]. Only Albanian (called Shqip by its speakers) belongs to this branch. It has been written in the Latin script since 1909; this replaced a number of writing systems including Greek and Arabic scripts." "There are two dialects that have been diverging for 1000 years. They are mostly mutually intelligible. Geg is spoken in the north of Albania and Kosovo (Kosova). Tosk is spoken in southern Albania and north west Greece." "The ancient Illyric and Mesapian languages, spoken in parts of Italy, are considered by some to be an extinct member of this branch." So we have to go back to this Illyric branch, which it is argued is part of the Paleo-Balkan group. The only other surviving member of this group is Modern Greek ($URL$ Given how completely dissimilar Modern Greek and Albanian are this answer appears rather unsatisfying - until you realise how amazing it is that Albanian managed to survive this long when any closely related languages died out so long ago! 

@jlawler in the comments of your question is right - but I'll try and expand a bit because I think it's a lovely example of how we often under-estimate the complexity of the languages we speak. A dictionary is a useful tool for what it's good at, giving people a basic idea of what a word means and its basic function. To integrate the data from a dictionary into a parsing machine requires the addition of a while lot more information. Firstly, a dictionary gives the parts of speech (which is a good start) but nowhere in a dictionary will you find sentence-building information like "subjects go before verbs in basic declarative sentences," or any of the hundreds of other syntactic rules that allow speakers to produce plausible utterances. So that's your syntactic limitation. Secondly, there's a lexico-semantic limitation. Think about a word like sand. We know form the dictionary that it's a noun, but we need more. We need to know it's a mass noun, not a count noun so putting a number with it is not good unless there's something to turn it into a count noun (eg. buckets of sand). Also, dictionaries don't include Proper Nouns so they're not going to be good at recognising large chunks of text ("Lauren mentioned Chomsky on Stack Exchange" - for example), not to mention the incredible creativity English-speakers show in creating neologisms ("I Chomsky'd that post"). Thirdly, there's a phonological limitation. To give a dull but illustrative example, when do you use a\an? You'll have to build a rule for that on top of your dictionary, but you'll need to include inter-dialect and inter-speaker variation (in fact, the same goes for all of the above). Dictionaries are great at what they do, and sometimes can be absorbed into computational processes in interesting ways, but it's just a small component of what you'll need to create a sentence checker! 

I can reproduce this on Debian jessie, which shows the characters as nothingness (as in your case, compare the white entry box in the top with the yellow in the bottom): 

Martinet's "double articulation of language": With phonemes we build morphemes, and with morphemes, words. I'd like to get a sense of how productive are these combinations: With only a few phonemes we can build more than X morphemes, and with those people have built more than Y words. It's easy to count phonemes, and languages seem to range from ~13 to ~112. "Words" (lexemes) are fuzzy things, but we can get an easy rough estimate from dictionaries (more than 150k in the OED). So from the first level to the third we jump 3 to 4 orders of magnitude. But what about morphemes? What's a typical number of morphemes in a speaker's lexicon? (I'm not sure if we can use Chinese characters as a good representation of the set of morphemes, but if so it would suggest the low ten-thousands…) 

3 wo pa na-si 4 na wo kite 5 tuma pa na-si. 1 Being a woman [as I am], 2 excluding you, 3 [I can] have no other man; 4 excluding you, 5 [I can] have no other husband. 

This was surprising to everyone because people to the east of Ibi (in Gifu and Aichi) used Kyoto-style grammar and vocab; before Hattori's research, people thought they spoke "Western (Kyoto-style) Japanese". To put it another way, if you come from Tokyo you'll find a mixed "buffer zone" east of Ibi where the pitch is still Eastern (Tokyo) style, but word choice and inflections are already Western-style. Hattori explained this as follows. In modern times Tokyo is the prestige, standard dialect, and it's easy to find Kyoto natives who adopt Tokyo-style words and grammar; however, they hardly ever manage to change their pitch accent. (One reason is that the "accent classes", i.e. the groups of words with the same melody, do not match between dialects; so that you can't predict how will the pitch change in the other dialect). To put it simply, pitch is more resistant to the standard. It's easy to imitate the rules of the prestige grammar, or to borrow the words of the standard lexicon; but it's hard to change the tones of every single word. And it so happens that, for most of Japanese history, the standard dialect was Kyoto, not Tokyo (i.e. the opposite of today). The fact that the Kyoto pitch falls neatly along the Ibi river must show that it spread up to this natural/cultural barrier, and stopped. The fact that the people east of the river have a Tokyo pitch shows that they must have been originally Tokyo-style speakers; they've managed to absorb Kyoto grammar and vocab, but couldn't absorb the pitch. These observations have inspired Robert Ramsey's bold theory of the history of Japanese pitch, which in turn has proved to be quite productive. (The picture above, a translation from Hattori's, is from the linked article.) 

When you ask '[i]s the 12th Basic Color Term (BCT) always light blue' I assume you're referring to work from Berlin and Kay's 1969 book "Basic Color Terms: Their Universality and Evolution" (U Cal Press). This book and subsequent work argued that languages acquire colours in a systematic order, so a language with only 2 terms would have a light/dark or warm/cold distinction, and then the next addition would be red, followed by green or yellow, then the other, then blue, etc. Although Berlin and Kay's work was a real innovation, it has not stood up to scrutiny over the years. Not only have Berlin and Kay relaxed their finding, but they've been challenged by others. Some of the better reads on this topic are: 

The first thing to do here is separate out a child's knowledge from their production. The most well known and regarded example of this comes from J. Berko and R. Brown (1960). "Psycholinguistic Research Methods". In P. Mussen. Handbook of Research methods in Child Development. New York: John Wiley. pp. 517–557. They give this example of a child interacting with an adult. The child has a toy fish and says /fis/, the adult then replicates the child's pronunciation and says 'is that your /fis/?' The child says 'no, it's my /fis/" (and is rather ticked off at the idiocy of the adult). When the adult finally asks if it is a /fish/ the child accepts the question. What this example shows is that even though children often produce incorrect forms at various stages of their development this doesn't mean that the child can't perceive the difference between what they are saying at the correct form. So even though it may sound like the child in the example you give is merging two forms it is very likely that they're aware of the difference and it will resolve when they've got their tongue around that tricky consonant cluster. 

I know WALS (World Atlas of Linguistic Typolology) www.wals.info has a chapter on the "Order of Adverbial Subordinator and Clause" $URL$ You could use this as a starting point because you know that all 660 languages in this survey cover a good area and genetic spread - and WALS almost always point you to a reference grammar. Might take some of the grunt-work out of your task!