My current employer is using Win 7 and Office 2007 and only updated from Win XP and Office 2003 as of last December. The problem is that Office 2007...well, SUCKS! I mean there are so many issues with that version of Office. The E-mail is ridiculously slow (e-mails get missed even when doing send and receives every minute). Excel is plain broken, since DDE opens everything in the same instance/window and makes it impossible to use the dual monitor setup I have. I cannot move the window without it being "un-full" sized. This is just a small portion of all of the problems with Office 2007. I mentioned to one of the IT managers that it sucks and if we could get Office 2013 or Office 365. He replied "most likely not considering it is not a pressing issue at the moment." So, my next step I thought is to ask my manager to see if I can use my own laptop and tablet to do my work on (I have a legit version of 2016) since their version of Office is just so darn frustrating and disrupts my workflow immensely. Should I ask to use my personal devices without being at the company for a relatively lengthy time or without a more managerial title? Or is there a way for me to get Office 2013/2016 via my work? Do any of you use personal devices for work? 

In our department we have an e-mail notification system setup where any employees' records which are raising issues get put into an e-mail and sent to me and my boss. We have another system for logging our notes and counseling info about those individuals that we talk to. The problem is that my manager does not use the system nor does he reply to the e-mails saying "Handled", "I got this one", etc. I have to use the systems implemented, but he chooses not to. This causes two big problems: 

The best way to avoid appearing unprofessional in documentation is too keep things strictly to the facts and true information of the situation. Avoid editorial phrases such as "I think...", "I felt...", "In my opinion...", etc. Indirect editorials should be avoided too; these are phrases such as "The worst [incident] was ...", "Even better...", "Interestingly [enough],...". These phrases prioritize or compare other notes and do so without using evidence/facts. Editorializing can make you appear over emotional (something you will have to combat, sadly). A good method for your situation would be to state all the facts with minimal (i.e. none) editorials. At the end of the documentation of the incident(s) you can state the following which serves a summary and place to express your emotional perspective. This approach lends your emotional perspective to the situation without coloring the documentation. 

Managers, executives, and even shareholder(s)/owner(s) (country specific laws come into effect here) can view an entire employee's file if they so desire. Keep in mind these instances are documented (i.e. A manager, Bob, viewed an employee's file, Joe.) These individuals are allowed to access this information as it pertains to their role in the company and job duties. Managers have the right to see why their employees quit for many reasons (lack of good pay, lack of good benefits, workload issues, personal/family issues, managerial issues, advancement/career points, etc.) all of which provide valuable insight into how a department and the company is doing. This data often gives managers the information they need to convince superiors to change things so retention rates increase for example. They also need to be aware of the termination reason(s), at the time of termination, to prevent them from coming up for dispute later on down the road if you ever reapply at the company, sue the company, the company gets audited, etc. HR plays many key roles in a company, and while they must protect information from many people, they must also utilize the information within the business by giving managers the tools to properly do their jobs and keep departments running smoothly. If you are concerned your rights have been violated then I would recommend that you consult an attorney with HR, labor, HIPPA, and management compliance expertise. 

Previous Team Lead left Team Manager has conflicting goals and objectives Team Manager is creating distress and a toxic work environment Junior Member of the team is not performing well Junior Member of the team is lying, not communicating, and shuffling work around Other team members are not interacting much on the broad scope level (analyst seems to just go with the flow of you as you do know the language and development. The tester is just doing what he/she thinks is the best and not causing trouble). 

Correct & Worth It: the edit was justified and needed. Thank him and move on. Incorrect & Wasted Time: The best approach here is to turn to team work and deflect the issue and focusing on developing your management relationship by saying 

Once either of those outcomes happen, I would consult the HR Director, or equivalent, and note that such a request was made and provide any documentation you have about the request. This way there is a record made to the legal representatives of the company for future questions or incidents. You can then submit a separate letter, or speak to the HR person directly, about your stance on the request and why, if, how, etc. it should have been/or be handled in the future (if you so desire). This way, you have written documentation of the request and your due diligence in contacting the appropriate parties at the company if push comes to shove later on. With this, you could say that you did everything a reasonable person would have done in the same or similar circumstances and had no reason to believe the request was out of the ordinary/required further attention after consulting HR/Legal on the matter. Disclaimer: This is NOT legal advice or any substitute thereof. Consult a professionally qualified attorney for actual legal advice. I take no responsibility for any results you may or may not incur because of my advice. Best of luck with this issue. 

These are just some key things to consider when making this role and discussing it with the various managers. Never be afraid to get input on this position as it could affect or have the chance to affect more or less than initially thought. Know that it might not be as extensive as I outlined above (i.e. fancy title not much more), there may not be as much management/executive interactions/benefits as noted. Know your own limits if the position gets to be something that extends beyond your skill set (there might be the need to create lower level assistant positions to manage the responsibilities and duties). Important to consider too is the fact that a lot of responsibilities for success could be placed upon your shoulders (if the position is managerial/executive level) and the CEO will want results not excuses. Can you handle stress, pressure, and failure? Be wise and carefully consider this yourself and with your family too. Do extensive research and reading into similar roles and job titles and ask questions to individuals in your company, friends, etc. that might be able to offer some insight. This is why these things are carefully planned out by HR professionals. Remember to include specifics in the job description as well such as salary, specific perks, location of the office, travel percentage, physical demands, boiler plate language, etc. Best of luck :)