The first known "Political Parties" or "factions" as they were first termed that I am aware of were noted during the ratfication of the US Constitution. "Federalist" Party members were pro Constitution and "anti-Federalist" were against...and this was noted with some alarm during the ratification process as "office seeking" was seen as ungentlemanly. In other words one should asked first before one "becomes President" for example. Alexander Hamilton is the first and only proponent of "ambition" as the pre-requisite for Governing...meaning "do not ask but take." He actually wanted George Washington to be elected President for life in his only appearance before the Constitutional Committee meeting...in secret interestingly...in Philadelphia in 1789. This idea was never considered...but certainly Hamilton's "men of ambition" future was born out...and with it poltical parties. 

Agree with the comments above concerning such a thing as "Scientific reasoning." There is such a thing as the Age of Reason (circa the late 19th Century) where many of us Westerners thought we had conquered ideas such as War, famine, etc through the use of "Reason" (use of evidence to advance an argument or create a greater bounty for all of humanity as two examples.) Philosophy is never to be bound by what I think they would term "such externalities." Logic is even worse sadly. Of course what is a "reasonable amount of money" is always an interesting point of inquiry.... 

We are all born weak so I'm unclear about the question other than to say "by protecting the weak"(our children) "we are becoming strong." (a family, a community, a society, a Nation.) Killing children as a policy is usually frowned upon...but certainly "blotting out bloodlines" is quite replete in History...so one answer might be "they're an easy kill." Not all pups all welcome in the litter. 

The scientific method is very rigourous. It begins in my view with an expectational proof ("no matter in nature can either be created or destroyed") and then proceeds to prove said hypothesis using carefully calibrated instruments and techniques the absolute truth of the hypothesis. In order to secure validity it must be repeatable as well. It is the aposite of "statisical theory" which while critical in an engineering faculty is a dangerous foil when working with items of tremendous volatility or uncertain properties. Controls not just to prove the hypothesis are critical but also to keep the "scientists" from being harmed. For a textbook example read or Google "tickling the Dragon's Tail." 

Start going about town ranting and raving like a lunatic while declaiming all authority and you''ll be fine. 

Summations in math are completely true irregardless of "time" so the question itself has no meaning. Yes there is "time" but like gravity "it exists but doesn't mean all that much" until you start talking vast distances (say between Planets.) Yes, "time mattered" when your average speed of travel was at best 4mph across rough terrain going from say Philadelphia to Boston. But once you fly an SR-71 from LA to New York in 45 minutes time really doesn't matter all that much. It mattered a lot in the Railroad business as you didn't want two trains travelling on the same tracks in opposite directions "at the same time." But "speed of travel" (time) has been solved by aircraft. Our "modern age" is very much defined by "being put in a hurry" though which perhaps can be explained by the difficult distances "travel" encountered in North America when going by land to anywhere. ("Time is money.") This was never really true in Great Britain or Germany though as the terrain, distances and History favored those "with all the time in the World." Americans were in a hurry...there was gold in California and silver in Nevada. "To get it you had to get there...and fast" apparently... 

The above is a 4D object represented on 2D. Quite the loss of visual information here. A 3D holographic projection could offer way more clues as to how a hypercube may look like. In that case. you would a 4D object represented on 3D. Much more visual info to get from that. But what humans lack in this case is the initial image of how the 4D hypercube looks in 4D. Due to that, there is no end point for the extrapolation to work, so in most cases humans will not be able to extrapolate at all a 4D object. 

One does not have to agree to a conclusion if he agrees to all the facts leading to it. Example: you can have 5 symptoms and a nurse can maybe formulate a diagnostic bases on that. But the doctor with many years of experience may independently check that all 5 symptoms exists and manifest as described by the nurse but he may set a totally different diagnostic. Hegel himself admitted that his dialectical method was part of a philosophical tradition dating back to Plato but he criticized Plato’s version of dialectics. Hegel argued that Plato’s dialectics deals only with limited philosophical claims and is unable to get beyond skepticism or nothingness. According to the logic of a classic reduction to absurd argument, if the premises of an argument lead to a contradiction, we must conclude that the premises are false. That leaves us with practically nothing. In turn, Karl Marx presented his own dialectic method, which he claims to be a direct opposite of Hegel's method. Direct quote from Marx in the paper "Afterword": 

I think this is not about randomness vs objectiveness but rather randomness vs nothing being actually random. Objectivity has it's own opposite: relativity. Because of relativity we have big problems determining what's what, therefore objectivity is recommended specially when dealing with advanced physics, universal laws and such things. 1+1 will always equal 2 only if the correct rules are applied, just as the author said. Otherwise, 1+1 = 2 is not true. As a rule-based example: 1+1 = 10 if the base rule is that we deal with a binary system. To discover if there is any true randomness somewhere in the Universe may not be that easy. For example anything natural is related to Golden Ratio and/or Fibonacci, so there's nothing random in living organisms or plants (not even at DNA level). Going from DNA level and atoms to a very large scale like galaxies, we will notice that even the stars have a non-random arrangement in galaxies. So from an Universal point of view, the vote goes against randomness (note: not to be confused with chaos). That being said, what's left to do is try to generate our own synthetic randomness, just to prove that it can be done. But in this situation, we may find that this isn't easy either. In the case of computers, it's well known that numbers generated using them aren't genuinely random. Any piece of software needs some kind of unpredictable physical input to be able to generate from there. But what about humans ? Well, most of the choices they make are based on something quite pre-determined so we don't get much randomness from there. but as we trick the computer giving it physical input, we could find a way to bypass the human pre-determined concepts so we get something random out of it. Let's design a situation. We have the drawing of a cube. Any sane mature human should understand that those lines drawn in 2D are the representation of a 3D cube. But the orientation of the cube cannot be determined from the 2D drawing, so each human would have to pick a way he thinks the cube orientation is. 

"Simultaneity" happens all the time (so to speak.) For example a "fortuitous" encounter is the chance meeting of someone expected to meet in the future that does in fact happen but not according to any plan or "foresight." There is also "spontaneity" where you are "acting" in present time but not really "knowing" where you are going with whatever it is you're thinking or are uncertain as to the outcome. There is also the idea of "serendipity"... a chance meeting that seems to assure one's "future" for all time. These and many other "facts of living" prove that while presentism existsit is only a construct of the mind and not in fact how we as humans nor any other sentient being in fact exists. Birds build nests, whales sing songs...all with a "future purpose" in mind (having shelter, getting food, etc) Humans are unique in explicitly doing away with time in order to discover "truths" however. The technical term I believe is called "instinct" or in sports "being in the zone" where you are not conscious of time when "acting." For example we have yet to discover any other living organism that attempts to build something like a Cathedral...which we know will require generations or "not in our time" to be completed. This is a unique form of "presentism" as it requires a type of plan that can be understood in the here and now AND in the future thus implying some type of "Master Plan" or "destiny." Of course if I take a well worn footpath and turn it into a road and then some type of highway or "interchange" this might seem to imply some greater intelligence on my part but in reality I'm just trodding the same path and merely expanding (or expounding) on the possibilities should I consider more doing the same. This "more of the same" is neither in the present nor having to do with "simultaneity" but simply projecting out "into the future" what is merely observed. Technically speaking such "thinking" is false as if everything is "just a roll of the dice" the "odds" are still the same...namely the number is the number observed not the odds of said number "going to be observed." One could argue and be right however if the dice are rolled and two sixes appear every time that "there is a problem with the dice." As Einstein famously said "God does not play dice with the Planets." 

There seems to be a moral sensibility presented by the author through the use of the term "promise." Since a promise is something that will happen in the future I think the author needs to use a more accurate term. Kant wanted to "rebalance" truth since there is no duty to tell it and indeed an infinite number of reasons not to (to protect your buddies on the battlefield for example.) So how do we achieve our HIGHER calling of "informing on the matter accurately"? Obviously Kant is quite strict on this matter as he sees (correctly) the need for not just the truth but for the truth to " get to the top."(Fog of War for example...or perhaps informational disadvantage in the current context.) So the "residue" does indeed become a contradiction because me and my "posse" are probably going to have to lie to survive in this thing called life...but I still owe my Tribal Chief something too otherwise I might not even have my posse without my Chief. That's my take on the "categorical imperative" as presented here namely "more than a promise." Is it a duty? The author does not elaborate sadly. 

One approached used by Justice of the US Supreme Court William O Douglas was "the sidebar" whereby a "defendant" would be allowed to approach the Bench first requiring the appellation "if it pleases the Court may I approach the Bench?" whereupon the Judge having agreed to said request you may discuss the matter at hand "in secret." Quite remarkable how much objective truth can be realized from that "deceptively simple" methodology actually.