Targeting You didn't say how much of the planet the Eel-Men were using, so I'll assume that they have densely populated cities and large uninhabited areas. There are lots of economics reasons why this would be expected. So, the first order of business is to figure out what needs to be destroyed, and what can/should be preserved. I presume the Eel-Men do not have enough resources to effectively patrol every cubic km of their ocean, and that defenses are concentrated around valuable targets. The interesting question is whether the Eel-Men leadership would put anti-orbital weapons on land to deny the use of land to the Lizard-Men, or if they would cede the land to concentrate on their precious underwater holdings. Invasion Land-based defenses would be susceptible to orbital bombardment, so I assume that the Eel-Men would not bother. In this case, the Lizard-Men should try to establish a beach-head literally on the beach, but approached from space, rather than the water, because in this world, the sea is more dangerous than the air. Of course, this already presents a huge problem for the Eel-Men, because logistics is now much, much easier for the Lizard Marines. Instead of dropping a huge infantry force and suffering massive casualties, they can just drop AA batteries over the centers of continents, which should be the least defended, and transport them to the edges of the continents, where they can interdict any missiles launched from underwater. This should make it much more effective to drop troops and supplies. In this manner, they can achieve air/space superiority over continents with a fairly low casualty rate. Denial The Lizard-Men can now use their orbital/air superiority to eliminate Eel-Man observation stations above water. Now the Eel-Men don't even know where the Lizard-Men are massing to attack and lack early warning until they approach the water. Of course, the Lizard-Men would use props and disinformation tactics to make it look like they were gathering near one juicy target while actually massing towards another one. This would force the Eel-Men to spread their forces thin to defend all vulnerable cities, or to commit a strong defense to the most likely target(s). The Lizard-Men get to shape the battle space to their advantage. The one benefit the Eel-Men do have is that they can lightly defend the cities furthest towards the center of the ocean, and gather forces mostly around the continents (you didn't mention whether the Eel-Men liked all depths, or preferred to live on the continental shelves). Attack Finally, the Lizard-Men attack one or more high value targets (ideally the ones which would most demoralize the defending army to force an early surrender). They would use a diversionary force to draw Eel-Men to the wrong location, and then strike the actual targets if the Eel-Men take the bait. The real risk here is that once the Lizard-Men go underwater, they are at an immediate disadvantage. Their entire war machine is likely optimized for land warfare, since that is how they evolved. They would need to spend years training underwater before launching the invasion strike so that they will be prepared. Even so, the further underwater they go, the more risk they assume. Operating at 30m depth would be difficult and risky, but usually survivable. If the Eel-Men can dive to, say, 1000m, and that is where their cities are, then the Lizard-Men must always operate in submarines once they attack, and the Eel-Men only need to compromise their hulls to defeat them. Tactics Obviously, torpedoes will be the most effective stand-off weapon, and the Lizard-Men would be well-advised to employ them liberally. Fielding big ships themselves would be needlessly expensive for the Eel-Men, as their best tactic would be swarming. Torpedoes are effective against large, slow-moving ships, but pretty useless against a swarm of 100 nearly-naked Eel-Men swimming at high speed and armed with attachable mines. A torpedo requires a fairly large boat to carry it, so Lizard-Men will need decent-size submarines to bring the heavy firepower to the Eel-Man cities. Essentially, torpedoes are the only effective artillery the Lizard-Men can bring to bear on their underwater enemies, so large submarines are unavoidable. The threat of swarming swimmers means that they will also need point defense, which could be harpoon guns on turrets. However, this will become very expensive very quickly. Even if the harpoons are very small, the subs will not be able to carry an indefinite supply of them, and the Eel-Men can approach from literally every direction. Trying to defend an entire sphere of space at range is extremely difficult. If the effective range of the harpoons/fletchettes is only a dozen meters or so, then they will need many turrets all over the sub just to deal with swarmers. Of course, they can also eject depth charges to deal with un-armored swimmers, but again, there are only so many they can carry. The Eel-Men can also bring ships to the fight, and they can quite effectively force the Lizard-men to fire their counter-measures with mass torpedoes. In fact, they don't even need to all be live. They can use mostly fake torpedoes to force defensive action, because the Lizard-Men will not be able to tell which are real and which are duds. Thus, the Eel-Men can clear the way for the swimmers, which then just swim up to the subs and plant charges, and swim away. They will take casualties, for sure, but they can make the fight very expensive for the Lizard-Men, who have to build the subs from scratch on land, while the Eel-Men have been building war machines for decades. In fact, the Eel-Men may simply have leviathan ships which are massive torpedo boats which can overwhelm an entire squadron of Lizard subs' countermeasures. Surely the Eel-Men will have fought each other over sea floor and natural resources, so they should have this technology already. The ocean is a very inhospitable terrain for the Lizard-Men. Although depth charges are quite damaging to unprotected swimmers, they are just as damaging if not more so to a sub operating near its maximum depth. If the Lizard-Men are required to dive 1000, 2000, 3000m to take key Eel-Man cities, then surely their subs will be vulnerable to even the slightest local overpressure caused by a detonating torpedo. This is like the effect where you can stand on an empty aluminum can, but if you just tap the side very lightly, it instantly collapses. Eel-Man torpedo barrages don't even need to hit the Lizard-Man subs. They just need to create enough shock wave near the subs to compromise their hull integrity. The weight of a 2000m water column will squish the subs like tin cans. This means that Lizard-Men will have to interdict all torpedoes at stand-off range, which seems nearly impossible. The lethal effective radius for an Eel-Man torpedo might be 100m or more, just because of overpressure deformation. Trying to keep all torpedoes outside a 100m sphere of a Lizard-Man sub might just be impossible at their level of technology. Conclusion I think the only ways the Lizard-Men can triumph are: 

There seems to be a couple issues you've asked about: How can the virus spread into a full blown apocalypse, and how can virus zombies survive for long durations in the elements. Spread Spread is the easy problem to solve: give the zombie-ness as the last symptom of the disease....one that doesn't occur until after the person has been infectious for some time (days? weeks? months? you decide. Longer the period the more dangerous strangers are in your world). The virus itself is interested, biologically, in spreading as much as possible. It could have evolved as a "slow burner" that starts off as a relatively mundane infection, perhaps causing higher blood pressure or some other small symptoms. As the disease progresses, it changes the bloodchemistry, causing heightened "fight or flight" responses to other living things. Simultaneously, absent of these stimuli, the bloodchemistry slows the metabolism. Add in some brain lesions in certain areas, and the person will see every living thing as "food" even if they retain some of their critical thinking skills (much like animals that are infected with parasites retain their abilities to move, but lose inhibitions that keep them from being eaten). Eventually this goes full blown zombie, viciously attacking any "meat" that comes near. The virus spreads from any fluids and tissue of the creature, and could even be airborne if you wanted. The complications of a water or airborne virus would be difficult to handle indeed. Survival If the body is kept more or less intact, and can be fed (by the zombie viciously attacking any "meat" that comes near), then it should be able to survive for some time. This can be enhanced by lowering the metabolism of the organism for some time, until spiking it with adrenaline in response to stimuli (there are instances of snakes spending many years sealed in wine bottles that wake up and attack the opener of the bottle. Obviously, we aren't reptiles, but bears hiberate, spending months not eating). In terms of infection, the virus itself could provide safety there. Perhaps this virus enhances the immune system of the host to fight off infections, or attacks bacteria itself. You'd still get the "dirty zombie" look, you'd just not get the "rotten zombie" look. Add in biochemical changes that improve the body's response to trauma (enhanced swelling to reduce blood loss, or smarter clotting to seal wounds relatively quick, or both). Exposure might cause some issues, but there's no reason the biochemistry changes that affect the fight or flight response and metabolism can't also introduce some form of resistance to frostbite or heat stroke. You're already going to be lowering body temp by "hiberating" when stimuli are absent. 

Food Since the majority of life sustains itself by eating other life, and that this action is destructive to the creature(s) being eaten, it follows that creatures in your universe will not eat each other. Thus, they must create all of the building blocks necessary to grow from scratch. Note, however, that they do not need to engage in maintenance, because that would imply that a sufficient lack of repair might result in death. The main problem with this world is that life is a kind of "creative force", but one which is balanced against the "destructive force" of death. More importantly, it is very likely that death is not, in fact, a necessary outcome of living beings in our universe. Rather, death occurs because it is optimal for life. That is, creatures grow old and die so that nature can start over with something potentially better in each generation. This allows the creatures to adapt over time. Growth In your universe, adaptation is not necessary, because nothing can kill life. Thus, life will compete on the only thing that it can: resources to grow. Living things will figure out how to convert non-living matter into living matter at an increasing rate, and this will be the only form of evolution, except for composition. Composition means not just eating another creature, but hosting it symbiotically. For instance, one creature might be able to consume nitrogen easily, while another might be able to incorporate carbon. Working separately, they will only grow quickly in environments rich in their native resource. But as a hybrid, they will grow in both environments. Thus, life will also coalesce into bigger and bigger creatures, because this is one of the most effective ways to increase resource consumption. Outcome Eventually, life will send itself out into the stars, consume all of the inert matter into life, and burn out the universe by consuming every last matter and energy store. By then, it will likely be a giant conglomerate of initial creatures--a kind of biological Unicron eating the universe. Then the universe will die, because this creature is all that will be left. This is the biological counterpoint to a runaway strong AI turning the universe into Computronium. This could make for an interesting story, but the inevitability of the outcome will remove all suspense for anyone who deduces the rules. 

There are some issues with this, but let's handwave the deadliness part for now (we'll get there). The first issues you need to deal with is spread: If knowledge of the joke can only be gained by reading or hearing it, then everyone who hears or reads it will die from the lethal joke. In theory, it cannot be written down in the first place, because the writer would need full knowledge of the joke, and thus die before finishing writing the joke. This, naturally, assumes everyone is equally vulnerable to the joke. Let's assume now that some percentage of the population is immune to the joke. Perhaps they don't have some underlying condition, or they just don't have a sense of humor. Now, we do have a mechanism for which the joke could be distributed throughout the world. By these people intentionally telling the joke (there's some issues here in that if the person did not find the joke funny, or realized it would kill people, they would not necessarily spread the joke). Your joke is basically a virulent disease. If it is too virulent, then people will die before spreading it, but if it isn't virulent enough, you don't get your desired effect (a deadly joke). It's possible the joke is a "thinker" and takes some time to be funny enough to be deadly. Perhaps enough that you will, after being "infected," tell it to others, before it kills you. It is also possible to have people "immune" to the joke, who will never get it, but may continue to spread it throughout the world. In terms of plausibility, I'm going to go with no, for many reasons. First, it takes some severe underlying conditions to die from laughter. It's possible something in the joke is so obsessing you forget to eat or drink, but the body really tries hard to live, and overriding these urges takes a lot. The most promising route (and easiest to hand-wave) is that the joke sets up some kind of dissonance in the subconscious, and when the person sleeps, they literally scare themselves to death by some nightmare. You could, in theory, also have a logic trap that locks up the brain, but you'd have to get beyond the brain's natural Paradox Absorbing Crumple Zones. 

If You Want Him To The best chance of winning is not to have a neural network for marathon running, per se, but rather one that understands human biology at an unprecedented level. For instance, if the NN understood the proteomics of PJ's body at a fine-grained level, as well as his microbiome and the methylation patterns of his DNA, it may be able to tailor a program which alters all of these in ways which current humans cannot even conceive. Genes Aren't All That... Everyone is hung up on having the perfect DNA, but the biggest surprise of the Human Genome Project is how few genes we have, and how little genetic variation we have. The reality is that genes get turned on and off all the time, as part of regular processes, or in response to environmental conditions. A gene can become enabled/disabled long-term (say, over several generations) via DNA methylation. The pattern of methylation forms what we call epigenetics. ...But They Are! Now, if humans have so few genes, where does all the complexity of human biology come from? Well, it turns out that humans are mostly alien. Only 10% of your cells have a genetic pattern which can be recognized as "you". The rest? Parasites and symbiotes (hopefully mostly the latter), primarily in your gut: your microbiome. Only 1% of the genes floating around the fluid bag which is you are "your genes". Part of the reason we are the ultimate chemical factories, transforming everything from plants to animals into energy and building materials is that we are host to thousands and millions of highly specialized chemical processors. And what we feed those microbes changes their relative balance. Conclusion So, while you pretty much cannot change your human genes, you can affect the methylation patterns, which can affect all kinds of internal body systems. And you can definitely change your microbiome, to the extent of wiping it out almost entirely and starting from scratch (which is what strong antibiotics and diarrhea do, basically). If your NN can then use these tools to remake PJ into a super-runner, I personally wouldn't question it too much. Oh, and there's the boring things like using the NN to create the perfect stride form for PJ's biomechanics. But everyone probably believes that is easy, more or less. What might be more interesting is if it also taught him how to alter the stride during the course of the race as his hydration level and other dynamic factors change his weight balance. For instance, there can likely be fine-tuning when climbing and descending hills, taking sharp turns, etc. Or, it is even possible that he can shift which muscles are used in order to rest some of them during the race by altering his stride, though I have no idea if that is a net benefit or not (think lactic acid buildup, etc.). 

I have a world where there are two groups of people on an island: The Colonists and the Cave People. In true colonial fashion, the Colonists have frequently fought the Cave People, and there's some disparity in technology. I'm very interested in Cargo Cults and what differentiates a culture's beliefs that something strange and new is a simple expansion on existing technology and that it is magic. The Colonists Technology level is Medieval after the initial introduction of gunpowder. Gunpowder weapons are rare in the Colonial homeland, and few, if any, are present on the island. They have previously had some gunpowder weapons on the island during one of the Cave People uprisings, but it is a rare event. The center of their culture is a religious cult devoted to moon worship. Their clergy are often seen performing various rituals that have no true effect on the world. The Colonists have a moderate belief in this religion, but only the clergy are true devotees to it and believe it all. The Colonists are superstitious, with a variety of good luck charms and ways of warding off "evil." This is more common among their soldiers, who face life and death more regularly than the common people. On the island, the Colonists are largely farmers, with few heavy industries or mining. Most of what they need manufactured is imported from their homeland. They have access to Steel in abundance, and most of their tools and weapons are made of steel where appropriate. They see the Cave People as pagans that need to be converted to the true religion or killed. The Cave People The cave people are a lower technology group. They can forge basic metals, but the effort required is often too much to warrant their use in weapons. Typically metal is used in jewelry or for religious purposes. The common weapons they use are blades made of obsidian (which is plentiful) and armor and shields made of animal hide (the type and thickness of the hide is a symbol of rank). Their religion is shamanistic, and tied heavily to the land. They worship the Sun as the divine spark for their life and believe their spirits ascend to join the sun in the afterlife (to the point that they believe if they go outside during the day their spirit will rush from their body to join the sun). This religion incorporates ancestor worship as well. Their culture is heavily tied into verbal folklore and stories. In order to be considered an adult, a variety of trials must be undertaken, including the perfect recitation of the clan's history. They take pride in their ancestors, and the honorific X son of Y son of Z of Clan W is a common way of greeting a visitor. Their society is broken up into a dozen or so clans, and only in rare occasions do they cooperate (often warring among each other, making things easy for the Colonists to establish their foothold). When they act together, they are a fierce opponent, having nearly removed the Colonist foothold twice in four wars. It usually takes one charismatic individual to unite the clans into one body (there have been four such leaders since the Colonists have come). They are just as intelligent as the Colonists, but less technologically advanced. They have, in the past, used captured weapons against the Colonists (often afterwards they are enshrined as relics of some hero or the other's conquests). They believe in rituals and magic to make their weapons and shields strong, and have oracles who consult the flames for advice and augeries. They see the Colonists as evil worshipers of the vile moon, which is a pale imitation of their holy sun. The Conflict The two sides have been in conflict for eighty years. The Colonists have cornered the Cave People twice, and the Cave People have nearly wiped out the Colonist's presence twice. At the moment they are at a standoff, with each side controlling roughly half of the island (though more and more Colonist farmers are pushing into Cave People territory). There is no formal treaty or diplomatic relationship between them. One of the wars that almost ended in the Cave People's favor was halted by their leader (who was unbeaten in combat) being killed by a bullet wound. What sort of things would the Cave People see as the Colonists performing magic? I've isolated that any gunpowder weapons would likely be seen that way, but I'm stuck at what else they would consider magic and try to counter with their own magic or try to replicate (like a cargo cult). 

Overview A: Very hard! But not impossible... You can use a magnet to make electricity, and you can use electricity to make a magnet, but you always need one to make the other! Obviously, an electromagnet is out of the question, since electricity is the resource you are trying to obtain. And we agreed that naturally occurring magnets are very difficult to come by. So you are left trying to create a permanent magnet from scratch. Process If you have basic metallurgy available, you can heat an iron rod and expose it to a magnetic field. You might as well use earth's magnetic field, since it's "free", but it also helps if you have any other magnet at all, including a weak lodestone (or any magnets in your laptop! like the one in Mac power plugs ;). With sufficient practice, it should be possible to make stronger magnet than you started with (the heat frees the magnetic domains to be re-oriented, and any induced magnetic field will orient them in the same direction, statistically speaking). You can also use impact force from a hammer to free the domains, but this is probably much less effective than direct heating. Cool the heated rod, and the new domains will be "frozen" in place. You now have a new permanent magnet. Get another rod, do the same thing, but now use your more powerful newly created magnet to induce a stronger magnetic field in the new rod, and you should be able to make a magnet as powerful as this technology allows. The limit would be how many magnetic domains you can liberate in the heating process, and how many you can orient using the induced magnetic field. The more magnets you have, the stronger a field you can induce in any newly created magnet. Conclusion Even with no permanent magnet at all, you can still create one with just iron and a fire hot enough to liberate the magnetic domains within. This is because we live on top of a giant dynamo which conveniently provides a life-saving magnetic field. Without it, you would be reduced to bootstrapping the process with an electromagnet, which might be possible using static electricity, but would surely be very painfully tedious to construct. 

The time period of the story would depend on the exact mechanics, but in general you could have the devil be in the details, or rather the meta-data. Basically, even though your immortal changed reality around him, he failed to change something, or some butterfly effect belies his existence. Let me go into a technical example. Say I have a database with a table, and it has records in it numbered 1-100. Looking at the table one day, I notice that there's no record 73. There should be a number 73, but it is missing. I have no way of immediately knowing what record 73 should be, but I know it is missing. This inspires me to dig deeper, add logging to the database so I can figure out what happens in the future, and so on. Sometime in the future I have another missing record, say record 97. Looking at my new logging, I see that none of my processes or jobs deleted that record, which deepens the mystery and so on and so forth. In the real world, perhaps there's some meta-record of the event. In more modern times, perhaps a recording exists of what was said, or an image or video exists of someone talking to a mysterious figure that nobody remembers. Maybe in a more ancient timeframe, it is a painting or a sketch. Maybe some tailor starts making clothing that looks a lot like your immortal's. Maybe men start wearing their beards in his style, or women start putting their hair in her style. There's a lot of little subconscious things that could be triggered, even if all memory gets removed. There's a really cool phenomenon that you might want to play with called Collective False Memory or the Mandela Effect. Basically, a group of people all believe the same, false event to be true (for example the widespread belief that Nelson Mandela died in the 1980s, even though he didn't die until 2013). These collective memories could be the result of your immortal rewriting reality, perhaps some people are sensitive to it, or something else happens that causes them to believe the "real" timeline over the new one. I will say allowing your immortal to actually rewrite reality makes this more complicated. In theory, rewriting reality means the event never really did happen (which would also mean the idea was never given to the individual he talked to). Altering memories is far "easier" to do in a narrative context. 

Peat. Peat is a precursor to coal, and a valuable fuel source in its own right. Prehistoric people may have fought over it for this reason alone. 

A conglomerate of Private Military Corporations (PMCs) defeats ISIS/its descendants. The Setup Donald Trump gets elected in 2016, and with Congress, passes laws alienating most of the Muslims in the US and most Western nations. France, the UK, and several other major nations follow suit. ISIS ranks swell, and terrorism flourishes around the globe. Voters demand action, but are unwilling to send their sons and daughters to fight and die in the Middle East. Meanwhile, PMCs like Blackwater/Academi win bigger and bigger contracts for providing security in these increasingly dangerous areas. The Event ISIS decides that to instigate the apocalyptic battle it fervently desires, it must target the heart of Capitalism. It organizes sleeper cells to kill family members of major corporations, including Facebook, Apple, Google, and Microsoft. Mark Zuckerberg's wife and child are gunned down by agents who have pledged loyalty to ISIS, and Zuckerberg himself vows revenge. He buys Academi in a trade executed entirely with shares from his charitable LLC, and nobody in the media raises a finger in protest. Marissa Meyer's young child is also murdered by ISIS, and she convinces others with a similar plight to also buy out the largest PMCs. Veterans from former wars swarm to sign up with the PMCs, who are now flush with cash and offering large recruiting bonuses. Even though the world gov'ts are hamstrung by electorates unwilling to send their militaries into the fight, the PMCs have both the freedom and the economic power to do so by themselves. Zuckerberg forms an alliance with Larry Page, Nadella, Tim Cook, and Mayer to send in a combined force to wipe out ISIS once and for all. Jeff Bezos offers to help with militarized drones converted from his delivery network. Fighters come from Somalia, Kenya, Burma, Malaysia, Albania...every conflict zone from the last 3 decades, all in search of money and glory. NATO and Russia at least offer air power to neutralize the biggest threats, but their commanders are otherwise forced to look on as the PMCs engage in the biggest fight of the decade. From their war room in Silicon Valley, the tech giants of the world unleash the biggest volley of privately controlled weaponry in history. After a bloody but quick battle, ISIS is not just defeated, and demoralized, but eradicated. Many of the mercenaries commit war crimes against ISIS fighters in a brutal display of bloodlust and revenge, but there are no calls for ICC tribunals, as Apple's production team pushes propaganda videos around the clock showing the innocents being slaughtered by ISIS in the initial strike. The Aftermath Now that private corporations have formed a huge fighting force, it becomes apparent that they actually have the largest military in the world, outranking even the US and China. And, fueled by the righteous anger of victimhood and revenge, Zuckerberg and friends promise to protect the world from any menace that may arise, anywhere, at any time. Bezos and Elon Musk launch anti-satellite and ballistic penetrators using Falcon and Blue Origin rockets. Together, it is clear that the Corps now call the shots, and it really doesn't matter what any gov't has to say about their actions. Since they are initially viewed as the saviors of mankind, their actions are tolerated, at first...but power corrupts. Absolute power corrupts absolutely... Some elements of this can be seen in the latest Call of Duty game. 

The joins where the metal meets the gemstones would be a weak point, unless there was some technology in play to fuse the two materials into a seamless joint, or the setting of the gem was backed completely by metal. Most settings for gems are literally bands of metal tightly grasping the gemstone (or prongs of metal doing the same). If you damage or dent the metal around it, odds are the gemstone becomes dislodged or falls out and now you have a bigger vulnerability (unless there's sufficient metal behind the setting). In theory, emerald is harder than iron and steel (and the same hardness as hardened steel), but I think that the joining of the material is the weakness. If it was completely backed by metal of the same thickness as the rest of the armor, it shouldn't be a weakness (or not an easily exploited one). I think making armor in such a way that it wouldn't be weakened by adding gemstones would add a lot of additional weight to it, and probably make the form of it awkward.