The 22x635 is the rim telling you its own ISO designation, which is internal rim width x bead seat diameter in millimeters. The 28x1-1/2 in parentheses is an attempt to help make it a little bit clearer what tire goes on it, or maybe help out in the case of a tire, presumably an old one, that only has that size printed on it. (28x1-1/2 and similar numbers are nominal sizes, and they make tire sizing confusing in a number of ways.) Presuming your tire has an inflated width of around 40mm (say 37-43mm), and also presuming the valve type is correct, the tube you are looking at is the right one. I'm pretty sure virtually all 635mm tires are around that width. 

For insertion length, 72-80mm is the shorter end of what you see marked on seatposts, up to around 100mm. Seatpost length (leverage) and material are relevant factors there. In addition to what's safe for the post though, what's safe for the frame is also a part of this. The rule of thumb in most cases there is for at least the entire seat cluster to be well supported, including for example seatstays that are fastbacked into the seattube at points somewhat lower than the more normal area by the toptube intersect, although on some frames they go so low that one has to start assuming the designer knows there won't be post support down there. I would never go less than about 70mm, even if a need arose to cheat a little bit, and 72mm is a fairly common place I think for the mark to be on short (traditional length for non-sloping frames), high-end aluminum posts. For a folding bike though, with their very long, thick-walled posts and more arbitrary frame designs, I would say all bets are off in terms of rules of thumb and you want to just play it very safe with how much of the post is being supported by the frame and vice versa. I'm also surprised that there are really no markings, since there's always a safe limit. Rotary pipe cutters are capable of inadvertently flaring out the end of the tube slightly. It's not the end of the world because you can just file it down, but it is a nuisance. For this reason, hacksaws are generally a better choice for everything on bikes, where the exact outside diameter of the tube almost always matters somehow. The go-to approach usually is to use a normal threadless steerer cutting guide in a vise, but a 33.9mm post won't fit in one, so in a shop that would mean using an oversize guide. Barring access to a clamp-on guide you could improvise something with zip ties, hose clamps, etc to at least make it easier to keep the cut flush. The fast way to deburr and neatly taper the cut end is to use an internal/external tube deburring tool. I always gently sand the end face with a circular motion to erase the hacksaw marks, but I probably should stop. If you don't have any kind of specific deburring tool, you can make it acceptable with just sandpaper or a file. 

I've heard conflicting reports that demagnetizing drivetrain parts to prevent metallic debris sticking is a real thing I'm supposed to care about when servicing e-bikes, but I can't find anything written about it or any instructions on how to do it. I do know that some of the more bling systems such as Bosch and the Copenhagen Wheel have magnetic torque sensors that are sensitive to external magnetic fields so I imagine care has to be taken there if this is a thing. 

You need a stepped shift ferrule. You have no reasonable options if you're using compressionless shift housing. On the left is a picture of a 5mm to 4mm one, which Jagwire is the main remaining producer of. On the right is the Shimano 4mm one, which in my experience is the commonly encountered one for 4mm housing. There are Campy ones too, but I think they may only come in the Record cable sets - I don't cross paths with them very often and I kind of forget what they're like. Shops should have them. They're still readily available new in bulk and many shops will have all they need leftover from installing the various cable kits and STIs that come with them. I believe Dura Ace shift cable kits have always had them and at least some generations of boxed D/A STIs too. Googling "5-4mm stepped ferrule" and "4mm stepped ferrule" yields some results too. Note that there's another kind of stepped ferrule, for using 5mm compressionless brake housing on brakes and brifters that can't take a normal ferrule, which is not the kind you're looking for. The most common example of this is the Jagwire POP ferrule. 

It doesn't really work to ask or answer this question independent of rear cluster gear count, range, and chainring tooth difference. In particular, road compact vs standard front gap leads to totally different strategies with shifting. The more gears in back for a given cluster range, the less downside there is to just staying in the same chainring chosen based on the terrain you're in. The technically most optimal gear may still be on another ring, but there are efficiency and enjoyment downsides to doing all that back and forth shifting to stay on top of it. This effect has increased marginally with each speed generation. The greater the chainring gap, the more rear shifting you need to do if you insist on sequencing your gearing exactly. That's a big reason why compact really took off in the days of 10 speed and not 5 speed - with 5 speed rear ends you're priced in to doing that sequencing, but with 10 it matters a lot less. Also the greater the ring gap, the more gear values you're going to have back to back on the same ring at the extremes of the bike's gear range. For example, on 11-speed 34-50 11-25, the top 6 or so gears are all on the large ring and the bottom 4 or so are all on the small, so there's going to be a lot of the time where the most optimal sequencing involves no front shifting at all. Compare that to five-speed 42-52 13-25, where the only the top 1 or 2 and bottom 1 or 2 gears are on their respective chainrings. Again, you're then priced in to hunting around. If you want to master this topic, studying different setups in a gearing calculator like $URL$ is a good idea. 

You're doing it right but not getting enough leverage. That extractor has wrench flats to let you use an adjustable or open end wrench instead of an Allen if you want. The other thing is that when you install the extractor, it's a good practice to tighten it in snugly with a wrench, making sure the tip is threaded out sufficiently first to avoid contacting the spindle yet. This way you're doing all you can to avoid destroying the crank threads. 

There are two sides to this question, for the two places chains contact chainrings and cogs with force: the outer plates and the rollers. There is probably a grain of truth to the statement in question regarding the hardness of outer plates. Sometimes you do see chainring ramping get worn to the point of not performing as well as a result of the rider, usually a racer, habitually shifting under load. Every once in a while you see it somewhat in advance of the teeth being worn. I don't see why this effect wouldn't be exacerbated the harder the outer links are. (That being said, I'm not sure which if any chains, expensive or not, have outer links that are any harder than other ones, since you don't really gain anything by it, and I'll bet the writer has no data on this either.) For all the other parts of a chain - pin, roller, and inner link (or the bushing in the case of a traditional 5-piece chain) - you want it as hard as you can get it as long as the other mechanical properties (ductility being the big design counterbalance to hardness here I think) are what they need to be. That's how you get a chain that resists elongation the best and in turn keeps cogs and rings going longer, which is what most cyclists are interested in. So basically the statement is misleading.