I would reccomend against this. It only takes 10 seconds to hop on a bike and make off. Although some suggestions come to mind 

In short, you can't. I find turning my head to the side a bit reduces the noise a bit in one ear, but you can't do this all the time. A rear view cycle mirror may help you. 

One tip I have picked up to avoid cars passing so close is to ride further away from the kerb (but not so far you're hogging the road and then drivers get annoyed). This seems to have some pycological effect on drivers to give you more room. I can't explain it, but found it to work in most cases. I have also seen bikes with mirrors fitted and some sort of plastic distance keeper (a pole that sticks out with a reflector on, I would imagine this needs to break if a car hits it.) 

One for every removeable or adjustable part on your bike (including tyres). With the exception of those you will be unable to repair/fix on the trail, such has hubs and bottom brackets. They need not all be combined with one tool though (sometimes individual tools can be lighter) 

Just to point out: If shifting works bad it’s usually a problem with friction in the cables, bad adjustment, bent hanger or worn chain/cassette. Even a relatively cheap Tiagra group works flawlessly when properly installed and adjusted. I don’t see many options for a partial upgrade because the cassette-spacing has gotten narrower from 9-speed to 10-speed to 11-speed. So you can’t use 11 or 10-speed shifters with 9-speed cassettes or vice-versa. Anyways, you’d probably have to install new cables and re-adjust for every step so it doesn’t make much sense. 

So guessing from the figure they have something like 17mm width on the inside. A bit more than twice the (interior) width is usually okay for tires. So you could safely go up to ~35mm if your frame and brakes have enough clearance. You are probably considering the Schwalbe Racing Ralph, which are not bad, but if you have the money I’d recommend Michelin Mud2. 

First I’d like to point out that this shouldn’t happen on a modern, quality, properly set up derailleur drivetrain. If you are still searching for a permanent, (almost) completely trouble free solution you should probably get an internal gear hub or single speed. With a properly tensioned chain or a chain tensioner those last a long time without any issues and minimal maintenance requirements. The disadvantages of a single speed are obviously that you only have one gear. The disadvantages of an internal gear hub is a slightly reduced efficiency and reduced range of gears compared to a derailleur drivetrain. For example the cheap Shimano Nexus/Inter 8 only has 8 gears with a total range of 306%. So you can go from about 12.7km/h to 39km/h (at a cadence of 90rpm). Completely sufficient for a flat area, less so for a hilly/very windy area. Even the expensive Rohloff Speedhub only has 14 gears for a total range of 526% (you can go from approximately 9km/h to 50km/h). I don’t think you need exotic/expensive solutions such as a shaft drive or belt drive. They usually use internal gear hubs as well and a chain is not necessarily a bad thing. Internal gear hubs with chains are a proven product and often found on commuting and city bikes because of their reliability. 

Perhaps try for a used fork. For a decent new 29er fork you're looking at £250+ (I estimate thats around $300) (such as rockshox reba) - or go rigid. It's sureley better than a cheap fork. 

Bikepacking tends to be more lightweight and generally doesn't involve panniers or racks. Just look at the rigs used by tour divide riders ($URL$ If you think you need pannniers, then perhaps you are talking about touring rather than bikepacking. Bikepacking luggage will typically require one or more of the following: 

My free hub body has cracked and im looking to replace it. I have discovered it uses a 14mm hex key to remove. I cannot find a freehub body for sale that matches m785. Will a "m760-m765" body fit my "m785" hub? 

Sounds like you have only surface rust. The frame would have to rust through to cause any integrity problems and that would take many years of damp conditions. The creaking you hear when shifting your weight to the bars may be the headset. It may be worth getting it serviced. As its likely the grease has escaped/become clogged with dirt causing the creaking. It would be wise to check all the joints and welds for signs of fatigue or cracks. Ensure they are all solid. 

How did you break your rear derailleur hanger? If your bike fell on the rear derailleur most likey the derailleur itself will have some damage too. You could try replacing the hanger first and then have a look if you can adjust the rear derailleur correctly afterwards. If it won't shift correctly you will also need a new one and adjust it. In case you need a new one you should buy one thats suitable for the same amount of gears. 

It really depends which seal is installed in the Charger damper. Rock Shox started with a pretty simple o-ring setup to seal the damper from the lower body and the lubrication oil in there. This caused issues with the damper as some lubricating oil could find it's way inside the damper and cause the bladder to explode. I think at that point they decided to only put 5ml inside the lower leg of the damper side. The replaced the seal with a a blue skf seal which is better and I think allowed 10ml afterwards. If your lower seal of the charger cartridge is not blue you should fill in only 5ml. If it is blue you can use more than that. In any case if you use too much it will add some progression to your fork and can cause other seals to blow due to the higher pressure. 

Depending on design, try ensuring all bolts are tightened evenly (so if the top two are done up all the way and the bottom two are not, undo them all and redo them evenly) 

It could be a number of things. The most likely it sounds as if your cable is sticking/jamming. Try replacing your cable and cable housing. This shouldnt cost much for DIY (read up on how to do it, you dont want to crush the housing when cutting), but would cost more from a mechanic. I would firstly check that your deraileur isnt out of alignment and/or loose or bent first. Another thing you can do is check that you have the right chain for your cassette and that the chain isnt worn (a cheap tool will check this for you). If your mechanic has not solved this, I suggest trying a different one. 

In addition to the good answers already; Lean forward and kick your leg over the back wheel so that both feet are on one side of the bike and your standing on one pedal, then hit the ground running whilst continuing to hold the bars. Takes a little practice. Maybe it cant be done at very high speeds. 

I guess it partly depends on the wheel/bicycle. Smaller, sturdier wheels (e.g. 26"/559mm MTBs) should be more resistant. With road bikes I’ve observed that they often lean on the spokes. This is especially bad if you have a low spoke count and therefore a high spoke tension which makes the spokes even less suited for lateral loads. I think it can definitely damage your wheels if it’s especially gusty wind or someone stumbles and runs into your bike really hard. Usually it’s also hard to properly lock your bicycle (since you often can’t put your back wheel into the stand if you have a rear derailleur), leading to the sad event displayed in your second picture. I don’t have disk brakes but I could imagine that you could damage them on some stands as well. I try to avoid such stands whenever possible. As a personal anecdote, my dad and I used to transport bicycles on a car trailer using a stand like the one in your first picture. On one occasion we apparently hadn’t tied the bicycles down hard enough and the constant vibration and rubbing completely destroyed the sidewalls of my road tires. 

Usually there is just one length available with a bit over 100 links. Of course you have to shorten it so that it’s not slack on the smallest gear combination and not too tight (i.e. breaking the rear derailleur) on the biggest gear combination. 

They actually use the sensors ( accelerometer ) inside to calculate the speed. Don't know any details about the algorithm or which sensors they use. GPS would need bigger batteries and drain the small battery inside too quickly. 

For delivery in the suburbs I think you won't need a mountainbike as you want something fast for the deliveries. This basically narrows down the question further as most quality bikes for trekking/communting etc. are not build with a rear suspension. Also dropping down the kerb should be something which is absorbed with the body. So we are now to decide if you need front suspension. I don't think it will slow you down as the front suspension doesn't have such a big impact on the terrain you are riding. Another thing to consider is how you gonna transport the deliveries. Are they transported in a backpack or on a back or front rack. If the latter is the case and you want to use a front rack the front suspension is out of the question as the typical forks are not made to be used with a front rack ( you just can't mount them ) In case of a backpack you are good with a suspension fork most likely your hands will be glad you buy one. But what you should consider ultimatly is how much you gonna spend on the bike. If it will be a cheaper bike I would consider buying a bike without a suspension fork as those tend to be pretty crappy. With crappy I mean poor quality of dampinig and high weight so you are better of with a stiff fork. Also if you are doing deliveries your mileage will probably a bit higher so lesser parts which will break are better. 

Get a randonneur or cyclocross bike with eyelets for a rack. Stevens Namura, Focus Mares AX 3.0, Ridley X-Bow, Rose PRO DX CROSS … Use it with 23mm road tires as a road bike. Install a rack and some 32mm tires (Schwalbe Marathon Racer, Vittoria Randonneur Hyper) for touring. Some people would also add fenders and a dynamo hub. My longest trip was 3200km through Scandinnavia with ~12kg of camping equipment on the rear rack of my Focus Mares 2009. Perfect if you are touring light and fast. For more luggage weight or “relaxed” riding you’d probably have to start with a real touring bike like the Surly Long Haul Trucker (long chain stays for more luggage, eyelets for a lowrider rack on the fork, robust steel frame …). 

Depends on the tubes. Schwalbe makes some (i.e. SV20) which go from 18-622 to 25-622, so you could probably risk the 28-622 (if the tire is even really that wide, they are often quite a bit narrower than specified). 

Is the hanger perfectly in line with the rear brake? A (free running) cable will always try to run in a straight line. If there is an offset the cable will bend the brake and the brake hanger into a straight line, which is bad.