I ride daily and store my bike in similar conditions at work and home. Sometimes it is left out in the rain at work if I misjudge the weather. I maintain it less often than you do, though I do try to wash of the mud in the evening if I ride home in the rain. I lubricate after washing and about once per week otherwise. I don't have any rust on the chain or cogs. There is some surface rust on a few bolt heads and where the paint has been scratched on the steel frame, but I'd expect that on a 19 year old bike. I don't think you need to do anything more than you are doing. 

This brought to mind an interesting question, is it more expensive to feed yourself per mile cross country than it is to buy gasoline on a per mile basis, I know this is quite subjective and may not be easily answered due to the fact that different vehicles use fuel at different rates and gasoline and food costs are different in other countries. So lets set some reasonable parameters. Food energy cost vs gasoline costs. USA 22 mpg car Reasonably loaded Big Dummy's (all the gear, and a few comforts you need to make camp cross country) They had high quality lightweight camping equipment from what I could tell. Max cargo capacity including rider is 400lbs on the Big Dummy. LA California to Denver, scenic routes. Food costs: are higher due to inconvenient places to shop and limited carrying capacity and food spoilage issues. Has anyone ever done a study on this subject or kept track on a long bike trip cross country? 

You want a torque wrench that's made for the range of torques that you expect to use. A wrench with too large a range will give you limited precision in the range you need. Basically, it will be harder to tell if you are applying the correct torque. One that's too small won't let you apply the required torque. The accuracy of the reading may also be important. For example, this wrench (which I found with a Google search so it's not a recommendation) has a range of 20 to 108 Nm with a 4% accuracy. Some people prefer a wrench that clicks when a preset torque is reached so they know when to stop. Others feel that reading from a scale works well enough. There's a discussion at $URL$ that may be helpful to you. 

The only way I can tell is to put the bike on the cycle stand and use a mechanics stethoscope to listen to the bearings as I roll them. You can also find bearings in need of clean and lube, but this requires a trained ear. By placing the stethoscope end on various bearing mount points or housings, you can hear the condition of the bearing as you roll it. The faster you roll it the better. 

You say that putting the pannier on the opposite side of the bike makes the problem worse. This makes me think the bike isn't well balanced on the stand. The stand may be too short for the bike, so that the bike leans too much. Try putting a block of wood under the stand. If that helps, get a stand with a longer arm (or leg, what is that part called?). The stand may be angled too much to the front. This would allow the load to pull the bike so it pivots around the stand until it falls. A stand that is angled back may help. 

If they are not full floating calipers, most are not, then the problem may be the fixed side of the caliper pad has worn and you need to adjust the fixed side pad closer to the rotor (eliminate the gap) The squeal comes from the movable pad pushing (flexing) the rotor over to make contact with the fixed pad. This type of caliper needs periodic adjustment of the fixed pad as the pad wears. 

Disc brakes - to me - are easier to maintain than rim brakes. Rim brakes take a lot of adjustments as you wear the pads. The pads on rim brakes have to be given more and more toe-in adjustment as you wear the pads to keep them working optimally. Disc brakes are far less tedious. I will not buy a bike that I am going to ride a lot with rim brakes. Six of my seven bikes are all disk, the only one that isn't is my dirt-jumping/bmx bike. Mechanical disk brakes only require minor adjustment when the pads wear down because only one of the pads actually moves in a mechanical disk brake, the outer pad moves in and presses against the rotor and against the opposite pad. So as the inner pad wears you have to adjust it closer to the rotor, typically with a 5mm key wrench. Hydro's don't have this as both pads move. If you consider the all-weather performance, longevity of disk pads, no rim wear, and cleaner upkeep (no rim black dust from pads). Disc brakes are a no-brainer. My most recent bike, a Jake the Snake Cyclocross bike, has mechanical disks but eventually I will put hydros on it later as an upgrade. 

I was an automotive mechanic for quite a few years, yes I did get quite greasy when young and dumb, I used Naptha to get the grease out of my jeans, worked well, but it did make the washer a bit smelly, I Kept some naptha in a spray bottle, I sprayed the grease spots right before washing and used extra soap. This worked quite well for many years. There were only a few "stains" it did not get out over the years, but I think this was other contaminants besides oil and grease, but it always removed the grease completely. I never experienced any negative side effects for the washing machine besides the after smell. 

The problem could be the lubrication on the rear hub. Perhaps it wasn't well greased at the factory. A tune-up should have caught this problem, particularly as you mentioned it. Another possibility is that there is a ball bearing missing from the rear hub, so that once every time the wheel turns around, the axle falls into the small gap created by the missing bearing (this happened on my daughter's new bike after about 3 months of occasional riding). If the bike is still under warranty, then I would take it in. The problem should have been fixed the first time. If you want to try fixing it yourself, you will have to take off the rear wheel and disassemble the hub. This isn't hard, but if you've never done it before, try finding a local bike shop that will show you how. Some towns have co-op bike repair shops where for a small fee you can use their tools and there will be a mechanic on hand to guide you. (for example Ottawa - $URL$ Waterloo - $URL$ Try looking at this wiki for a shop near you. 

The advantages of investment casting are: Excellent surface finish High dimensional accuracy Extremely intricate parts are castable Almost any metal can be cast No flash or parting lines 

I was on vacation at Mesa Verde Nat park this year, I met a nice couple bicycling cross country from California, they were riding reasonably loaded Surly Big Dummy's. They were surprised at the calories burned and the cost of food on the road to keep up energy levels. They said they could do 35 miles on a very good day, averaged 20, mind you they were in South West Colorado headed to central Colorado, lots of steep climbs. They set up camp every night and cooked what they had at the time, basically living on the road toting all the gear on the back of the bikes, guitar and all, awesome guitar player by the way. . 

Strip the frame of everything (including headset) Start covering all of the obvious holes with ducktape and leave one open (BB or headtube) Use something to pressurize the frame (air compressor or bike pump) in one opening that you left on the frame, use ducktape to seal around. Start blocking all the holes you find with small portions of ducktape till you find all holes. 

Generally mud you want a skinny tire with very good clearing capability and depending on the mix of rocks and roots the hight of the knobs should be short. In situations where there is little rocks and roots, tall spikes work best. I have raced downhill for several years on the east coast of the US which is notorious for being muddy races. We ran mud spikes but typically I had two pair of spikes, one with tall spikes and one cut with shorter spikes for more rocky conditions. Mud spikes also have a large fillet radius to the spikes to allow them to shed mud easily. One factor that holds true for all situations with mud, the tire must clean well!