Some tidbits, 1) dummy is a single 10MB file on my local system. 2) I can successfully ssh in the remote Digital Ocean with the below command, $ ssh nathan 2.1) I have a "config" file in /Users/$USER/.ssh/ 2.2) The contents of the /Users/$USER/.ssh/config Host nathan HostName $REMOTE_IP_ADDRESS i.e. 1.2.3.4 User $REMOTE_USERNAME chris port $SSH_PORT_# 4242 IdentityFile /Users/$USER/.ssh/id_rsa 3) I can also ssh into the remote Digital Ocean droplet with the below command 

I've been trying to get rsync working for a couple of hours now, but haven't had much luck . I have a Digital Ocean droplet that I would like to send a file via rsync using SSH. local rsync running on macOS 10.12.6 installed via homebrew 

The Web Services object in Performance Monitor has counters for number of current connections (and some others that might be useful - current anonymous users, current nonanonymous users, anonymous users/sec, etc.). You could setup the counters, then pull the data from each server into Excel to combine and analyze. 

Here is a little utility I've used for "warming up" SharePoint sites in the past. I don't see why it wouldn't work for a non-SharePoint website. 

I believe the ASP config section is (by default) locked from editing at the site level. You will either need to make the changes server-wide, or unlock the setting first. $URL$ 

EDIT 2: Nobody was able to offer any insights into an Amazon specific resolution that didn't require the LB instances to remain up, so I've outlined what we did with HAProxy in the selected answer below. 

We're a multi-tenant service and terminate our SSL at our load balancers (HAProxy + Apache for SSL termination), this has caused growing pains due to dedicated IP requirements. But times have changed and we're considering moving to SNI so I was hoping for educated opinions for 2015 about adopting it as our standard. I'm going to outline our assumptions: 

Substitute is not a command on its own. Instead, you need to save the acls for the file, then restore them using the subsitute param. As an example, this will save the acls for all the files in the current directory, then restore while replacing the sid: 

Take a look at this MSDN forum post - it shows you how to make educated guesses as to what the ranges need to be. 

Here are some links with more information: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ Note: the 934307 KB article says that you can't use /uninstall on Windows 2008 - this does not apply to Windows 2008 R2 - they enabled the uninstall switch on R2 (see the last link). 

We have two LB's so we just pointed one old to one new, respectively. Everything is working like a charm. We'll leave these two old LB's up for a couple weeks while our clients update their DNS and then bring them down afterwards, saved a lot of headache rather than trying to organize everyone's IT into a scheduled move! 

EDIT: To expand just a little, it would be a benefit if I could do this simply using EC2 features so I don't have to keep the two public LB instances running. Failing that, I need to know specifically how to accomplish the "redirect", is it done in DNS, or is it done somewhere else? 

I created rails application, and everything appears to be working fine, but I can't seem to figure out how to run the application in mode. I specified in the (Apache configuration file) for the site, I then restarted Apache, and restarted the rails app by running the following command in the rails root directory, I'm running Apache 2.x, mod_rails 4.0.26, and the rails app is 3.2.15 

I just installed a fresh copy of dovecot on my VPS. I am also running postfix, and I first went through this guide I followed everything as explained. However when I try to send an email from my iPhone I'm getting the following error, 

Is UAC enabled on your system? You need to run your command prompt as administrator in order for icacls restore to work. Also - I'm pretty sure the format of your restore command is incorrect. A * will cause icacls to error out because it will look for *\File.zip - what you probably want is: 

Since you already solved the problem by rebuilding this isn't helpful to solve it - but for future problems, most of Hyper-V is manageable through WMI and you could have solved the problem that way. Rather than getting into the details of that though, I will link you to the Powershell Management Library for Hyper-V, which is a sweet Powershell based wrapper around the WMI calls. You could have used it to remove the NIC from the VM and that should have given you your access back. Get it installed now before you have future problems... 

So I have been trying to setup BIND / named as a primary / secondary name server for a domain name I purchased a while back because I switched my hosting plan from shared to VPS recently. I think I have everything setup properly (for the most part) but when I go to ping the domain name I have registered, the command prompt just says unknown host. I made sure I registered the name servers with the domain name registrar, and I can ping the name servers. So I know that part is working but for whatever reason I can not ping my domain name. The domain name I am referring to is chrisrjones.com The named.conf looks like the following, $URL$ The fwd.chrisrjones.com file looks like the following, $URL$ and the reverse, pastebin.com/Hk9pyEHu 

Check out this technet article for the gory details. Basically, your application pool account is assigned to the WSS_WPG group on the server. WSS_WPG is then assigned access to various registry keys and files/folders. There is a table in the linked document with all of the actual permissions for WSS_WPG. 

If you look at the log files for your site, they should give you more information about the type of 500 error that is being thrown. (A sub-code and/or some related text). For IIS7, the default log location is . The site id is most easily obtained by going to the Sites level in IIS Manager and looking at the ID column. If you go to your site and click on the Logging button, you can find the actual path to your log files, minus the site id. 

We're migrating our deployment from regular EC2 into a VPC, we have two load balancers in the public cloud that we have a number of domain "A" records pointed at, however I didn't realize that a public Elastic IP could not be attached to a VPC instance, you must use VPC based Elastic IP's. So you're aware, our LB's are HAProxy based instances, NOT Elastic Load Balancers. So we've got Apache to work with here if that helps answer my question or offers an alternative. Because not all of the domains in question pointing at the public LB's are under my control, it's very difficult to schedule the change to DNS with everyone, lets call it impossible. So my question is, is it possible that I can redirect calls to our public LB's to their replacements in the VPC? This would have to be transparent while we go through our clients and have them update their DNS. Any suggestions would be greatly appreciated! 

Typically the crawl account is different from your service account. The best practices documents for the crawl account say that it MUST NOT be a member of your farm administrators group, and should not be an administrator on the server. Here are links to the best practices documents from microsoft: $URL$ $URL$ And a link for the proper way to change the account name/password: $URL$ 

You need to add the role service "IP and Domain Restrictions" to your server first. Once that is installed: 

SSRS 2008 does (by default) not rely on IIS. You can run them side-by-side if you wish, but it is no longer required. To configure the URLs to access SSRS, you use the Reporting Services Configuration Tool - you probably want the "Advanced" configuration for Report Manager. See the following link for detailed instructions on how to setup URLs in SSRS 2008. $URL$