We have been calling the star by looking at which we can make out the direction of the North Pole the North Star. This was the only method at the disposal of the sailors during the days when they did not have any compass with them. When the axis of the earth would point toward Denab, Denab would become the North Star. When it would point toward Vega, Vega would become the North Star. Likewise, when the axis would point toward Thuban, Thuban would become the North Star. When we look at the Polaris from the earth, the Big Bear appears to be revolving around it. So I am curious to know which constellations would appear to be revolving around the Denab, Vega and Thuban when the axis of the earth would be pointing toward them due to wobbling of the earth. 

They look similar to the "dark dune spots" of the southern hemisphere, associated with accumulation of melting liquid at the bottom of dunes during warming seasons: $URL$ 

By "visible to the naked eye", I take it you mean "visible from Earth with a small telescope". Saturn's rings are largely water ice, and so they reflect more sunlight back to us. Jupiter's rings, have lower proportions of ice, and lots of smaller dust particles that tend to scatter light forward rather than back to us. The ring systems of Uranus and Neptune are made of really dark material, so also don't reflect much light in our direction. 

If we have 13 months a year and 13 Zodiac Signs instead of 12 months and 13 Zodiac signs instead of 12 signs as suggested by me and have "28-day months" we would be benefited yet in one more way. We shall have precisely 4 weeks per month because 7 x 4 = 28. However, it would make for only 364 days in a year. So we would have to cover this flaw by redefining the year as a period of "13 months and a leap-day" for each non-leap year and two leap-days for each leap-year. in addition, if we may commence the 13 months-calendar from 22nd December instead of 1st January all Zodiac spells would begin on the 1st of each month and would end at the end of each month. So my suggestion merits consideration according to me. 

The Earth and moon orbit around a barycentre that is "about 3/4 the radius of Earth" away from the Earth's centre: $URL$ Removing the moon would almost certainly affect the Earth's orbit around the sun due to the change in the centre of mass, and probably a resultant change in momentum of the Earth system (such as it was). That's without even considering the gravitational tug of the planetoid on the Earth, and that of the moon as it gets snatched away. I would think it spectacularly unlikely for the interaction to leave Earth travelling along the orbit of the centre of mass of the old Earth-moon system. But, I haven't actually modelled it, so I might be wrong there. 

According to me following reason of mass accumulation of earth has been completely overlooked so far. The sunrays that fall on the oceans travel deep into water and finally get converted into mass which eventually results in "mass-accretion of the earth". So earth is continuously getting heavier due to the mass being added to it due to this reason year by year. Therefore, should this also not be one of the reasons why the orbit-time of the earth (time taken by it to take one round of the sun) is bound to change (increase or decrease) with time? 

Regarding your first dot point: I would suggest trying to have the equipment set up before she joins you, if possible. If you have a family member who can look after her/keep her distracted while you do this, she won't have to wait while you set up the equipment. (I understand this may be hard, depending on your situation.) Regarding your second and third dot points: keep working on it. Learning things like how to look through an eyepiece, and that touching the telescope leads to a shaky image, is a valuable part of the experience. She may learn it slower at her stage in life, but it's stuff that everyone has to learn when they start using a telescope, and it can be really good to start early. You may need to be a bit patient with her while she's learning, but she may also learn patience through the process. It sounds like she's very enthusiastic about space, which is great. Talk through what you're seeing, and be excited about it; look at some things she knows about, and some things she doesn't yet, in a spirit of investigation. 

If we convert the mass of all the stars and all the planets which must be weighing trillions and trillions of tonnes by the equation E = m.c^2 it gets converted into an unimaginable amount of energy. Would so much of energy not have gone into the evolution of the Universe? I am at a great suspense whether the Big Bang theory or any other theory at all answers from where so much of energy would have come that would have got converted into so many trillions and trillions of tonnes of the mass of all the galaxies put together. How we can believe in the big-bang-theory unless we know from where so much of energy would have arrived? 

Hydrogen and oxygen only react when there is sufficient energy. For instance, the autoignition temperature of hydrogen at 1 atmosphere is 536 °C. This is why you can do that experiment with mixed hydrogen and oxygen in a balloon, that only explodes when you touch the balloon with a lit taper. Space is cold. Molecular clouds have temperatures in the tens of degrees Kelvin. In the rare (if not impossible) case that a molecular cloud of pure oxygen did exist, and it encountered a molecular cloud of hydrogen, there wouldn't be enough energy for an explosion. 

Nobody has been able to find an answer how anybody may be able to see the inner organs of the human body as Natalya Demkina is able to see. In this context, I want to mention that the same way as we are able to see things in the light of an electric lamp or the sun-rays even though our eyes don't emit the visible band of the electromagnetic rays may it not be possible for her to see the inner organs of other people because the sun-rays contain X-rays also. According to me, it is wrong to say that since human eyes can't emit X-rays she may not be able to see the inner organs of other persons the same way as we are able to see everything even though our eyes don't emit the visible band of the electromagnetic waves. I want to know whether it may be possible that her brain's circuitry may be allowing her to see the inner organs through the X-ray band of the sun-rays unlike the rest of us or not. The chances of her having some special brain-circuitry of this type can't be ruled out according to me.