The four causes are a direct consequence of Aristotle's explanation of motion as the reduction of one mode of being (potentiality) to another (actuality). Thus, your question amounts to how motion (change) is understood in modern physics.(Thomas McLaughlin is an expert on Aristotelian vs. modern physics' understanding of motion.) The question of projectile motion is a good example of metaphysicians grappling with understanding the causality of motion in Newtonian physics. Is projectile motion as treated by modern physics really motion (i.e., the reduction of potentiality to actuality) requiring a cause, or is it really a static state? For example, E. Meyerson, in his Identité et Réalité (1908), writes (pp. 132, 134): 

How can he think think when the argument that precedes what you made bold leads to the conclusion that even "things lacking knowledge" can have "principles [in which] there is a power of keeping themselves in existence forever so that they remain always the same numerically" and thus "naturally desire to exist everlastingly even in their numerical self-identity"? 

According to Sartre (see "The Transcendence of Ego") cartesian cogito ergo sum is a performative fallacy: who thinks this thought (active, pre-reflective consiousness, me) is not whom the thought is ascribed to (I, an inert reflective object). From this particular point of view, having "first-person perspective" designates not the consciousness but one of objects of the world, and it could be removed from the phrase as redundant. Then you are left with "I am a conscious being" which sounds similar to "cogito ergo sum". And that will suffice. When you are writing down that phrase you actually don't have the first person perspective because your consciousness is busy with writing a sentence. But you remain conscious (and free). You're keeping a dim purpose what you are writing for, and your movements and auxiliary thoughts serve that goal. Consciousness understands itself and what it is doing, even though there isn't any Ego currenlty here or Ego is seen in the past as if remembered other man. Because positional consciousness of an object or one's activity is at the same time non-positional consciousness of the self. That primordial self-consciousness (which is difficult to catch) - without being an object to oneself - is a primary evidence and needs not be proven, especially by subconscious "spooks" or neurons as "spooks". 

"Is there anything completely random?" could be interpreted to mean: "Is there any agent that does not work toward a determinate end?" In other words: "Is there a being without a final cause?"Cf. Oderberg's open access (free) 10 March 2016 The Monist article "Finality revived: powers and intentionality." 

Possibility and necessity in St. Thomas's sense cannot be understood without Aristotle's doctrine of matter and form (hylemorphism). Possibility (or necessity) in the modern philosophical sense (the Humean sense) is more about whether we can conceive another world in which something can be (or must be). Regarding how "All the objects collectively have a tendency to go out of existence simultaneously at some point." follows from "Every object has a tendency to stop existing at some point or the other.": Perhaps rephrasing it as the following would help: Every object can potentially stop existing at any time (including at, say, the particular time t₁). All objects collectively can potentially stop existing at the same time (at t₁ in this case). 

is indeed so. It is surely possible to happen now while it won't. I exist - ever immortal [Ftn.] - right in the form of that future which makes the (meaning of the) "now" and which is out of access. What is possible is necessary because possibility of something is my future that has been freely chosen by the consciousness, and also because it has not yet come true nor is guaranteed to come. In temporalization, "is possible" and "will be possible" are indistinguishable. But in reflection, we deal with psychologic or wordly time that is tiled with events like necklace is. Psychologic future is actually always past future ("future in the past", one is tempted to put). When we plan to reach an aim, we reflect on doings, obstacles, resources and order, all of which are objects we process in knowledge; but knowledge (as opposed to intuitive apprehension) is always past. That is why in our dreaming/planning of the future possibility it has the taste of not actual or desirable/scary anymore. We need reflection to plan, yet reflected dream of the future possibility is nothing more than reminiscence of the now "dead" possibility, possibility which is no more necessary despite we may claim we are interested in it. In that profane time "is possible" inertly precedes "will be possible" and both are seen (treated) as occured already: it is future-modal facts (facts cannot be necessary or needed, they simply are there). 

See St. Thomas Aquinas De Ente et Essentia, proemium, which references Aristotle De Cœlo bk. 1, specifically 271b: 

Aristotle's Peri Hermeneias (On Interpretation), part of his Organon or logical works, is what today would probably be classified as grammar, linguistics, or even semiotics. He discusses what a "name" is: 

Thus, according to St. Thomas, the liar's paradox "propositions" are not real propositions at all because there is no corresponding thing for them that "exists or does not exist" and they do not "signify that which" they have "been made to signify." 

Galileo gave the metaphor that the natural world is written in the language of mathematics, but is mathematics even a language? 

St. Thomas commentated the following works of Aristotle, roughly ordered here below according to the order in which St. Thomas says it's best to learn them: 

Aristotle outlined his ten categories in his Categories. Here's an example logical classification (ibid., p. 18): 

is because Pierre currently is in the project of eating that specific meal (and ultimately, because the meal and eating of it is the outline [of qualia] of Being for Pierre), and so any sensation he gets from bites will be interpreted as good, - until he suddenly "stumbles" in this his world stream and falls out from the project to some other one freely chosen by his consciousness among several emerged possibilities. 

Our actions (choices) are completely free. (I must first make a disclaimer that I'm not interested in the topic of "unobservable determinism", that is when I feel my action is free while "in fact" - from God's or physic's p.o.v. - it was predetermined by atoms or such disposition. Only the case of determinism-in-my-consciousness, i.e. the cause appears to me, presents itself in the setting of my choice - so I blame things for my choice, - can bother me. I must keep agnostic about things bypassing consciousness but claiming that they cause my consciousness. Reasons or causes can exist only for consciousness.) They are free - which is alias to say that I'm the only author of my choice - because consciousness automatically rejects (negates) the circumstances at the moment of choice. If an armed man points a gun onto you and commands "step back", he and his gun are precisely what your consciousness excludes from determinants when it selects to obey. You will say afterwards in excuse that the gun forced you to step back (i.e. here's a cause), but at the moment of your decision to move back the gun was just the thing you took not to meddle. It was here, pending and frozen, as you did your free decision. The gun was as if waiting for your free decision on the theme of the gun incident. While the gun was kept in nonbeing, the consciousness chose among 2+ possibilities of itself (yourself). One choice was made, it was spontaneous (it itself wasn't rational, despite that thinking could be included "around" the decision). A possibility exists by mode of nonbeing and thus cannot draw you to it; the gun is also deactivated. Here is complete nothing which decides - and you feel yourself for a moment drifting free in empty space where any side is nobody else's side. Suddenly you're aware of the choice having been just made, from now on the gun is threatening, the man is not joking, and you find yourself doing step back. Nothing forced you, except yourself who was nothing at the decision of choice among some possibilities apparent to the consciousness. Conditions and thinking can bring forward or conceal possibilities, but there will always be 2+ ones, equally "weight" because they are not, just opportunities of "towards". If you say not the gun, but rather your instinct of life pushed you back, I'd say, hmm, if the instinct is an unconscious structure (so the action was pure reflex) - see the disclaimer. Else the instinct is for consciousness (and there exists no instinct except consciousness of the instinct) and by this it could be an object like gun, to be disarmed by it in rejection, like gun, or it could be in a form of taste for living, making plans etc. - one of possibilities, to be dim. So choice of any action is an adventure on your own. Covering oneself with causes or reasons or fleeing from the feeling of disappointment about own past decision are self-deceptions. We are free, which isn't the same as to say we have free "will". The view expressed here is different from what @FirstLastname has written in their answer: "My choice might have been influenced by preexisting events and motivations: I don't like tuna, maybe I've got a coupon for my favorite restaurant I'd like to use instead, maybe I'm a vegetarian.... But, even though that choice was deterministic, it was still a choice". To my mind, a choice cannot be deterministic. The thing is that the actual choice I've made - to take tuna, for example - was made free of my own predispositions or customs, and that my preference for tuna is used only as explanation, moreover, it appears as real motive (seen as cause or reason) only thanks to the choice just already done: it is reconstructed here and now from scratch. Motivations cannot preexist. 

Explanation of the Mnemonic Brody, Boruch A. "Logical Terms, Glossary of." Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Ed. Donald M. Borchert. 2nd ed. Vol. 5. Detroit: Macmillan Reference USA, 2006. 533-560. Gale Virtual Reference Library. Web. 19 May 2016.: 

Did Aristotle discuss virginity? If so, where? What did he say about it? If not, were there any Greek philosophers who did? I'm not only concerned in the biological aspect of virginity, but whether Aristotle saw virginity as a virtue. 

How do philosophers of various schools* explain the difference (if any) between demonstration and mere description? Are they synonymous, or are they different? How so? My first impressions: To demonstrate, one needs to know causes, but to describe, one needn't know causes. However, it seems description can lead to knowledge of causes, and thus the distinction between demonstration and description is less clear. *(e.g., Kantians, Thomists, Aristotelians, Cartesians, positivists, nominalists, pragmatists, et al.) 

Consciousness (or "for-itself") cannot support contact with Being (or "in-itself") with its (the Being) characteristics of "determined", "inevitable", "contingent", "random". Consciousness flights away from these towards own possibilities. (To escape the fear of falling from the rock I change it to angst of getting in consent with my falling or even jumping from the rock.) So there can never be inevitable outcomes for consciousness to match with. Inevitable (as well as objectivistically probable) things can be for science. But science is our "thoughts", i.e. it is a collection of objects of the world - real or modeled - which can appear only in front of (or for) consciousness and not inside it. But to be an object for a consciousness (i.e. to be positioned by it) means the flight of the consciousness away from being that object towards own possibility about (concerning) the object. Thus, the citation above appears an inadequate merging of not mergeable matters. An important notion should be that Consciousness and Being (transcendent reality) are two abstractions that do not preexist their fundamental relation (the "flight"); rather, the relation preexists as primordial synthesis. There is Being (pure facticity out of meaning, causations, time) and there is ceaseless accident of dispersion or cracking of it whereby it is negated (the result of what is the constitution of world), the accident we call "consciousness". 

See this for the rest of this Aristotle quotation, followed by St. Thomas Aquinas's commentary on it. 

St. Thomas Aquinas, in Summa Theologica I-II q. 64 a. 2, gives the following objections against "whether moral virtue observes the mean:" 

cf.Smith, Wolfgang. The Quantum Enigma: Finding the Hidden Key. Hillsdale, NY: Sophia Perennis, 2005.and the resources here 

St. Thomas Aquinas, considered one of the greatest commentators on Aristotle, only commentated on these works by him: 

Probably the best quote, Posteriora Analytica l. 13 n. 7: per se notæ, oportet quod manifestentur per aliqua accidentia, quæ sunt signa illius formæ, ut patet in VIII Metaphys. Non autem oportet accipere accidentia propria illius speciei, quia talia oportet per definitionem speciei demonstrari; sed oportet notificari formam speciei per aliqua accidentia communiora; et secundum hoc differentiæ assumptæ dicuntur quidem substantiales, in quantum inducuntur ad declarandum formam essentialem, sunt autem communiores specie, in quantum assumuntur ex aliquibus signis, quæ consequuntur superiora genera. …because the essential forms are not known to us per se, they must be disclosed through certain accidents which are signs of that form, as is stated in Metaphysics VIII [1042b9-1043a28: "Form Inferred from Accidental Differences in Sensible Substances"]. However, one should not take the proper accidens of that species, because they are the ones that will be demonstrated by the definition of the species; rather the form of the species must be made known by certain accidents that are more common. Hence according to this, the differences which are used are indeed called substantial, inasmuch as they are adduced in order to declare the essential form; but they are more common than the species, inasmuch as they are taken from signs which follow upon higher genera. 

Unexpectedly (upsetting somebody, perhaps), this answer will be completely away of the domain of modal logic or statement analytics; rather, it will be existential. The thing is that in the OP question itself there was no requirement that an answer should come from some specific branch of philosophy. Sartre claimed that possibility (or opportunity) of an entity or event is always my (rain's probability today is my possibility to get wet or not) and that it is what initially introduces time in my reality here: possibility temporalizes me. The time I'm speaking is primeval or pre-reflective time and should not be confused with psychological or "physical" time which appears as a special time-object later, upon reflection having come into play. Whereas psychological time is graded into chunks (into before a landmark and after a landmark where a landmark is some thing or event, obstacle or facilitator coming from world) primeval time is smooth. It connects me with the future (which is my state alongside with the possibility realized) without any kind of glue such as promise/guarantee or resources/facilitators - as if the possibility has already come true. Simultaneously, it perfectly detaches me from the above possibility realization without any chronology/postponing or shortages/obstacles. I'm thus fully connected and fully separated at once from the aim which is my possibility, in pre-reflective mode. This seeming contradiction is at the core of human conscious nature because it is based on pure negation. A citation from another local answer: