As usual in the Socratic dialogues, an adequate definition of courage is not achieved, within the confines of Laches. Still, a new standard is set. 

I am not familiar with the research literature, but the given interpretation does not make sense to me. And this for two reasons. First, the opinion of the so called "mortals" is an entirely marginal issue. It is definitely not part of Parmenides's main argument. In the main argument, Parmenides lays out his view as to the truth itself, as to how things are. Only in passing, as an aside, he comments on the typical mistakes of the "mortals", in comparison. Second, the argument as interpreted here does not deliver the required conclusion, even if we disregard the "mortals". It goes something like this: the past is said to be, the past is also said not to be, therefore what is said of the past leads to a contradiction. But, what then? What is the conclusion from a contradiction? It is that we must forego (at least) one of the assumptions that led to the contradiction. So we have to forego either the assumption that the past is or the assumption that the past is not. So, which one of these two assumptions shall we forego, and why? Which one assumption shall we keep, and why? The given interpretation provides no clue how Parmenides would answer these follow-up questions, and on what basis. 

Part of what your friend is saying does have some truth to it. Just because someone believes that X is the case, it doesn't follow that X is actually the case. 

Whilst your friend's ideas about beliefs have some merit, they are actually irrelevant to the argument at hand. Your argument could very well be wrong, but not for the reasons that he has presented. This is because he is attacking your beliefs instead of your argument. For your friend's argument to be successful, he needs to attack the notion of creatine helping soreness, rather than attacking the idea that you hold a belief in the utility of creatine with respect to soreness. Therefore, I would say that he is guilty of ad hominem. Nevertheless, I don't think that hunting fallacies and then accusing something of committing fallacy X is particularly useful. Rather, you should be able to explain where the reasoning has gone wrong, and you don't need to know the name of a fallacy in order to do that. P.S. What should be noted is that the impact of creatine on soreness is an empirical issue. If you guys intend to debate the notion that creatine reduces muscle soreness, you have to bring some empirical support to the table. 

The apparent need of the soul to always think, that Locke struggles with, seems to reflect the influence of Descartes (Locke was born in 1632, 36 years after Descartes). It was Descartes's influential thesis that the soul just is a thinking substance. That is, that the whole being of the soul consists in thinking. And this seems to entail the (apparently absurd conclusion) that the soul exists only when it thinks. So that if the soul exists continuously, it must think continuously! And as to the division of the person during sleep, Locke derived it from the assumption that personal identity requires self-awareness. Since the waking person is presumably not self-aware of the sleeping person's experiences, and vice versa, they must be two distinct persons. 

The assumption "If it does not resemble the past, then all predictions about the future are equally reasonable" seems shaky. Consider the following alternative, which may be termed reverse induction. 

First, let's try to define both explanation and generalisation. Explanation Roughly speaking, it is a series of statements designed to shed light on a supposed matter of fact. An explanation is composed of two things: the explicandum and the explicans. The explicandum → the fact, thing, or expression which is to be explained. The explicans → the explanation given for a fact, thing, or expression. For example: 

With reference to Are we capable of understanding the system in which we live? , I once read an interesting book: . You can find it on Amazon or similar websites, here is the gist of it: 

Under the previous definition of "being human", those who fall prey to the allure of answers which allow them to follow custom and set aside contemplation- are possibly living an unexamined life. An unexamined life of the above sort would be quite pleasant, where one can live a "conventional" rather than ethically examined, life. 

The concept of Concept is a very peculiar, basic and general category for Kant. And even more so for Hegel. The concept of Essence, for either Kant or Hegel, is by comparison standard, less basic and more specific. It is one (relatively basic) concept among many. Essence, for either Kant or Hegel, means roughly the same as it did for Aristotle. It is the essential property of a substance i.e. of an individual object. Such as the essence of a human being is being a rational animal. When Hegel writes: 

There is a familiar way to "salvage" intentionality of non-existing objects, as a real (metaphysical) relation. But first, let's briefly describe the core problem. Metaphysics is supposed to describe reality as it is. And reality is supposed to consist of existing things, and just of them. Real properties are supposed then to exemplify existing things. Real relations are supposed to relate existing things. It therefore seems nonsensical to speak of a having a real relation with a non-existing thing. A thing that does not exist, if this even makes sense, is ipso facto not a part of reality, and so is not a part of the "web of existence" that metaphysics is due to describe. If a real relation must have existing terms, why don't we make the desired term exist? And indeed, the familiar move is to hold that even non-existing objects exist ... in some mode. This requires, then, to distinguish several modes of existence. During the middle ages was developed the idea of a kind of intra-mental existence, alongside real extra-mental existence. This idea still figures in Descartes's proofs in the Meditations, where he distinguishes "objective" (mental) existence from "formal" (extra-mental) existence. A more recent variation, which was motivated by Brentano's theory of intentionality, was Meinung's theory of objects. His idea was to posit an ontological category of "objects", which is antecedent to existence, and which expresess the mere potential to be "intended" by a mind. So unlike the medieval idea of intra-mental objects, we now have a category of objects which are extra-mental (not internal to the mind, but intended by it) but might not (really) exist. If we also believe that being an object, in the renewed extra-mental sense of the word, is a sufficient condition for being a term of a real relation, we can allow relations with non-existing terms. Meinung's approach is often believed to have been dealt a severe blow by Bertrand Russell's theory of descriptions. The latter provided an alternative framework to explain how we seem to be able to intend non-existing objects. 

It looks like a version of the classic omnipotence paradox to me. For instance, the paradox of the stone: 

Is it possible to construct an argument which follows the above logical form, but has true premises whilst the conclusion is false? If it is possible, then Modus Ponens becomes an invalid form of argument. If it isn't possible, then Modus Ponens is a valid argument form. Take the following argument: 

A valid argument with true premises has a true conclusion. Take modus ponens for example: If A, then B A Therefore B If the antecedent and consequent are both true, then the conclusion "Therefore B" also has to be true. Now, let's take a look at your question. For starters, let's assume that both arguments are valid and have true premises, which should imply that they both have true conclusions. Now we note that both conclusions cannot be simultaneously true , because that would lead to a contradiction. This means that (at least) one of the conclusions has to be false. We know from your question that both premises of both arguments have to be true. We have also noted that both conclusions can't be true at the same time. As aforementioned, a valid argument with true premises has a true conclusion. For (at least) one of the arguments, the conclusion is not true. Since a valid argument with true premises has a true conclusion, and this argument has a true premise but a false conclusion, this argument is not valid, so both arguments cannot be valid as (at least) one argument cannot be valid. 

To stress the point a bit: the principle of charity in interpretation, despite its nickname, is not a matter of charity. It is not a matter of generosity, or of good will. It is not, that is, optional, but necessary. If you are not invoking it, towards opinions that you hear, and towards texts that you read, you are practically guaranteed to misunderstand what you hear and read. 

From what I've heard personally I think that reincarnation theories usually involve the belief that past lives can be remembered, in principle, even though they usually aren't remembered. That is, if you are properly gifted, or properly trained, you will recall your past lives. There is a lot of internet material about reincarnation memories. See for example here. 

Despite research that was done, and the availability of the Wittgenstein-Sraffa correspondence, there seems to be no evidence for a specific philosophical influence on Sraffa on Wittgenstein. The short essay "Sraffa’s Impact on Wittgenstein" (Matthias Unterhuber, 2013) summarizes the currently available evidence on the subject. The most famous story regarding Sraffa and Wittgenstein, concerning a certain gesture made by Sraffa, while riding on a train with Wittgenstein, was told by Norman Malcolm: 

I would like to know how material logic differs from formal logic. From the little that I'm aware of, it is apparently the case that material logic concerns itself with the truth of the content of an argument, whilst formal logic only concerns itself with the validity of an argument form. Question: I'm under the impression that material logic is very close to the concept of soundness, is material logic an outdated concept? I would appreciate any elucidations. 

If the premise were true, then the conclusion would be true and the argument would be valid. But what if our premise was actually false? For example, what if X was actually a triangle? If is true, then the conclusion is also false. We would therefore have a false premise which leads to a false conclusion. We would need the premise to be true and the conclusion to be false for the argument to be invalid. But, this can't happen. If X is a triangle, then the conclusion is false. If X is a square, then the conclusion is true. Either way, we are stuck in a situation where the truth of the premise entails the truth of the conclusion. The argument is therefore valid. Let's define two terms, of which only one term is directly relevant to the question at hand: Tautology: something that is true in all possible worlds. Contradiction : something that is false in all possible worlds. So, if we have a conclusion that is false in all possible worlds, the argument would only be valid if we have premises that entail the truth of the conclusion if the premises were true. Here is an example (Modus Ponens): 

Implication and causation are relations between different kinds of terms. Implication is a logical relation, holding between propositions, or declarative sentences. Fido is a dog (proposition), all dogs are mammals (proposition), therefore Fido is a mammal (proposition). Causation is a real relation, holding in the world, outside language. Causation is a time-related relation, because it is relates changes. Causation is relevant only where there is change (so, for example, there is no causation in mathematics). I throw the switch, subsequently the light goes on. One change (switch off -> switch on) caused a subsequent change (light off -> light on). Implication is explained by laws of logic (e.g. modus ponens). Causation is explained by laws of nature (e.g. laws of electricity). 

It may help to look at this issue as part of the reasoning behind Quine's holism thesis. Imagine Quine considering to give up the special status of even logical and mathematical truths, and make them susceptible to revision, if needed, in order to accommodate sense experience. The only obstacle could be if a source of truth other than experience could be clearly isolated. But hey, analytic statements do exemplify, apparently, another source of truth. What source? Well, analytic statements have been said to be true in virtue of meanings. Well, is there something substantial behind these words, or are they mostly façon de parler? This is the "unclarity" that Quine is pursuing in Two Dogmas of Empiricism. And when Quine proves that notions like "meaning" and "synonym" are not more basic than "analytic", and therefore cannot explain it, the whole chain falls out like dry leaves. Analytic truth can be explained as an instance of truth about meanings, no more than truth about meanings can be explained as an instance of analytic truth. The truth of (so called) analytic statements remains firm, of course, but its source remains obscure. And so Quine can safely proceed with his bold empiricist holism thesis.