The wolf, the wild ancestor of the dog, has extreme running endurance. According to this article, many wolfs travel more than 50 miles daily searching for food. I've read somewhere, that wolfs can chase moose for a few days, but I can't find that now. Wolf is very similar to us in that domain, human hunters can also run for days. This can be another reason that two species have formed so special relationship so early. Looking for great dog runners, look on dogs that are the most similar to their ancestors, such as the German Shepherd (in my country, this race is called Wolfie). If you choose Husky, you can even count for sleight transport if you are tired. Probably it would be you who would have problems to cope with the distance. 

It's a geocacher's nightmare, when you do a nice urbex cache, and then, when leaving, find the entrance blocked by angry homeless, that seem to live there and are not happy from unexpected visitor (which isn't surprising). How to deal such situations, to avoid the confrontation, which could end poorly, or loosing your wallet, which also isn't a dream situation? Are there any tricks to lighten the atmosphere, for example offering cigarettes? 

I'm not a native speaker, but being waterproof suggests more endurance to water than being only water-resistance. But linguistic nuances doesn't make law. More important is, what are the norms and regulations about using such definitions, in the country where that equipment is produced or sold. If there are such regulations, false promises may make manufacturer liable, if there are no regulation, anyone can sell anything under any name, and all such names are meaningless. When it comes to norms, there are the ISO norms that define water resistance - see the Wikipedia article. The article mentions, that the term waterproof is not defined in the ISO norms, and therefore it should not be used. So buying water resistant gear you should check 2 things: 

Trekking poles are a great helper if you have problems with your knees after a long march. A pain 'in knees' is usually a pain in the muscles around the knees, that are responsible for maintaining equilibrium. Those muscles are not very active if you walk on footpath, but in outdoors they are intensively used. With trekking poles, the equilibrium is maintained by providing additional fulcrum. I can say with my experience, that using trekking poles have enabled me keeping pace with my comrades in mountains, which without poles were very hard for me, and additionally I had problems with knees. But mention also, that using trekking poles will train your arm muscles, but will not train that muscles that are making problems by you. So you can become trekking-pole-dependent. After increasing my stamina with trekking poles, I've started to train walking without them, at begin in plains, than in mountains. Now I use them very seldom. Also from my experience, trekking poles are decreasing fatigue of leg muscles, but increasing the fatigue of arm muscles, and overall you use more energy. I was able to increase distance walking without trekking poles. But if my knees are saying that they are too tired, I switch to trekking poles. 

Availability factor - cotton socks you can buy practically everywhere. When it comes to price, the wool socks you can buy relatively cheap in the military surplus, but it usually means buying in internet. Wool socks are good for winter, but for me they are not-an-option in summer because my feet sweat in them like mad. Wool socks are also heavier and taking much more place than thin cotton socks. For summer, an alternative to thin cotton socks are the syntetic ones (I haven't seen thin wool socks). Then the price comes into play. Maybe there are simple, cheap syntetic ones, but I know only those 'active' ones from sport shops - they are very expensive compared to cotton ones - about 5 times more. So in summer, I prefer to take more cheap, light cotton socks and change them more often. 

I'll be doing a guided tour which includes going up a steep slope on a glacier, therefore I need an ice axe. I could rent one for a couple of bucks from the tour organizers, but I was wondering if there is any reason not just to use my dad's 30-year-old ice axe (if the length is ok). I can't see any rust, but perhaps the design or materials are significantly better today? Here's some pictures for reference. DIN A4 (210mm x 297mm) sheet for scale: 

This weekend, I was hiking in the Spanish Sierra de Guadarrama. On a small trail north of Navacerrada (used by only a handful of people each day at the moment), at 1905m height, I encountered the pawprint you can see below. It was set in a patch of old snow directly on edge of the path. I actually recorded the precise location on my GPS, you can see it here. 

Dogs of that size are pretty rare. There is actually a wolf pack in these mountains (source). Perhaps most importantly: There were a few more prints on the same patch of snow but nowhere else. The trail was mostly snow-free, but there were a few more snow patches in both directions. Some of them covered the whole path and I could not see any more pawprints on them. They may have been covered by the human footsteps, but I looked pretty closely and could not see any trace of paws, so it appears whoever caused these prints went off the trail. 

A derivate of Geocashing is Geohashing, which started with an xkcd comic. The basic principle is the same: you take a pair of coordinates and try to get there. What differs is the way these coordinates are generated. As the page linked above describes, they are generated randomly each day for each 1°×1° latitude/longitude zone. A good place to look today's location for your area is geohashing.info. You won't find any treasures at the end (usually...), but it's a fun way to explore the countryside around you. You might go somewhere and discover places you'd never go to otherwise. 

On a very secluded beach on the Faroe Islands (half a day's hike from the nearest road, and you have to climb down a 50m cliff using an old rope), I found these rusted metal objects. They're about 80cm long (daisies for scale) and lay near a lot of driftwood and old buoys. My first suspicion would be a naval mine, but I'm far from sure. 

Another picture with more context After measuring my hand at home, I calculated the the pawprint to be about 16cm in length. Now, according to my research so far, this can either be a wolf or a very large dog. What makes me believe it's a wolf is that 

Recently, nutritional drinks that fulfil the complete nutritional requirements of adults (optimum proportion of carbohydrates, proteins, fats and other nutritients) have been on the rise. Backpackers are probably not the target audience, but their needs should be served pretty well by these shakes. Popular brands are Soylent (US only) or Joylent (Europe based but shipping worldwide). Personally, I have tried Joylent and I still drink it from time to time, especially if I need some quick energy after work before going to the gym but don't have the time to cook. It's not a culinary explosion, but I think it wouldn't be a big problem to live off it for two weeks, especially if you add dried fruit for some variety. It's about 2100 kcal per bag of 600 grams, so for 10 days, assuming you need more than these 2100 kcal due to the permanent exercise, you'd end up with around 10kg. That's quite a load, but significantly less weight would only be possible with a far more fat-centered diet. Apart from the powder itself, you only need water and a plastic shaker. No fire necessary. As long as you have access to fresh water, using the same shaker all the time shouldn't be a problem (if you clean it properly). Realistically, I wouldn't live off that stuff alone, but for my next longer trip I'm planning to cover about half of the food needs with Joylent. 

Wearing gloves constantly is quite normal in the temperatures below -10 C, and on the high altitudes, the temperatures are much lower. Additionally, metal has high warm conductivity, which means, touching it will quickly drawn warmth from you. There are anecdotes about stupid guys tricked by mean girls to lick the axe by the low temperatures, which causes the tongue to immediately freeze to the axe. You can try at home, cooling some metal item in the fridge, and touching it (but not with your tongue!). But the freezing temperature is enough reason to wear gloves, even if you don't have to touch anything. Answering your question, when to wear gloves when touching metal surfaces. It's quite dependent on the person, some people may get extreme uncomforable already at +5 C. But with temperatures below -10 C, I would in any case recommend wearing gloves, because of the freezing effect. 

You can try waymarking. The concepts comes from virtual caches, which currently are able to register only in a few geocaching portals, such as opencaching.de. However, if your aim is to learn your friends to use GPS, I don't see any problem with geocaching. The most difficult part - finding a cache - requires some experience with geocaching, and it would be done probably mostly by you. But that part requires much more perceptivity and experience, than GPS skills. What you can do is to learn them how to navigate to the direct neighborhood of the cache. Let's say, to the distance less than 10 meters from cache. Then, no matter if you find the cache or not, the leading person would be changed. The next leading person would have the task to navigate to the next cache. It means, he/she would need to analyse the map, find the optimal way, and then manage to get there using GPS. The most difficult part can be to choose the good direction, if you want, you may bring a compass with you. 

Caches are very often hidden in hollows. Generally any tree with more or less visible hollow is a very probable geocache hide. Often you can't easily look into that hollow because it's deep or located above your head. I usually simply put my hand into the hollow to check what's inside. In Central Europe the danger is relatively moderate, in worst case you can be bitten by squirrel or maybe wild cat. But in some countries, like Australia, there are very dangerous spiders and even protective gloves won't be enough. Are there any safe methods to check in hollows for cache, without risking being bitten? 

I'm thinking of buying Garmin Etrex 20 (or 30) for geocaching purposes. I've read reviews in internet, and after that the issues with ergonomics and stability makes me worry, if that device will be good enough for geocaching. I'm geocaching so, that I load caches for large region, but I don't plan exactly which caches will I search. Therefore, it's important for me to be able to relatively quick view the descriptions of the nearby caches. On Android, opening single cache and navigating to spoiler text + short description takes about 15 seconds. How much would it take on Etrex, where no touch screen is available? About a minute or more? Many people in reviews in Amazon site complain about software unstability - the upgrades that breaks more things than repair, or cause the internal memory to be overfilled etc. Is the software for that device stable yet? 

I've registered some caches in Poland. It strike me that reviewer from GeoCaching was asking how I'm supposed to service caches far from my home location. In the meantime I moved to Germany, which made caches registered near my 'home' location less serviceable than those register 'far from', but near my family location. I'd like to register some caches here in Germany, but I know, that it is quite probable I will change my location in a few years, and probably I will never have permanent 'home' location. What should I do? I would like to register some caches, but I know I could service them no longer that a few years. Am I expected not to registered any caches at all, or I could create mountain caches, which are normally community-services? What proceeding will be accepted by geocaching community? To be clear, I'm not asking for personal advice, but for general guidelines to obey in such cases.