The issue is not that Russian "guns" gave them the advantage over the Mongols (or Tartars). The issue is that Russian guns equalized them with Mongol bowmen. The Mongols (and English) were able to field armies with 60% bowmen because these bowmen were subjected to "continual" practice over a period of years. No other medieval armies trained such large percentages, or even large absolute numbers of men who could use missile weapons. Guns, unlike bows, were something that "average" soldiers could learn to fire in a matter of days, or weeks. Now the Russians could also arm their troops with "range" weapons. This, in turn, neutralized the speed of the Mongolian horses. Because they were fighting on their home ground, and enjoyed larger numbers, the Russians enjoyed "draw odds" (a draw counts as a win). Put another way, "guns" represented at most a small upgrade over existing Mongol weaponry, but it represented a vast upgrade over Russian swords and spears, giving them the "equality" they needed to beat the Mongols, given superior numbers. 

In order to understand the pre-war Polish-German boundary, it is worth noting that six (or five and a half) provinces were taken from Germany and given to Poland after the war. These provinces included Silesia, Opole, Lower Silesia, and Lubuscz in the west. That is, their EASTERN boundaries had formed the German-Polish boundary before the war (as part of Germany), while their WESTERN boundaries formed the German-Polish boundary after the war (as part of Poland). The other two formerly German provinces were Pomerania, and West Pomeria. Pomerania was the southern half of the former German East Prussia, and its eastern boundary formed the dividing line with Prussia (Germany) to the WEST and Poland to the East. MOST of the former Western Pomerania belonged to Germany before the war (except for a 60-mile wide "Polish Corridor" to Gdynia, to give that country an outlet to the sea). ALL of it now belongs to Poland. 

Following the "Pact of Steel" concluded in May 1939, Germany and Italy consulted on all major European matters, so Mussolini knew about Germany's plans to invade Poland no later than August, 1939. Italy's response was the so-called "Molybdenum List," a long list of war materials, headed by molybdenum, that Italy would require before joining Germany in a war. 

D-Day was a watershed (though not necessarily decisive) event in World War II. It represented the counterinvasion of France, and a springboard for the a strike at the German heartland, thereby undoing Germany's "rise" in the 1940 Battle of France. World War II is widely regarded as the greatest war in human history, not only compared to wars before, but to wars afterward. Certainly, everyone hopes that the scope and scale of World War II will never be exceeded. In this context, D-Day means "THE Day" of THE greatest war in human history. 

Just barely. Only 20 (out of about 190) divisions were Panzers, with a slightly smaller number of motorized infantry divisions. So the Wehrmacht was only about 20% mechanized and motorized. That's less than either the American or British armies and even the Soviet armies (after Lend Lease kicked in during late 1942 and later). "Most" German soldiers marched on foot, with their supplies being drawn by horses. That caused problems around Moscow during the first winter, and contributed to the shortage food (lack of accumulated surpluses before the encirclement) at Stalingrad. It also contributed to problems on the Russian front. Around Smolensk, and in certain parts of the Ukraine, a portion of the Soviet armies escaped encirclements because the infantry could not move up quickly enough to fill gaps left behind by fast moving armored divisions. When they were on the retreat, the Germans were at a clear disadvantage. During Operation Bagration in 1944, for instance, the Germans inflicted physical casualties (killed and wounded) on the Russians at the rate of 2 to 1, but the Russians captured enough Germans to reduce to total casualty rate to 3 to 2, because the Russians had trucks (from Lend Lease),the Germans didn't, and stranded a large number of prisoners. 

Here is a list of over 200 universities in Indonesia. Of these, only the University of Indonesia (its modern name) was established before 1901, that is to say, around 1850. So the novel is accurate; there was only one university in Indonesia in 1901. It was originally only a medical school with a three year program that allowed graduates to practice medicine, but only in (modern) Indonesia. So it was intended primarily for "natives." (The Dutch government was worried about the impact of malaria and other diseases.) Later, it became a seven year medical program that qualified people to practice medicine elsewhere in the world. By 1950. shortly after the end of Dutch rule, the university had expanded to include the faculties of Law and Letters. The Bandung Institute of Technology was established in 1920, but only for "civil" engineering. Other institutes of higher education weren't established until after the Dutch left in 1945. The local "universities," such as they were, could be attended by local people because they had limited curricula to meet mainly local needs. Basically, an Indonesian would have to go to Europe to attend a true university program outside the above specialties. 

It was the beginning of World War I, and the global disruption engendered by that war. It wasn't just the "golden age of microbiology," but almost "the golden age of everything" that ended in 1914. This was succeeded by the "age of catastrophe" that most authorities agree began in 1914, using different ending dates. The two World Wars were hugely destructive of manpower and economies. To a lesser extent, this was true of the depressed 1930s. And even the relatively calm 1920s were a period a "suspicion" and anti-intellectualism characteristic of the interwar period that generally hinder scientific research. And by the 1930s, some of Germany's best (Jewish) scientists were being summarily fired from their posts, and forced to emigrate. Within "microbiology" there were some exceptions to the rule. One example is virology, which got a relatively late start in the 1890s, and had arguably its most prolific era in the 1920s and 1930s. But that was a "special case," scientifically, that was an exception to the general trend in science and elsewhere. 

Elements of "perverted science" that were in use, or being explored in the 1930s and 1940s included the following: 

The fall (and rise) of lances were tied to other developments regarding horse troops. It was the (original) "cavalry" that used pointed weapons from the lances, dating back to the Middle Ages. By about the 17th century, there was a new type of horse soldier, dragoons, who were mounted infantry, rather than cavalry. As such, they were "musketeers" on horses, in contrast to "lancers." As time passed, tacticians "rethought" the value of hand weapons, and gave dragoons swords, which were easier to handle than lances, while (in some cases), replacing their heavy muskets with lighter "carbines" for firing. Provided with inferior weapons and horses, dragoons were usually at a disadvantage against both infantry and cavalry in a "stand up" fight, but their combination of speed and firepower made them ideal for patrolling, scouting, seizing and holding key points, etc. In the 19th century, the introduction of rifles changed the equation further, by making guns longer ranged, and through the addition of the "repeating" feature. At this point, riflemen on horses were at a disadvantage against riflemen on foot, but the cavalry did have the advantage of getting to key points faster. Using this advantage, cavalry would (mostly) fight dismounted, with one-fourth of the men holding the horses of three others. In a war in which (cavalry) general Nathan Bedford Forrest described as "getting there firstest with the mostest," the advantage of faster arrival often outweighed the disadvantage of a one-quarter reduction in manpower. Even so, traditional cavalry (with lances) was still good for some things, like attacking artillery positions and "running down" fleeing infantrymen from broken formations. These advantages were more apparent in the plains of Eastern Europe (and in Spanish possessions), than in the more broken ground of the rest of Western Europe. So many East European armies reserved a some cavalry for such purposes, while other armies largely switched to infantry. In this regard, the (remaining) use of cavalry was kind of like the old rock-scissors-paper game. 

In their book, "Generations,"William strauss and Neil Howe describe the Puritans as both, "progressive" when young, "prudes" when old. This is more or less true of the so-called "Idealist" generational types, the latest of which is the Baby Boomers. The Puritans (and other Idealists) are born after their parents have waged and won a successful war (Armada War with Spain for the Puritans, World War II for the Baby Boomers.) These children are born into a halcyon "New Age" time, and given free rein for intellectual exploration, while their parents (a different, "civic" achetype), try to make the world "work." Such Idealist generations are therefore "progressive," in their thinking (for their time), and narrow gender differences, allowing their women more participation in society than their mothers enjoyed. Idealists, including Puritans, are therefore more "romantic" than other generations. As rising adults, Idealists, tear down society with "Great Awakenings, such as those of the 1640s, 1730s, 1830s, and 1960s, having morphed from youthful "free thinkers" into "radicals" distrusted by their immediate elders and juniors. They then spend their midlives building a new society, creating a "perfect" world (for them), and warning their children against too much "change." Their aging process takes a longer time than is true for other generations, and they become prudes at the end. Young 19th century "Victorians" remembered the older, not the younger version of the 17th century Puritans, which is to say the more prudish one. 

Here's the version I've been given. (I posted the question to solicit other answers as a "cross-check.") My answer differs from the others insofar as it (supposedly) occurred in the LATE, rather than early, Middle Ages. Apparently, it was a life cycle management tool. The cycle would begin when an "established" knight of around 35 married a young noblewoman aged about 20. And they would usually begin a family. About ten years later, when the husband was about 45 and the wife about 30, she would begin an (initially) platonic relationship with an "apprentice" knight (or "knight errant" in the prevailing terminology), some 10-15 years younger, in his late teens. She would seal the relationship by giving him a personal token such as a ring or handkerchief, which he would wear. This was known as "wearing a lady's favor." These liaisons were quite open, insofar as "everyone" knew which knight was wearing which lady's favor. And as will be seen, this served as a form of "engagement." The young knight errant would then go off to war, (hopefully) returning some eight or ten years later. By that time, the husband would (probably) be dead (medieval life expectancy was something like early 50s for the nobles, much less for peasants), the lady would be about 40, and the young knight would be in his mid-to-late 20s. At this point, the relationship would be consummated. They might sometimes marry, mostly not, especially if the lady had children. Eight or ten years after this, the lady would be dead (or close to), while the knight would be in his mid to late 30s, and begin the cycle again by taking a 20-ish wife. Did such couples "cheat" (by having sex while the husband was still alive)? Of course some did. But most did not. Ladies usually held off until about age 40 1) so that their husbands and lovers would die naturally and not kill each other in duels, and 2) until after they became post-menopausal in order not to have two sets of children. The need arose because of the "conventional" 15 year age difference between an "established" knight and a barely post-pubescent bride. Courtly love would provide "second husbands" for all the widows involved, and "Mrs. Robinsons" to help transition graduated knights into married life. I read somewhere that this was an impetus for the Crusades. Can't provide real sources, but it might make sense intuitively, insofar as there are a bunch of young knights errants seeking to prove themselves to their ladies (and hoping for a "reward" when they return). 

The Democratic-Republican Party was a term used mainly by historians and political scientists. It was initially called the "Republican" party by its founders. Only rarely was it called the Democratic-Republican party by its own members. The party consisted of the people who weren't "Federalists," the party of a strong central government. The "Republicans" were advocates of "states rights" and other forms of local government. After Washington and Hamilton died, the Federalist party collapsed, and almost everyone became a "Republican," including John Q. Adams whose background was more nearly "Federalist." (His father, John Adams was a Federalist.) At that point, the "Republican" party split into the National Republican (later Whig) wing, under Adams Jr., and the "Democrat" party under Jackson. Since it also included future "Democrats," the original "Republican" party was (retroactively) named the "Democratic-Republican" party to distinguish it from the future "Republican" parties that didn't include "Democrats." 

The Axis almost certainly couldn't win World War II if the U.S. had intervened in a timely fashion in favor of the others. They Axis MIGHT have won World War II absent such U.S. intervention. In order of descending importance, here were the impact of potential U.S. contributions.