You haven't said what country you're riding in or whether it's on or off-road, and this makes a big legal difference. In the UK at least, if you're riding on the road you must have a white front light on your bike. In addition, the light must be on the centre-line on your bike, or to the off-side of that (i.e. towards the centre of the road). It must not be on the near-side (the half nearer the kerb) because that might give other road users a false idea of your position. In this country, only lights attached to your bike count: any lights or reflectives on your person (clothes, helmet, or anything else) are irrelevant. If you're riding with only helmet light(s), you are not legally lit. At first glance, this might not seem to matter, as it's unlikely the police would stop you, even when they're specifically targeting unlit bikes, but in the event of an accident, being legally unlit would make it much harder for you to make a claim against the other party, even if the accident is their fault. 

Racers might call it "slipstreaming", but normal road users call it "tailgating". Other than in controlled conditions (like a race, or a cycling club ride), you shouldn't attempt it. It's dangerous, and no less rude than if you do it in a car. If I catch you doing this behind me, I'll slow down until you back off, just like with any other tailgating vehicle. And if you "invite" me to tailgate you by overtaking and cutting me up, I'll probably respond with a rude gesture. 

The other answer is a pretty good list of differences, so I'm going to try to complement it with a fluffier, more hands-on answer that I think better describes the experience of riding with hub gears. I switched from derailleur to a Shimano 8-speed hub two years ago. My daily commute was 8 km each way back then, in all weathers. The short answer is that you don't have to think so much. I often call hub gears "Homer Simpson gears": gear goes up, gear goes down, gear goes up, gear goes down. It's that simple. With derailleur gears, while coasting on the approach to a junction, I would do one revolution of the pedals and change down, just in case I would have to stop at the junction. If I didn't stop, I'd have to change back up as I started pedalling out of the junction. Now I don't bother with that. If I know I have to stop (e.g. when coming up to a red light), I can change down while coasting; if I have to stop unexpectedly (e.g. at a pedestrian crossing, or a give-way with poor visibility), I can change down while I'm stationary. I never have to start in the wrong gear. It took me a month or two to get out of the habit of doing that one rev while changing down. I did an organised charity ride last year. I could always tell when I was coming up to a hill, by the crunching noise of people leaving it too late to change down, and I sailed past them effortlessly. Hubs share the derailleur problem that they can't change gear while there's too much force on the pedal, but when changing gear on a derailleur you have to wait for the chain to completely locate on the new chainring, whereas it takes less than half a second for the hub to click into its new gear. This makes it much easier to ease off the pedal a little to make the change, even on the hill, and means you don't need to plan ahead for it. People are often worried about not having so many gears on a hub as they did with derailleurs. I've found the range on mine pretty adequate. The bottom "granny" gear is great for getting stuck behind a family going up a narrow bridge. Once or twice while going downhill I've wished for an extra gear or two at the top, but I have to be really putting my foot down on the flat to even get into 7th. Mainly, of the eight gears I have, I use 4, 5, and 6 on the flat. I couldn't imagine finding the range inadequate unless you were often hauling a heavy trailer or live in a mountain range. There's one difference bigger than these day-to-day things. As I say, I've had this bike for two years. It lives outside, and gets ridden in all weathers. It did about 5000 km in its first year; less in the second year as my commute is shorter now. It hasn't been back to the shop for a service yet, and I'm still on the original chain (which I clean and lube less often than I ought to). It still rides as smoothly today as the day I rode it home from the shop. In fact, it's smoother now, as the 4→5 change was a bit sticky for the first month. (Apparently you often get some slightly sharp edges when they're new, and it just takes a little use to smooth them off a bit.) The efficiency is still pretty good, though I'm sure the chain has stretched a bit, and the gear changes are perfect. I don't see the behaviour you get from derailleurs, where as the chain wears, the top and bottom gears become harder to get to. I don't have to keep adjusting the tension of the shifter cable, and the chain never comes off. And according to the man in the shop, he won't need to service the hub for another year yet. Add this to the reduced chain wear you get from never pulling the chain at an angle, and you get one reliable ride. To summarise:- 

I am an Audax club member and so am mostly riding on high speed country roads - B class highways in the main. Firstly I would say that just as a good driver should be using a 'system of car control' to avoid collisions, then in exactly they same manner, and with exactly the same system, so should a bike rider. And this would be whether in the city or the country. Bike riders should be even more diligent in using such a system because if they are hit they have absolutely no protection - just a foam helmet! The well recognised 'system of car control' emphasises the importance of knowing what is all around - both in front, and behind, on a regular 10 to 12 second basis. That is, the rear-view mirror should be checked about every 10 to 12 seconds in a car, and whenever a hazard is first detected. I do the same on my bike - both in city and country riding. I use a good sized mirror that is sturdy, does not vibrate on coarse metal roads, or get pushed around by the wind, and is either flat or only very slightly curved. The mirror should be able to see a silver or white car at least 300m away. They are the hardest to see because they can blend in with the clouds. A curved mirror is not up to the job. And there are an awful lot of silver cars out there! Although a curved mirror, not too small or too curved, is ideal for the city. I have also developed a particular system I call 'trigger points' - points in the ride that trigger me to check my mirror, over and above the regular 10 - 12 second checks. These trigger points are due to three hazards that are of particular relevance to riders, especially on high speed country roads, to avoid being hit by a car coming from behind. Those that overtake when it is not safe to do so. The three situations, or hazards, that cause me to instantly check the mirror are a) an ONCOMING CAR, b) a BLIND CORNER less than 200m ahead (or less than 100m - 150m behind),or c) a BLIND CREST less than 200m ahead (or less than 100 - 150m behind). I have observed that a) in the situation of an on-coming car, and another car coming up from behind, most (I estimate 80% to 90% of drivers) do not do the right thing and slow down behind the bike, and wait until the oncoming car has passed before overtaking. b) and c) - In the case of blind corners and crests - Most drivers just hope that no car will suddenly appear from around that blind corner, or over that crest, while they are on the wrong side of the road. I do not take the "bugger you, I'm all right" approach. That is, just keep riding along hoping that if a car does approach from behind, that the car will do the right thing and slow down and wait. But if they don't, and then have an accident - a head-on-collison, or a side swipe with the oncoming car, or a roll over as they try to avoid that car . . . "Well it wasn't my fault - it was their fault. I was entitled to be on the road - they should have waited before overtaking . . . I never got hit, so too bad people, sorry you are injured, or dead, but at least I am still alive. And I did not break the law - you did." Of course the bike rider will also be at risk in these situations, whether by the overtaking car suddenly realising they are in trouble and just trying to miss the rider by a few cm, or actually deciding that they have to save their own neck by wiping out the cyclist! By doing that mirror check when triggered, in that 200m 'danger zone' before those three particular hazards, then I have plenty of time to move right over to the left of the bitumen so that any overtaking car can safely pass without having to cross the centre line. Or if the sealed surface is not wide enough, I have plenty of time to slow down to a safe speed so that I can go onto the unsealed side of the road. Either stopping if it is unsafe for my tyres, or continuing riding slowly until the cars have passed, and I check the mirror, plus head turn, before going back to the bitumen. All this is just exactly what good car drivers do anyway - use the same system. 

It's normal for the lock itself to rattle if you shake it, especially when it's folded up. That said, I have an earlier model of the lock, and mine doesn't rattle audibly when it's in the rubber carrying case: the case is tight enough to stop it rattling. It's possible that Abus have made the case a little looser in newer versions, to make it easier to insert and remove the lock. Is it definitely the lock rattling, rather than the case itself? The case has a metal plate that the bottle-cage bolts sit against, and if one of them is slightly loose, the weight of the lock would cause the case to rattle. Try tightening the screws. Alternatively, it could be that when inside the case, the lock is in contact with a bike component (such as the mounting for the front derailleur) and that's causing the rattle. If you have a second mounting point, it might be worth trying that to avoid wear to the fouled component. 

As a natty man-about-town, I don't like to go out without a hat. As I always go out by bike, this limits my hat selection considerably to those that will stay attached to my head in any wind, but not using a chin strap or similar which might risk strangling me if the hat gets caught in low overhanging branches. My everyday solution to this problem is the flat cap. It's smarter than a cycling cap or baseball cap, and its modest peak doesn't generate enough lift to carry it aloft except in the strongest head winds. It also helps that flat caps have been fashionable for the last few years. Flat caps really don't go with formalwear, though. If I'm cycling to a job interview or a formal dinner, and I'm wearing a suit or a dress suit, I can't wear a flat cap, a sports cap, or a beanie over that. My hair isn't long enough to support a hat pin of the kind you'd see in a ladies' hat. Is there a style of hat that would satisfy both the practical and sartorial constraints of that situation?