Not sure if my math is correct here, but using a triangle solver, and assuming that the up-sweep and backsweep act over a distance of 250 mm, (390 is half the bar, minus a bit for the middle part) the difference between 3 degrees and 5 degrees for the upsweep translates to 9 mm difference in rise, and the different between 7 degrees and 9 degrees for backsweep also translates to 9 mm difference (same difference in angles). Since the backsweep is less on the new bars your reach will be 9 mm longer, and the upsweep is higher on the new bars so the bars will be 9 mm higher. How this affects your ride I cannot say. Probably won't make a whole lot of difference, since the longer reach will be cancelled out a bit by the higher bars. 

So I ended up bringing the bike into the shop. The friendly bike mechanic had let me borrow and old bottom bracket tool because they didn't have any other tools in stock. Long story short, he ended up using a 6 foot pipe on his bottom bracket tool to get it to move. The tool by itself did no good and the impact wrench did nothing. I think I'm going to buy a different tool that lets me get in closer to the bottom bracket as that was definitely the problem on the non drive side. I tried holding the wrench as I turned it, and that let me put a little more force into it, but it still didn't work as well as it should. I'm convinced the design of my bottom bracket tool is flawed. 

The way I understand it is that a 26 inch wheel is shorter, and therefore has a shorter lever arm when stressing the spokes. Imagine you had an enormous wheel. Because it's so big, you'd need very little force along the rim of the tire to deform the rim. Now imagine a smaller 20 inch or even smaller wheel. You would required a lot of force to deform the rim because it's being applied closer to the hub. Also, assuming the same number of spokes, the smaller rim will have the spokes closer together on the rim. I was able to find a couple other sites that agree that smaller wheels are stronger. 700c vs 26inch Wheel Size for Touring This site states, among other information 

Depending on how comfortable your kids are on a bike, you could get something like the Trail-a-Bike Tandem It's as narrow as a regular bike. I don't have any experience with it, but it seems like it might work. Xtracycle also have various bolt on longtail attachments for regular bikes. I'm not sure if two four year olds would be too heavy on a longtail, but it could be an option. this guy seems to do it. Wouldn't be something you'd want to take on and off all the time like a trailer, but if you aren't doing any serious tours you could ride around on it without the kids. 

If this is what your bike looks like, then you need to loosen the two bolts I've labeled on both sides (4 total) and slide the wheel back until the belt is tensioned correctly. Make sure the wheel is straight and even on both sides when tightening everything back up. From looking at your pictures, it also looks like you should tighten the bolt on the inside of the chainstay where you've circled in red to prevent the wheel from slipping. 

I wear MEC Roubaix Tights down to about -10c and haven't had any problems with my legs or knees getting cold. The front and backs are made of different materials so the front of your legs stay warm because they stop the wind, and you legs stay cool (not sweating hot) because the backs are breathable and let the heat generated by your muscles out. I'm on my third season with them and they are still holding up quite well. Defintely worth the money. They might be a little warm to wear under trousers but they are close fitting enough that they would fit under baggy trousers. Although I just change at work when I get there. If you don't have actual change rooms and showers, the handicapped stall in the bathroom usually provides plenty of room for changing. As far as knee joint support goes, you should probably just get a proper knee support from the pharmacy, and wear it under (or over, depending on fit) the bike tights. 

I used hockey tape on the drop bars for my bike and I need to remove it to replace the brake levers. Over time, the tape has become melted/fused together, and I used lots of layers for extra cushioning, and I can't just peel it off. Are there any tips or tricks for removing it that don't require a Delorean to undo my bad decision to use hockey tape in the first place. 

I have cantilever brakes on my bike so I know the feeling. They just seem much more likely to squeal than any other type of brakes I've owned. In the spring I had a bit of squealing. I cleaned off the rim, readjusted everything (cables, toe-in, etc.), and sanded down the brake pads a bit and everything seemed to be pretty good. I also think it's something to do with the temperature. Ever since the temperature started to drop, my front brake (also cantilever) has been squealing a lot. Even during the summer the first few times I would use my brakes they would squeal, but once they warmed up they seemed to work fine. I wonder if anybody makes a special brake shoe using a different rubber for cold weather braking. 

I just checked my bottles, and they don't contain an icon saying they are dishwasher safe, but it does thankfully have the "food safe" icon. On the manufacturer web site it says that the bottles are dishwasher safe, but to avoid using the 'sanitary clean' or 'heat boost' settings as they may distort the plastic. It also goes on to say that the recommended way of washing them is by hand. Following the manufacturers advice is probably the best option. Personally, I just use regular dish soap (Sunlight) and water. Once in a while I'll do the full brake down pulling off the silicone nozzle and soaking them in very hot water with some added bleach. After letting them soak for a while, I'll rinse them thoroughly and then finish off with soap and water method. I also try to use certain bottles only for water and try to never put anything other than water in them. Bottles that get Gatorade or similar tend to take on the taste of the drink and therefore don't work well with water. The ones that have only water in them tend to last longer and the ones that get Gatorade are replaced more frequently.