The so-called Silly Walk Song by the Monty Python troupe (lyrics and video here, lyrics in text form here) is mostly a lament of the tedium and futility of a life of money-induced drudgery. But there are a few lines which are much darker and don't quite seem to fit with the tone of the rest of the song: 

And don't forget, there's even more Middle-Earth material to read after LotR and the Silmarillion! You've still got the 12-volume History of Middle-Earth to look forward to. I haven't read this one, so I'm not sure how much is gained by reading it in order, but you may be interested to read this post in order to see how to read the whole thing (HoME, Sil, and LotR) in in-universe chronological order. Whether that's a good way to read HoME the first time, or a fun exercise for a reread of the entire mythos, would be a topic for a different question. 

But I now believe that this apparently throwaway remark, from the narrator's internal monologue in the third paragraph, is more significant than it seems. The building symbolises the family, and we can see this connection in many different ways throughout the story. 

Descriptive detail. The story goes into detail in explaining the names of various people, ships, and inns ... but not those of Ishmael and Ahab. Not explaining his own name makes sense, as it's not a new thing to him and he wouldn't have any particular reason to think about it and its background. But why omit explaining someone else's name? Unless that someone else is also the same person. Knowledge and experience. It's made clear at the beginning of the book that Ishmael hasn't been on a whaling voyage before ... but he seems to have an awful lot of knowledge and even experience about whaling. This would be consistent with an experienced whaler telling a story while pretending to be a newbie: signs of their knowledge would slip through occasionally despite their best efforts. 

In Act IV, Scene IV of The Winter's Tale, Perdita is "mistress o' the feast", playing hostess at the sheep-shearing feast, when King Polixenes and Camillo arrive in disguise. Perdita gives them both flowers, accompanied by the following short speech: 

I just read Brooke Bolander's short story "Our Talons Can Crush Galaxies", which has been nominated for both Hugo and Nebula Awards for Best Short Story after its publication less than a year ago (November 2016) in Uncanny Magazine. It's very short and you can read it in full here (warning: contains strong language and potentially disturbing content, about assault and gruesome revenge). My question is, exactly what manner of being is the narrator? We can tell from the story that she's one of a group of sisters from a millennia-old civilisation, who speak an ancient language, possess great power, and can pass in and out of the "mortal plane". Does the text or subtext suggest a particular civilisation and language, a particular kind of mythical creature? Or is it meant to be vague about her exact nature and leave it to our imaginations? 

He realises that more is at stake than he'd thought. Firstly, note that TenSoon's change of heart is more gradual than you've made it sound. OK, it's still pretty quick from the point of view of a centuries-old creature, but it doesn't all happen in a single chapter. There's actually a whole series of passages which show the change step by step. 

All quotes are from the John Cournos translation, first published in 1910 and freely available from Wikisource on the page linked above. 

Mouse whiskers, like those of male humans, grow back after having been trimmed or even removed entirely. So it's possible for the whisker-trimming to take place as part of a never-ending loop: by the time the sequence of events returns to the whisker-trimming stage, the whiskers have grown back enough to be trimmed again. In reality this would probably take a lot longer than a single day to happen, but the writer is using artistic licence to truncate the circular series of events into a manageably short narrative. 

The short story "The Thousand-and-Second Tale of Scheherezade" by Edgar Allan Poe details a great many wonders of the more modern world being described by Scheherezade to her husband, in terms familiar to them, in such a way that they would have sounded preposterous to people of their time. In my edition of the Collected Works of Poe, this story comes with multiple footnotes to specify the exact nature as we know it of each wonder that Scheherezade describes. Footnotes are also included in, for example, this online version. Are the footnotes part of Poe's original text of the story, identical since its first publication? Or were they added later by an editor seeking to make the story more easily understandable? 

Besides, it's no surprise to us, right? Whenever a character in literature has a 'mystery father', it usually turns out to actually be some other character in the book. And nobody would fit better than Wednesday, the man who hired Shadow and looked after him and brought him into the world of gods. Well, Shadow used to read a lot of fiction too - perhaps, in some sort of meta sense, he's unsurprised for just the same reason we are. 

Gypsies as moths Well, for one thing, they're gypsy moths, so even the name fits. Also, moths fit with an imagery of itinerancy - flitting from place to place, but never stopping for long - which makes them a reasonable choice to symbolise gypsies. Also, Spiegelman has a story about where the inspiration came from for this: 

Artax lacks the willpower even to try to extricate himself, let alone to survive slogging back to the outside of the swamp. Atreyu tries his best to pull him out, but there's nothing he can do. It's not just drowning in the black water that kills Artax; it's his own apathy. 

It seems to have been first published posthumously in 1929. The book A New Matrix for Modernism: A Study of the Lives and Poetry of Charlotte Mew and Anna Wickham by Nelljean Rice calls it "one of her last poems", and she died on 24 March 1928. The book In Nature's Name: An Anthology of Women's Writing and Illustration, 1780-1930 edited by Barbara T. Gates sources it to her collection The Rambling Sailor, which was first published in 1929. So it's not clear exactly when it was written, but the late 1920s seems like the best guess. 

In essence, yes. There might be a bit of poetic licence in the foreword to his short stories - I wouldn't be surprised if he somewhat exaggerated the description of events for dramatic effect - but the bare bones of the story, about coyotes attacking his dog, does seem to be true. At least, he posted about it on Twitter at the time and everyone seemed to take it completely seriously. 

I recently heard a theory that parts of Tolkien's legendarium and the Lord of the Rings story may have been inspired by the real-life Ring of Silvianus: 

All of this suggests something more than mere professional respect for Moriarty's intelligence and skill. Holmes explicitly says that his 'duel' with Moriarty was the greatest height of his career as a detective, and that in order to defeat this single enemy he would gladly accept his own destruction. The above quotes definitely imply a special relationship between the two, which, yes, could definitely be described as their being "arch-enemies" to each other. 

It's well known that the home of Odysseus, as described in Homer's Odyssey, was the island of Ithaca. There's a modern-day Greek island called Ithaca, and according to Wikipedia: 

What are the "mind-forged manacles"? I think understanding this should be the key to appreciating the whole poem. The first verse is mostly scene-setting, and the last two are about specific examples of misery in London. The phrase "mind-forged manacles" seems to be the core of this poem. How are the metaphorical manacles forged by minds - and by whose minds? The people's themselves, or their oppressors'? 

When reading a play in written form, it's easy to tell the difference: prose runs all the way to the end of the line and doesn't have capital letters at the start of every line, while in verse (either blank or rhyming) each line usually ends after roughly the same number of syllables and the next line starts with a capital letter. When seeing a play being performed - at least if it's performed well - it can be hard to distinguish by ear between prose and blank verse, but rhyming verse is more noticeable. It's interesting to note the historical context here. Shakespeare was writing at just around the time that prose was supplanting verse as the primary means for writing fiction, which explains why we see such a mixture in his plays, as well as why the proportion of prose to verse generally increases from earlier plays to later ones. Quoting from this very informative British Library article: 

But neither of the above-linked Wikipedia pages includes any source for this claim. Is Snufkin really based on Atos Wirtanen? In what aspects of him does this come across? 

First of all, even the manner of her creation hints at an unusual distance from sexuality. She wasn't born in the usual way, but sprang fully formed and armoured from the forehead of her father Zeus. Some versions of this myth say that Zeus slept with Metis before swallowing her in fear of her prophesied offspring, and that Metis then gave birth to Athena within Zeus, but this is not universally agreed upon. Justin Martyr's Apology says (emphasis mine): 

Karp's conclusion is that the missing word is "monster". But in the end, it doesn't matter what the exact word is. It's clearly something negative. For context, this is during the period when Atreyu and Falkor are beginning to doubt what Bastian is doing, but well before Xayide shows up and they fall out with him completely. They're beginning to turn against what seems to be the established tide of events; daring to criticise the person who, however gently, guides that tide must be part and parcel of the same thought process. And stifling their own criticisms is also consistent with their current state of mind: they haven't really spoken out against Bastian yet, and as Fantasticans they'd be even more loath to speak against the Childlike Empress. 

Edward Bulwer-Lytton's novel Paul Clifford is most famous for its opening phrase, "It was a dark and stormy night". Today, this phrase is seen as a textbook example of purple prose - writing which is overly extravagant and flowery, drawing the reader's attention more to the words than the story. In the context of the original novel, was this really purple prose? Was the novel full of purplitude elsewhere, or was it (for its time) a reasonably ordinary piece of writing? The book is available on Project Gutenberg, so you can read it yourself if necessary to judge its purpleness or otherwise. 

This description, up to changes in the numbers involved, seems to be a common exercise set to physics students. I've found people asking for help with this problem or trivial variants at Yahoo Answers, Chegg, Physics Forums, PTC, Express Helpline, as well as actual answer sheets from a college physics course ... and all of these links were just on the first page of Google results for . Having studied maths and physics, I can tell you two things from experience. 

Some years ago I studied many of Blake's Songs of Innocence and of Experience. Many of them are very clearly paired up, an Innocence song and an Experience song deliberately written to compare and contrast with each other: not only those with identical titles such as "Nurse's Song" and "Holy Thursday", but also others with parallel structures such as "The Lamb" and "The Tyger". In this excellent answer to another Blake question, Torisuda says: 

I'm working through the long poem "V" by Tony Harrison (available here). The narrator is describing the graffiti scrawled by football supporters, with "V" denoting "versus", as in "Leeds V [another team]". In the middle of this, he stops to draw a contrast with a different kind of V written up in public: