The more densely packed snow became, the better. Some municipalities even had special "snow rollers" to compress the snow: 

Yes, there was a definite city/folk divide in European musical cultures. City dwellers, especially the more educated, listened to classical music. A conscious "back to the country" movement developed within classical musical culture. It is perhaps best known through Brahms' Hungarian Dances and then Dvorak's Slavonic Dances, which together had been written approx. 1869-1886. However, two other composers more seriously studied folk music in order to incorporate their themes into classical music. Relevant to OP's question, part of the inspiration for this movement came from the writings of Maxim Gorky: 

Source: Claude S. Fischer's "America Calling: A Social History of the Telephone to 1940" is my source for most of the above. All page numbers refer to that book. 

The intensity of BDS could still have helped some South Africans to realize that their economic isolation was (in part) due to global perceptions of their social policies, and that ending apartheid would allow them to integrate more fully into the world economy. If so, BDS was strangely more effective as an economic carrot than stick. 

Of course, the time it would take a message to get from one remote part of the empire to another equally remote part could be considerably longer than two weeks. 

Well, the same goes for the history. There are an infinity of possible facts that a historian could study, a teacher teach, or a politician or activist mention in a speech. Ideology helps us decide which segment of that meaningless infinity of the world process we will confer significance upon and call "history." 

Realpolitik: American foreign policy under Washington, Adams, and Jefferson was aimed at threading the needle between England and France, avoiding European entanglements. Getting involved in Haiti would have angered at least one of them. Better to sit back and let the European empires expend their own resources. Also, intervention would have been impractical militarily. Haitians had already defeated a 44,000 man army sent by France. France suffered as many combat deaths in Haiti as Americans did during the Revolution. The United States had a very small standing army at the time (7,000 at the start of the War of 1812), and most of it was tied up fighting American Indians on the frontier. As the War of 1812 would show, militia were ineffective when not fighting on their home territory. So the United States would have had to suffer great casualties in order for a cause that wasn't its own. In short, Jefferson wanted an independent, white-ruled Haiti but did not have the military means to achieve regime change. Instead, he turned to economic coercion: 

Mafia aid to the United State's war effort was fairly limited. Probably most importantly, the mafia agreed to guarantee cooperation of New York dockworkers with the US Navy. The Navy was concerned both with avoiding strikes and guarding against potential saboteurs: 

But this is a pretty mild condemnation--he doesn't single out gladiatorial fighting as any worse than plays or horse races. I see Seneca's name most often associated with criticisms of gladiatorial fights, but he comes off like a lone voice in the wilderness. He thought the games desensitized viewers, and because of them: 

However, the author of this piece attributes the equation of Yam and northern Nubia with an unfortunate tendency to assume any place name south of Egypt must be Nubian: 

Hamilton, although still friendly with Burr as of 1800, did not agree with this assessment. Hamilton remarked that Jefferson "at least had pretensions to character." Burr, on the other hand, "is sanguine enough to hope every thing--daring enough to attempt every thing--wicked enough to scruple nothing." Even though Hamilton knew "if there be a man in the world I ought to hate, it is Jefferson," he thought the country was safer in the hands of a competent and virtuous (if misguided) ideologue like Jefferson than in a reckless self-server like Burr. Accordingly, Hamilton launched a vigorous campaign for Jefferson (p. 284). But Hamilton's arguments weren't enough, so deeply did most Federalists distrust Jefferson. Congress voted 35 times without resolving the presidential election. Finally, a Delaware Federalist got assurances second-hand that Jefferson reportedly "would preserve the Federalist financial program, maintain the navy, and refrain from dismissing subordinate Federalist officeholders except for cause." This was enough assurance, and on the 36th ballot, some Federalists abstained from voting, which was enough to throw the presidency to Jefferson over Burr (p. 285). 

There isn't anything approaching annual time series data on these questions, so economic historians have to estimate them from other data. Kugler and Bernholz estimate that Spanish inflation averaged 1.1-1.4% per annum in the 16th century. This may sound low by modern standards, but it was quite high considering that early modern economies generally exhibit very stable price levels. (Piketty talks about this extensively in the historical portions of "Capital in the 21st Century.") Your question about the "amount of silver or gold possessed by the crown" may be better treated as a question about flows, not stocks. If the crown hoarded all the precious metals imported from America, it would have no effect on the monetary supply. But there's no doubt that the crowns acquired - and spent - prodigious amounts of "new" silver and gold in the 16th century. As Kugler and Bernholz show in Figure 1.1, the real increase in precious metal imports from the New World only begins to accelerate around the discovery of Potosi in 1545 (for a total of around 150,000 tons of silver). But then why did inflation characterize European economies from the very beginning of the 1500s? Central European silver output doubled at the beginning of the century, due both to new mining methods and the opening of new mines. Central European silver production declined sharply in the 1530s, but Potosi and the New World would more than make up for this slack within a decade. Here's a nice graph showing consumer price inflation from 1300-1600: And here's one looking at wheat prices in London only: Just eyeballing these, inflation may have picked up in the early 1500s, but 1545 looks like the real discontinuity to me. 

Actuarial science was just getting started in the 17th century, so we can answer this question with some specificity--for London and Breslow, anyway. John Graunt made the following life table for London in 1662 (source): 

Meyer Lansky played an important role as go-between for the government and the Italian mob. Unsurprisingly, the Jewish mob was eager to fight domestic Nazi sympathizers: 

Jane Addams was so dedicated to playgrounds that Hull House offered a two-year course on the topic of the playground. Carmelita Hinton, an alumna of this program, went on to invent and patent the jungle gym in 1920 together with her husband. The New Deal provided the funds to make the playground ubiquitous. The infamous Robert Moses ("a product of the progressive playground movement") was appointed NYC's park commissioner in 1934: 

34/73 = 46.6%, which compares to an ownership rate of 34.2% in all South Carolina households in 1790. That makes South Carolinian Jews 36% more likely to have owned slaves than the average South Carolinian, not 2000%. Those 34 Jewish slave-owning households were out of 8,859 total slave-owning households in 1790's South Carolina: Jews were 0.4% of slave owners in South Carolina in 1790. Still, this figure of "40%" is based on too small a sample to allow for extrapolation of Jewish slaveholding patterns to other states. It also may be high, because Stern's study shows that rates of Jewish slave ownership are correlated with base rates of slave ownership in their home state--South Carolina, of course, had a higher rate of slave ownership than most other Southern states. The better estimate for rates of slave ownership would be the one Semaphore found in Junius Rodriguez's Historical Encyclopedia of World Slavery. That entry estimates that 25% of Jewish Southerners owned slaves. That estimate seems to come from a study of wills, summarized here: 

Update: @TylerDurden suggested the Smithsonian as a source. This article seems to support native Nabatean craftsmanship. For example: 

The United States did not experience famine conditions during the Great Depression. Consider that a major economic problem during the Depression was that there was too much food. This "excess" supply made food too cheap, which bit into farmers' profits. To address the "problem" of overproduction, the government paid farmers not to plant crops: 

"Exit" was even less attractive when construction teams were working in wildernesses miles away from Chinese communities. Such distance and isolation made "voice" a poor option as well. Chinese laborers on the Central Pacific maintained a strike for about a week, but it was destined to fail. Remember, construction crews were like moving cities, and so all food and supplies was delivered to these crews along the single track stretching back to its point of origin. In other words, the railroad company controlled the food supply. 

If you want to check the math about the percentage of Southern families owning slaves, you can refer to these figures. Here's my tabulation: 

I think you are talking about the rise of mercantilism. Mercantilism can be thought of as an outgrowth of military competition. As armies became more expensive (due in part to the culmination of bastard feudalism), rulers in the 16th century realized that they needed to improve state revenues. However, existing modes of governance really were not up to the task--and so the additional expense of building a competent administrative bureaucracy was added to the expense of paying soldiers. This would take time, as European rulers had little understanding of how markets functioned or how to engage in economic regulation. By the 17th century, some of the most important advisers to kings were economic advisers. Most famous is Jean-Baptiste Colbert. In the 18th century, you begin to see formal bodies of knowledge about the economy emerge. The Physiocrats may have been wrong about most things, but without them there is no modern economics. In short, the paradigm shift occurred over centuries, and it occurred in parallel with the rise of the modern state (starting roughly in the 15th century). Mercantilism was an important intermediate step on the road, superseded in many Western countries in the 19th century by liberal forms of economic governance which are, mutatis mutandis, still with us in the 21st century. 

I wouldn't worry about medical science interfering with these trends much, as doctors were as likely to hurt patients as help them until the 19th century. Really high quality crime stats only started to be collected in the 19th century, so Pinker's measures here are about as good as we can do AFAIK. 

All told, around .75% of Breslau's population was over 80. This is similar enough to Graunt's table that these tables are taken to be roughly representative of northern European cities at the time. In the contemporary American population, 3.6% of the population is over 80 and .1% of the population is aged 95 to 99. So to address your final point, living to 80 in the 17th century was more like living to 90 today. But like @Semaphore points out above, these stats aren't directly comparable because mortality was more concentrated in childhood than it is now. Anyone who wants to calculate life expectancy at age 21 in 1693 and compare to the same in 2010 is more than welcome to. 

Upon peace with Britain, a final surveying trip was completed during 1784-1786. Having definitively set the southeastern corner of PA, the surveyors could then definitively set the western border of PA. But by then, the Land Ordinance of 1785 gave all territory north of the Ohio River to the federal government, which would sell the land in order to raise revenue and (eventually) form new states. So Virginia was left with the tiny sliver of land west of Pennsylvania and south of the Ohio River. And of course, West Virginia took control of the panhandle after the Wheeling Convention of 1861. 

If making women into lazy, time-wasting spendthrifts who don't exercise weren't enough, the telephone would also make them impertinent shrews: 

There was nothing unusual about slaves with classical names. Julius Caesar Chappelle was born into slavery in South Carolina before going on to serve in the MA state legislature. There are slave narratives written by Lucius Henry Holsey and Octavia V. Rogers Albert. This will mentions slaves with the names Caesar, Bacchus, and Pallas, while this will mentions slaves named Cato and Antony. Here's a slave named Augustus and two slaves named Zeno. Thomas Jefferson had a slave named Jupiter. Using the slaves names index, I've confirmed multiple slaves named Julius, Brutus, Pompey, Scipio, Junius, Claudius, Cornelius, and one Remus. Consider that when Joel Chandler Harris named his famous narrator--a kindly, folksy, former slave--Harris chose the name Uncle Remus. Why name slaves after Roman gods and nobility? Classical names were just much more common in the 19th century: Aside from Cassius Marcellus Clay, we have the politicians Brutus Junius Clay, Julius Caesar Alford, Augustus Porter, Pompey Strickland, Marcus Weyland Beck, Lucius Lyon, Caesar Rodney, Theodorus Bailey, Horace Mann, and Rufus King. Similarly, we have moguls like Junius Spencer Morgan and Cornelius Vanderbilt and military men like Horatio Gates, Ulysses S. Grant, and Sylvanus Thayer. And finally, we have the not-so-famous Flavius Josephus Ballou. Departing from the Roman theme, we have the still-classical Hannibal Hamlin, Cyrus Hamlin, Darius Couch, and Lysander Cutler. Names like Homer, Anthony, and Alexander were also quite popular at the time. 

The granddaddy of them all, George Washington became Senior Officer of the United States Army from July 1798 until his death in December 1799. He would have been Commander-in-Chief of armies raised had the Quasi-War progressed further. It's definitely a regular and permanent government role, though not civilian like the others. 

There was a great deal of diversity in native agricultural practices, even in an area as narrow as "the East Coast." William Cronon estimates that the crop-raising Indians of southern New England maintained 287 persons per hundred square miles, while the nonagricultural natives of Maine sustained populations of 41 persons per hundred square miles. Of course, there is also a great deal of diversity in the colonists' farming practices, but I assume you're asking about a family farm rather than a plantation using slave labor. In very early 17th century Rhode Island, plots of 5-6 acres were given to families on the assumption that they couldn't cultivate more. However, this underestimates population density because it ignores the commons. Plots of 50-80 acres made you relatively well-off in the Providence area, while along Long Island Sound farms of 200 acres were common (though these might be worked by extended families). There is some consensus that in New England, around 60 acres of land was needed to support a farm family in comfort, although some of that acreage was likely being used for wood or other purposes: