The lay community consider it a privilege to offer Dana to monks. A monk is a special person who has given up the comforts of lay life in search of spiritual liberation. Offering Dana to such a being is very meritorious(refer to Dakkhina Vibhanga Sutta). So the monks are actually doing a favor to the laypeople by accepting it. When going on alms round, a monk may give a short blessing, but it is not compulsory. If monks are invited to a house to receive the dana, they will usually give a sermon on invitation. From a monk's perspective, being worthy of it is the spirit of receiving generosity. In the Aggikkhandopama Sutta, lord Buddha explains what happens to the monks who are not worthy of the gifts received. From a giver's perspective, the receiver needn't have any standards. You can even give food to an animal and expect a 100 fold gift in return, according to Dakkhina Vibhanga Sutta. The more virtuous the receiver, the greater the merit. Generally, from a receiver's perspective, rather than just thanking as a common courtesy, it's more important to remember the favor and return the kindness as one is able when one gets the chance. SACCAṀKIRA-JĀTAKA gives a good example. Also, one can try to make the best use of the gift received to make the giver happier. 

This is actually nothing special to feel excited about. In Ayurvedic terms, when Vatha(air element) is imbalanced in the body, people tend to see dreams of flying. More information here On the other hand, the ability to fly through the air is just one of the many psychic feats an advanced meditator can perform. It has nothing to do with dreaming. It requires great dedication in the practice of Samatha meditation. Visuddhimagga explains how it can be achieved based on the 4th Jhana. 

If funds are limited and the opportunities to donate are plenty, you should find out which is the best place to donate as in who is genuine, who will benefit the most, who is the most worthy etc. It's an aspect of wisdom which guides Metta to have the best possible outcome. It's important to note the difference between worrying and looking for the best available option. The former is a consequence of clinging whereas the latter is a form of wisdom. The Skandhas(5 aggregates) is a different teaching which has nothing to do with Metta, except for Metta bieing an instance of Sankhara-skandha(mental formations). Metta can never be craving, but craving can disguise itself as Metta. Ex: Wanting to donate because the collection girl is pretty; wanting to join community service to get a chance to spend time with someone you are attracted to; wanting to donate to impress someone; wanting to donate to get a heavenly birth etc. Technically speaking, wanting to help the poor & the afflicted is more Karuna(compassion) than Metta. Metta is simply kindness. 

It is frowned upon in cultures influenced by Buddhism depending on the situation. If you are abandoning your family because of your sexual desire or craving towards wealth, fame, power of another person, it's frowned upon. If you are getting divorced simply to get away from responsibilities, it's frowned upon. If you are leaving the lay life to become a monk or a hermit, it's accepted. If you want a divorce because you don't get along well with your partner, you are first expected to try to correct yourselves. Be more tolerant of the differences and resolve your problems according to the Dhamma. There's very good advice on how to lead a successful marriage life in the Singalovada sutta. There's no 'soul-mate' concept among Buddhists as they don't believe in a soul. But the general advice is to stay celibate until you get married and limit yourself only to one partner afterwards. There's no encouragement to get divorced in Buddhism. You can make a case with the verse in the Dhammapada Balavagga which says: 

There are ten fetters eliminated in Vipassana meditation. Elimination does not occur before you reach the Sothapanna(stream enterer) state. Until then, fetters are only subdued. Once a fetter is eliminated, it's gone for good. Refer to the table below to know the fetters eliminated at each stage of the path. 

It depends on what services you are providing to the company. If you are just helping them to balance accounts, it'll be similar to the hunter's wife cooking the meat. But if you are actually involved in poison making or marketing of the product, it won't be a right livelihood. Even as an HR officer, if you are hiring people to make poison or butcher animals, it's not a right livelihood. As a lawyer, if you are helping the company to get away with environmental damage, tax fraud, public health concerns, it's not a right livelihood. Yes, it creates bad Karma. 

There's no belief for a Buddha. A Buddha is omniscient. He knows what is right and what is wrong by direct knowledge. Yes, the Buddha did uphold certain religious practices of the time which are congenial to the path. ex: The five precepts, 13 Dutangas, attainment of the Janas He also rejected many false views which the contemporary religions were based on. They are grouped into 62 in Brahmajāla sutta. 

No, the Blessed One renounced his will to live-on on his own volition since the bhikkhus and bhikkhunis, laymen and laywomen, have come to be true disciples... just like the paragraph says. It's not like Mara could've done anything about it, had the lord said no. Enlightened beings feel hunger, taste, smell and other bodily sensations caused by contact as long as they have functional sense doors. But they do not get sexual feelings as it requires lust to play it's part. 

A layman is not expected to lead a celibate life. What you are expected as a Buddhist is to avoid sexual misconduct. 

Snake charmers would know how to apply pressure at the neck or head to subdue them without causing injury. But you can try hitting the ground next to the snake with a stick and try to scare it. If it does not work, practice Uppekkha to keep yourself from giving into sadness. 

I stayed there for a short period about 8 years ago. You have to call the number in the website and book in advance. Mostly foreigners come to meditate there. Its free of charge but donations are accepted. Interactions with the locals are minimal. So you wouldn't face any cultural difficulties. The food is quite good. It is situated at a cold mountain area. So you neither need A/C nor have to worry about mosquitoes and snakes. Rooms are clean, spacious and have electricity. The beds are comfortable with warm blankets. There are several mats lying on the floor as well. The bathrooms are western style with hot showers. Attire: Anything that is decent. It doesn't have to be white. Rules: Keep quiet and keep clean. Sila: Eight Precepts (you will be given refreshments in the evening. You can bring a snack to eat at nights if you find it hard to keep to the 6th precept) Usually I got meditation instructions after the breakfast or lunch. In the evening you can meet venerable Madawala Upali(the head monk) to have a Dhamma discussion. He speaks English well. If you are into Abhidhamma or a fan of modern science, you will enjoy the talks as he was a former science teacher and a visiting lecturer of Buddhist philosophy at the Kelaniya University Course duration: 2 weeks. But you can stay longer or leave before. 

AFAIK, changing is probably the only thing common to both Buddhism and Darwin's theory of evolution. The law of Karma is an important teaching in Buddhism that explains a certain causes and effect process. The Buddha Dhamma is called Akaliko for 2 reasons: 

Yes, creating a Sasana is one of the main occupations of a fully awakened Buddha. If he didn't want to introduce a religion to the world which people can follow and attain enlightenment, he wouldn't have preached the Vinaya pitaka. 

No, the Theravada tradition wouldn't encourage things like driving around a truck full of shellfish in holy cities, hoping for them to somehow develop Saddha and get a higher birth. Only on very rare occasions, certain animals were able to listen to the Dhamma and benefit from it. So the Theravada tradition would consider it as a waste of time or borderline foolish behavior. Besides, the number of animals in the universe are said to be infinite. So even if that works, it's never going to end. 

It is said that there is no sermon without meditation. There were no buddhist monks when the Buddha attained enlightenment. The usual pattern is that the Buddha would preach the Dhamma to non-Buddhists and their minds would focus to a certain Dhamma teaching. In other words, they would meditate on the Dhamma, attain enlightenment or gain sufficient confidence and subsequently enter the order. 

I'm trying to find a specific story in where the Buddha spoke about the attainment of one Anagami lay person with a group of monks while praising his good qualities. Later, when those monks went for alms at his place, they informed him that the Buddha had spoken about his attainment. Then he asked the monks, if there were any lay persons present when the Buddha revealed it. The monks reported this back to the Buddha when they returned to the temple. Then the Buddha praised him again and said that is also another good quality of him. I've heard this story several times in sermons, when the question comes up, whether an enlightened being would reveal his attainment to others. 

Asking if "is there a soul in me?" or "is there not a soul?" are questions coming from a wrong framework to begin with. It's like asking "Does batman have a wife or does he not?". This question is invalid in the real world, because Batman only exists in the DC universe. Also, when you ask "is there a soul?", you have to first clarify 'is'. Are you referring to form? or is it feelings? or perception, mental formations, awareness? According to the Anatta Lakkhana Sutta, none of those qualify as a self. See if you can experience any reality that doesn't fall into those 5 categories? 

Reaching at least the Sotapanna state is the only 100% guarantee of not being born in lower realms ever again. But if you reach at least the second insight knowledge -Paccaya Pariggaha Nana of the 16 stages of insight towards becoming a Sotappanna, it is said that you will not be born in a lower realm in the immediate next life. If you are a devout Buddhist who keeps to the five precepts, it is highly unlikely to be born in a lower realm in the next life. But there's no guarantee. It mostly depends on the quality of your precepts. As in how well you keep to them. 

Stop focusing on "other people" and focus on the experience. Focus on what causes anger to arise in the mind. ex: If someone scolds at you, it's just sound hitting the ears. What's wrong with sound hitting the ears? Why you need to get so upset about it? Anger arises due to ignorance. Ignorance personifies the experiences caused by bad Karma. That leads to aversion.