Nowadays, we can hopefully see this for the naïveté it deserves. This doesn't keep people from asking about constructed languages, but I think history has taught us that language and culture are deeply intertwined. To provide a bit more of an idea of what Cosmopolis discusses: 

ℕ natural numbers: 1, 2, 3, … (some contest that 0 ∉ ℕ) ℕ0 non-negative integers: 0, ℕ ℤ integers: … -2, -1, ℕ0 ℚ rational numbers: ℤ/ℕ ℝ real numbers: infinite sums of ℚ (e.g. rearrangements of alternating harmonic series) ℂ complex numbers: solutions to polynomials with real (and complex) coefficients ℍ quaternions octonions sedenions 

And so, what's really the question is whether some kinds of intolerance are better than others. Intuitively, we want to say "Yes!", for it seems like being intolerant of rapists and murderers. But can this reasoning really extend everywhere folks want it to extend? For example, Steven D. Smith argues in The Disenchantment of Secular Discourse that the harm principle, when worked out in full legal detail, doesn't look at all like the intuitive version which was so alluring. I'm inclined to side with Alsadair MacIntyre in his After Virtue, and say that one cannot separate into "good intolerant" and "bad intolerant" without some kind of shared telos, shared common good and goal of the whole society. Without a shared telos, there is no effective way to verify that given formulations of intolerance continue to do things the entire society considers 'good'. Without some common standard which most citizens can access, it is simply too easy to slowly and gently manipulate people, bending them to the desires of the elite. There would be a Nietzschean imposition of the will by the powerful upon not just the weak, but the culpably ignorant. 

Assuming no argument for or against God is valid (hence we have nothing to dictate whether or not God exists), is it valid to say the chance that the Christian God exists is infinitesimal? It seems that there are infinite possible metaphysical realities (some with a God, some not), but only one has the Christian God. However, this reasoning may not be correct. First off, we have no idea what may or may not be possible in metaphysical realities. Also, what criteria can we use to differentiate between different metaphysical realities? So, is it valid to calculate the probability of different metaphysical realities, or do we just not know? 

I suppose it is difficult to try to picture nothingness, but I think it is meaningful to discuss. It is simply the non-existence of everything, which seems perfectly coherent and meaningful to me. 

Buridan's ass states a problem where a hypothetical donkey has to decide between two equal choices (food and water, an equal distance apart from the donkey). Since they are completely equal, neither is chosen and the donkey dies. This may be solved by randomness, but God is not random. Would this create a problem for God (God cannot choose either one), given that such situations where two equal choices can exist for him? 

A shorter version of my answer is that you are to blame to the extent that your friend needs to be treated like a child. We often do say that parents are to some extent responsible for their children's actions. 

has total ordering ? having zero is important now a ring now a field Dedekind-complete ordering linear ordering is lost commutativity is lost associativity is lost alternativity is lost 

There are two measures of truth at play:      (1) phenomenological matching      (2) ontological matching See Massimo Pigliucci's Essays on emergence, part I: 

(I note this to merely surprise those with certain conceptions.) The entire point of an experience machine is to shield a person from part of reality. Alternatively, we can think of it creating a reality where the rules are different. For example, things that used to hurt and cause suffering are softened or even eliminated. Who wouldn't want things to hurt less? Addicts in particular would seem to especially want things to hurt less, or to avoid doing things that might hurt. When I think of those interested in 'the truth', I first think of atheists who choose to throw off their religious beliefs because they have come to see religious beliefs as allegedly comforting, but not worth the cost of believing in something false (or at least 'insufficiently justified'). To the extent that 'true happiness' is defined as "exploring what reality is like", an experience machine would never satisfy. Indeed, putting such a person in an experience machine might be the most evil thing one could do to them! Now, there is the question: to what extent can people be forever deluded into thinking that they are happily living in reality, when their happiness is actually being stimulated by a machine inside a virtual reality? This is the same as asking: could we determine that we are inside The Matrix? It is an interesting question because we'll likely be able to create virtual worlds hosting conscious digital beings. The Star Trek TNG episode, Elementary, Dear Data, explores the idea of what might happen when such a being becomes aware that it is inside a simulation. There are two issues which I think confound permanent addiction—that is, the state of mind in which one would never object to being inside an experience machine: 

The SEP entry on perfect moral goodness states this argument against the possibility of a perfect moral goodness. Necessarily, God actualizes some world Necessarily, for each actualizable world w1, there is an actualizable world w2 such that from the moral point of view one would prefer w2 to w1 Necessarily, for whatever world that God actualizes, there is a morally better world that God does not actualize yet could have (from (2)) Necessarily, for whatever world that God actualizes, God's act of actualizing that world is not as morally good as some other act that God does not perform but could have (from (3)) Necessarily, for whatever world that God actualizes, God's agency is not as morally good as it could have been (from (4)) Necessarily, God's agency is not perfectly good (from (1), (5)) They seem to state the main discussion point is between (3) and (4), but I don't see why one must accept (2). What makes them think a best world isn't possible? 

Regardless of right vs. left mythology, human psychology does seem to break down into the above two natural kinds—at least, the above two categories form helpful extremes. Now, many modern scientists tend to accept philosophy that is, or is derivative of, Logical Positivism. Today people tend to call themselves 'naturalists' or 'empiricists' or 'physicalists' ('materialist' has gone out of fashion, given the preeminence of thinking in terms of energy in physics today), and while only LP strictly entails being 'tough-minded', many seem to be nonetheless. An example can be found in the article Heretic: Who is Thomas Nagel and why are so many of his fellow academics condemning him? Roughly, rationalistic philosophy values coherence and beauty over specific matching of reality in all respects, while empiricist philosophy values correspondence with reality over coherence and unity. This needs verifying, but I suspect that rationalistic philosophy has not been credited with much advancing of science in the last several hundred years, while empiricist philosophy has. Massimo Pigliucci suggests this might be a problem: