as an auxiliary in English, I would not consider these Japanese constructions to be real examples of auxiliaries (in the traditional sense of English grammar). I'm guessing that using a restrictive definition of auxiliary, there are many more examples, for instance in synthetic languages. 

As a native speaker of French, my feeling is that your premise that the phenomenon is primarily of cognitive origin is most likely false. It is not the case, I think, that I conceptualize water differently when thinking/speaking in French or in English, it is rather that the same cognitive process are not syntactically encoded in the same ways in these two languages. Common nouns in French syntactically require an article, no matter what, so speakers have to resort to some choices when none is especially obvious from a cognitive or referential point of view. For pure predicative assertions as L'eau est liquide, Le tigre est un animal no choice is possible as far as I can tell: the definite article has to be used. But as soon as one leaves this simple context, my intuition is not so good. For instance Un chimpanzé adore les bananes (A chimp loves bananas) and Le chimpanzé adore les bananes (The chimp loves bananas) both seem equally degraded with respect to the perfect Les chipanzés adorent les bananes but nevertheless acceptable to my ear (with the meaning Chimps love bananas). Even predication relations which are somewhat qualified open choices: L'eau est liquide but both L'eau à 0 degré est solide and Une eau à 0 degré est solide (with a subtle difference in meanings that is not so easy to describe). Note finally that some Romance language, e.g Spanish, have an extra syntactic mark that can be adduced to an indefinite noun (this is sometimes called differential object marking) with subtle impacts on definiteness, specificity and the syntactic properties of the object. 

Among the phenomena which could reasonably fit your requirement of being about subject/object relation, Italian allows passivization of causatives. I believe this is quite rare among Romance languages. Compare the rare but completely acceptable La machina è stata fatta riparare a Gianni da Maria The car is been made repaired to Gianni by Maria with *La voiture a été faite réparé par Jean par Marie. which is completely impossible (in fact quite unthinkable, at least for this native speaker). 

I write this as an answer because the comment thread is too long already for (what I take to be) the spirit of SE sites. The language used by the author of the question (parameter, wh-movement and the two references to Chomsky) strongly suggests that he wants (or at least is comfortable with) an answer within minimalist linguistic theory. Within this framework, the answer given by P Elliott in comments seems to me to be quite perfect. The main points, as I see them, are the following. 

Gloss: Zidane TOPIC 3rd-person-singular Future score. Zidane is going to score Here, Zidane sits in topic position and the canonical subject position required by French is filled with a morphologically reduced 3rd-person pronoun. Here is an example from my own experience (from 2012). 

There are many examples of languages spreading more through cultural influence than through the force of arms: Koine Greek is an important cultural example for Western civilization. However, Koine Greek wouldn't have spread so quickly through Asia Minor without the conquests of Alexander. Likewise, the Louisiana purchase arguably reflects at least partly the vast military imbalance between France and the United States (just look at what happened to Texas and California). If you want a clear cut example of a language undergoing a radical evolution purely under cultural influence, you can look at the evolution of prehistoric Japanese to Old Japanese to Early Middle Japanese under the influence of Chinese (mostly through the spread of Buddhism). The grammar, lexicon and phonology of the Japanese language changed quite radically in a century or so in order to incorporate the cultural, literary and religious influence of China. No military component at all was involved. 

Bare syntactic structures constructed by the binary operation Merge (yielding only binary trees) usually with only left-adjunction by opposition to much flatter structure. The only other operation allowed is Agree, which operates blindly on a small finite set of features all having only positive or negative polarity by opposition to e.g a rich lexicon. Agree and Merge are only possible under stringent locality conditions. The geometric and feature characteristic of nodes of the trees should be mapped as cross-linguistically severely as possible with interpretive properties. As far as possible, the only further conditions put on the system should derive from core computational requirements (for instance two undistinguishable nodes of the tree, in the sense of say graph theory, or two identical set of features should be undistinguishable by the system; I also lump in this interface conditions). 

In my anecdotal experience, in Japanese: 1) In a retelling situation, the speaker would usually avoid gender-marked words or syntax but rather use gender-neutral equivalents. 2) same as 1). 3) Of course! Quoting literally would for instance be favored in order to produce a comical effect, and disfavored if the aim was to transmit objective informations. Also, the implication of the teller in the story would be crucial (a woman would very rarely, for instance, literally quote her husband towards a social inferior of said husband). But there is nothing mysterious in that at all: the same phenomenon is at play when someone reports the speeches of someone else with a very different social position. 4) Yes, and I would be extremely skeptical of claims that any language could have mutually non-intelligible gendered dialects, for rather elementary reasons of biology, sociology and linguistics. 

A purely syntactic answer starts by pointing out that Principle C of binding theory, as the other ones, should not be confused with a law of nature. It is more properly a rather vague description of a general tendency of human languages and it is in the course of trying to formulate it more precisely that we expect to find interesting phenomenons, examples and counter-examples. Now onto your more precise question. Nowadays, the formalization of linguistics which consider the questions of binding to be important have (unanimously, as far I know) rejected the use of indices except as convenient book-marking device, and this is especially true of the most direct descendant of the theory which produced the principles of binding theory you refer to in the first place (minimalist syntax). So you are right that indices are not necessary (and might even be misleading). As to how your example would be treated, my first remark is that the current implementation of binding theory that I consider the best ultimately relates binding phenomenon to the properties of transitive verbs so does not consider binding effects (or the lack thereof) in equative sentences as reflecting the same fundamental properties. Nevertheless, you could have a look at chapter 3 and 4 of this book for interesting comments on the structure of equative sentences and in particular for the claim that such equative sentences in fact involves inversion of a complex structure and (roughly and informally) always have the structure of 

This has to be compared with the original (my translation, deliberately as close to the original text as can be). 

The precise answer to that question will depend highly on what is the precise meaning intended for auxiliary verb. If you insist that an auxiliary verb is a separate word which expresses a precise grammatical property, then Japanese is a likely candidate. In this language, tense, mood and modality are expressed by a specific ending attached to the stem-verb. None of these endings may live a separate existence (see here for a reference), so it would seem very strange to call them auxiliary verbs. On the other hand, as the same reference indicates, there are verbs in Japanese which have an independent meaning but can also attach to a stem-verb to convey a nuance, as in 

There seems to be at least two quite distinct questions there: what is minimalist about the minimalist program? and Is there a sensible reason for the existence of the lumbering structures it deals with? P.Elliott and curiousdannii already provided general and historic answers to the first question, but I wish to supplement their answers with a more specific analysis of the framework of a typical argument within minimalism as it is usually practiced. What is minimal? What a typical minimal analysis will strive for is an explanation of syntactic phenomena relying solely on the following list of possible mechanisms. 

It follows from 1) that narrow syntactic objects are necessarily unordered binary trees. Hence, minimalist syntax predicts that the relevant structures for syntax are those prevailing in binary trees (for instance C-command) and not the most obvious linear ordering of the words in the sentence. With the caveat that no language wears its analysis on its sleeve, if one could find a language for which, say, negation was licensed by a phenomenon taking place at the third word of the sentence, or in which adverbs modify the closest verb in the linear order rather than the closest one in the hierarchical order (the infamous Instinctively, eagles that fly can swim example of Chomsky), or in which cataphoric pronouns were distinct from anaphoric pronouns, or in which questions words were in situ with no intervention effects, or in which words were systematically interpreted where they are pronounced, or for which binding of reflexives depended on linear precedence, or if there existed a V3 language in the same sense that there are V2 languages, then minimalist syntax would be dealt a serious blow. 

UPDATE: This update aims at clarifying many points which were raised in comments. Many thanks to dainichi for correcting the Japanese (all remaining embarrassing errors of course remain solely my own). I'm going to make two assumptions. The first is that the Japanese sentence you have in mind is (1), the most literal translation I can imagine. (1) 象は　鼻が　長い。 Zoo-ha hana-ga nagai Elephant TOP trunk NOM long The second is that you are looking for an answer within X-bar theory as it is currently understood and practiced. Then [.TopP [.TopP [.N Zoo ] ha ] [.TP Hana [.T -i [.Adj Naga ]] ] ] with post-syntactic addition of the NOM marker ga and morphological head movement of the bare adjective to the tense marker seems a plausible enough representation, though of course much investigations would be needed in order to determine if it is anywhere near correct. This representation (hopefully) obeys some of the standard constraints nowadays commonly believed (by people doing that kind of stuff) to hold for arborescent representations, namely: it is a binary tree and it satisfies Kayne's Linear Correspondence Axiom. In particular, it is very much not flat. I am afraid I'm unable to understand P Elliott remarks in comments. Is the problem that I used bare phrase structures notations rather than pure X-bar notations? I will say this though, I took Atamiri's question to be whether X-bar theory treated topic sentences as flat trees, so I proposed a not too absurd tree showing that this was not the case. This tree embodies a number of assumptions, most conspicuously that topic elements are base-generated above TP (but many other, starting with the status of the nominative marker or the status of adjective in Japanese predication relations). I made a minimal effort to make non-absurd choices but my intention was not to accurately describe predication in Japanese. Finally, non-contrastive topics in Japanese are indeed usually thought to be base generated in the left periphery. Contrastive topics probably move. See for instance : On the position of topics in Japanese (Reiko Vermeulen) Topic prominency in Japanese (Kishimoto Hideki) UPDATE2: P Elliott correctly remarks in comments that a PRO should probably appear somewhere in the TP. I must confess that I have no clear idea where it should be, and so omitted it. 

Now part of the difficulty is that even though these two functional projections are usually easily distinguished in Romance, hence my stress on this family of languages above, the distinction might be quite mysterious or elusive in other languages. For instance, the topic position in Finnish seems to be the normal subject position and as such entirely unmarked. At the other side of the spectrum, some languages mark theses positions overtly, as does the post-position も in Japanese with Focus (but note that Japanese tolerates multiple Focus positions, contrary to Romance). As usual with syntax anyway, more subtle characterizations will depend on what you intend to do with these categories. References: L.Rizzi The fine structure of the left periphery in Elements of grammar: Handbook in generative syntax. S.Miyagawa Why agree? Why move? Linguistics Inquiry Monograph 54. UPDATE: I can't believe I forgot to cite the following truly wonderful poem. I can't see how anyone could wonder about Topic and Focus ever after. On functional structure 

No solution to that difficulty is part of the scientific consensus of people working in minimalist syntax. Proposed solutions include moving feature checking to the externalization interface (Bobaljik has argued this, for instance) and subsuming Agree with Merge (so that Agree, not being anymore the valuation of features but the comparison of equal features, respects the no-tampering condition). I will add, though, that the contradiction between the no-tampering condition and feature valuation should not be exaggerated. The no-tampering condition is a principle which is reasonable for reasons of simplicity of computation as null-hypothesis within the framework of minimalist syntax. Likewise, probe/goal relation in a phase-based architecture is also a plausible null-hypothesis formalization of relations between syntactic objects within minimalist syntax, for the same reasons of economy of computation. So the difficulty you outline is an instance where the general guiding intuitions of the minimalist program (derives as much as possible of the properties of syntax from economy of computation considerations and interface requirements) yield somewhat conflicting results. To me, this simply indicates that the first formal realization of the null-hypothesis cannot always (or ever) be the correct one. The reason the contradiction does not seem to bother excessively anyone, it seems to me, is that we lack clear empirically testable predictions entailed by one alternative versus the other, so the question of how to solve this difficulty is scientifically somewhat premature. Finally, I will point out that one can easily write a formal system in which everything is structural, Merge applies freely, structure is always preserved by Merge (so the no-tampering condition holds) and yet Agree behaves as in the current feature valuation model (that formal system would rely on a heavy dose of filtering at the point of transfer). This formal system would eliminate the contradiction you outline but, again, as it does not have any obvious empirical advantage, there might be no real point in pursuing it for the pure sake of eliminating a contradiction. 

The question in the title seems rather different from the two questions in the body of the text, and these two in turn are not synonymous either (the original purpose of a tool may be quite different from what a tool is mainly use for). At any rate, my answer to the question in the title is that they are legitimate theories (because an illegitimate theory is a quite rare beast, it seems to me). The original purpose of any given scientific concept is always hard to ascertain, though in that case one can confidently say that phrase structure rules were not originally introduced to describe cognitive structure, for the simple reason that their popularization in linguistics occurred before the idea that there might exists cognitive structure involved in language became largely accepted (and in fact, the development of phrase structure triggered the cognitive reevaluation, not the other way round). As far as I know, the idea that phrase structure grammars could be an accurate model of cognitive capability appeared for the first time in Robert Lees' review of Syntactic Structures in 1957, whereas dependency relations were explicitly introduced at the latest in the XIXth century and represent a linguistic tradition coming back much further in time (see Thomas Gross comment). Regarding the last question,it seems to me that our knowledge of syntactic phenomena is still thin enough so that there is no meaningful distinction between accurate description and theoretical modeling of the cognitive process involved. That said, it is clearly the case that certain strand of phrase structure grammar (minimalism for instance) are prone to posit and work with linguistic concepts which have no immediately accessible linguistic incarnation (for instance unpronounced abstract nodes in trees or abstract Case) whereas other strands dismiss the process as unscientific (angels on pinheads in the words of frequent contributor @jlawler). 

Old French most certainly retained a fully functional case system (cas sujet et cas régime) at least up to the XIVth century, perhaps up to the XVth century in eastern parts of France (and of course retains case inflections for pronouns to this day, e.g me/moi). This case system is a direct descendant of the Latin one. The subject is very well documented so on-line references, starting with Wikipedia, are easy to find. Interestingly, for some words both the cas régime and cas sujet survived in modern French, usually with slightly different meanings but in a few occasions with identical meanings. One can find prescriptive French speakers (some would say pedantic) who insist on using the cas sujet form in subject position and the cas régime form in object position (as this prescription presupposes one knows about this past cases, you can imagine that such speakers are vanishingly rare). UPDATE: In response to robert's comment, one could start with Ancien Français and Grammaire élémentaire de l'Ancien Français Specifically on the survival of one case rather than the other, for instance: Cas sujet/cas régime I'm sure there are plenty of further references accessible by googling cas régime and cas sujet. Also, I didn't mean to imply that some speakers retain any syntactic sensibility to these cases (there hasn't been any for 500 years), rather than a vanishingly small number of speakers will preferentially use Le sieur when subject and putain when régime rather than their (perhaps more common) alternatives as some kind of maximal adherence to prescriptive rules, including long lost ones.