The pun plays on the negative stereotype that Jews are prone to using sharp business practices to take advantage of non-Jews, and that when confronted they respond by asserting that there is nothing the non-Jews can now do to reverse what has happened, since the law would uphold the Jews' right to act as they acted, however sharp or unforeseen their action may have been ("so sue me"); and it uses the fact that "so sue me" sounds as if it could be spelled "sosumi", which could easily be a Japanese word. It does not refer to a non-existent stereotype that Jews are prone to being litigious. Apple Computer is said to have adopted the name "sosumi" for its beep sound with reference to a longstanding legal battle with Apple Corps, the media company founded by members of the musical group the Beatles. Apple Computer had agreed in the settlement not to enter the music business, but when the creator of the alert chime heard from the company's legal department that the sound might be regarded as too musical, he joked that it should be called "Let it Beep", with reference to the Beatles' song "Let it Be". Further told that the legal department wouldn't like that name either, he responded "so sue me", which stuck. 

It's subtle and perhaps a bit of a stretch, but I think we can infer that Snape likes Draco for a similar reason to why he dislikes Harry. He dislikes Harry because Harry's father treated him badly at school. And he likes Draco because Draco's father treated him well at school. I'm mostly getting this from the following passage in the chapter "The Prince's Tale" in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: 

This implies that Lucius and Snape's friendship goes all the way back to Snape's first days at Hogwarts. Yeah, it is technically possible that a pat on the back doesn't mean much and they could have not spoken to one another for years after this, but you have to think about why this passage is being included in the first place. I think it is included to establish an early positive relationship between Lucius and Snape. Sirius Black also alludes to Snape's friendship with Lucius during his argument with Snape at Grimmauld Place in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix: 

Wikipedia calls the novel of ideas a subgenre of philosophical fiction, without defining the first term. The Routledge Encyclopedia of Narrative Theory (2010) uses the terms "novel of ideas" and "philosophical novel" interchangeably. In articles published together in the New York Times in 2016 under the headline "Whatever Happened to the Novel of Ideas?", Benjamin Moser also uses the terms to mean the same thing, and Pankaj Mishra, while eschewing the word "philosophy", draws no distinction between them. Writing in the Financial Times in 2012, Jenny Erdal describes the two forms as "close cousin(s)", but she does not explain the difference. There does, however, seem to be general agreement that the novel of ideas is quite rare nowadays. Since not all ideas are philosophical, I do not favour a definition of the novel of ideas as a type of philosophical novel, it seeming that if one is a subtype of the other then the relationship should be the converse. But in that case, what definitions might we use? And if neither wholly includes the other, and therefore each has instances that are not instances of the other, how might we define the two genres as "close cousins"? Google's Ngram viewer returns the following for the use of the two terms over time: 

Despite the fact that Sirius seems to believe that Snape is working for Voldemort, he alludes specifically to Lucius Malfoy in this passage and seems to reference a long term association between the two. Snape also has a somewhat strange reaction to Harry naming Lucius Malfoy as a Death Eater in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire: 

Why the sudden movement here? Snape already knows that Lucius is a Death Eater, so it can't be surprise. I think it more likely that Snape's first impulse here is to deny the accusation or to silence Harry somehow because he doesn't want Lucius named (despite the fact that he probably knows Lucius is guilty). But he thinks better of it. Finally, Narcissa refers to Snape as Lucius's "old friend" in the "Spinner's End" chapter of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince: 

As for the nationality of the Academy, I have not been able to find the statutes, but this LTE makes it clear that only people of Swedish nationality are eligible (and thus not, e.g. Swedish-speaking Finns). They could, I guess, involve more non-members in the preparatory work, but I think it would be hard to wiggle away from the wording of the will, even if it is clearly the work of Nobel's own hand, not a lawyer. In the end, it is the Swedish Academy, and no other body, that is responsible for awarding the prize. Also, remember that there was actually an uproar about the fact that the awards should be granted "without regards to nationality" when the contents of the will first became known. Even so, while the prizes have always been of a very substantial sum, it was in no way clear from the start that they would take on the significance they have today. Sources 

In fact, I think that the fact that Narcissa chooses to come to Snape at all in this chapter and not to any of the many other Death Eaters that she could have spoken with shows that she believes that Snape would be willing to help Draco. And she seems to believe this partly because Snape is Lucius's old friend. It is possible that the favoritism toward Draco is feigned on Snape's part because Snape does do the whole double agent thing -- but I don't think so. Snape's treatment of Harry shows that he holds onto things. He mistreats Harry because Harry's father bullied him, but he also saves Harry's life because Harry's mother was special to him. And I think Lucius's friendship at Hogwarts might have meant a great deal to a young Snape. Think of the images that we get of young Snape -- poor, clothes don't fit right, often alone, kind of weird, kind of geeky, bad home life. To have an older rich kid who is also a Prefect take an interest in him probably would have been a very big deal to Snape. And I think that Snape would have retained some feelings of friendship towards Lucius despite the fact that Lucius supports Voldemort and Snape does not. Snape is someone who is motivated primarily by personal loyalty rather than high-minded ideals. He doesn't turn on Voldemort because he disagrees with Voldemort's ideology (although at least later on he does seem to disagree with Voldemort's ideology). He turns on Voldemort and works for the other side because Voldemort went after Lily. In short, Snape favors Draco because Lucius was his old friend and Snape has a rather difficult time separating children from their parents. 

Background First, it should be noted that almost everyone in Sweden was at least sympathetic Finland in Winter war of 1939-1940 against the Soviet union, and also to a lesser extent in the Continuation war of 1941-1944 (but by then, Lagerlöf was dead). The general idea was expressed as "Finland's cause is ours". This was for: 

according to Wikipedia, in the second Quarto, the last line read "hunch-back'd", but it is retained as above in the texts I've found. Also, in Henry VI, part 3, act III, scene 2, lines 1648-1650, Richard (here still called Gloucester), laments his looks: 

We don't know for sure because the books are filtered through Katniss's first person POV and she doesn't know about the conspiracy until later. We do know that Beetee is a tech genius who is shown to be capable of hacking into Capitol television programs to broadcast rebel propaganda. It isn't unreasonable to assume that such a person would also be capable of making a few surveillance cameras turn in the other direction. Also, we know that Katniss and Peeta go on the roof of the Training Center to talk privately which suggests that there are a few places in the Capitol where one can have a private conversation. The older victors would probably be more familiar with such locations than Katniss and Peeta. Finally, Plutarch Heavensbee shows Katniss his watch which when viewed from the correct angle shows the mockingjay. At the time, Katniss thinks this is just one of the Capitol's trends, but later it seems like Plutarch was trying to communicate to her that he was with the rebellion. This suggests that rebels within the Capitol during this period communicated using a good deal of subterfuge -- by hidden symbols and coded language, for example. 

I will start with question 3, as it is the most straightforward. Gaiman has done a whole lot of elaboration on a passage that is in fact rather short. I will quote the relevant passages from the primary sources, as they are rather short. First Völuspá: 

Remember chapter 17, when Elinor and Marianne discussed what money they hoped for after their marriages? Marianne thought 2000 pounds a year would be sufficient. Elinor thought that 1000 pounds would be "wealth". Well, she didn't quite reach that, but she did get almost there. Sources The answer owes a lot to John Mullan's What matters in Jane Austen?, which reminded me of details and gave some useful comparisons. 

You might think of flash fiction as a very short story (it is sometimes also referred to as a short short story). Most magazines that specialize solely in flash fiction don't accept fiction that is above, say, 1000 words or 1500 words, maybe as much as 2000 words at most. Flash Fiction Magazine and Flash Fiction Online both have a maximum word count of 1000 words, for example. By contrast, some (though not all) magazines that specialize in traditional short stories require a minimum word count of around 2000-3000 words. Some magazines also accept both flash fiction and more traditional short stories. It differs from poetry in that poetry typically puts a stronger emphasis on the aesthetic qualities of language such as rhythm, rhyme, alliteration, metaphor, simile, etc to create layers of meaning on top of the literal text. Most (though not all) poetry is written in verse. That being said, there probably is a certain degree of overlap between what is known as a prose poem (a poem written in prose as opposed to verse) and a piece of flash fiction that uses very lyrical language. The other forms that you've mentioned (twitterature, dribble, drabble, and sudden fiction) all sound like specialized forms of flash fiction. I know that the drabble, for example, is a concept that originates in fandom and is traditionally a story that is exactly 100 words, though some people don't use this strict of a definition for it.