The claim that I specifically want to question is this: he claims that recent research as shown that the world is, literally, getting greener. The cause of this is increased forestation, higher rates of growth of plants and the rolling back of desert areas such as the Sahel in Africa. These changes can be traced to two effects: more rainfall and higher carbon dioxide levels. Both are good for plants and both are a consequence of the human production of carbon dioxide (rainfall increases in a warmer world through more evaporation). His claim is based on work by Professor Ranga Myneni at Boston University whose work can be found here. Is the world getting greener? Is the effect a consequence of higher carbon dioxide levels and the knock-on effects of global warming? 

I'm not interested in whether his model about the oxygen production by plankton is correct or not, but is his claim that the consequence of this could be an immediate shortage of oxygen remotely credible? To put this another way, even if oxygen production in the ocean suffered a catastrophic decline, would we see oxygen shortages by 2100? NB. This question was raised as the linked paper has now generated more than one question here (Will global warming reduce available oxygen? and Is space exploration even possible in an oxygen constrained Earth?). Neither of these question address the most outrageous claim in the news stories that global warming could lead to a ~70% reduction in the atmospheric oxygen by 2100 (the partial pressure of oxygen at the top of Everest is about 30% of its value at sea-level). One commenter on the original question even suggested that this, much more specific, question should be asked. So stop saying it is a duplicate: it is clearly a much more specific claim that is completely unaddressed in the answers to the other questions. 

Update As comments have raised this issue is different in different countries. The following chart (also based on Andrew Gelman's analysis) summarises the situation for many. The chart y-axis is the difference between rich and poor conservative vote share (that is, the higher up the axis the larger the conservative voting is skewed to the rich). The US shows the most pronounced tendency for the rich to be more conservative than the poor, but it is far from alone. 

In summary Life expectancy is calculated based on current, observable, numbers not old assumptions. And it isn't reasonable given those numbers that the optimistic projections in the question are likely to occur. 

It depends what you mean by "smarter" but there are real beneficial effects in some areas Modafinil is widely believed (and widely used) to create some sort of cognitive enhancement. But the evidence has been a little mixed and often thought to be driven by its impact on sleep-deprived people (which is related to the licensed use). A recent systematic review (free abstract, paywalled full paper) has tried to make some sense of the other studies done in the last quarter century. It discusses the problems with previous studies thus: 

and he further argues that "dangerous" areas strewn with junk and potentially risky artefacts turn out not to be unsafe: 

This chart also hints at one of the complexities of american voting patterns: the general trend for the poor to be more democrat is universal, but the extent to which the rich and poor differ in their preferences changes greatly by region. Gelman summarises the key pattern in one of his papers on the subject (my emphasis): 

The results appear to be based on observation in a limited area extrapolated to the USA. Are the claimed results and their extrapolation credible? 

Medical guidelines designed to avoid damage to the heart during non-cardiac surgery in Europe recommend the use of beta-blockers. But the guidance was partially written by and largely based on work by the recently disgraced dutch researcher Don Poldermans. Forbes sums up the story: 

Venezuela's entertaining president, Hugo Chavez, was recently reported to have speculated that the USA has developed a secret technology to give cancer to left-wing leaders in Latin America. I think this claim is a little too crazy to merit skeptical analysis. However, according to the BBC report 

When big estimates that serve the interests of the provider of the estimate are made, it is always worth looking at the detail and asking skeptical questions about it. The big numbers rarely stand up. 

From a public health perspective where the goal is minimising harm, this is a major and significant conclusion. E-cigs help people quit real cigarettes and they are inherently safer (though whether you should take the back-of-an-envelope 95% number seriously is a subject of much contention.) This is unsurprising from a chemical point of view. Nicotine is the active ingredient of cigarettes, it provides the key physiological effect, and it is somewhat addictive. But it isn't what causes the harm: that would be the thousands of other chemicals associated with it when tobacco is burned. This include polycyclic aromatic compounds and tars which are both known to be potent carcinogens. This is well known, Wikipedia-level knowledge. E-cigs don't contain most of those harmful ingredients and the mechanism of inhalation doesn't create them (some are produced by burning). Some would argue that nicotine itself is a poison. After all plants produce it to deter animals and insects from eating them. But then, so is caffeine. So it looks as though chemical intuition would support the PHE conclusion. But a recent study (mentioned in the question) suggests e-cigs are carcinogenic. This headline-friendly study was rebutted in The Guardian by Linda Bauld, a professor of health policy (my emphasis): 

The key numbers from the study are the definitions of the weight categories and the resulting mortality risk. These are given below: 

Before the germ theory of disease was invented in the 19th century there was no coherent explanation of why alcoholic beverages were better. But you don't need theory to observe the effect. You just need to observe that people are more likely to get sick if they drink untreated water. as the Scientific American article argues: 

The lack of significance of the effect in artificially sweetened drinks after adjustment is noteworthy as it suggests that one reason why other studies have not seen the effect on weight is that they did suffer from confounding caused, probably, because the already fat are more likely to take diet drinks. This study concludes that, for a given group, taking too much sugary drink is clearly bad for you. 

In summary: there appear to be some effects on cognition, but they are small and there is little evidence of permanence. Moreover, some of the observations may be a result of confounding or bias. 

So I'm aware I'm not quite answering the claim about ulcers (unless the detail is in the paywalled paper) but I think the general idea that placebos can have significant effects is clear and also the idea that some placebos are better than others. EDIT The Nick Barrowman blog uses a different reference to the one I assumed Goldacre was referring to. The reference shows an effect but Barrowman criticises the study for not doing a proper randomised trial between two different placebos. Fair comment, but while specifically correct for ulcers and placebos, proper trials on alternative placebos have been done and still show effects (see my examples). 

There is plenty of scientific uncertainty about whether climate change has had a significant effect on conflict Newspaper headlines and climate change campaigners will latch onto stories about wars being caused by climate change because they make good stories and those stories sound good in driving campaigns. As pointed out in other answers, scientists tend to be more circumspect. But there is plenty of reason to be skeptical of some of the cautious results scientists have published that claim some degree of influence. A paper in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences criticises previous work and casts doubt on some of the previous results. 

Now that constitutes a simple claim that does merit some skepticism. Reworded the question is this: is the incidence of cancer in South American political leaders unusually high? Is the answer different for the subgroup who are left wing in their politics? 

His focus is probably (from the context) mostly about pharmaceuticals, but might be considered more general. Is the highlighted claim true either restricted to just drugs or if it covers all medical interventions? 

I don't think things have changed much since he wrote this. There will be some year when we reach peak oil (when the price of oil exceeds the costs of alternatives) but predicting when that will be based on past patterns is about as reliable as reading tea-leaves to predict the future. The trouble is it isn't forecasters with good track records (usually involving humility about how precise any forecast can be) who get attention, it is the ones who make bold predictions. They continue to get attention even when they are repeatedly wrong (see Futurebabble for a thorough examination). 

Bruce Ames can claim some expertise in this area as he is the inventor of the well-known Ames Test, a cheap way of screening chemicals for their mutagenicity. His work is smmarised well in a NY Times blog in 2007: 

Even the believers don't seem to take the idea of detecting ghosts via phones seriously. This app claims it is is "just for fun". This discussion (I think fairly characterised as taking place on a believer site) dismisses the idea that phones can be reliable ghost detectors. So, yes phones can detect EMF. But ghost detection apps are likely just reporting random background noise. 

So the common assumption is that there is an epidemic. But some solid figures don't seem to support the idea. One reason might be confusion around the statistics (for example failing to adjust for age or smoking). Who is right? Just to be clear about the question and to avoid some possible distractions, the question is not about causes of cancer, just rates. Further, the specific question is whether cancer rates adjusted to exclude smoking (a major contributor) and to correct for age are growing significantly. 

Some components of wheat do cause health problems, but not in most people The problem with the claim that wheat is bad for you is that it is a generalisation to the whole population of something which does cause problems for a minority of people. And, in the specific source quoted here, that claim is mixed incoherently with a general rant about modern agriculture, genetic engineering and radiation. Many of the problems described do occur in those with coeliac (or celiac in the US) disease who suffer an immune reaction to the gluten protein in wheat. Many of the symptoms described in the article will occur in people with coeliac disease. Prevalence of coeliac disease is common, but not that common (upper estimates in the USA are 1% of the population according to the wikipedia article on the disease). One peer-reviewd (pubmed abstract here) study using antobody techniques suggests: 

So it wasn't a TV but the question asked about electrical devices in general so I think it still counts as a yes it is possible. 

The topic of recommended levels of alcohol consumption and their evidence base is interestingly controversial (see this question and this question for previous analysis on this site. Does this new study add something new to this controversy? Is the evidence presented credible? Should we limit our alcohol consumption to 1 unit a day to protect us from declining brain function? 

So when I quote results from the Cochrane Library I am not being selective, I am trying to reference the best possible analysis of the whole literature. Moreover, the Cochrane reviews should be less subject to bias than the reviews by government bodies who face political pressure and embarrassment when they change their mind on anything. 

The Roman Empire used a lot of lead. It was important component of their plumbing (the english word itself is derived from the latin word for lead). They even used it to sweeten wine and in food (reference): 

The recent Florida school shooting and its causes has been addressed on this site in this question which addresses whether factors other than access to guns are significant based on statements by the Governor of Kentucky suggesting that factors such as the prevalence of violent video games were more important. The governor made several statements on this topic. In this interview on Youtube he repeats several related claims. But the specific one, not apparently addressed elsewhere here, is this (I hope I'm transcribing his words accurately. The statement starts about 10s into the clip.): 

They made it up. Moreover, a single limit for all doesn't make sense given what we know about alcohol metabolism. Richard Smith, a former editor of the BMJ, was on the panel that set the UK advisory limits for alcohol consumption in 1987 and he was reported to have said the limits were made up. One currently accessible (I think the original was in the Times, currently paywalled) report tells the story like this: 

And this summary explains why the idea of "maximizing" profit is not a sensible objective in itself: the world is too complex and no formula can reduce it to a meaningful value. 

In other words, when the types of cognitive improvement are properly evaluated, there are systematic improvement found for some specific cognitive processes. In summarising the work, Guy Goodwin, President of the European College of Neuropsychopharmacology, said this (again, my emphasis): 

In short, no. It is a journalistic misunderstanding based on naive interpretations of statistics. The idea that the working poor tend to vote republican seems to be based on a misinterpretation of the sort of statistics presented in the chart below (which shows state-level comparison of the republican share in 2004 with state-level average income).