It all depends on the direction you "throw them" and the space-time they find themselves in. Case 1 - in a perfectly empty universe (other than your footballs) the two would eventually collide. It doesn't matter what initial velocity you give them. The only thing that matters is there separation and their mass. You can just use Newtonian gravity to compute the two footballs' acceleration toward one another -- and hence the time for them to collide. Such an 'empty' universe as above is called a Minkowsky space-time. If you put these footballs on a trajectory into our real universe, well we know that space-time is curved by the matter/energy (just energy density in general) that occupies it. Hence a trajectory that starts out parallel will invariably end up "not parallel". The balls will either collide or diverge depending on the geometry of the space-time they find themselves in. The "geometry of the space-time" is (again) completely dependent on the distribution of "stuff" (matter/energy) in the universe as related to the location of the footballs. In short, the footballs will follow the geometry of the space-time they find themselves in. That geometry (in our real universe) means they will not remain on parallel paths. 

I think you're overestimating how quickly stars appear to move as viewed from Earth. Once a telescope like Kepler identifies a solar system around a star, we know where that star is. Stars have coordinates associated with them that astronomers can use to know where to point their telescopes to see it. For example, look at the star Betelgeuse. Look in the info box on the right, the right ascension and declination are the coordinates to find it. On the timescale of one Earth year, or even a few hundred Earth years, the stars are mostly fixed, and that coordinate to find them still works. Sure they move slightly, but not enough to lose track of it, or even enough to dramatically change how the constellations appear to us. Even if one does somehow move dramatically, it would take decades to centuries, and astronomers would be tracking it and updating the coordinate information. Think about it this way. The constellations used in the sky today are named after many ancient Greek and Roman mythological characters. This isn't something we decided recently, they were named hundreds or thousands of years ago and they're still recognizable in the same form they were then. If stars moved across our sky as quickly as you appear to think, those constellations would all have to be renamed. You need timescales of tens of thousands of years to make the sky unrecognizable, and even then it would have more to do with the precession of the equinoxes. 

Eclipses are a temporal alignment of the 3 bodies mentioned. Because those bodies are in constant relative motion -- and you have to be in the right location relative to that alignment to experience it (at least for solar eclipses) -- not everyone gets to see them. In particular, to view a solar eclipse, you need to be somewhere "in line" with the line from 1) the center of the earth to 2) the moon to 3) the sun ... Of course, moon's shadow on the earth is not just a point on the earth but a circle, so you don't have to be precisely "in line", but close (within a few dozen miles, but you can do this computation yourself if you know the diameter of the earth, moon and sun). The circular shadow that crosses the surface of the earth moves in time (as the moon revolves around the earth and as the earth moves about the sun) so different places see it at different times. Finally, when the eclipse is over, it means that the moon's shadow has moved off the earth's surface and back out into space (where it is +99% of the time). For lunar eclipses, you only have to be able to view the moon (at night and during the period of eclipse of course). That means if you can see the moon (about 1/2 the surface of the earth can see the moon at any time) you'll see the eclipse! This is because the entire earth is casting the shadow on the moon and when you can see the moon, by definition, you are on the side of the earth that is casting the shadow and hence in position to see that shadow transit the moon. Again: all these effects are temporal since the earth/moon system is moving constantly (relative to the sun). 

Are we still debating the relationship between Jupiter and solar cycle? If not, what is the common or mainstream opinion about this topic? Or in other words, have we disproved the solar cycle is related to the "year" of Jupiter? 

As we know, we can find rocks from Mars on Earth, how about Venus and Mercury? Is that not found yet? Or it is impossible to find them because they are closer to the sun and derbis won't go far away from sun? 

As we know, if a planet is near a star and is tidally locked, then at near side it is very hot and at far side it is very cold. But between 2 sides there should be a gradient of temperature change and should have an area which the temperature is suitable for lives. Can we also say it has a habitable zone? 

There is an accepted answer already, but there is a couple known cases of a star we know has gone supernova, and yet we can still see it. This source describes one such unique circumstance. The star that exploded happened to be in a galaxy that was behind another massive one from our point of view. The alignment was just right such that the light formed an Einstein Cross. The light from each point on the cross takes a different path to get here, and each of those paths are different lengths. Thus, the different points on the cross show the star at 4 different times in its final years. The Space.com article I linked was written in 2015. Scientists first noticed the supernova in 2014, and each image of the supernova arrived within a year of when it was first noticed. If I'm understanding that article correctly, as of now (2017) all of the images of that supernova show the supernova aftermath, and not the star beforehand. However, there was a period of time where we could see the star both pre and post-supernova at the same time. You imply in your question that you are focusing on stars within our own galaxy. I don't know of any such situations of Einstein Cross events closer to home that let us do this. 

Note: I'm not talking about a star orbiting around a single or lonely planet :) I know a star orbiting a planet is almost impossible because if a planet is more massive than a star, that "planet" would probably be a star. But how about if the planet is not lonely like: 

I know massive objects can curve light, can we capture the image of past Earth by lights from Earth that curved by massive objects? 

A multiple planetary system which consists of free floating planets only but the planets are so massive so that their total mass is larger than a star A planet itself is not more massive than a star but it has so many massive moons 

Solar wind may contain some hydrogen and oxygen atoms which is the composition of water, some of them may move to the poles of earth, my question is, is solar wind also a source of water in earth? 

xkcd worked this out! It was part of a related question: what if you pointed an infinite power laser in random directions, how much damage would happen? I'll try to summarize the parts of his analysis relevant to this question. If you choose a truly random direction, you'd have about a 50% chance of hitting the Earth. For the times you don't hit Earth, 89,999 times out of 90,000 your beam will pass out of the Milky Way without hitting anything. The objects you have the highest chance of hitting are the Sun or Moon, but the odds of hitting either of them is about 1 in 180,000. He goes on to show that your odds of hitting one of Jupiter's moons is about 1 in 1 trillion. Hitting a star is even harder, "even if you aim for the core [of the Milky Way]." He doesn't seem to have worked it out to the level of individual photons hitting individual hydrogen atoms, but given that space is mostly empty anyway the angular size method he uses should be a reasonable approximation.