If something were to cause the Moon to approach the Earth very closely, the atmosphere will be a very minor player. The reason: the Earth's atmosphere is far too thin and is not a major player. You can do some Googling, and you'll find that 99% of the atmosphere occurs at an altitude less than 30 km. The diameter of the Moon is 3450 km. So the Moon could never "enter the atmosphere" in the sense that I suspect you're thinking of. 

By the end of Day 7, most will be dead. The only survivors will be those who a) have managed to set up solar stills or take charge of a water storage tank, and b) have been able to defend them. Since stills are fragile, most of the first stills were rendered inoperative during the fights to control them. It is entirely up to you as to how many stills have survived, and why. The storage tanks, of course, are quite large as part of the island's water distribution system, but their locations are also easily determined, and will be the source of conflict among the survivors. After this point, of course, with a stable base of survivors, the next question will be that of starvation. The only source of food will be fish caught in the surrounding sea. Only a few old boats with diesel engines and obsolete ignition systems, or sailboats, will be operating, so that source is limited. 

Given that this is a medieval society, it will collapse. The first thing that will happen is mass starvation. Assuming infant mortality ceases to be important after about age 5, and adults are productive from 15 to 45 with an "old age" with mortality constant from 45 to 65, the proportion of "non-productive" (old and young) people is about 45% (15 years childhood, 30 years adult, average 10 years old), the elimination of everyone over 25 will allow only about 2/3 of the children to survive. The suggestion that children will be put to work at a younger age simply does not wash. In medieval societies that already was the case. Medieval societies simply did not educate most children, and illiteracy was overwhelmingly the norm. The 22 year-old monarch will be left trying to control a collection of nominally subordinate entities which in fact are going to realize that they don't need to be subordinate. Medieval kings did not have large armies - they called on their barons to provide men when needed. Fealty from the barons dies with the barons, and their sons have not sworn allegiance to the king. That would happen when the old baron dies and the son inherits. So the new king has no power base he can depend on. The death of the olders will essentially destroy the entire governmental structure, as ruling nobles were generally older. There will be young heirs waiting to succeed, but the power vacuum will encourage the new leaders to try to conquer their neighbors. The social chaos resulting from adolescents and young adult males acting on their hormonal aggression levels will result in major reductions in agricultural output at exactly the moment when everyone needs to be working as hard as they can to produce food. Most likely, the result will be a reversion to tribalism, and a new Dark Age will sweep the land. 

Frankly, I see no reason why they would develop vision at all. Without the default condition of sunlight, there is no obvious reason why they would produce any organ which responds to EM radiation. So, no eyes and no telescopes. Impact holes in the ice would simply be local catastrophes. Although they would probably come to an awareness of the "the top of the universe", the infrequent opportunities to explore would be handicapped by their sensoria. For mobile organisms I'd expect sonar to be the dominant sensory mode. Such sonar, optimized for the liquid environment, would be ineffective above the surface of the sub-ice liquid. Could a race overcome these handicaps? I really don't know. 

Actually, history is way ahead of you. For more than 20 years Agent BZ, a potent hallucinogen, was part of the US Army's chemical weapon stockpile. 

can be extended to any number of bodies Unfortunately, these are not stable, although it is suggested in the Wiki article that a 12-body version may be stable since each body is at the one of the Lagrange points of two others. 

So if the cities are holding out, but not the countryside, the farms have been overrun and the cities are going to starve in very short order. 

If you're looking for something a little less radical than political union, you could have a go at an intermediary economic entity, roughly based on the East India Company. This company would be (very) large, able to hire its own security forces to keep the peace. Majority investment (and control) would be by B, with the goal of the company the development of A. With a large enough presence, the company could have a large impact on the functioning of A without overt political control by B. Of course, this would need very careful political handling by both governments, and a certain amount of enrichment of B would certainly cause resentment in A. A very tricky balance (particularly in the PR field) would be necessary. And preventing the company from getting the bit between it teeth and actually supplanting the government of A would always be a problem. With economic power comes political power, and the temptation on the part of the company's directors would be intense. So you'd need considerable trust on the part of the government of A, while the government of B would need to have strong reasons to keep A healthy and independent. This would clearly call for some creative writing on your part. 

Well, it depends on just how hard you want to wave your hands. Let's say that you have Whizzo Gravity Inverter (TM) which takes a volume of space and inverts the direction of gravity within it. Lets' say that the volume (your shell) is one meter thick. A deceleration of 1 g over 1 meter simply is not going to make an appreciable difference in the speed of an APDS (Armor Piercing Discarding Sabot) anti-tank round. So, in addition to turning space inside out, you want to crank up the volume. You want to stop a projectile going about 5000 fps in 1 meter due to gravitational forces. Then it will "fall" back toward the source, regaining its speed as it does, sort of like throwing a ball straight up and having it fall back down. Well, you might want to rethink this one. Consider what happens to air molecules inside the shell - as they enter the shield they will be powerfully pushed outwards by the gravitational forces and all the air will be sucked out of the field. You also might think about the interaction of the shield with the dirt where the shield contacts the earth. You mean the shield is not a sphere? Oh, come on now. Making spherical fields is the norm in nature - gravitational, electric, magnetic, etc. Sure you can tailor such shapes, but for gravity? Like I say, the amount of handwaving required, at least based on current knowledge, gets pretty outrageous. I'd recommend that you just mention the effects, and maybe a throwaway line about "distorting space". Your shield, at present, is a good example of Arthur C. Clarke's epigram: "Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic." Don't bother yourself with trying for a credible explanation - it's magic.