I'm afraid I can't distinguish between the two terms on offer. Sorry. But in each of these sentences the gerund VP doing my homework functions semantically as a causative, viz. 

Yes there is, and it's simple. Go to a used bookstore and buy a used paperback Latin dictionary. There are always lots of them; if you have a choice, pick one that marks long vowels with a mācron, since that turns out to be important. (There are online resources, too, but this is simpler, unless you're doing statistics. ) Open your Latin dictionary to any page. Glance down the wordlist. When you recognize a connection between some Latin word and its meaning because you know an English word with sort of that form and sort of that meaning, then Bingo. If you get in the habit of looking up English words in Latin dictionaries, you'll see a lot of regular extensions of the words with prefixes and suffixes that you recognize, too. Generally if one Latin root is borrowed, there are several more that came from the same place, and are recognizable. For instance, on the page in my Latin dictionary with significant on it (as signi-ficō 'to make a sign', significanter 'plainly, clearly', and significātionis 'pointing out, showing, indicating'), one finds also the noun signum 'a sign' and the verb signō 'to mark, to sign', which shows where they all come from. Also on this page is the noun silentium 'silence' and the verb sileō 'to be silent'. And that's just one page. This should work for about half of the words in English (though at first you might not recognize the Latin words in English that passed repeatedly through the gullets of French speakers for centuries before English got hold of them). The other half of the words in English come from Germanic sources and have passed through Grimm's Law, so their relations with Latin cognates are complex. But this is an easy way to start. 

Let's leave aside the definitional reading -- the dominance of unmarked terms is a consequence of what "unmarked term" means. If some phenomenon is dominant in a language (which is an empirical matter), then it's unmarked in the transcription of that language (which is a theoretical matter). And not the other way around; data comes before theory. The other sense of the question seems to ask why those phenomena -- whatever they are -- that are dominant in a language (and therefore unmarked in its transcription) became dominant. The question is thus not about markedness at all; it's about individual language history, typology, and the comparative effectiveness of structures in a given language. There is, let us say, a lot of variation in these matters from one speech group to another (never mind from one language to another), and while there is plenty of theorizing about source and causes, there is no agreement in practice or in principle. Markedness is not an empirical but a typographical convention -- like the phonemic principle, it mandates using only a minimum of necessary symbols in language transcription. If something is predictable, it needs no marking; economy of marking requires that only unpredictable features be actually marked in transcription. Markedness thus has little if any connection to origins. If it did, linguists wouldn't be able to talk about it usefully, because the origins are in dispute, and we'd just be arguing about theory, instead of processing data. 

Labiovelars are produced by simultaneous articulation, using different articulators. Labialization is the phonetic process of rounding the lips while articulating a consonant. This happens quite frequently to consonants; American English /r/ is rounded, for instance. It's particularly easy to labialize a velar, because the simultaneous articulators are so far apart. So labiovelars occur widely; labiovelar stops were prominent in Proto-Indo-European, for instance. 

Most English words have roots in Indo-European, either through original Germanic or through borrowed Latin, French, or Greek words. For all of the 19th Century, every linguist in the world (which principally meant Europe, in this case) was busily engaged in bringing Ordnung to the prehistory of the Indo-European languages. In the century since, this immense scholarly undertaking has been codified and turned into individual etymologies, which are normally looked up in a principal source, like Pokorny's Indo-European Etymological Dictionary. To make sense of these, you need some linguistic training. There are secondary sources available that skip a lot of details but still do the job. 

All the Salishan languages have distinctive front and back velar phonemes. They generally distinguish several velar fricative phonemes, which in Lushootseed are /xʷ/, /χ/, and /χʷ/. There is no /x/, but there is a /h/. There are eight velar stop phonemes in Lushootseed: plain /k/, /q/, /kʷ/, /qʷ/, and glottalized /k'/, /q'/, /k'ʷ/, /q'ʷ/. 

OK, this is an Answer, not a book, and conversations are inhibited here. So I'm going to observe some restrictions to keep this relatively short. 

There's a famous 1960 book by Aert Kuipers called Phoneme and Morpheme in Kabardian (Eastern Adyghe), in which he argues that there is only one phonemic vowel in Kabardian, because it has so many distinctive phonemic consonants that their features determine the features of adjoining vowels. This produces a fairly normal profile of phonetic vowel variation ("normal", at least, for a NW Caucasian language), but only requires that the positions of the vowels be marked phonemically, since all their phonetic features are predictable from their position among surrounding consonants. This is an extreme case, and there was a big debate on the subject; the final outcome seems to be that there are now three phonemic vowels recognized in Kabardian, sort of like PIE laryngeals. But there are still some afterthoughts. Ergo this entry, from Jim McCawley's Days in the Month of May that are of Interest to Linguists: 

They're both ungrammatical, but it's clear that what's happened is misplacing the final {}. It's mean should be It means, and it owns should be its own. It could easily happen in a transcript of spoken material, or it could happen during speech by a learner. Personally, I find those little intrusive {} morphemes in English, like English articles and auxiliaries and pronouns and empty prepositions, to be a mine field of possible mistakes and misunderstandings. Lucky for me I learned it before I went to school. 

The negative operator not and the quantificational operator some have two possible scopal relationships. That is to say, the sentence can have either meaning. It's called a scope ambiguity. And it happens because, while it's always possible to be unambiguous, the rules of syntax aren't the same as the rules of logic, so the and the don't always wind up in the right order, because of syntax. In speech, intonation would disambiguate them; but in writing, there's no intonation. Finally, the only way you (i.e, an addressee) can tell whether or order is intended in a sentence like the example is to figure it out in context. Because it's ambiguous. 

First of all, notwithstanding is a literary or legal term that doesn't enter into the spoken language much, so you can practically depend on its having weird syntax. Second, notwithstanding is a transparent polymorphemic word [not- [[with- stand] -ing]] based on the present participle of the verb withstand; it's treated as a verb in this word by using not- instead of un- as the negative prefix. Third, the etymology of this particular with- prefix does not come from the preposition with meaning 'together', but rather from a different preposition we no longer have in English that meant 'against' -- pretty much the opposite of 'with'. German still has that preposition (wider 'against', which takes an Accusative object), and it also has the verb widerstehen 'to resist, withstand', formed with the German verb stehen 'stand'. Fourth, the noun phrase that's marked by notwithstanding in either position functions as the subject of notwithstanding. I.e, if the sentence is 

These are the creation of Charles Sanders Peirce. From an encyclopedia entry on Peirce's Theory of Signs: 

This rule is known as Right-Dislocation; it moves the subject to the end of the sentence, leaving behind a coreferential pronoun. There is a corresponding Left-Dislocation, as well, that inserts a pronoun as the subject. Both constructions are accompanied by specific intonation contours, marked with commas; more on these syntactic rules, and similar rules of English, on page 4 here. 

In general, I think it's most useful to consider either as an auxiliary conjunction; it does some of the work of a conjunction, and appears in an optional supporting role with other conjunctions in special circumstances. That's pretty much what all auxiliaries do in English -- be, get, have, can; articles, particles, and prepositions. Why not conjunctions? 

Yes, they share many characteristics. But so do most of the other language families in the area, which includes most of Central Asia. It is not clear that they are related; opinions differ. There is a proposed (but not accepted) reconstructed proto-language family called Altaic. Roughly, it's a stripe of Asia with Korean and Japanese on the east end, Turkic languages on the west end, and Mongol and Manchu languages in between. This is just south of and parallel to the similar stripe reaching up to the Arctic containing the Uralic languages: Finno-Ugric languages from Finnish and Hungarian through Russia to Samoyed languages in Siberia. Uralic is an accepted family, and shares many of the characteristics of the languages proposed for Altaic; for a while there was a "Ural-Altaic hypothesis" as well. But the fact is that all the peoples in this area are nomadic herders with similar cultures who have been in the area for millennia. Plus the Altaicists haven't managed to convince one another yet. So Ural-Altaic is premature. There has always been considerable mixing among the cultures, via exogamy, war, slavery, and trade, and it has been going on for much longer than the Comparative Method that linguists use for reconstruction can reach; the upper threshhold for that is about 5000 years at maximum. So we're unlikely ever to know for sure, since words leave no fossils. 

Nothing much. The distinction is a more or less artificial one. Supposedly, pragmatics is any part of what we laughingly call the "meaning" of an utterance that can be figured out by the listener. This includes 

Bittersweet is what would be called a Dvandva compound in Sanskrit. I'm not sure, though, what you mean by "co-compound"; it sounds like the kind of term that one linguist or one group of linguists might use with a special meaning, deriving from some theory or other. This sort of stuff happens all the time in linguistics, because there are so many theories and so many varieties of terminology; that's why linguists always give examples, to illustrate what they mean by any particular term they employ. 

I'm not sure what Mark actually said, since no direct quotation or link was given. And if he did say something like that, I likewise have no idea where he got the information. Questions about "Which (kind of) language(s) is/are easier?" are perennial, especially in English, since American English speakers are notoriously leery about learning other languages. But they're really several different questions, all difficult to answer in general terms. 

has three semantic roots:   1. haʔɬ '(be) good, well'   2. yiqʼ- 'weave [baskets]'   3. luƛʼ 'elder [person]' Everything else is supplied by the multiple inflections or derivations, rather than by auxiliaries and articles, prepositions and particles, like English. And even in English it's not so simple to identify words, let alone count them. 

where the speaker's hand motions and coordinated listeners' eye motions are expected to accompany stressed /e/. This is a gestural version of deixis. In fact, this is part of Chuck Fillmore's example of a deictically unanchored sentence 

Well, that's not the only way to look at the phenomenon, and it's not necessary to believe that there are gaps like black holes left in sentences or anything like that. But there's a point it makes. There are two great families of pronouns, both descending from Proto-Indo-European roots: 

Essentially, English want governs A-Equi when it meets the conditions   (coreferential subjects of both want and its complement clause) but governs B-Raising when it doesn't meet the conditions for A-Equi   (complement subject not coreferential to the subject of want) As for the classification of believe, the syntax lab reports from these same exercises list believe as 

It came about like this. (Details about Greek here) When Greeks adopted the Punic abjad into an alphabet, they changed a lot of the letters, and added some new ones. The Punes hadn't needed vowel letters, for instance, due to the nature of the language, but the Greeks did. On the other hand, the Greeks didn't need the post-velar and emphatic consonants of Semitic, so they used those letters for vowels. Alpha, for instance, represented a post-velar consonant -- glottal stop [ʔalif] -- in Punic (and still does in Hebrew and Arabic), but it represents the vowel /a/ in the Greek alphabet, and has since then in the Latin. One of the clever things the Greeks did was invent special letters for combinations of stops and the sibilant /s/. There were three of them, one in each of the three Greek places of articulation -- labial, dental, and velar. 

There really isn't a great deal of "big picture" left. Of is just a shadow of its former lexical self. Originally, it came from the dual facts of separation -- off -- and relation -- of . In Middle English, final /f/ and /v/ weren't distinguished, so the word had two meanings. But the voiced of /əv/ reduced the vowel to shwa, while the voiceless off /ɔf/ retained its vowel. So of sounds exactly like the -'ve contraction of have in should've, which leads to should of. And like -'ve, of is now just a piece of the machinery, bleached of its semantics. Semantically, of has been reduced to just a connector with two ends 

It looks like you'll have to learn enough English syntax to do what you need. What you'll certainly need is lists of transformations ("rules, processes, constructions, alternations," etc), how they are constrained, and what their boundary conditions are. Then you'll have to figure out (or build software to figure out) which ones have operated in the complex sentences (hint: suspect infinitives) and then unwind them. Some information will be useful and some won't. Here's a few to start, in increasing order of length and breadth of coverage: 

Everett's book on the topic, Language: The Cultural Tool, will be released on March 13 this year. Check the bibliography, or write Dan Everett for a copy of it. I'm sure it'll cite everything published on the Pirahã that's come to his attention so far. As to whether the claim still holds, that depends on who you talk to. Everett and many others still hold it, and I'm quite certain there are plenty of others who never held it. Universal Grammar is itself merely a claim, since there's no actual evidence for it, nor for the Language Organ. Most people capable of forming a scientific opinion on the matter are probably waiting to see what the evidence turns out to be. Evidence first, claims later. 

Notice that the glossary say subjects often have these characteristics. I.e, the characteristics are common, but not definitive. In fact, there is no universal characteristic "Subject", except insofar as it may be demanded by various theories of grammar. In English, the concept of "subject" is very well-defined in most cases, but there are a few marginal situations where it's not so obvious, for instance with dummy-insertion rules like There-Insertion and Extraposition 

Thus the negative is just a normal part of the question, in the normal place, so the grammar is nothing special. The meaning, however, is rather specialized, and there's a big literature on it in pragmatics, among other places. The pragmatic solution is to note that if a special word is added to a question, but the modified question asks for the same information as the unmodified one, then there must be a special conventional meaning for the added word, right? -- but it doesn't have to be obvious. Since it's a request for information either way, the negation is used to signal speaker expectation. And since it's not about the logical implications of the question, English speakers don't even notice the logic, and answering a negative question with a negative when you agree feels very strange to us; we're keeping our minds on the expectations, beliefs, and goals of the speaker. Normally English speakers use a negative Y/N Q to suggest that the positive -- not the negative -- is what they expect. Thus: