Possibly something along the lines of "You may well be right, but can we please check that?" (assuming it's something that's easily googled) would've worked here, but it's impossible to know for sure. This one, also, sounds like it's more on the interviewer than on you. A while back my wife applied for two positions at a government agency, slightly different levels in the same area. Both had the same question about understanding of the agency's purpose and values, and she gave the same (written) answer for both. The feedback from the lower-level position said she hadn't shown enough understanding on the "purpose and values" question; the feedback from the higher-level position said she didn't have enough experience, but mentioned that she'd given a good answer for "purpose and values". So her answer was good enough for the higher-level role, but not the lower-level one. Just goes to show how much of the process comes down to luck of the draw. 

In my opinion, the error you've described is very minor. But even if it weren't - let the recruiters make that call. It's not your girlfriend's job to look for reasons to disqualify herself. Now, if the error had been something likely to mislead recruiters (like, say, overstating her role in a previous job) then she would have an ethical obligation to correct it. This could be done at the time of interview: "Hi, before we get started, I just wanted to correct an error on my application..." But it doesn't sound like this error falls into that category. The recruiters presumably already know the name of the office they're recruiting for. They will notice the error, if it matters enough to notice. 

If you are writing a bullying report for HR but you only have a vague idea of when the incident happened e.g. Early in March what do you say? Do you say that you don't know when? Or explain why you didn't write it down? I feel like this is murky territory. I mean you don't usually write down stuff that someone walks up to you and out of the blue says. 

I would absolutely not tell them the name of any medical condition you may have! It's extraordinarily personal and opens them up to being discriminatory. It would fall under disability discrimination. Also, there is a lot of stigma around certain ailments that might give some uninformed colleagues the willies. The best thing to do is just tell them that you have ongoing 'medical appointments' and that you will adjust your hours around them. If the depression affects your productivity then just tell them that you have a temporary medical condition you are experiencing and it may affect your productivity for time. If they see you looking sad just say you are very tired from the condition. Keep tabs on how things go after you tell them and consult an employment lawyer if they start mistreating you. 

If you have been subjected to long term harassment and they refuse to categorize the behavior as bullying or harassment despite the fact that by object measures it was, does that mean they don't care if you quit? They thought that I just didn't want to work there because I did not enjoy being hassled. Is that a sign they want you gone? They refused to own up to their behavior and just said we are 'different people'. 

From your description it sounds like you were assertive, and not over-assertive, in how you handled this issue. Unless there was some other aspect of the interview that gave rise to that assessment, it might be that you just got unlucky in getting a bad interviewer. That happens sometimes, and sadly there's not much to do about it. It's important to learn from experience, but sometimes it's just as important not to over-learn. Sometimes the error isn't on your side, in which case you shouldn't change your approach to cater to one person's foibles. The tough part is figuring out which ones should be learning experiences and which ones shouldn't, but then that's what this sort of post is for - getting feedback from others. 

As an interviewer, I would not be enthusiastic about a candidate whose attitude was "don't care what you do, I just want to know what technology you have". For one thing, anybody with an ounce of self-interest should be interested in some of the non-technical aspects of the job. Stuff like: 

Some time back I read a great article: "Don't Self-Reject". It's written as advice to SF/F authors who are deciding whether to submit their work to a publisher, but the basic message is relevant to almost anybody looking for a job: you shouldn't be rejecting your own work before the editor (recruiter) even gets a chance to assess it. Summarising the ideas in that article, and translating to the workplace: 

Depending on your relationship with your managers, it may or may not be helpful to discuss that you're feeling frustrated with this situation. (At least, I'm assuming you're feeling frustrated, because I certainly would be in your shoes!) Some places understand that supporting employees' career development is good for long-term retention, even if it means some trade-offs in the short term, and in that sort of environment it can help to be candid about how you're feeling. Others aren't as enlightened and may hold it against you; that's something you'll need to gauge for yourself. If they say no to that, then it's definitely time to start looking for opportunities elsewhere. Good management doesn't penalise people for making themselves useful! 

I've been working at my current job for about 7 months. I really like the company, my boss and the job. The pay is great and I'm comfortable in the role. I'm a web developer. The thing is... My husband wants to move in 8 months time! We want to move because we have no family where we are currently located. There is another office/branch for this company near our future home. It would be a move to another country. I don't have a work visa yet but because I am the spouse of a citizen I just have to get my passport stamped when I'm there. I hope that I don't have to quit working here altogether and could transfer or possibly work remotely part time. Other than losing a productive employee I don't see much benefit to transferring me for them. How and when should you tell them about your plans? How do you bring it up? 

I was harassed by my direct supervisor at my old company. The harassement was all verbal and there were potential witnesses but few direct. For example, there were people within hearing distance/sitting in the next cubicle of the verbal abuse but it's not clear to me if they were paying attention. Some of the incidences where a while ago. I'll be needing to ask them if they remember the incidences. I'm guessing it's best to ask for their personal email and then email them the incidences and if they might remember any of them. Obviously, this is a loaded and sesitive topic. Is it best to make a first quick casual contact? Just send them an email saying hello would you like to keep in touch although it does sound awkward. Next ask them if they remember some incidences? Edit: I have already filed a lawsuit against the company. I don't have a lawyer I'm going it on my own.