The best source I know is red palm oil. (note that red = raw and unrefined, and that palm kernel oil is something else altogether) Raw palm oil not contains plenty of carotenes and lycopene, but also about 0.4 mg of tocotrienols plus a similar amount of alpha-tocopherol per 1 g of oil. Wheat germ oil is also rich in tocotrienols, and contains a lot more tocopherols, but is a lot less stable, resulting in a rather short shelf life. PS: Vitamin E is a class of 8 substances, namely alpha- through delta-tocopherol and alpha- through delta tocotrienol. Most supplements contain only alpha-tocopherol, converted from a natural mix of tocopherols by a process called methylation. Reseach suggests however, that mixed tocopherols and/or tocotrienols work a lot better than one isolated tocopherol, and that overly high dosages of alpha-tocopherol are unhealty. Tocotrienols are more potent than tocopherols. 

do i need to follow above ? I am a beginner & also is above statement depends on Intensity level ? currently i am working in LOW intensity ? 

Currently I am working on Chest & biceps [ Mon ] , Triceps [ Tue ] , Back [ Wed] , Shoulders [ Thu ], Legs [ Fri ] from Mon to friday.... Somewhere i read below : 

Is it okay to workout in gym , when i am suffering from diarrhea ? or is it better to take rest that day ? Please give me some suggestions on this.... 

That machine is called a barbell and you need to deadlift it. Deadlifting is not something you can start doing without learning it first, like you might with a machine. But no machine can teach to how to lift heavy weights without screwing up your back, learning how to deadlift will teach you exactly that. Find yourself a powerlifter or trainer at your gym, have them show you how the deadlift works, and let them check and correct your form. The basics are easy enough to learn though, you can do that from a book or online. Of course, you can deadlift anything you want, like kettlebells, instead of barbells. The farmers walk would be a great complementary exercise to the deadlift for your purposes. 

I am skinny fat , physically bit weak boy [ 26 age ] with 6.1 tall [ 1.83 ] and reduced my body weight from 78 kg [ 171 pounds] to 71 kgs [156 pounds] . still i have some belly and i wanted to eliminate that completely. along with that i want to get some shape and muscle. right now i am doing cardio 60 - 90 minutes per week and i am in calorie deficit diet. what i want to know is "I want to do strength training also" along with cardio. So how much cardio and how much strength training is not too much for me ? may i go with 5 days [ 30 minutes/day ] strength training & 3 days [ 30 minutes/day ] cardio per week ? 

Fixing this requires attack from multiple angles, there are many muscles involved here, not just the hip flexors. Ideally, you'd find out where your weakest links are and target those. In general, I'd recommend strengthening your glutes and stretching your hip flexors. There are many ways to strengthen your glutes. Kettlebell swings or deadlifts are compound exercises with a strong emphasis on the glutes. I'm not sure squats would work as well, they don't use the whole posterior chain in the same way that swings or deadlifts do. Glute bridges and hip thrusts are a more focused approach. There are also various ways to stretch your hip flexors. The classic is the lunge stretch. But be careful to do it with good form, or you'll just hyperextend your lower back rather than stretch your hip flexors. Tim Ferris is quite enthusiastic about Supine Groin (progressive) stretches from the Egoscue method. 

I started to workout in gym Age : 27, Male Height : 6.1 [184 ] Weight : 68 kgs [ 150 pound] [ Lightly active (moderate exercise but sedentary job)] usually i eat 50gms/110 pounds of protein per day , According to this link , if i want muscle gain, i need 179 Gm/393 pound protein , OMG is that much protein really required ? 

which is better option in below to reduce body fat 1)morning - 80 % protein , afternoon - 80 % carbohydrates , evening - handfull of nuts & eating only fruits at dinner. 2)taking carbs, proteins , fats & fruits for breakfast, lunch, dinner ? 

As for something completely different, your digestion can also cause your belly to produde. A bloated stomach is not flat. 

You're right, you should still get results, albeit slower. However, you might consider lifting twice and running three times a week rather than the other way around. Given enough intensity (and proper rest), it is easy enough to see progress with lifting on just two sessions a week. Or you might switch between blocks with focus on lifting (3xlift 2xrun) and focus on running (3xrun 2xlift). 2-4 weeks would be a good length for such a block. 

From last 6 months , Due to very good diet & little bit cardio, i reduced my weight & fat [belly] , now i started to workout in Gym from few days for strength training & started to eat both carbs and proteins more than before.... seems like instead of muscles, again i am getting belly fat , how to get muscles without getting any little but fat ? What wrong i am doing here ? 

I workout on Monday - thursday & dont take required amount of protein to build muscles due to some reasons.... i can able to take enough protein from friday to sunday.... so if i need 150g protein per day to gain muscle, if i take **50 g protein per day from monday to thursday & if i take 150 g protein per day from friday to sunday , will that helpfull to build muscles ? 

As for Olive Oil, these workoutmasters are probably wrong, though. Olive oil is rich in monounsaturated fats, and while it does contain Omega-6 polyunsaturated fats, it is relatively low in them. This makes it the good kind of vegetable oil. I've never seen anything pointing to monounsaturated fats being bad. Looking beyond the macro, good olive oil contains some mighty beneficial micronutrients like polyphenols. $URL$ 

Two exercises from the school on short and intense cardio requiring just you and the floor: Burpees Mountain Climbers It's usually best to do intense cardio in intervals, meaning many short sets with short breaks between them, like sets of 20 seconds with 10 seconds of rest in between (Tabata), sets of 30 seconds with 30 to 60 seconds of rest, or something of the sort. I would start (or at least try them) right now. If your muscles aren't prepared for this and you can't do more than two minutes, you won't be able to get much cardio out of it.