If you read □ as something like “I can prove that…” then in effect you get the BHK interpretation of IL. BHK is not a ‘system’ just a way of understanding what an intuitionistic proposition is saying. It means that IL has the natural semantics of being the logic of proof or verifiability. By contrast, classical logic (CL) is usually understood as having the natural semantics of truth, i.e. it is concerned with what is the case, whether or not it can be verified. A valid argument in CL can be described as preserving truth, while a valid argument in IL preserves provability or verifiability. There is no direct connection to natural deduction, since both of these logics can be expressed using it, or for that matter using sequent calculus. CL extends IL by adding the law of the excluded middle (or double negation elimination) and in the case of quantifier logic, by tweaking the quantification rules a little. The idea that the meaning of a sentence is given by its verification conditions, as opposed to its truth conditions, was a popular one with the logical positivists. It has the consequence that if you don’t know how to verify a sentence then you don’t know its meaning, and by extension, if nobody knows how to verify it, then it is meaningless. This is one way of stating the notorious ‘verification principle’ that the positivists used to claim that much of philosophical language is indeed meaningless. Positivism fell out of favour for many reasons, not least of which is that it doesn’t really work, although Michael Dummett continued to defend the idea that IL is the ‘correct’ logic and that the semantics of the classical logical constants cannot be justified. As a rider, it is worth noting that the Curry-Howard correspondence, which relates proof to computability, does extend to CL. So even though CL is normally thought of as non-constructive and IL as constructive, many classical proofs can be extracted as computations. This rather blurs the line between saying that CL is about truth, and IL about provability. 

I think there are wrong assumptions in your question. Actually there is no need (on a purely physical ground) for the thoughts to correspond in any way to a reality "outside" of the mind/brain. Thoughts are just linked to electric activity inside your brain, this is the only direct physical link between them and a physical reality. The reason why the thoughts often actually do correspond to real things outside is evolution and natural selection. And it happens that having also the ability to depart a little bit your thoughts from this correspondence is an evolutive advantage (you can build complex models, imagine scenarios before you meet them and be driven by fear or desire for those uncertain furure scenarios increasing your probability to survive, as explained by Rex here). 

I think that a mathematician/scientist is nothing different from an explorator, I mean a person who is physically exploring a place. Why the explorator is exploring? The taste for exploration is actually a basic instinct of any animal, it is good, from an evolutionary point of view, to have this kind of taste because it results in collecting potentially useful information, useful for survival and reproduction. This is true for the dog exploring his neighbourhood but also for a man building a science. The taste for exploration is mixed and reinforced by different incentives, one is beauty as you mentioned, another is challange (this is probably mostly human): feeling challanged by a difficult task (reaching some high peak) and then having the reward of looking everything with your new superior point of view. To answer your question I would say that the driving force of a mathematician is not "directly" the quest for knowledge, altought it is the result. Knowledge in itself wouldn't be pursued if one wouldn't have the taste for exploration or the urge to solve some kind of real problem. On the other hand if a community of mathematicians/scientists would be required to express what is the valuable thing they are working on they wouldn't say that "the community" is working to create beauty and achieving specific results as a challange to themself. 

Your understanding is definitively good enough as a working hypothesis. The relation between alienation and unification is one of the major topics of the book, i.e. something not defined but explored. The Socienty of the Spectacle is much easier to read as a whole than as a system, i.e. repeatedly rather than incrementally. Still, let me provide some background and some explanation: Alienation For Hegel, alienation basically is the result of reflection: the subject presents itself as an object when we reflect on it; the same goes for all our parts and all we are part of, our properties, the categories we think in, society, nature. For Hegel the unity is generated by the spirit or (at least in Marxist understanding) by thinking: ultimately the spirit realises that all the things that seem to be other objects are really its own product. Now, Marx’ critique is this: Marx claims Hegel has got it the wrong way, that Hegel’s philosophy has to be put on its feet. To understand this, recall Hegel’s Philosophy of Right: Hegel starts with the notion of property, this notion then leads to contradictions which require the new notions of contract, law, moral, family, society, and, finally, the proper »State« in which all the contradictions find their solution. One part of Marx’ critique is that Hegel only presents the ideal of unification but not the real praxis (the economy) which actually unifies. Perhaps more importantly, he tries to inverse the process: What if, Marx asks, the totality is not the reconciliation of contradictions but rather the process by which the contradictions (property, or, for the later Marx: commodities) are generated in the first place? This question is the basis for Marx’ project. But this reversal has important consequences for the notion of alienation: alienation no longer means that we have not (yet) understood that we and the object we are regarding are really the same; rather, our totality produces real contradictions, it produces conditions in which our parts and what we are part of, our products and what we are produced by, are not »ours«. Unification While in Hegel, alienation and unification can be seen as opposites (the alienation ultimatly disappears only in the final unification), even for Marx this is not true: the capitalist mode of production unifies (almost) everything, but alienation remains: the products of the worker are not her own, but present themselves as an alien and potentially hostile power. In Marx, however, the unification is not total, because the remaning alienation (although the later Marx no longer uses that notion) is understood to be visible and the necesessity obvious to abolish dispose of the mode of production that creates said alienation. This is where some 20th century Marxists disagreed: It seemed that the unification indeed tended to become total, and the question became how to explain that. Debord provided one of these attempts. Society of the Spectacle ›Alienation‹ occurs for the first time in Thesis 8: this is pretty Hegelian, »reciprocal alienation« means that »reality« as well as »spectacle« become what they are not, reality because it presents itself in the spectacle (therefore as something else than reality), while the spectacle is real, e.g. a spectacular concept of reality. While for Hegel and Marx alienation was between subject and object, Debord describes alienation in a process that is already removed from the subject. According to Marx, the subject creates her own alienation by producing; not so with Debord: the alienation has already happend before the subject even appears. In Hegel, contemplation of the object is the process by which alienation is ultimately overcome, For Marx, contemplation (or thinking) provides us with what is required to change the conditions that create alienation. But for Debord, contemplation is exactly that what creates alienation: when we contemplate (watch, observe) we do not really critically analyse. Rather we understand reality in categories provided for us, in categories we use but did not create. For Debord these categories (the spectacle) structure and constitute what is real to us. They create our reality. And they combine every aspect of reality. Everything fits. That is unification. At the same time, the spectacle (the cultural discourse, the political discourse, the way we see our surroundings in our roles as workers, commuters, tourists, revellers, etc.) is somewhat removed from what we really do (as opposed to our role). Unification means that everything fits together, everything can be explained by something else and, therefore, everything that is can be justified. If alienation can be justified, any hope is lost. Debord’s project hinges on the hinges on the possibility that the unification is a wrong one. So while Debord tries to explain why alienation and unification must present themselves in our society as identical, his project requires that we still can distinguish between them. And, indeed, there has been much discussion, if and how this is possible. 

I think the impact of human knowledge on the world as a proof to causal influence on mind to matter can be attacked by an epiphenomenalist in the following way: 

The government rules that everyone who wants to play a lottery has to buy the ticket before 20 December. The prize is told to be 1'000'000. After 20 December (and before the game ends) the government decides to increase the prize by 10 times the original amount, but it is too late to buy tickets now. Since the prize has been increased nobody who bought the ticket can claim to have been damaged (they have been gifted actually). But what about those who didn't buy the ticket? They would have bought the ticket if they knew the price would have become so big. Can they legitimately claim to have been damaged by the government decision to increase the prize? (Suppose that the prize is completely irrelevant compared with the government budget so that the public finance is actually not affected) 

Here, »peace« and »war« are not to be understood as under international law (because there peace is not a kind of war); of course this technical meaning is meant as well (the context – Valéry wrote this 1919 – should give a hint). But obviously Valéry doesn't see peace and war as pure opposites and we can suspect that »war«, for Valéry, has taken quite an abstract meaning that also includes peace if it »allows acts of love and creation«. What this abstract meaning is we cannot decide from this portion of the text; we could, however, build a hypotheses – conflict? change? – which we test as we read along. The Whole To understand seemingly complicated texts, you have to relate the details, the single sentences and arguments to the whole text. First, there is an inner structure. The portion you cited has four paragraphs: (1) Peace and its origin is more mysterious than war. (2) Some people may be intuitively sure of the answer. (3) Valéry wants to examine the problem by means of the intellect. (4) This method is limited, but so is any other. Of course, there are some more details we have to examine, e.g. the juxtaposition of sensation and intellect. Does Valéry mean that some people simply feel that peace is right, but that he himself wants to give reasons? Or does he mean something else? To answer this, we need to take the outer structure into account: the cited portion is only the beginning of the second letter. The Context To understand the details, knowing the context is helpful. The context, however, is pretty much everything. So we have to think about which context we want to examine. (1) Knowing the hole work is generally a good idea (in this case it is rather short). But usually, we should be able to make sense of an excerpt on its own. In fact, it often is a good idea to identify the questions which the complete text might answer: We might expect to find more in Valéry's concept of war, but not necessarily more on his distinction between »sensation« and »intellect«. (2) Biographical and historical information can also help. World War I and its aftermath has obviously to be kept in mind. (3) Intellectual context is probably the most difficult to establish. But again, we should be able to make some sense of the text, without knowing too much about what else people though. Questions of thinking vs. feeling were a hot topic back than; but we could suspect as much from the excerpt. Knowing what Bacon said about idols is also helpful; but it is quite clear to say »that this notion of the intellect is an idol« means the notion is somehow wrong or at least insufficient. 

Your question is connected to several other linked philosophicsl problems. I'll mention two of them: 1) The teleporter paradox: suppose you have a technology like this which can teleport things by destroying their physical bodies and recostructing them in a distant place. If you teleport yourself will you still exist when the process ends? 2) The hardware-software dualism and the location of the self: if you have a perfect copy of one's brain and body there is no way to decide who is the original person and who is the copy, so you might be lead to think that the self is connected to the concrete matter of the brain (and not to the information): if you replace matter, you replace the self. But the brain has a lot of matter which is not strictly necessary in order to make things work, and there is a lot of substitution naturally going on in any brain (cells which born/dies in adult brains) and apparently you cannot identify a "core" where the self could be. If these issues fascinate you maybe you will enjoy the famous book "The mind's I" by D. Hoftstadter.