Good question! I wasn't able to find any unambiguous examples either with a short search, and I found one source that says there are no known examples of languages with only CV syllables. Understanding Phonology (Fourth Edition), by Carlos Gussenhoven and Haike Jacobs, says: 

These words show no signs of sharing a common suffix, let alone one that we can identify as meaning "add one." Actually, there is another explanation often used for this kind of thing: sound changes by analogy that cause counting numbers next to each other to change their first sound to be more similar. This is thought to be the reason why "four" starts with "f" in Germanic languages. (discussed in Historical and Comparative Linguistics, by Raimo Anttila) Apparently, some think this may also be the source of "s" in the "six" word: the reflexes in Indo-European languages point variously to original *w (Armenian), *sw (Celtic), or *s (Italic, Germanic); one idea is that it started out with *w, and then later an "s" was added at the start by analogy with the "seven" word, and the cluster *sw was then simplified to just *s in some branches. (discussed in the "Italic" chapter, by Robert Coleman, of Indo-European Numerals, edited by Jadranka Gvozdanovic) However, another etymology of Armenian վեց vec' derives it from the cluster *sw via an intermediate step *hw. ("Indo-European 'Six'" by Václav Blažek) The internal structure of the PIE word and the history of how it came to mean "six" are also unclear. But "two" and "three" are just coincidence as far as I know. In fact, "two" and "three" only start with the same letter in English by coincidence; the sound is not the same, and in other Indo-European languages like German or Spanish the spelling reflects this more: (zwei, drei and dos, tres). 

Seems like you have a good ear! I don't speak Sinhala, but I'm familiar with the IPA, so my answer will focus on learning methods for this. To learn IPA symbols, I've found Wikipedia a very useful resource. The Wikipedia article on the Sinhalese language lists the IPA symbols necessary to represent all of the words of the language. As you've noticed, some of these symbols are not in the IPA for English, because English and Sinhala have different sound systems. To learn sounds of the IPA that aren't in English, there are two main strategies: the auditory and the articulatory approach. Different people may find one more or less useful for them personally. Auditory approach: As you've already mentioned, you can try to learn these sounds by using audio resources and then repeating what you hear. Articulatory approach: Another way to learn these sounds is to read descriptions of where they are made in the mouth (articulation) and try to move your tongue and throat in the way described. 

Predicate noun phrases (NPs) have different patterns of case in different languages. Even closely related languages can show significant differences (Sigurðsson 2008). For example, among the Germanic languages, Danish, Norwegian and English standardly assign accusative case to predicate NPs, while Icelandic, Swedish and German have nominative predicate NPs (Maling & Sprouse 1995: 168). Modern English regularly uses the accusative/objective case for predicate NPs (with a few possible exceptions in learned constructions, such as the acceptability for many speakers of sentences like "It is he who is..."—probably generated by a "him who" > "he who" "virus", considering the common overextension to contexts like "Let he who is..."—and the unacceptability for many speakers of sentences like "*That is whom he is"—but whom behaves differently from normal accusative NPs in other ways also, and "who" is the usual pronoun used in accuative contexts). However, I don't think it is theoretically impossible for a version of English with nominative predicate NPs to exist, or to have existed. (If there are actually good theoretical reasons to suppose this is impossible, I would appreciate learning about them!) I asked a question on ELU a while back about the prescriptive "traditions" about what case to use for predicate NPs in English in various contexts after non-finite forms of "to be" when nominative NPs are treated as a potentially grammatical option. There doesn't seem to have been any clear consensus. But I ran into an annoying situation: some of the grammatical explanations of the rules I encountered in old prescriptive grammar books seemed very unconvincing, but I couldn't see any way of refuting their conclusions aside from the simple empirical counterargument "nobody speaks that way," which is true but not very deep or interesting. Even if the rules seem arbitrary and senseless to me, for all I know it could be possible for a language to work that way. That bothers me a bit, because the rules don't just feel inconsistent with reality to me; they also seem to be in some way internally inconsistent, and I was hoping I would be able to support this feeling somehow. So, I tried to look up some contemporary literature about case assignment to see if we have learned anything since the era of the prescriptivist writers that either adds support or takes support away from their prescribed rules. But after reading a bit, I still feel just as ill-equipped to evaluate the patterns of case usage described in e.g. Reed and Kellogg (who prescribe "Its being he should make no difference" alongside "I wish to be him".) Icelandic has complicated patterns of case usage that are apparently challenging to describe in terms of modern case theory (Sigurðsson 2008). German speakers use predicate nominative NPs in contexts where it doesn't seem theoretically possible for nominative case to be assigned structurally (Haider 2010: 264 (6.3.2)), posing a problem for Maling & Sprouse's hypothesis that predicate NPs in Germanic languages always receive case structurally through specifier-head agreement (1995). It seems like just about anything goes. In fact, Sigurðsson (2008) actually argues (to my understanding) that there is a fundamentally non-one-to-one relationship between morphological case and the thing that syntactic theories of "Case" are about. If true, this would seem to sharply limit our ability to predict the distribution of morphological cases in a language using information about other morphological and syntactic patterns of the language (Sigurðsson references a quote from Jespersen 'no one ever dreamed of a universal morphology'). (While I was writing this question, I was shown a link to the question Are there any recent articles on the current state of Case theory? that mentions Marantz (1991), who also seems to take the position that m-case is not particularly correlated to the abstract "Case" of generative grammar.) Reading Sigurðsson's arguments made me pessimistic, but I'm still curious: 

I guessed that it was connected to the sound change /o/ > /u/, but the first sentence says that is not likely to be relevant. Calabrese goes on to propose an explanation based on the feature [advanced tongue root], which is illustrated by examples of a similar sound change in the southern Italian dialect of Altamura; I don't fully understand it so I won't copy it here, but you can look in the paper at section 4, page 84 to see what she says about Old French. 

Here are some definitions and discussion of relevant terms that hopefully might help clarify some of the linguistic concepts. I'm sorry for the excessive length, which I'll try to trim down as I organize these thoughts better. Pretty much all of the terms you've brought up refer to phonemic concepts, or theoretical elements of the organization of a language's sound system, rather than to phonetic, directly measurable (or audible) features of language. Syllable: Overall, the “syllable” is a vaguely defined concept. Many languages can be analysed such that some sounds are considered syllabic nuclei, such as vowels or syllabic consonants. For example, the English word “chasm” has two syllabic nuclei: the first is the vowel “a”, and the second is the syllabic consonant “m”. Once you’ve determined the syllabic nuclei, a word can then be defined to have exactly as many “syllables” as it has syllabic nuclei. Then, by looking at the patterns of how the other, non-syllabic sounds vary depending on where they are in a word, we can come up with theories of syllabification that assign some or all of the non-syllabic sounds in a word to a particular syllable, as either part of the syllable’s onset (before the syllable nucleus) or its coda (after the syllable nucleus). The difficulty lies in formulating a theory that clearly assigns every sound to a particular syllable. Sometimes, there are conflicting principles of syllabification, and so different phonologists may have different views on the syllabification of a particular word. Other contentious questions about syllabification: can a single sound simultaneously belong to more than one syllable? Can a word have sounds that are not underlyingly part of any syllable? Do all words in all languages have clearly identifiable syllabic nuclei? If anyone tells you these questions have a simple answer, be skeptical. Mora: A mora is basically a unit of syllabic "weight" used in the analysis of a language, that may or may not constitute a full syllable on its own. A single syllable can have one or more morae. Typically, the onset (first part) of a syllable is weightless, and thus does not contribute any morae to the syllable. A short vowel is considered to be worth one mora, and a long vowel two. Consonants at the end of a syllable may also be considered to contribute a mora. When analysing Japanese, a short vowel is considered to have one mora, a long vowel is considered to have two, and the syllable codas ん and っ (sometimes transcribed /N/ and /Q/), are considered to each have one mora. It's useful to distinguish morae from syllables because some languages, like Japanese, have phonological rules that refer to both. Intonation: The use of pitch (also volume and other suprasegmental features like this) above the word level: for example, the use of rising pitch in English questions: the pitch is not associated with any particular word, but with a particular type of statement instead. All languages have some kind of patterns of intonation, but not necessarily the same ones as other languages. "Intonation" is not directly related to "tone" or "stress": non-tonal languages have intonation, and intonation usually doesn't interact with the tone system of a language, but operates on a different level from it. Phonemic tone: Specific words can be differentiated only by the pitch or the pattern of pitch changes that occurs when they are spoken. In some languages, tonal patterns apply to words as a whole, and knowing the placement of one particular pitch feature in a word is enough to know what pitch pattern to use for the entire word. Tokyo Japanese has a tone system of this type, where knowing a pitch value and the mora it is located on is enough to predict the pitch pattern of an entire word. The Japanese system is often called a “pitch accent”. Thus, the concept of the "mora" is used to help explain the pattern of pitch or "pitch accent" we see in Japanese words, but the concepts don't have to go together, and not all languages have both. Other languages with phonemic tone are analysed as having each syllable specified with an independent tone. However, many of these languages analysed as having an independent tone “for each syllable” in theory actually exhibit a phenomenon where tones on adjacent syllables or in the same word can affect each other: this is called “tone sandhi”. Standard Mandarin Chinese is a language analysed with tone at the syllable level and tone sandhi. Not all languages have phonemic pitch, or "tone". English doesn't. Word stress: In some languages, including English, some syllables in a word seem more prominent than others. This is “stress”. “Stress” may be realized in different languages with different combinations of measurable phonetic features, such as pitch, length, or vowel quality. The term “stress” is typically used when there is exactly one syllable that can be identified as the most prominent, and every content word has such a syllable. Phonemic stress: In many languages, if you know the precise sequence of sounds in a word, you can predict with certainty where the word's stress is. In other languages, the stress cannot always be predicted; there could be two words with the same sequence of sounds but different placements of stress. English falls into the latter category; this kind of unpredictable stress is called “phonemic stress” or “lexical stress”. Spanish is also in this category; although the stress is predictable from the spelling, it can’t be predicted if you only know the sequence of consonant and vowel sounds. Connections between Stress, Tone, and Vowel Length Of phomenic stress and phonemic tone, languages can have just one, just the other, both, or neither. Both pitch and stress often interact with vowel length as well; commonly, long vowels can have more types of pitch than short vowels, such as "contour pitches" like falling or rising-falling, and long vowels often attract stress in some way or get shortened in non-stressed syllables.  In many languages that have both phonemic stress and tone, the two interact in some way. This combined system of stress and tone (and perhaps also vowel length) is often called “pitch accent”. This isn’t particularly related to the Japanese “pitch accent”, so I wouldn't attach much importance to the fact that the same term is used for both phenomena. In particular, there are languages that have a typical stress system, with all words having a single most prominent syllable, and that only have a contrast between different pitches for that one stressed syllable. Many Baltic languages have a system like this, which also interacts with vowel length. Lithuanian is an example of a language with this type of "pitch accent". Timing and Isochrony The concept of “timing” is usually presented as the idea that fluent speakers of languages will try to evenly space out some linguistically significant feature of their words. Supposedly, a speaker of a “stress-timed” language will adjust the speed at which they speak syllables so that timing between stressed syllables is approximately constant. A speaker of a “syllable-timed” language is supposed to adjust the speed at which they speak so that every syllable is approximately the same length. And a fluent speaker of a “mora-timed” language supposedly adjusts their speech unconsciously so as to have an approxomately even timing between any two successive morae. So, it’s very possible you might have heard someone make the claim that all languages fall into one of these types. One complication with this view is that other factors besides stress, number of syllables, and syllabic weight can affect how long it takes phonetically to pronounce a syllable on average. In English, both “large” and “bee” are single stressed syllables, but the first has a more complicated syllable structure than the sceond, which tends to make it take longer to pronounce. There are also good theoretical reasons to think of these three classifications as hypothetical extreme points on a spectrum rather than a tripartite division: even though English is supposedly syllable-timed, most analyses of British English also identify a phonemic distinction in vowel length, which would seem to conflict with a rule of isochrony based purely on the position of stress and nothing else. Despite these issues, there are linguists who believe there is a real phenomenon underlying the idea of isochrony, but as you can see, it is not at all a clear-cut classification. 

–the article "Proto-Germanic grammar" on Wiktionary I'll update this answer once I find more discussion in scholarly journals. 

Latin "b" apparently developed a pronunciation variant [β] (a voiced bilabial fricative or approximant) at some point that was used between vowels. Presumably there was a period when the shift from [b] to [β] in this context was incomplete. One piece of evidence for this shift is spelling confusion between "u" and "b" in some Latin texts, which is attested as far back as the first century AD. The article "Lenition and phonemic contrast in Majorcan Catalan", by José Ignacio Hualde, Marianna Nadeu & Miquel Simonet (in Romance Linguistics 2009, edited by Sonia Colina, Antxon Olarrea and Ana Maria Carvalho), says that 

I have encountered, I believe mostly in works from Generativist phonological traditions along the lines of Chomsky and Halle's The Sound Pattern of English, the idea that words like potency, latency, decency, presidency end at some level of morpho-phonology with the sound /j/ rather than some nuclear vowel sound like /i/. I've realized I don't quite understand the point of this analysis; could anyone explain it to me and tell me if it is still considered to be correct by anyone, or by most people, or by only a few people? Stress & vowel length The main motivation that I think I understand is stress and vowel length: if we say that "potency" has only two syllables at the level of phonology where stress and vowel length rules are applied, this explains why it doesn't show "trisyllabic laxing"/"Luick's law" and has a long rather than a short vowel in the initial syllable. Likewise, the stress of "presidency" can be analyzed as antepenult rather than pre-antepenult. However, this seems kind of a lame motivating factor in itself considering that there are many other extra-metrical suffixes in English that aren't, as far as I know, analyzed as lacking syllabic nuclei, such as -ness, -less. Also, I know of at least one exception to the apparent extrametricality of -y in -ency/-ancy nouns: the word discrepancy, which is typically pronounced with antepenult stress on the e, which is "short". It seem to me that it would be bizarre to explain this by saying that "potency" ends in /j/ but "discrepancy" ends in /i/. Apparent consonant changes I suppose another reason might be the apparent palatalization of /t/ to /s/ in these words (latent > latency). While palatalization is undoubtedly the diachronic source of /s/ in words ending in -cy, it is not obvious to me that we can explain the /s/ as the result of a synchronically active process of palatalization. Palatalization before written "i"/phonetic /i~j/ in word-medial contexts usually yields /ʃ/, not /s/ (or at least can): consider potential, potentiality. Unlike these words, potency cannot be pronounced with /ʃ/. This suggests to me that "potency" has to be analyzed somewhat differently. Also, we see /s/ in -ance/-ence words, where there is no (at least, no overt) following segment corresponding to /j/. There are also odd formations like normalcy < normal, where there is no /t/ in the source word; baronetcy, with /t/ followed by /s/; and, in spelling if not in pronunciation, also bankruptcy, vicountcy, paramountcy. These examples suggest that in at least some cases, /si/ is apprehended as a suffix, in which case "ancy" and "ency", rather being analyzed as -ant + -y and -ent + -y, can or should be analyzed as -ant + -cy and -ent + -cy, with no need to consider the /s/ as derived synchronically from palatalization of /t/.