Are your shoes laced too tightly? If they are too tight over the instep, movement in your foot as you walk will increase friction at the heal. Are your shoes laced too loosely? They should be tight enough so your feet do not slip up and cause friction as you walk (but not too tight per point 1). Wear two pairs of socks. A light pair of inner socks may alleviate the problem so the friction occurs between the layers of socks rather than on your skin. Avoid cotton socks. Cotton tends to stay damp once it is wet (either due to the weather or persperation) and wet socks will exacerbate any friction. Wear good quality socks designed for hiking. They will be made from material that dries easily and wicks away moisture. They should also be designed to minimise friction. 

If it doesn't need to be pretty, a cost effective option is spinnaker repair tape (nylon cloth tape, for example, see products on this page). It is designed for repairs to yacht sails so it is durable, weatherproof and should survive a machine wash (but it wont be breathable). Stick a piece over the hole on the front and back of the fabric. 

Ok, now your tasks are mainly light cutting tasks, with an implied hiking. So you need a knife suitable for light to medium tasks. As for hikes, I'd always imply the use as a survival knife. I'd suggest a neck knife, as it comfortable to wear, easy to conceal (running around with a visible bald may be unacceptable in some areas – and even illegal) and quite easy to handle. Since you want to cut fish and plants, which I'd roughly classify as food prepping calls for a flat ground edge. A drop point or clip point shape is ideal for extra control during light to medium tasks. As for the steel, the general question is wether you want stainless or carbon steel (setting aside all shades between those two for now). As your question implies that you don't want to put much, if any, work into maintenance during the travel, I'd suggest a stainless steel. Since you are willing to pay some money, I suggest a knife you will be happy with even when you "get into it" and buy other knifes, for more specialized tasks. Why vote goes for the ESEE Izula in the stainless 440C steel with a paracord wrap as handle. Not an awesome steel, but a good workhorse. The edge retention is not great, but it will retain a good working sharpness during all but the longest trips. It is lightweight, sturdy, suitable for your tasks, legal in many legislations and not too expensive. Though even when you will buy other knifes, you will come back to your ol' trusty Izula. As a backup, I suggest a Victorinox EvoGrip S18. It has all the tools you need outdoors and then some. It even offers some of the highly underestimated tools for personal hygiene. If you can get your hands on the older models built by Wenger, I'd suggest taking that instead. The slide in tools are built a bit nicer, imho. Some side notes: I am not a fan of integrating survival tools into a knife. Such a Frankenknife will always be good in one part and sub-par in the other. When it comes to survival equipment, you want the best of breed for every single item. I am no fan of serrated blades, either, not even partially serrated. They can do nothing a fine edge blade can't do, but you simply can't do a clean cut with a serrated blade. 

You can use the common technique with the poles to measure the slope angle like discribed by @EverythingRightPlace. There is also a ski-pole-sticker that you can attach to your pole and then simply read the angle with a single pole (found on this website). There are also several smart phone apps for your smart phone to measure the angle of a slope. These Apps are only an additional help for the existing physical methods and are not completely reliable. for WindowsPhone for Android for iPhone 

How can I clean my hiking boots after any hike I made and how can I clean them after extended use e.g. multi day hike? How can i clean them back home and on the field? 

If you have your clothes by the fire and not in the fire it's not to likely that they burn if they're in a safe distance. It's good to hang it in a safe distance to the fire. But be also aware of the sparks from the fire (if you have synthetic clothes), they can get holes or also start burning in worst case. And your staff smells not so nice when it's in the smoke of the fire. So if you have a big fire hang it up close to the ground. The smog goes normally straight up. The rock will not explode because of the undies. But it's not so safe for your gear to put it on a hot stone it can melt to the stone. 

There is no such thing as an all-purpose knife. A knife's blade shape, steel, length, weight, type and angle of edge all determine what a knife is best at. While it surely will do other cutting tasks, it will never excel there. Take a BRKT Bravo 1, for example. It is an excellent knife for heavy duty tasks, and in a survival situation, I'd bet my life on it. But it s***s big time for everything else. Food prepping is a plain horror, and the rather light campsite tasks are no fun, either. On the other hand, you would not want to try to split wood with your Victorinox Classic, would you? A knife does not have to be expensive to be good. A Mora Companion Heavy Duty surely will never win a design price (except for "The Ugliest Knife built. Ever."), but it is one of the sturdiest, most easy to sharpen and dependable knives I have ever had the pleasure to put my hands on. Last but not least: a knife does not have to be big to be useful. While some tasks become easier using a big knife, almost everything can be done using a small knife. 

All land in the UK is owned by somebody, therefore, all trees and their produce (including firewood) are owned by somebody. You could be charged with theft if you take logs, kindling etc. without permission. The Jeremy Vine Show on BBC Radio 2 on 6th January 2012 discussed this very topic following the storms in the UK around that time, that left a lot of fallen trees. Jeremy Vine interviewed a lawyer who I remember explained the laws that cover this issue. The Forestry Commission sometimes offers Firewood Scavenging Permits allowing you to gather your own firewood, usually from an area that has already been commercially harvested. 

lower air density which increases respiration and, therefore, water loss, and lower air pressure which increases evaporation of moisture from the skin. 

If you're not having fun, figure out why and fix it for next time. As you gain experience things will become easier and you'll have more fun. 

Instant ice packs, like this one, which are usually used for treating sprains and strains sound a bit like what you are looking for. They use a chemical reaction to cool, but, they are single use only. Such instant ice packs work by mixing ammonium nitrate with water. The hydration of ammonium nitrate is endothermic (absorbs heat). Perhaps unintuitively, you would need to apply more heat to dehydrate the ammonium nitrate and keep it separate from the moisture you are removing to be able to reuse. I guess this would be difficult to achieve in a simple reusable pack. Personally, I like using my buff dipped a stream or river and worn round my neck to cool down. 

Walking technique You can save energy by not lifting your shoe higher then needed. And also how long steps you take. If it's steep try to make smaller steps to save energy. If you walk with poles use your poles with the correct length and technique as with cross-country-skiing, both for every step, one per step or asymmetric. Path planing I think you can save the most energy, when you use existing snowshoe paths. If there are no existing paths you can create a efficient path. When going uphill try to go as straight up as possible and use the heel lift. The heel lift helps you to walk uphill like on stairs and save energy. The reason to walk straight up is, to reduce distance where you need to walk trough heavy snow and also traversing is much more exhausting and frustrating. You have also crampons on your snowshoes and are not as much limited as touring-skis with skins on it (to an maximum angle of 30 degree). Keep also avalanche safety in mind and don't go for the steepest hills if the risk is increased. 

CamelBak have a great answer in the help section of their website. Summarising their recommendations: Keep it clean and dry when not in use. If mould develops: 

The rule of three may be a useful mnemonic to help prioritise or plan in a survival situation, but it is not necessarily going to be accurate. Survival without food is going to depend on many factors, for example, the nutritional state of the person at the start of their starvation and the amount of energy they expend during the starvation. These factors will shorten or extend the three week estimate. One example of survival with negligible food intake longer than three weeks is the story of James Scott who survived 43 days lost in Nepal eating only some vegetation and a caterpillar. He documented the story in his book Lost in the Himalayas. While not wilderness survival, according to this article from Scientific American, there are well documented studies reporting the survival of hunger strikers for up to 40 days. On the three minutes without breathing rule, an extreme example that contradicts this is the static apnea (freediving breath holding) record of 11 minutes and 35 seconds.