Something to keep in mind is dialect shift. If the dialect shifts enough, it can become another language. One of the most amusing things that ever happened to me was watching a movie in Portuguese, not realizing it was Portuguese, and thinking it was the lousiest Spanish dialect I'd ever heard. I understood 85% of it, and assumed any words I didn't get were those that had just been slurred by the "crap" accent, and then I turned the subtitles on and realized it was Portuguese. If you know a second language, say, in the Romance family (Latin, French, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese) listen to one of the near relatives and you can pick out what sounds/words remain consistent across languages so you can get an idea of what vowel shift sounds like. If you don't know a second language the website here can help: Romance Language Comparisons by showing you the similarities between Romance languages for given vocabulary and phrases So, for example "Good Morning/Good day" in English is: Bonjour in French, Buongiorno in Italian, Buenos dias in Spanish, Bom dia in Portuguese. Note the way "Bom"/"buom"/"buen"/"Bon" hangs on as part of the greeting. That can give you an idea of what sorts of sounds will remain and become part of a new language. It is also worth considering what might get lopped off, or changed as linguistics shift. Disclosure: I have a contract job evaluating standardized test response for an educational company. Lately the tests have expanded to include short essays. But these are essays written as English as a Second Language from native Spanish speakers. So, Spanish rules about spelling and word order are applied to English vocabulary, due to.... well, shit teaching methods focused too much on getting the right accent than syntax rules. The resulting essays.... are weird. We see words words like "yogurt" getting written like "llogul" (ll in Spanish has a sound like an English g or j or in this sense y), "horse" appears like "jors" (the starting h in a Spanish word is silent, 'habichuelas'[beans] is pronounced like "abichuelas" with the ch -depending on the speaker- sounding like ch from "choo-choo" or "sh" like 'shush'; "daughter" comes out as "dotar'. We have an informal competition about who gets the 'zinger', the one word/phrase that just makes the reader ready to tear their eyes out at the fail. (Last year's "winner" was "nospiki/Ynospiqui" which took steps to break down as: "Y No spiqui" > "I No speak" to mean "I don't speak" as in, the non-answer, "I don't speak [English]." ('Y' being used in a really weirdly pronounced way as a way to transliterate 'I', because sometimes here I gets pronounced as eI, which sounds similar to y (not like "why" but as "ee" as in "Eek, a mouse!" in Spanish) So, once these people of yours are isolated from each other,you're going to get linguistic shifts just due to bottlenecking factors. If you have a group where everyone pronounces'horse' like 'jors', then that's probably going to be how they write it too. This is sort of found in the difference whether the Pepsi soft drink is called "pop", "soda" or "coke" depending on where you are in the United States. All in all, lingual shifts are fascinating to watch happen. In short, start listening to where native Hindi speakers start to butcher English and use that as seeds for dialect/creole shifts, from there, follow the shifts to a logical and stable conclusion. "Nospiqui" ended up being an extremely consistent and common non-answer across school locations, down to the spelling. If you'd like to read up on linguistic shifts, the book The Story of English by Robert McCrum et.al, starts at where English began as a Germanic dialect to today. The BBC did a nine-episode hour long series on the book as well, so that could be a way to fast-track learn about it. English itself developed in that fashion from it's ur-germanic predecessor. This link is to the page hosting this chart, but it's a whole website 

*Maybe you worry that the "welcoming" committee will immediately gun you down and steal the time machine. No need to panic - you know you will survive to have at least one child in the future. Just don't donate to any sperm or egg banks... 

Convincing 21118 Now that 2018 believes you, it's time to become famous. Accept every offer of academic conferences talks, co-authored history books and talk show appearances. Write your memoirs - if you can't write, make a deal with a publisher to hire you a secretary. If your English is too archaic for the mass market, work closely with a ghost writer. Money is no object - a book written by a genuine authenticated time traveller will sell millions. Have yourself 3D scanned, and get accurate statues made in granite and stainless steel. Spread copies all over the world - in public museums and protected vaults. Have big chunks of your DNA inscribed on vellum, and your fingerprints etched into titanium and launched into geostationary orbit. When it's time to leave, launch your time machine as a publicised event in front of a huge live audience. Have it recorded in every fashion - HD video, analogue film, monitoring by every scientific instrument available. Remove all doubt. Most importantly, every single time, state the date and place of your arrival in the future, as precisely as your time machine can manage. The aim is to get yourself mentioned so many times that unless civilisation collapses completely, some record of you reaches 21118 independently of yourself. Ideally, they are waiting to meet you. This works even if people in the future don't believe the old accounts. People will turn up at the time and place as an excuse for a party, expecting to have a great laugh at the expense of primitive 2018 people who actually believed in time travel! The very fact of materialising in front of their eyes and cameras will be all the proof you need.* If They Are Not Waiting... ...you will need additional evidence. Back in 2018, you need to have written a long message, and encrypted it. The encryption key must be very long, to prevent brute-force searches (remember, they have ~20000 years to crack it, with much better algorithms and hardware than we have today). The text must be even longer (otherwise a fraudster could choose a fake decryption key to create any plausible message). Perhaps it's the uncensored version of your memoirs. Perhaps it's an epic poem you write for a loved one you left in the past. When you encrypt it, do so repeatedly, with every algorithm your colleagues can track down, especially those that are thought to be quantum-safe. You don't care about public key, or "proper" digital signatures (you don't care about repudiation). Remember, it doesn't matter if it takes months of processing time to encrypt the message - you can spend as long as you like in the 21st Century before venturing on. Store your message in as many physical libraries, digital archives, vaults and satellites as you can. The people of 21118 must be convinced that you cannot possibly have corrupted so many copies in recent times, even with their technology. Hopefully, when you arrive carrying the decryption key, the idea that you are a time-traveller is more likely than your being a fraudster. 

First, that's not flight, that's gliding. Without some mechanism to generate lift, i.e. by flapping, flight by the use of rib extensions is basically impossible. They can be extended, but in Draco the wings are fixed. However, you can possibly develop some form of "false" ribs, by employing a novel joint above the ribcage, perhaps attached by cartilage and ligaments to lengthened neural spines. This would allow you to anchor "pull-up" muscles to the longer neural spines. To get around needing deep breastbones for the chest to anchor muscles to pull the wings down (take a look at a pigeon skeleton, their keels are huge relatively speaking), they could have anatomy that automatically forces the rib-wing, once extended to want to fold forwards (have the tips meet in front of the creature) so that the major force would be from the spinal process muscles pulling the wings back and open and anatomy pulling them closed. Sort of like a clap, where the effort is in you drawing your hands back, not in bringing them together. Also, unless the creature is very short-legged, I don't think you're going to have enough body length, even if you took the rib wings from behind the shoulders to the hip to give you an adequate wing to mass ratio for flight or gliding, a human torso is too short to fit a wing that can support the heavy head and legs, the legs make the whole thing too back-heavy. If you are okay with "rib_like_" structures, you might be better off attaching the extensions to be above the spine themselves. They can still use the neural spines to anchor muscle, but the down-stroke force would have to be generated by muscles pulling the ribs downwards. And you end up with a flier kind of like this: 

For bonus weirdness, you could have a similar creature living vertically in the sky - like an infinitely tall sequoia whose trunk and leaves are held aloft by vast hydrogen balloons. Tentacles swoop down to pluck up their prey. Male and female of one species? 

By 21118, I would expect manufacturing technology to be so advanced that they could fake any physical evidence you could provide. Instead, I suggest you first convince us, in 2018, using tree rings and isotope evidence. You will become so famous that you are mentioned in millions of different books and records - so many, that in 21118 they will be actively waiting for you. Convincing 2018 Combine Tree Rings, Carbon-Dating and Radioactive Isotopes In your own time, cut down a tree. If you can get one that's more than about 73 years old, that's ideal (see below). Oak is apparently best (assuming you're in Europe). Cut out a section of trunk (i.e. a complete "wheel"), as thick as you can possibly fit in the time machine. Scientists will analyse the hell out of this, and will probably destroy a lot of material in the process. When you get to 2018, visit a university with a strong archaeology or mediaeval history department. Ask them, acting all innocent, if they could possibly help you work out how old this tree was. When they compare the rings against their records, they will realise, with high confidence, that the tree must have lived in the 14th Century. But you could just have carefully cleaned an antique stump. The real proof comes by taking samples and analysing the isotopes. Carbon dating shows how long ago something died - because your tree took a short cut, they will see that it only died recently. But a sufficiently resourced fraudster could have grown the tree in a giant warehouse, with artificial lighting and heating to mimic old weather patterns. This would recreate the historic ring pattern in a recent tree. Your clincher is the low levels of radioactive elements that were created in nuclear weapons explosions. These have contaminated (at low but detectable levels) the whole world since the 50s and 60s, and they would be extremely expensive to filter out of the hypothetical fake tree nursery. If your tree is old enough, a sceptic would have to explain why you paid for expensive isotopic filtering before you could have known about nuclear weapons. Now you can tell your real story, and they have a high chance of believing you. Your Own Body Your own body will feature the same low radioisotope levels as the tree stump. However, as soon as you start breathing, drinking and eating in the modern world, you will start to collect modern contamination levels. If you can immediately find a surgeon willing to sample and analyse your tissues, especially teeth, this will be good evidence. But I doubt many doctors are both ethically flexible and trustworthy enough for this to succeed. 

Versus a regular six-limbed sort of flap (it's big so I didn't past it in). $URL$ But again, note how much length is given up to be a continuous wing to let rib-like projections work. I think this version is much more anatomically feasible than the first option, fitting the rib sails directly above the ribs to the sides of the spinal process. Though you might end up with a humanoid creature that is built very deep and broad of chest, with a buffalo hump. They would be humanoid but not humanlike in shape. The "buffalo hump" need not stand out. Buffalo have their hump because their neural spines are tall to support the weight of their heads. You can see the same with rhinos, which do not look particularly humpy, but have tall neural spines as well. 

Edit: In the "nospiqui" example, I forgot to mention that another learner problem was not being able to tell where one word ended and another began when they were listening to English. That's how 'I don't speak' merged into 1 word. Edit2: In the horse to jors example. Consider how the language would further evolve from that base as it moves away from it's source material. H and J are given here to have the same H sound, following the Spanish pronunciation rules. However, an English group then pronounces J like "jar" so in reading the new writing for 'horse' call it a 'jors' (djorse or djyour with a silent final s, while another group reads j like a d and calls it a 'dor'). So, in three iterations 'horse' has become 'dor': horse > jors > dor(s). Edit3: I really can't believe I forgot this paper. So, in addition to above mentioned pure dialect shifts, seems there is a correlation between climate and tonal languages. A 2015 paper found that climate factors such as aridity have effects on vocal cord movement. So complex musical vocal tones are unlikely to develop in arid climates, due to drying effects of having to lose so much moisture by breathing outwards (if you've ever given a lecture or speech, a dry throat is painful). The paper is: Climate, vocal folds, and tonal languages: Connecting the physiological and geograpic dots by Everett, Blasi and Roberts. Published in PNAS, it's available for reading here: $URL$ 

According to myth, they were created when great trees displeased the Gods, and were cursed to lose everything above ground. And indeed, they do seem a little like plants - each one an immense tap root, wider than a house, drilling deep into the rock. They branch. Branches snake off horizontally through the stone, beloved by miners because the bloody wood is easier to tunnel through than rock. The branch-roots always end somewhere interesting - porous stone saturated in oil, an underground river, or even a seam of precious metals that perhaps, eons ago, used to be a hot mineral spring. But the main tap roots go only down. Perhaps they are nourished by magma. Perhaps they have found whatever lies beneath that. One thing we do know, is that they eat meat. Near the surface, the root swells to the size of a sports ground, and ends in a flat top in the soil layer. Once every decade or so, a seemingly innocuous patch of grassland will collapse when a group of animals is walking across. Whatever triggered the attack - a herd of cattle, a pack of wolves, a legion of troops - all fall into an open maw. Huge tentacles sweep across the nearby ground, blindly grasping anything that escaped and hurling them into the corrosive mucous in the throat. Eventually they calm, and weave themselves again into a lid over the pit, to eventually be hidden beneath wind-blown soil. Why do they do this? The amount they eat must be insignificant compared to the infinite body below. Perhaps it is indeed a curse. Perhaps they just like the taste. 

You have something going for these aliens in that they can see, if they and your humans can see the same things, then they can ask each other what things are by pointing at the unknown. Being able to read a point would be a plus, but it's not guaranteed unless your sophonts exist in groups where they have to direct each other (some dogs can learn to follow a point, chimpanzees have trouble with the concept). Your basic case for mutual language should probably be looking at Helen Keller. Helen Keller was 19 months old when she had an illness that left her deaf and blind. Originally, they were trying to teach her words by spelling them onto the palm of her hand, but since she had no knowledge of what the symbols meant they obviously didn't stick. The key breakthrough in Helen's learning came when her teacher spelled the word 'water' on her palm while pouring water over her hand. Apparently, that was the one word Helen has started to learn as baby, so with that one connection made, that the spelling of w-a-t-e-r meant 'cool, textureless, flavorless liquid that I can drink' she could then separate what was written on her palm as "water" or something else. But that first word bridge was the key. This is where being able to point might help, your aliens can see. Your humans can point to water, or pour a cup of the stuff over their hands and sign water. The aliens can then reciprocate with their sign for water and a mutual vocabulary can be built up, in sort of a meeting-half-way fashion. The human offering their own sign, the aliens giving theirs, the human or alien trying to mimic the simpler sign. (This can then be tested by setting out several objects, signing for one and having the other party then gesture to the object. You can then have perceptual fun by throwing complexity layers at it, what is more water a puddle on a table or water in a cup? If the addition of 'cup' changes the meaning of 'water' the alien will point at the puddle. A human might hand you the cup, as the puddle is not water, exactly, but is a wet table.)