Age certainly has a role in your back pain, but I would move more towards your daily routine over a number of years as to why your current state is a painful and stiff one when waking up. Once upon a time when you were young and spry, you had less miles, thus there was less spinal compression and use overall upon your joints and structure. As time goes on, not only does gravity set in, but the repetitiveness of your job and habits lead to a creaky existence over time, similar to that of a car not being properly serviced. Also like an old car not being serviced, it has trouble starting in the morning, but once it gets going, it runs through movement. Keeping with this car metaphor, a car that is taken care of "properly" runs strong and powerful for a long time. Your remedy is to do daily hip, spinal and shoulder mobility corrective exercises (based on your current postural position) to unlock your body over time. I say over time because it took you many years to attain your current state, thus change won't happen over night. If you start on this process, over time, your mornings won't be so painful and stiff. If allowed to re-find proper function, your body will find its way back. 

My name is Ben and I'm a posture Alignment Therapist and Personal Trainer. I've had the same issue you have had about 5 years ago before I learned the ins and outs of correcting postural position. Bellow I will discuss briefly why you are having this problem and what cues you should look at, pertaining to your own body, that is causing this issue... Shoulder issues are generally a direct result of shoulder position. In your case, it was more than likely improper shoulder position while lifting, causing to over use of your shoulders as oppose to your chest and back (the prime movers for these push and pull exercises). Often times people that have a rounded shoulder position due to dysfunctional posture have a difficult time attaining a neutral shoulder position. What needs to happen before you lift is corrective exercises that address this shoulder position, often times also addressing other related postural issues such as kyphosis (thoracic rounding) and lardosis (excessive curve of the lumbar spine), as well as other postural dysfunctions that may be leading the improper loading of your shoulders during these movements. Everything is connected and related, so you must look at your overall postural position. The first step would be to look at yourself in the mirror and analyze where the imbalances are in your structure. Are your shoulders rounded? Do you have forward head position? Is one of your shoulders higher than the other? Is one of your shoulders rotated more forward than the other? Do you have an elevated hip? Do you have one hip that is rotated forward? Do you have an anterior pelvic tilt or a posterior pelvic tilt? Are your feet everted or inverted as oppose to neutral? There are other aspects to look at, but these will keep you busy in thought and research for now in how to address these dysfunctions leading to the compensation that caused your injury. The key is to bring your body back into balance to attain a more ideal postural position. Once this occurs, your body will start to find proper function within movement in whichever exercise you are doing. As a positive consequence to addressing your overall posture, your shoulder should be able to heal faster because you will no longer be over using the wrong muscles through compensatory patterns. I know I threw allot at you, so don't hesitate to ask further questions... Ben 

Obviously, there is always more that could be said. But given the information you have provided, those are the things which jump out at me. 

There is no such thing as a 'correct' routine. Workout plans should be made according to targets, and knowledge of how to hit those targets. The problem is that many different people will suggest different plans to hit those targets. This is because there is some disagreement whether any approach is sure to work for all people. For this reason there are some slightly different approaches, but for the most part they still work by making sure to push the muscle to its limit whilst giving it time to recover. Your question is specifically about how many times a week one should workout a muscle. I have come across 3 main ways of doing this: 

I watch the AthleanX youtube channel a lot to learn a lot about the body's mechanical working as well as any training tips. In one video, Jeff recommends thumbs up push ups as a no equipment work out for the back. But I can't figure out how it would work. I am sure he is right, as I have learned a huge amount from his videos. The closest back exercise that I know of that I can compare it to would probably be a straight arm pushdown, but it is still pushing away from the body on the horizontal plane instead of vertical, like the pushdown. He doesn't say what muscles it might work, and I can't figure it out. Does anybody understand the mechanics of it? 

Your primary concern here is obviously to identify the cause of your pain. To investigate this, you will need to use exercises which are broadly similar to the military press, compare which of them cause pain, and use these as a basis from which to locate the issue. For instance, in this video by Jeff Cavaliere, he uses barbells, dumbbells, and cables to demonstrate the differences to the body by the different approaches to overhead press exercises. As he observes the cable press at the end provides a massive additional effort to the core, so if your core is the problem, you are likely to notice a difference. Alternatives to these approaches are using bodyweight exercises such as the upside down press against a wall, or the pike press. If it is a core or back problem, it is highly likely that you will feel a problem during core or back work as well. The question then is whether or not you have a balanced plan which works out your whole body, from which you could make a judgement. Other indications could be from for example barbell squats. If you can do barbell squats without a problem, then your posterior chain can be ruled out as having the issue. If you need to find this problem by yourself without professional help, eliminating the possible culprits will probably be the best way of finding what the problem could be. 

The fact is that each of the approaches can work, if you push yourself. The reason is that you will notice that each of them take advantage of the body's mechanics and rehabilitation time. So the once a week approaches will use more isolation exercises, because there is an awareness that the muscle needs a bit more time to rest. The more functional approach uses more muscles at the same time, so the smaller muscles are tired but not pushed to their absolute max. The most important thing is that as long as you have a balanced approach, working every muscle, and pushing them at least once a week, you should be OK.