The convention to use capitals at the beginning of a sentence seems to have developed from the practice of writing a decorative initial letter at the beginning of a script in medieval European writing, and have then been loaned back to Greek, but I could not quickly find a source with better details. 

The question is really, "how specific do you want to be". In a language where there is no contrast between these two sounds, you would typically only use /i/ but in some contexts, you might want to consider the difference as marked, and thus highlight the contrast, even though the language doesn't generally see the two sounds as phonologically distinct. Wiktionary lists British pronunciation of coffee as /ˈkɔː.fɪ/ as an alternative with the caveats (conservative RP, dated) and prefers a final /i/ for both British and American English. To my untreaned eye and ear, an /ɪ/ pronunciation would vaguely suggest an Australian accent, not a completely free (i.e. unmarked) variation in English. 

How can this be exemplified and explained in more detail? Specifically the application of ostensibly scientific ideas about language to reaffirm a chauvinistic agenda. (Or am I wrong, and biased?) 

When you study linguistics, you learn about two approaches -- prescriptive and descriptive. Modern linguistics tend to prefer the descriptive approach, whereas early linguistics were often done in a (presumably often unconscious) prescriptive mode. Prescription is problematic because it comes with an agenda, so in some sense, it is less scientific. There is no objective, scientific basis for ranking one norm as better than another. Historically, a lot of what would eventually become science was done in pursuit of documenting, consolidating, and celebrating the status quo and the perceived virtues of the ruling class, the rich, and the culturally dominant. The concept of "correct standard English" has its roots in an earlier movement to define a particular register of English as normative, and all others as somehow incorrect, deficient, and inferior. (This was by no means an exclusively British idea; similar endeavors took place elsewhere, often as one of the many expressions of what we now see as the darker side of nationalism.) However, there are situations where it makes sense for linguistics, or rather, linguists to define a particular convention as a norm. Modern linguistic norms help improve understanding and communications by introducing standards for a language where none existed before, or the old standards had problems. An interesting example is the orthography for Quechua, where an older norm which was based on Spanish conventions is being displaced with one which is better adapted to the requirements of the language itself and removes a heavy bias for favoring a particular dialect. It should be noted that there is a lot of resistance against this movement -- the (in some sense) linguistically sound agenda clashes with the conservative agenda, sometimes violently so. Part of the reason this is problematic is that Spanish conventions and the cultural dominance of the Cuzco region are still assigned high status among the population, and so the reformed spelling is perceived as "worse" because it is at odds with their established cultural norms. ... At the same time, you will notice my bias in describing this as "linguistically more sound". This is obviously dubious; I am certainly not qualified to prescribe a particular orthography for a language I do not speak. But I can tell that the agenda for the new orthography points out some unfortunate features of the old convention which seem like obvious flaws; for example que- is clearly a weird way to write /ke/ in a language where there are no traces back to an earlier Latin pronunciation with rounding. Whether this simplification, and the many others introduced by the reform, outweigh the drawbacks of making earlier texts hard to read for new generations who are trained in the new orthography, I cannot say; and the possible cultural stigma of dialectal spelling might cause the reform to fail for external reasons. With that out of the way, your question doesn't make sense strictly linguistically but there is a lot of social science to be derived from the relative status of registers of English or Punjabi dialects. That's not to say that the cultural and social factors which shape our language are uninteresting (indeed, that is the domain of sociolinguistics) but these phenomena tend to be analyzed from a descriptive, rather than presecriptive, point of view (and it's hard to see how prescription could make sense in that context). 

Perhaps the professor was actually getting at the arbitrariness of letter shapes, much like the sounds of a word are arbitrary ...? There is no straightforward reason k looks the way it does, or why <dog> refers to a particular animal in English (though there is some overlap, as in how o is spoken with rounded lips, and crow vaguely imitates the bird's sound). 

Case is by no means universal; it is found in scripts descended from Greek (but not most other branches of the phylogenetical tree which is rooted in Egyptian hieroglyphs; e.g. Arabic and Hebrew, as well as the Indic family, do not have case) and a few other scripts. $URL$ mentions Armenian, Coptic, and of course Cyrillic and Latin, and a few others (though apparently Cherokee should not be there!) Mayan, cuneiform, and East Asian scripts do not have case, so it's really not something you would postulate as a typical or expected feature by any means. We can thus emphatically conclude that this feature is by no means necessary; though it is indeed thought to improve legibility in the systems which have this distinction. 

I answered a question on this site yesterday where in my answer, I alluded to a problem with cultural bias in early modern Western linguistics. I tried my best search engine fu to come up with a good link to explain this in more detail, but I failed. A particular anecdote I mentioned in a comment would be nice to have covered; I recall reading that the French Academy set out in earnest to scientifically establish that French was an optimal language for science. I probably misremember the details, but this is a good illustration of the type of phenomenon which was fairly prevalent in the emerging field of linguistics in Europe, probably even before the proper rise of what we today call modern linguistics in the 19th century. Ideally, I would like a pointer to an accessible and popular treatment of this cultural bias in linguistics and its manifestations, suitable for giving someone who may be unaware of this tendency in our culture and perhaps in themselves. Allow me to quote a passage from my answer: 

You are mixing popularity with universal acceptability, but they are two different things. Pork is a very popular staple of the diet in many parts of the world, but that doesn't mean it's acceptable to everyone, as you are well aware (vegetarians, religious reasons, etc). There are modern languages with very constrained syllabic structure, so to construct a language which is equally easy to pronounce for speakers of contemporary Japanese, Hawai'ian, Rotokas, Pirahã etc etc etc you would be restricted to roughly something like CV structure with maybe eight consonants and four vowels. This sort of very limited repertoire typically leads to very long words (as seen in many languages of the Pacific) and/or heavy homonymy (cf Chinese). But examining only modern languages completely misses language evolution; to the extent that we can recover, reconstruct, or reason about earlier language, it is not uncommon to find a different set of constraints which have changed over time. Chinese is a good example; modern Mandarin has a fairly constrained syllable structure, but earlier proto-Chinese apparently had a more complex one. Similarly, some modern Romance languages have acquired constraints which did not exist in Latin (word-initial sp- is forced to esp- in Italian and Spanish, for example, I believe). Reconstructed proto-Germanic word forms have many features which are outright alien to modern German; etc etc etc. This brief exposition barely touches the surface of language evolution; let's just note that it's constant, inevitable, arbitrary, and universal. So in fact, for a work of fiction, no particular features of a constructed language would make it more credible or feasible to a linguistically informed reader. If anything, postulating that it has a direct connection to or influence over modern languages is the one thing that would make it hard for me personally to suspend my disbelief. Exploring genuinely universal language features is interesting to linguists, because it can reveal things about our innate language mechanisms. However, to the extent that truly universal features have been identified across all known languages over time, these findings tend to be more on the level of "all languages have vowels and consonants", and even though many languages share a particular contrast, it's often hard to say unequivocally even that back vs front vowel contrast or voiced vs voiceless consonants are a universal feature of all human languages.