Lastly, examine your programming (exercise selection and volume). Look at what you are doing, or not doing, that can cause your shoulders to come out of alignment and cause inflammation problems. It could be that you are simply doing too much volume on certain muscles, but not enough on the ones you are trying to target. Selecting different exercises can help do what you want without overworking things you don't want. Ensure that you have antagonist muscles hit with sufficient volume to keep everything balanced. 

Dips are not complicated, so most people simply don't think about writing about them. The basic idea behind dips is: 

112.5kg is almost 250lb, which depending on your body weight can be quite a bit. For example, if you are 75kg (~165lb) that's 1.5x your body weight. In which case you really can't be considered a beginner any more. There are a few ways to deal with stalls and such: 

Essentially, what you are saying is that you've kept the same diet, and have drastically increased the amount of Calories you use. It's natural for you to lose weight under those conditions. If losing the weight is undesirable, then you must increase the amount of food you eat to compensate for all the activity. Feeling tired after exercise is natural, and your body will need the rest to make the changes it needs to fit the new demands you've put on it. However, if you are always tired, it's likely you just don't have enough food. Checklist: 

As to frequency, it might be best to have one day a week devoted to explosive work that gives you enough time to recover for a game later that week. Conditioning This is one where you may or may not agree with me. It turns out cardio work's interference with power output is exaggerated. In short, while there are mild acute affects (i.e. short term) in the long term, long slow cardio will make you a better athlete. My high school basketball coach always had us run a couple miles before practice even started. In retrospect it was a good thing. 

The first article provides some reasonable background and ways to troubleshoot your TUT application. For example, if your goal for TUT in a set is unrealistic given the movement, you can add more sets. Examples of movements that don't work well with TUT would be any explosive or ballistic movement like Olympic lifts or kettlebell swings. The second article goes into a lot more practical application along with a chart that has optimal rep and TUT ranges: 

Sweaty hands is a common ailment for weight lifters and rock climbers, with equally detrimental effects. The solution really isn't nutrition related. It's simply chalk. Chalk dries the hands, and improves your grip. If you feel that chalk would be detrimental to the environment, you can go for an "Eco Ball" by Metolius. Same effects, although I might argue that it is not quite as effective as good old fashioned chalk. 

If you still want to lose weight healthily, but maintain a balanced diet your progress will be slower. That's OK. Just remember that there are two inescapable realities: 

When you are talking about endurance, and not sprinting, the problem is lasting until the end. The big question is how do you increase your endurance, particularly when the smaller muscles are the ones getting exhausted. There are several ways of attacking this, but you have to understand that the type of conditioning you need is more of the oxidative metabolic path. Your pace is probably too quick to maintain for the distance. Your body can only provide short bursts of energy for so long. From the description of your problem it sounds like you have some technique gaps to deal with before looking anywhere else. 

There's actually a number of strength sports, where people who don't compete train similarly to competitors in those sports. A brief understanding of them will help you decide what would be a better match for you: 

Fortunately, for inflammation based injuries the solutions are fairly similar for acute (one-off) injuries: 

First, most recommendations about frequency of eating and timing of eating don't have any appreciable real benefit. Whether you get all your daily nutrition in 3 meals or 6 only matters in what helps you stick to your nutrition plan. If you do better eating small meals throughout the day, do it. If you do better with multiple larger meals, go for it. Long story short: 

To eat or not before working out really is a matter of what you can handle. Even the timing of how soon before exercise you eat, and what you eat, is a matter of what your body can handle. Some people do quite well with fasted training. If they have anything its merely some Branched Chain Amino Acids (BCAAs) to assist with recovery. Other people need something to eat. The type of running you are talking about has fairly low energy requirements. If your goal is to lose fat, eating before hand may be counter to your goals. The weight training, if done with heavy weights and high intensity, may require something to give you energy throughout. Listen to your body: 

You might feel like you are going backwards, but you are putting your body back into a place where it can rebuild its muscle in time for the next workout. The hope is that it has spare capacity when you hit the limit. I wish I could produce a direct link to the source of this information, but it is contained in the Stronglifts 5x5 special report. The report is free, has some pretty good information, but you have to register to get it. 

I looked at the ingredients in the P90X Recovery Formula and they included a number of known elements: 

Under normal operations, your body will use up the glycogen before it attempts to use any other source of energy. The problem is when we have depleted the glycogen, the body tends to consume both the muscle/organs and fat stores at the same time--unless we do something different. For the average person, your body will hold about 3 days of glycogen energy. Glycogen is replenished by carbohydrates. In a ketogenic diet, you are not eating carbohydrates and are intentionally burning through your glycogen stores to force your body into a state where it creates ketone bodies using the available energy. The ketone bodies cannot be re-assimilated as fat, and have to be urinated out. This is a good thing. However, remember how we said the body will pull from both the muscles/organs and fat stores if there is no glycogen? Here's what the body gets from those sources of energy: