There is always something to do. It's a perfect time to take some time off, whether it be a week's vacation, or simply a day to perform all those little home tasks you've been putting off. It's a perfect opportunity to ensure you've completed all of the annual company training required, if any. Attend a free webinar offered by your software vendor. Study up on the hardware you're going to be coding for. Even it it is hardware being actually made by the team, there should be components that you can learn about. You're a coder, pick a part of the language you use that you aren't comfortable coding, and learn more about it. Practice. Write up code snippets that you might be able to use. Think like you have been given the go ahead... what might you need to go out to Google to look up how to do. Look it up now and learn it, and write snippets. Even if it ends up not being needed, you've now got it in your personal portfolio. When you do get the go ahead, you're likely going to be pushed to perform fast, since the other team caused delays (their inefficiency isn't your problem, until your boss makes it so.) Try to figure out everything you can, now, to prep for your own work when it comes. Keep busy, keep happy, make it look like you're productive. Otherwise your company may start wondering why they've got you around now, before you're needed. 

Give him explicit tasks to do. Assign him a code snippet to write, or bug to fix. When he does not, document it. Do it again. When he does not, document it. Then fire him. 

Is the pay commensurate as what you are now, plus some? If you are truly an able and capable programmer, and have interpersonal skills as well, you'll not be a "junior developer" for long. Since you will have taken the position in good faith, even if you do get treated as a (much more) senior person, it will be unlikely you'll get a raise as soon you might end up desiring. By saying treated as here, I mean you'll probably be given projects and responsibilities than a more genuine junior person would be given. You need to consider for yourself, if you will be getting an attitude because you're not being paid commensurate to all of those responsibilities. If you, right now, consider the pay raise as worth more than a junior, but at least fair to a mid-level, then when you end up being treated as one, you'll already be fairly compensated. Another thing is, if you take the position as a junior developer to a more senior one, it will be expected for you to not come in displaying a desire (hidden or not) to 'take over' ... even if you feel you could "do the job better" than the current guy, it's not what you will have been hired to do, so don't. At least until you have been in the position long enough to prove your own abilities and aptitude. As an anecdote, in my current organization, we had a web development team lead leave for another position. We hired a new senior developer/team lead. A couple years later the old lead wanted to come back and we needed his skills (they were already a known quantity as it were.) He was re-hired with the express acknowledgement that he would not be the lead. Things didn't work out so well. I know this isn't what you are planning, but plans don't last past implementation very well. People refer to positions as junior, mid-level and senior, even I do, but in real life, things are never so cut and dried. Your skills and experience add up over time to being a quality and quantity. If your S&E are beyond junior, than that is what you are. Getting hired as a "junior" person, when you are really a senior person in experience and skills rarely turns out well, unless there is a well thought out basis for your under-positioning. 

I see it all the time, and I work in IT. Hundreds of millions of dollars are lost on project after project to convert things to some new system, some new architecture, for no other reason than that it's there. 

Blame the job market, but it's not uncommon for people to be afraid to take time off for anything out of a fear of being considered "not pulling your weight" or "slacking", "not being a part of the team" and terminated at your next performance review or not having your contract extended. 

It's quite possible your colleague is more afraid of losing his job if he calls in sick than he is of infecting others and/or his health deteriorating further if he doesn't. 

Get used to not having the time you had in the past to take vacations when and of whatever duration you like. That's life as an employee (and as a business owners it's worse, while in theory you can take whatever time off you want in reality you can take hardly any at all). So rather than than try to get a month off when you've only worked there a quarter, AND don't have anywhere near the hours saved up, AND no doubt haven't yet read the employee rulebook (many companies have limits to the length of vacations), adjust your plans. Either make it a short trip over Christmas, or see if you can invite your parents over to the US (they'll have to fend for themselves while you're at at work, but you'll have the evenings and weekends together still). 

Admit that you're stumped, ask others to take a look as well (and do so early), and provide what documentation and research you've already done to those people so they don't have to do it all over again. That's your responsibility as a team member. 

Maybe you invite them to dinner at your expense, and then ask them to suggest a quality restaurant? Or ask your hotel conscierge if there's a concert showing a style of music you like that you don't think would upset your hosts, and if so suggest to your partners that you'd like to invite them to that? That's a good way to break the ice, show them what you like, and at the same time play the good business partner who returns the favour of paying for "social gatherings". But don't overdo it, as it's in many countries the hosts' duty to provide entertainment (so if they agree to go to that concert, but insist they pay, let them!). 

Much better than the usual practice of asking for your estimate, then selling it for half that or less, and THEN punishing you for not completing it in the time they sold it for despite that being far below your own estimate that they were well aware of. Which practice is extremely common and the reason most people tend to give off estimates that calculate in such things. So if I get asked for an estimate and I have reason to suspect sales or management are going to pull such a stunt on me, I make an estimate for myself, double that, and then present that number to management. Which is no doubt what management in many companies expect to get from their teams, estimates that are roughly double the time really needed to implement the project. Luckily I now work in a team where I can set my own estimates and the planners accept them. SCRUM to the rescue :) 

You've met with the client rep at the beginning of each sprint, or project. The two of you (or your teams) have come up with an agreed upon scope of work for that duration. That is your official list. Put it down on "paper" (document/spreadsheet, what have you) and send a copy of it to your manager titled something like "Project X - client agreed scope of work". Now let your manager manage. If/when he adds new scope/deliverables, add it to your official scope list and then email that back to him. Let this go for a cycle (or two). If he doesn't adhere to the list and you feel strongly enough (and are willing to accept the consequences, whatever they may be, including termination I suppose), you could up it a notch or ten and send the agreed upon initial scope list to the client rep, and then each time your manager adds to it, send that as an addendum to the client. That will ensure you are covered from the point of view of the client. Just know that your career at your current company may be shortened. 

If this were me, I would respectfully request a meeting with my supervisor and bring up the start- and end-times as the main topic. During the conversation bring up the fact that the clock you all use is inaccurate, but it is what you use, both for the start and end times of your day. Then I would ask how many hours a day you are expected to work. Let your supervisor tell you his expectations. Finally, ask your supervisor to specify your start and end times. So let's say that he says you are to work 8 hours, with lunch, so 8.5 hours. Your day should be 9 to 5:30. If he states that he expects you to work from 8:45 to 5:45, then you know his expectations. Again, if this were me, I would very respectfully state that since those are your expectations of me, that "those are the hours I will work, however please realize that you are asking me to work an extra half hour per day unpaid." Whether or not you choose to actually work the extra time, unpaid, is, in the end, up to you. You are free to quit, and he is free to fire you. Please also realize that my answer is assuming you actually work all day long and don't spend a significant amount of time on facebook, texting, or surfing the Interwebz... 

I am an employee of a large defense industry company and am on a contract to provide IT services to a large government defense agency. I've been a contractor now for 18 years in various companies. All of the companies I've worked for fit what I'm going to say below, to a T. Note that I've never worked in a pure civilian-side position (non-defense, non-government) in any of my last 30 years of employment. All of that aside, I can only speak for my division of my company and the requirements we get from our government customer. There is only one no heck requirement: Security+ or an equivalent from a short list of certifications. That's it. As far as education goes, every single IT job (not counting upper management, of course, which aren't IT as much as management) requires a Bachelor's Degree (of some kind) or anywhere from 5-9 years experience. Recognize that no where in that last paragraph did I say anything about where the degree is/was from. 

In my experience wearing "less formal" clothes or footwear is rarely an issue, especially in positions without physical customer contact and certainly if there's a good reason for it (and having a foot or ankle so swollen that you simply don't fit in your regular shoes would certainly count as a good reason). 

Quite simple. If you already have 10 applications running and are in the last stages of negotiating a potential contract, there's less opportunity there for them (and they'll have to take care to not send your resume to the companies you're already talking to or have talked to recently too of course). It's also a means to gauge how serious you are. 

And another thing not yet mentioned: many companies (especially large ones) have long stretched out approval processes for new hires and other (major) expenses. These can often take weeks or even months. So you could get an informal, tentative, offer now as an indication that the team lead or department head you're going to be working under wants you, but he still has to get approval from HR, Finance, regional sub board, and worldwide board. Getting all that, especially with holidays interfering or other days off can take quite a while (my last job, they told me they had all the required signatures but one in a week, a record time, and that last took another 2 weeks because the person was on a skiing trip and could not be reached), and they don't want you to go accept another job in the meantime. 

Your notice period doesn't start until you give notice, unless both parties (you and the company) agree to a shorter period. So no, you can't consider your notice period started until you have given notice according to the requirements set forth in your contract. 

And that's the problem right there. You didn't write to the listed specifications. You made assumptions about things you didn't have enough information about to make assumptions on. And if you decided to use floating point numbers to store monetary data, you made a fundamental mistake. 

in addition to what's already been said (iow it's none of your business if you don't already know how to handle it, and that's putting it mildly) you should not look at what people are receiving. IF, and only IF, it's your job to look at violations of corporate email policies you should look at what people are SENDING. What people are receiving is largely outside their influence, especially if you have a mail server where people can receive messages from outside the company. 

Again: it doesn't matter if your ideas have merit. Your status means that they won't be perceived as having merit. And there's nothing you can do to change that by having an attitude about it, only time and gaining the respect of your colleagues as somebody who knows what he's talking about MAY do that.