That seems ridiculous. Nobody was ever freaked out by their $2K-over-genuine-expectations request being accepted 

Above all, make sure in your dealings that you are clear what decisions you are leaving to the other person. That is, all of them except where you've mutually agreed some division of responsibility that makes you the decision-maker on certain kinds of shared work. Specific things to watch out for: 

That is to say, you did not accurately report your acceptable salary range. And who can blame you? If you accurately report your acceptable range, then you're vulnerable to someone just offering the exact minimum they know you'll take. You'd have put yourself at a negotiating disadvantage. If you now send them an accurate acceptable range, then you're putting yourself at the same disadvantage that you'd have put yourself in by reporting accurately in the first place. The reasons you had for not doing that still mostly apply: all you've learned by making the higher ask is that this job doesn't pay much. If you honestly believe that the range you said was low-end, then you should not be tempted into going even lower just because there's one employer with an inadequate budget. Back your opinion, and look elsewhere. You also shouldn't be tempted to assume that just because they say your salary demand was too high, that they must otherwise have liked you and that you have a real opportunity here that you'll lose by not responding. Most likely what actually happened is that you were caught by a very early filter, and they haven't even read the rest of your application. Maybe you're wrong about the going rate (in which case the way to learn this is to ask around for advice or to make other applications and see if everyone says the same thing). Maybe the job isn't as senior/challenging as you thought. Maybe they're cheapskates. But letting them negotiate you down to a rate of pay you aren't really happy with (even if you're just about willing to accept it) is a last resort, don't do it early in your job search. It looks like they're happy to keep channels open, so you can always come back and consider them again later, if it turns out you really are asking too much for the local market. 

Having a huge ego usually isn't in itself an infraction. You need specific things that he does because of his ego, and that are infractions. For example, if he fails to follow instructions given to him by more experienced colleagues because he thinks he knows better, and he gets it wrong. Then raise with your manager the fact that he chose not to follow the instructions. Don't raise the fact that in your opinion he has an excessive ego. Unfortunately, raising this kind of thing requires a period of evidence-gathering, and that requires contact. Therefore, approach the co-operation with the plan that you will mentor him, and part of the way you'll do that is to figure out exactly what he's doing wrong, and escalate those things to someone who has authority to tell him that his "excuses" are no good. And if that doesn't work, to go through the process to fire him. 

The people who want you to sign it won't like you as much as they'd like you if you signed it. You should try to figure out for yourself whether there's anything they think they're holding over you. Are you planning to use them for a reference? Was the internship a compulsory part of some course, and you need them to confirm you did it? Since you left after a month I suppose probably not, and you're in the clear, but it's for you to consider whether you still need them or not. Absolute worst case scenario, and this is highly speculative, if you refuse to sign they will maliciously pursue you over some other matter (for example they might suggest that you have confidential documents, perhaps as copies on your own computer or phone that you could have used to check email during your time there, and they want it returned or securely deleted). But this is just the simple observation that if someone really wants you to do something, and has the means to harm you, then there's some harm in not doing what they want. The same observation would apply to armed robbery. 

At the time of the meeting, the recruiter was a somewhat better option for you than a completely random recruiter pulled off the block, because they expressed interest in meeting you. After the meeting, the recruiter is a somewhat worse option for you than a completely random recruiter pulled off the block, because they've failed in a simple task. Maybe for a good reason, maybe a bad one, but until such time as they explain their good reason they are below par and you can have no confidence in them. "Interested in you" plus "untrustworthy" still adds up to "bad". If what you want is to speak to a recruiter, I would say either wait for the next one to come along, or else use whatever contacts you have (not current colleagues) to approach a recruiter who specialises in whatever you do. If what you want is not to lose what seems like a "free opportunity" to speak with a recruiter without seeking one out, then forget about it. It's gone. There will be others. This recruiter might contact you again to apologise, or a different recruiter might contact you in future, but anything you do now to chase this particular recruiter, having already left multiple messages, is recruiter-seeking energy that could be better spent chasing a different recruiter who's never stood you up. If the recruiter does call and apologise and offer you another meeting, then you should seek some small proof from them that they value the opportunity to meet with you (a show of "good faith", or "commitment"). For example, you could ask them to send you some job opportunities they believe suit your abilities and experience as described on LinkedIn. If they send you a load of generic keyword-matching rubbish, indicating they don't really understand your business or care to, then be ruthless and tell them you don't think they can help you. If they do reasonably well (judging them in view of the information they had to work with, and the fact they haven't yet asked you what directions you'd like to go), agree to meet them, they've proved they actually do want to put some effort in and that they have the capability to suggest suitable roles. Also bear in mind you might well never hear from them again. It can be frustrating when recruiters just drop all communication and never reply to your last message, but fundamentally it's part of their business for many of them. They have a lot of jobs and a lot of people in the mix, it really doesn't hurt them if any one job doesn't get filled or any one person doesn't get their help finding a job. So the ones who don't care about their personal reputation will chase whatever seems best this week, and ignore everything else. Don't feel as if you've lost something: such a recruiter is basically just a switchboard operator anyway, all they'd ever have done for you is help you search job listings. 

This is why your manager doesn't value your time. He never experiences the negative consequences of having you stand around doing nothing for an hour, because you always take that hour out of your personal life. It's fairly natural, if a little careless, to value a resource at what it costs you. In this case: nothing. It may be that reminding him there are competing demands on your time is all it will take him to stop regarding these things as insignificant. Some people just don't like to anticipate problems, they expect you to tell them (gently) when something's inconvenient or that you're busy. Perhaps since you're reluctant to raise the problem he's carelessly assuming there's no problem. Try out, "I already have a full day today so I can't easily add that hours-long meeting". "You've put an hour for this 1-1 meeting in my diary, and I'm going to need to leave when that's up to get to my next thing". "I can do that, but it'll push the report back to Monday and currently we're planning to send it Friday". If that attempt to solve it piecemeal doesn't work, then you have to raise the general issue more firmly without upsetting him. How to do it depends how he thinks about your role. There are three major lines of approach I can think of: 

In your company, where people currently don't have formal job titles, I doubt it. But it's down to the personality of the people you work with. Consider whoever sits at the desk next to you. If they were given the job title "senior developer" tomorrow, would you be impressed and defer to their newly-increased status? Would you assume that they're in charge of all future projects in which they work with mere "developers" like you? Or do you actually already have ideas about your colleagues' seniority, that a mere change of title won't alter? 

Merely the fact that something is unfamiliar or weird to you is usually not a good reason to forbid your colleagues from doing it. I'd keep quiet on this one, because in combination with your other complaints you don't want to make it look as if you're also trying to enforce your personal and subjective view of what's normal. If he's "acting out", that is doing weird things solely to get attention, then that's a more concrete complaint. Firstly he's distracting the office, which is bad. Secondly there's probably some issue that's the root cause of why he feels he needs attention, so it's his manager's job to either get to the bottom of that (maybe he needs more support than he's getting) or else decide that it's not in the organisation's interest to try to solve it (maybe he needs more support than the organisation is prepared to give). 

I agree with Vietnhi how to start covering your... reputation. You should also ask for a better process. I'll leave the actual details of advocating process change and concentrate on the goals. If your code passes the tests then that should be good enough for the bleeding-edge development branch (by definition of the development branch), even there's some good reason not to release it. Reverting the change seems to me like an over-reaction, unless your company is flying version control by the seat of its pants. It depends a bit how you use source control, but generally speaking if there's a problem, he shouldn't need to revert it, he should just not take it. If your code doesn't pass the tests, then your process needs to stop it reaching places it will do damage. Presumably that's what your colleague is trying to achieve by reverting it -- but there's the process issue. If he has to revert it to prevent problems then it's too late, it's already in the place where it can cause problems. You could request this code review before commit rather than after (it's daft, but maybe the way you're using source control is daft and so this is the best there is). You could use more branches, so your colleague can see and complain about the code without reverting it. You could change the testing/ticketing system, so that the right response to a change that solves the current ticket but is bad for other reasons is to add tests that capture the "other reasons", rather than to revert the change and re-do the original ticket from scratch. In particular, if he finds out a new requirement from management at the same time as you're working according to the previously-known requirements, then he should go through some kind of requirements-change process (maybe just raise a new ticket saying, "requirements have changed"). That process should not be just to jettison all work that relied on the previous requirements: that's not a good way to deal with new requirements. Also, if you're regularly in a position that you do a chunk of work without knowing that it's useless, then you need more communication before you start work for the day. So you should seek that. Being off-site means that you don't have the opportunity to say out loud in the morning, "I'm going to use the renuberator to solve this issue", and for all the old-timers who've been there longer than you to groan, "aargh, you can't do that, the renuberator is held together with spit and bailing wire and won't stand the pressure". You could ask your colleague not to bother the boss first when there's an issue with your code, just tell you what the problem is. Then you can mutually discuss a better solution and take that to the boss. Saying "this needs to be reverted" is a lot like saying, "ForOhFor's entire day yesterday was wasted", which doesn't reflect well on anyone. Your colleague might not agree, but if he refuses then at least you have positive evidence that he's knowingly screwing you over, rather than just following a workflow that's surprisingly aggressive towards stuff he disagrees with. 

This idea of a guarantor would appear to be a do-it-yourself alternative to professional indemnity insurance. There's a difference, though, which is that the insurance typically wouldn't cover overtly malicious or criminal acts by the policy holder, whereas on the face of it your guarantor is being asked to take responsibility for anything you might do. It is certainly not a typical clause in an employment contract. Aside from anything else, many employees are financially independent and even if they wanted to they could not find a guarantor who is any richer or easier to sue than the employee is themself. If there isn't a good prospect of recovering the damages from the guarantor then there's no major benefit to the employer in having the guarantor. The whole point of proper insurance is that it's underwritten by people with very deep pockets. I would guess that this clause is designed for employing children (or adults who the employer intends to treat like children, which is a warning sign in itself), who are expected to have their parents sign for them. As for whether it (ostensibly) covers resigning, that depends on the other other terms of the contract. OK, it's a 1-year contract, but that doesn't necessarily mean there's no provision in the contract to give shorter notice than that. I'd advise reading the contract to find out, except that this clause is already so objectionable that it probably doesn't matter what else is in there... In the event that you did resign without notice due to intolerable conditions, I expect you would claim that this is not a breach of contract (by definition of "intolerable"), and they would claim that the conditions weren't so bad and it was a breach. As you've guessed, this would be no fun for either you or your guarantor. 

What your employers are doing is often called "haggling". It's one possible technique to use during negotiation, however it's not the only thing to consider. A characteristic feature of the genre is that (within your pre-determined price range) the price you decide to offer depends solely on the candidate's request, not on any other feature of the candidate. It seems effective as a means of chiselling a couple of $K off the salaries of most or all employees, provided they don't know about it. If they do then they're in the driving seat, because they know that all they need is to bump up their request by a couple of $K accordingly. I expect that your managers believe this is what candidates are doing. So in effect the managers are also just taking the candidate's lead what the pay should be, but they're interpreting the request very differently from you. Presumably you personally refused their counter-offer, and they gave you what you asked? So they're trying to catch out people who are not confident that they're worth what they ask for. You can argue all day whether confidence is reasonable proxy for the candidate actually being correct! Many people say it isn't if they really think about it, but behave as if it is. As to whether this saving is worth it or not, I think everyone's points can be criticised: 

An interviewee isn't really entitled to ask for or receive your personal opinion. Things are friendlier when there's a polite fiction that they do get that, but if it comes down to a choice between removing the words "in my personal opinion" from what you say, or discussing embarrassing/confidential company information with an interviewee, then in a case of any doubt whatsoever you should remove the words. If you think that the company is growing too fast, or that it's pursuing customer X when it should focus on Y, or some other mistake that will end in doom, then that's your personal opinion. Despite this opinion, senior management makes those decisions and you go along with them for as long as you work for the company. There may or may not be an appropriate forum within the company for you to air your alternative strategy, but "at every opportunity including interviews" certainly isn't it ;-) If you feel that the company's official position is unrealistic to the point that they're asking you to lie, then again you need to speak to people within the company to work out in what sense the thing you're expected to say, is true. If they can't convince you that the company is basically honest (albeit not forthcoming with bad news), then you have a problem with the company, not just with interviewing. It would be the same in any situation where you're in effect being asked to comment on the company using your inside knowledge. If really pressed, the short answer is that you won't give a personal assessment. You could point out that while you won't disclose your personal assessment, it's sufficiently positive that you choose to work for the company! Of course, if you can't represent the company without (as you see it) lying, then that ultimately might limit what roles you can take within the company. At the extreme, either the company can't let you speak to outsiders or it can't let you work for it at all, so it's really quite important to make absolutely sure of any doubts you have in what you're saying. Note that there may be things that would put off a specific candidate, but aren't generally embarrassing to the company. For example if a start-up company is expecting to exit via acquisition in 2-5 years, and a particular candidate has been treated horribly in previous acquisitions, then that might put them off even though the company's prospects are objectively excellent. You need to be absolutely certain of your role in the hiring process before you get into this stuff with a candidate. It might be someone else's job to address candidates' concerns (in this example: to go through with them what would likely happen in an acquisition), which they don't get a chance to do if the "bad" news comes from you. Finally, be aware that there's a completely alternative approach, which is that it's perfectly fine to lie and that you should do so. Shockingly, not everyone in the business world is honest, and sometimes not even everyone on your side is honest. It sounds like you're not happy with that, but be prepared to deal with people in your company who do feel that way (or anyway who appear to feel that way, because what they're saying flat contradicts your assessment of the situation). And deal with them without just outright calling them liars and starting a massive fight that won't end well for anyone.