I have a continuum of clothes that I add on as the weather gets colder. During the summer, I ride like you do with shorts and a t-shirt. As things cool of a little bit, down below 60F/15C, I'll put on a windbreaker over my t-shirt and some full-finger gloves on my hands. The next step for me is to add an Under Armour Cold Gear shirt (many companies make equivalent tops) but to stick with naked legs, they're doing all the wok after all. Once temperatures get down to the 45F/7C range, I'll add som snazzy leggings in a fabric similar to the Under Armour top mentioned above. When things start to freeze, my final move is a fleece vest over the long sleeve top, but under my windbreaker. If things get even colder where you are, Icebike's clothing page is a good place to look for further advice. Keep two things in mind: you need a lot less clothing once you're moving and generating heat than you do standing around, but you also need to be prepared for a problem that might leave you standing around for some time. Dress light and carry extra clothes in a backpack. 

I do not know what you mean by "on budget". Commuting 25+km one way throughout the year, I stopped experimenting with e.g. low tire pressure on otherwise unmodified bikes, or using cheap bikes during winter. Considering the (economic & health) risk you take with minimum modified, on budget bikes, I recommend to switch to public (or other means of) transportation to stay on budget. For winter biking, IMO cost savings should not be highest priority. Otherwise you pay the price when you get hurt, hurt others, or end up with damaged equipment. The only way for me to be / feel as secure during winter as without snow and ice are studded tires. If your winter conditions are as light as I understand, the rim brakes on your commuter bike should be OK. However, especially when the daily temperature variation allow ice to melt and freeze again while your bike is parked, those brakes can become hard to use. And I would spend some money on lights, which will be battery lights if you are out for cheap. 

Looks like a pair of Forté Carve pedals. Forté is a house brand of Performance Bicycles. I checked their website, but this particular model of pedal doesn't appear to be available any longer. 

Biking in the dark isn't as scary as biking at dawn/dusk When I first started bike commuting and the sun got low in the sky in the evenings, I'd leave work and try to get home before the sun went down. I didn't realize then that that was the absolute worst time to bike because the low sun meant that it was in driver's eyes, making bikes very difficult to see, even with lights and bright clothes, I just wanted to get home before it got dark. Now when the sun starts getting low, I wait until it sets before leaving work rather than try to beat the sun home. Once the sun sets, then my lights and reflectors are much more visible to cars. And with a decent headlight (which is much cheaper now than it used to be), seeing the road is not a problem at all. You still have to worry about nighttime visibility and watch for cars without headlights.... unlit cars are exceptionally hard to see against a background of headlights (and early in the night biking season, car drivers aren't used to turning on their headlights when leaving work so might drive quite some time before they notice) Bikes too are more difficult to see against a background of headlights/taillights, but even so, I'll still take biking in the dark over biking at sunrise/sunset when drivers are struggling to see against the sun. I've biked behind some cars at sunset where I couldn't see through their windshield myself due to dirt and/or scratches, so I really don't think they could see well enough to drive. Make sure you have adequate lights and reflectors. At a minimum, front and rear lights and reflectors, reflective spokes or tires, and reflective pedals or ankle bands (the motion lets cars know that you're a bike). I have a helmet headlight/taillight since I feel that the higher position makes it easier for cars to see me, especially if I'm stopped in traffic. 

Some (most?) manufacturers recommend running studded tires on pavement for the first miles to facilitate "seating". As my commuting route touches little pavement but woods, I see little chance to do this "seating" for 50 km as e.g. Nokian recommends. With a Nokian Extreme, I was not able to see a difference in spike positioning before and after the 50 km seating process. Hence, I am wondering: 

What actually should we think is happening during the seating process? Fact or fiction? Why do the companies rely on the poor biker to do the spike seating process, why isn't this done by the manufacturer? How important is this for tire performance? With a pair of Nokian extreme, I'd guess it took me around 100 kms until I have had these tires for 50 km on pavement. Over the last 3 years, I lost (and replaced) not more than a handfull of studs on this pair of tires. With one of Schwalbe's studded tires, I actually lost around 30 % of the studs in the first 4 km ride (and returned the tire), with a pair of Continental, it was somewhat better, but after 50 km of seating, I still kept loosing spikes at a constant rate. Hence, with the Nokian, I've got the impression that these were already working before seating and little changed during seating, with all others, I've found out that riding on pavement does nothing good to tire quality. 

Minimally, you want to be able to tighten all of the bolts on your bike (likely a few hex keys will do this) and an appropriate screwdriver for adjusting derailer & brake pulls. Separate from a multi-tool, a pair of tire levers are the other tool you should carry with you. I would add a chain tool to the above list after being left in a state where I would have been much happier were I so equipped. For that reason, I bought a Crank Brothers Multi Tool 17 which features the requisite hex keys, screwdrivers, and a chain tool, in package that is smaller & lighter than most Leatherman tools. Some of the hex key sizes don't fit anything on my bike, but it's nice to have a set that can help most other riders. 

I've tried using clip-on SPD platforms with regular SPD's, and found that those platforms are not very stable, can be difficult to snap in/out, and tend to fall off - they might be ok for a quick trip down the block, but won't stand up to a long commute. Platforms for other clipless styles (like Look) might be more stable, but I like SPD's for commuting since it's easy to walk in (some) SPD shoes. I also tried some combo pedals with a platform on one side and SPD clipless on the other (I think it was the Shimano M324), and found it too annoying to have to make sure the pedal was flipped around the right way. So finally I settled on these dual sided M424's, and have been pretty happy, the platform is comfortable for riding with regular shoes and while clipping in to the SPD's took a little practice because of the platform, it now feels as easy as clipping into bare SPD pedals. The SPD part is spring loaded and sticks up a little to make it easy to clip in, but it's not a very strong spring, so it folds down easily with regular shoes. It's not fully recessed under the platform when pushed down so it's possible that would cause some foot irritation on a long ride, but I've never had a problem with it. When I had a 4 mile commute, I used the platforms with regular street shoes almost exclusively (except for longer rides), now I have a 15 mile commute and use SPD biking shoes almost exclusively (except for shorter rides) and I'm pretty happy with the pedals either way. 

This can be a regional thing, but here in Germany, many are happy with Ballistol applied as aerosol and not changed during the seasons. From a material science perspective, its viscosity is very low and has little temeprature dependence. It is also said that it is environmently friendly, to the extend that you can use it on pets, which I never tried as I found chains on my bike much more suitable. 

The standard route I take for commuting has only few asphalt kms, most of it is gravel or worse. A road bike wouldn't be as suitable (fun, enduring, ...), even though it is not a problem to use one for this route. Personally, I would never consider a road bike because I like the versatility of biking. In summertime, I might change the route to one that leads through the woods, in the wintertime, my standard route can require spike tires. Somehow, using spikes, to me, corresponds with using a MTB and not a road bike. IMHO, if you want to bike on roads only, a road bike is OK. In all other cases you will end up with a non-road bike. I cannot imagine a biker who would stop riding a MTB because she's on a road, whereas most road bikers would rarely use their bike off road. Hence, this "sort of" answers the quantitative part of your question: the percentage of MTBers using their bike on a road is higher that the percentage of road bikers using their bike off road :D 

It's hard to tell exactly what your angle is in that picture, but it looks like it's close to 60 degrees, so you're not getting much mechanical advantage from the yoke angle. If you can decrease this angle either by shortening the tranverse cable, or by widening the cantilever arms by sliding the brake shoes closer to the rim (which would help "flatten" the transverse cable, decreasing the yoke angle), you can gain significantly more mechanical advantage. You don't want just go for the greatest amount of mechanical advantage since you'll run out of available cable travel if it's too high, but you can definitely tune the brakes for greater mechanical advantage. There are additional cantilever adjustment tips on Shelden Brown's cantilever adjustment page. 

In order to protect your hands and feet, I recommend some sort of active heating. If my hands are clumsy from a lack of circulation, or if my foot gets frost bites, the other issues discussed are of secondary concern to me. Basically, there are three types: 

As always, each type has its pros and cons. @1 pro: can last for up to 6 hours, thin enough to fit everywhere con: not reversible, needs some initial heat & oxygen, which, at times, results in some time until heat is generated @2 pro: usually the cheapest alternative, after treatment with hot water, the material becomes liquid again and is ready for reuse con: to have substantial heat, you need some volume of the material, i.e. it cannot be used in shoes, it can be too thick to be able to fine tune your breaking power (it might not even be legal according to traffic laws to use them); usually, the heat is generated for (only) around 1 hour, i.e. for longer times, you have to carry additional pads @3 pro: you can switch these on and off, and depending on the type, can adjust the heating power in between con: depending on the exact product, you have to fiddle with additional cables and storage of batteries. In your case, I'd check electrical heating, but try the coal/metal heating pads first. However, I doubt that the coal/metal heating pads would generate sufficient heat at -50 °C. This also means, I'd check that the heating power of the electrical system is "exceptional". 

The rules further describe legal passing to avoid drafting penalties: an overtaking cyclist has to execute his pass within 15 seconds of entering the drafting zone, and the overtaken cyclist has to yield to the overtaking rider and drop out of the drafting zone before he can attempt to re-overtake if desired. The rules are slightly different for Elite competitors. 

The one time I took my bike overseas (in a hard-sided case), I regretted it. It's expensive ($200 each way on United) and inconvenient -- I had a hard time finding a cab that could hold us and our two bikes (we ended up taking 2 cabs to our first night hotel, fortunately our hotel helped us find a larger cab to take us to the start of our biking journey) and we had to deal with lugging them around on the last few (non-biking) days of our trip. A bike case takes a surprising amount of room in a small hotel room. Now I spend some time researching quality bike rentals and only carry my pedals and helmet along. It's much much more convenient. And if for some reason we change our plans (like, say, due to a injury), we don't have to figure out what to do with our bikes. If you plan on multiple overseas bike trips, another option would be to get a quality folding bike that fits into a suitcase sized case. A friend that does this regularly did that -- I think his bike is a Brompton. It's a pretty decent bike, I've ridden on some century rides with him and he has no trouble keeping up or doing the distance, so it seems like it would be a good option for travel, and if it saves $400 per trip in oversize bag fees, it wouldn't take many trips to pay for itself. 

I drive the same Rohloff for over 8 years and do not see an end of its lifetime. I cannot speak for other brands, but in all posts above the free-of-charge service by Rohloff, as part of their special corporate culture was not mentioned. Up to now, whenever there was a problem, the thing was being send to Rohloff and I had to pay nothing. That being said, yes there are some problems worth mentioning and I assume these can apply to other internal gears as well: 

I am planning on a new bicycle and one idea is a Fat bike with the corresponding Rohloff and a Gates carbon drive. I am using Rohloff's for more than 10 years and know what to expect. I am absolutely new to Gates carbon drive and I am unsure, whether these can be recommended on MTBs or for off-road usage. I've heard that dirt is a problem. However, the problem, according to corrsponding stories, is chiefly acoustics, i.e. sequaky noise. I've never heard that the drive would break or not perform as intended. Do the pros of a carbon drive system still outweigh it's number of drawbacks, even when when the latter is increased due to off-road usage?