I'm doing bodyweight excercises for some years now with mediocre results (I know that the results can be way better when lifting, but due to time constraints, doing BWE at home is the way to go for me). To improve my results and accomodate my restrictions I made up my own program based on my experiences with YAYOG and Start Bodyweight, considering how my body reacts to different types of stimuli. Basically my program is a split routine with workouts on four days a week (monday, tuesday, thursday, friday - for what it's worth), dedicating two days to push/pull excercises and two days to core/legs. More or less I will build my program upon the progressions from start bodyweight, e.g. start with assisted pull-ups, then eccentric pull-ups, normal pull-ups, etc. I will do four sets of each progression, the first one being a warm-up set with a decreased load (e.g. 3/4 push-ups) and the subsequent normal sets with full load (e.g. normal push-ups). I will aim at 8-12 reps per set, gradually increasing reps until I reach the 12 reps, then proceed to the next excercise from the progression. I know that it's little rest, but I'll aim at sets of two minutes. Workouts: 

If you by "improving their running" mean run faster, then I would concentrate on interval training based on Jack Daniels work (also on Wikipedia). You can find a page that will help you with all the relevant numbers here. E.g. if you run 7:15 per mile, then you should consider training intervals where you run 400m in 1:55 then jog 1 minutes and repeat this 4-6 times. That should improve your running speed pretty drastically over 4-6 weeks. Good luck! 

I have hurt my shoulder so for the next 2-4 weeks I have to be a little careful with my training. The daily running is properly OK as long as I keep away from the most challenging trail runs, but the daily dose of the plank has to be replaced for the duration with something a little more gentle. But what are the good alternatives to the plank if it a part of a daily morning exercise? 

I suggest you check out "Becoming a Supple Leopard" by Dr. Kelly Starrett. The book itself is a major investment, but you can check him out online, there are plenty of videos that will introduce you to his approach. His focus is on body mechanics and injury prevention and his book goes into great detail and is packed with photos. As a 57-year-old man who wants to stay strong and hates pain, I have found him invaluable. 

For me, yes. But, it takes awhile. I had to learn proper technique to ensure other muscles aren't taking the load. Then, the muscles I wanted to work had to get strong enough. The key for me is stopping when I can't maintain proper form. If you don't, then other muscles get engaged. Anyway, it is a beautiful feeling to suddenly become aware that long dormant muscles are engaged and doing work. You might have to go on faith for awhile, but it will happen. 

As @Sarge says, this is for a doctor to diagnose properly. I had something similar - or rather with the same symtoms as I understand you - 3-4 years ago as I first started to run for races: stress fracture foot. Basically, this is very small stress induced fractures in the bones of the foot - though it can be in any bone in the body in theory. Very often a result of too much running :-) Only you doc can tell you for sure with an MR scanning or similar. Ohh, and the bad news is that the only real solution is to stop running for an extended period. In my case 4-5 months after which I could start again... slowly, ever so slowly... 

Assuming that with "arms together" you mean barbell biceps curls and with "arms singularly" the dumbbell variation I'd advocate to treat them as different excercises. You either have 

The YAYOG app lets you define your custom workouts. They have multiple exercise types, including Tabatas, which are HIIT intervals with 20 s load and 10 s rest. You could - for example - create a Tabata workout with 10 rounds (3 min) of push ups and 10 rounds of squats. 

Supplemented protein should ideally be only a small part of your total daily protein intake. There are sources of very good proteins (depending on your diet). 

Really great answers here! I just wanted to add that my chest muscles -- I'm a guy -- hurt for a few days after I bench press, especially if it has been awhile or I push the weight. So, that might explain some of your pain. 

Protein shakes have done two things for me. First, a morning protein shake -- which I have done now for about 5 years -- helped me take control of my diet. It allows me to make breakfast my biggest meal, giving me all day to burn the calories, instead of eating a big dinner and then storing it as fat while I sleep. Since I load it up with fruit, I also get my fiber. It is also super easy: throw everything in the blender and you are good to go. Second, protein shakes helped me build muscle after lifting weights. I don't actually do that right now, since I've been working out mornings lately. But, when I worked out at night, it was standard to toss down a quick shake -- powder and almond milk -- before or after. I'm not a bulky guy -- alas, that is not how I am built -- but the protein definitely helps my body recover from a good workout. The previous commenter is right that too much protein just gets dumped, but adding a 30-gram drink to your day doesn't even get you close to that, I wouldn't think. He's also right that there are companies out there selling protein making all sorts of questionable claims. I just stick to Whey protein that mixes well and tastes good and is not too expensive. Currently, that is GNC because Rite Aide often has sales on it. The strawberry is the bomb. Protein powder has helped me cut sugar and reduce my daily carb intake. Now, I could just eat a lot of meat or other sources, such as beans, but powder is much easier. And, it tastes great. As to how much: 1 gram per pound of your targeted body weight (the weight you want to be. For me, that is always less than I actually am) is the general goal. It is less for women, maybe half to three-quarters of a gram? I don't count such things anymore -- maybe I should, just for a reality check? -- but I rarely got that much into me, even with two shakes a day. Basically, I throw in one scoop per shake these days and each scoop is around 30 grams. I'm a 56-year-old guy and I lift three times a week and do cardio in between, when I'm being good. I'm just trying to stay strong so I can keep active. Since I am gassing on here, I'll add that my shake typically includes powder, peanut butter, Greek yogurt, blueberries, some other fruit and almond milk (because I avoid dairy) My wife's shake has cranberry juice as it's base. My buddy Brant puts so many greens into his that it glows alarmingly. Finally, Men's Health has a ton of good information online, if you want to research it. 

In order to learn pull-ups one has (omongst others) two options if xe can't do real pull-ups, yet: Negative pull-ups and assited pull-ups. With negative pull-ups one basically omits the contraction and focuses on the eccentric movement, be it with the help of a chair, by juming or whatever other means. Assisted pull-ups on the other hand work by decreasing the weight one has to move, e.g. with resistant bands. While the movements are somewhat similar, the exercises are fundamentally (or at least substantially) different. While the negative pull-ups have the merit that they work with the full weight the full pull-ups will be working on they omit half of the motion and especially the initial pull from the dead hang, which is way the hardest for me. Assisted pull-ups incorporate that initial pull, but the structure of the force withing the exercise is different to full pull-ups (lesser force to apply on the lowest position, more force to apply in upper position). I'd like to know how those two exercises work differently on the muscles. Basically the same muscles should be in use during the exercises, but I assume that the distribution of the stress should be different. Is any one of those exercises better suited for learning full pull-ups? (I'd like the answers to be focused not on what's the best way to learn full pull-ups, but I am - parts just out of curiosity - interested in a comparison between those two. If you have suggestions on exercises that are suited better, I'd ask you to please use the comments.) 

There are a very big difference between just completing a certain distance at a modest speed and running competitively for a good finishing time (e.g. with a time-goal). The following is true if you just want to finish, not if you run competitively. As I learned it many years ago, to finish a race up to and including Marathon, the rule is that you should be be able to run 2/3 of the distance and feel reasonable well afterwards. Then you should be able to complete the full distance at a race at the same speed without feeling completely wasted. So, to do complete a 15 km race at a modest speed, you must be able to run 10 km at the same speed. And to complete a half-marathon, you should be able to run 14 km (~ 2/3 of 21.1 km). This matches most beginners plans for half-marathons that I can find online. The intermediate and time-goal plans usually have longer distances for the longest runs, but here the plan is not to complete the race, but complete at a specific time - which is something else. Running longer than 30 km is very hard on your body - especially you joints - and really should be avoided if at all possible. Even if you want to train for a Marathon. Most training plans for Marathon that I have looked at also stops at 30 km for the longest run. If you want to run longer distances than this - like Ultras and Extreme Running - there are no way to train for it at a beginners level! The usual recommendation is to try first with a couple of Marathons, and then run 10-30 seconds slower per km depending on the target distance. 

From the point of a physicist, no, it would definitely not be the same. I cannot think of any position for that this would be stable, without taking much effort. Above the head: Keeping the fancybar in a stable position above your head will need much of balancing out, since the bar will strive to a position with less potential energy, if you allow it. It will most probably swing down and hit your chest or stomach. In front of of behind your body: Just as bad. You'll have to keep the fancybar up by means of your forearm. At best, this will simply hurt the exercise you tried to do, but more likely - again - that fancybar will swing down and hurt you. In either way, if you somehow managed to keep your fancybar in a position that enables you to workout somehow, it will most likely hurt the exercide you are trying to do, since you will be occupied with other things. Anyway, maybe it would work, if there was a counterweight, keeping the fancybar in a position above your head, but (a) it's still possible that there are influences on the exercise and (b) it wouldn't work for all exercises, anyway.