A new contributor makes a branch (new version) of the mainstream (trunk) World description that has some text added, removed or changed. A contributor opens pull request, maybe additionally describing that changes are made, and why. This pull request is visible on the web in a diff format (only showing that has been changed). This allows to view and review differences very efficiently, without the need to read through lots on unchanged material where changed parts may be overlooked. If community agrees that changes are good, a branch can be merged into trunk. 

(Wikipedia CC) Same about steam engines that can also be found in museums and would run on the trivial wood. A steam locomotive could be started on some wooden fence and still can use existing rails of the same gauge. Many are preserved by museums and hobbyists. It was not unusual to move some locomotives away from rails and use as generic engines in the past. The museum could also provide some old generators to connect to these machines. Same, they may not be so great and efficient, but these old designs may be much easier maintainable, with many parts being larger than now and possible to produce from the piece of metal with relatively simple tools. Also, these old machines were often built to last for decades, and maybe museum has restored them into "better than new" condition. Unlike modern devices, old machines relied less on the complex infrastructure around them. 

Normally there are many pull requests opened and under discussion at the same time. The most important feature of these versioning systems is that multiple contributors can make changes in parallel inside the same text document, as long as changed parts do not overlap. If one pull request contains rewrites near beginning and another near the end, these can be submitted, discussed and merged or rejected independently, in any sequence. Merging is only supported for the plain text. Versioning systems also support binary files like images, but cannot merge multiple independent changes, the latest version just overrides all others. 

Speculations aside, transformation into plant is possible at the cell level if the cell swallows and retains another photosynthetic organism that becomes useful. This can happen for a single cell, or some simple multi-cellular organism. Initially this is just infection, later genetic transformation may happen, moving photosynthetic genes into the host genome. This is how plants actually originated. Not a transformation by virus; a whole working machine of photosynthesis have been swallowed as food but ... stayed operational! An infection that makes the skin green and photosynthetic, and is not deadly, and immune system does not fight? If this is a science fiction, who knows... However human likely cannot survive with existing habits feeding just on sunlight. The skin area is not sufficient. If evolution would press on surviving on light only, various adaptations to use less energy and add the surface should occur. Move less, drop the body temperature by ten degrees at least and maybe more and bigger ears? 

You have missed the reviews. A really aggressive state could provide the surveillance data not for its agency, but for another citizens, making all citizens responsible for reviewing the behavior of somebody living next to them. It is possible to put pressure of these reviews being as strict as possible, and negative reviews having huge negative impact on the target (who probably wrote the similar killing review on somebody else). This would make easy to ensure that people live in a constant fear, watching all details of they behavior. This also result to hate and friction between people, dividing society and making sure they cannot unite for overturning the government. 

Every evolving empire finds and uses some religion of one or another kind (communism including). It is a disaster for religion, as the need to serve official daily goals, this so known "Gott mit uns", often undermines the crucial values for which the prophets were ready to die, and many did. Islam has been in this role but also Christianity, also even Atheism. It would have been great success for Islam not to serve in this role. As for Empire, seems not a problem. There is no lack of religions in the world and probably any can be adapted. 

In human made computers, lower voltage usually mean much less power consumption and less heat dissipation. Neural cell acts like a tiny capacitor, with inner and outer media making two electrodes separated by the rather tiny membrane. The amount of energy required to charge this capacitor is proportional to the square of the voltage. The action potential is usually about 150 mV, so making it 150 V would increase the amount of the required energy by 1000 * 1000 so one million times. Hence even if the membrane would be able to hold such a huge potential (a membrane of the usual real world cell cannot), a "high voltage brain" is likely to be very energy inefficient. Apart from the energy consumption, cooling may become a problem. And the brain already uses lots of metabolic energy. 

There are alternative ways to build electronics. For instance, an amplifier may be built not just from vacuum tubes, bipolar transistors or field effect transistors. An alien may choose to build an amplifier from Gunn diodes, transformers, tunnel diodes or optical, and this will work. These alternative solutions are known for human engineers. They are not as efficient as widespread solutions, but in an alien planet this may be different. Hence understanding the alien electronics may require very wide expertise, applying knowledge that is available but not widespread. 

Wild animals, even if trained, can easily get out control under war conditions. This is especially problematic if the animal is strong and dangerous enough. Dogs (but not wolves) were probably the only carnivores used in a war to fight on one side (not to "attack all"). Factors that made this possible probably are 

Wheel is not easily compatible with another device heavily used by nature - a pipe. Blood vessels are pipes, but also nerves. A pipe cannot connect a stationary chassis to the freely rotating wheel, with both ends being fixed. Such pipe would get twisted (one end turned 360 degrees with relate to another as soon as the wheel makes a full revolution). While humans are able to resolve this technical problem (some military vehicles supply compressed air to they rotating tires, a measure against small punctures), this requires mechanically rather complex device, evolutionary challenging to evolve. This is not a problem if the whole organism is a wheel (there is no chassis). Such organisms exist. Alternatively, a wheel could consist of dead tissue (like hairs or nails), no longer connected to the organism by vessels. Such maybe could be useful but without regeneration, the duration of the service is limited. Ok, it could be a short-lived organism. Maybe such will appear in the evolutionary future.