Basically, the difference is that in the love of variety approach the entry of new varieties in the market does not "crowd" variety space. So, differentiated varieties may exhibit a high or low degree of substitutability, but this is invariant to the number of products in the market. Hence, consumers "love" variety, in the sense that increased variety improves welfare. In the Lancaster ideal variety approach, entry of new varieties causes "crowding". Goods become more substitutable as more varieties enter the market. So, the marginal utility of new varieties falls as the market size grows. These two approaches have different implications for welfare of small and large countries as discussed in Hummels and Lugovskyy. 

Illustration based on the relationship between the relative supply of skills and the college premium as in Acemoglu (2002). Quantitative Analysis to shed light on the theory as in Acemoglu, Gancia, and Zilibotti (2015). They match key moments and simulate their model. Estimate elasticities of substitution between more and less educated workers. Behar (2009) use four types of data to estimate those elasticities, namely (i) cross sections, (ii) a long range panel of 40 observations,(iii) time series for Brazil and (iv) an annual panel for Latin America. 

The wealth gap, as measured by net worth, is much more extreme than the chasm as measured by income. The Times had estimated the threshold for being in the top 1 percent in household income at about \$380,000 dollars. That is 7.5 times median household income. But for net worth, the 1 percent threshold for net worth in the Fed data was nearly \$8.4 million dollars, or 69 times the median household’s net holdings of \$121,000. source The government goes after income more than it goes after wealth. For example, you can live in a \$8 million mansion and get Universal Healthcare subsidies if you make less than ~$94,000 a year with a family of four.source At the end of the day, when Bill Gates retired from Microsoft, he wasn't suddenly poor. If you think there is a problem with wealth inequality, looking at income isn't a great way to find out if you are right or not. 

Consider an exact same product, say an umbrella, which is both imported from China in India and locally produced. The reason why the Chinese product is cheaper compared to the local one could be related to differences in productivity or total factor productivity. The Chinese product could be relatively cheaper because Chinese firms use better production techniques, higher-quality general labor and capital input, better managerial practice/talent, or better information technology. See the JEL survey about What Determines Productivity? The recent paper by Rodrik and co-authors documents that labor productivity is higher in China than in India (see Table 1). This could be a first reason why prices of the same product differ. 

Are current flows of migration bigger that they were in the past? We tend to forget history because the numbers involved currently are smaller relative to world population. For instance, the 8.8 million immigrants who came to the United States in 1901-1910 period is of similar magnitude to the 9.1 million immigrants who came in the 1991-2000 period, but both the U.S. and world populations were much larger than in 1901-1910. Richard B. Freeman in a nice paper, entitled "People Flows in Globalization," reminds us about this fact. Some countries indeed receive large inflows of migrants The US, Russia and Germany are the biggest recipients of immigration (see Table 1 in the above paper). These flows have consequences for factor endowment and there is considerable and often heated controversy over their impacts on destination countries. How Do Immigrants Affect Their Countries of Arrival? Freeman examines this question (p.18 to 23) and reviews the empirics. In the basic model of immigration, immigrants reduce earnings of substitute factors and raise the earnings of complementary factors, where complements might include capital and some types of native-born labor. In the basic model, there is full employment but you may intuitively consider quantitative adjustments instead of price/wage adjustements by introducing frictions in the labor market. Note than in most advanced countries, immigrants have higher unemployment rates and lower employment rates than native workers. Related to this question a classical paper is "The Economics of Immigration," with theory and evidence by Georges Borjas in Journal of Economic Literature, December 1994. More recently, in 2015, Borjas published an interesting review on Immigration and Globalization. You mal also be intereted in reading his paper on how the collapse of the Soviet Union affects the productivity of American mathematicians. Regarding policies Freeman considers "radically economic policies" such as auctioning immigration visas or charging sizeable fees and spending the funds on current residents to increase the economic incentive for advanced countries to accept greater immigration. 

So half isn't variable at all, a quarter is slightly variable and, a quarter isn't all that variable, but is subject to market shocks. Source And that isn't even getting into whether or not this question has any relevance. There's two big problems with your question: 

Most of the price of creating a shoe is the cost of labour to make it and the cost to ship it to the store. The cost of the materials needed to make the shoe is negligible. So, they can ignore the difference in material costs without losing too much money. But why would they want to lose any money at all? Logistics. Keeping track of the different prices per shoe, printing the different labels, making sure the shoes are sold at the right price, paying people to determine how much of a price difference the company should charge are all things that cost money. So the company is looking at creating a giant logistical nightmare for themselves, costing them who knows how much money, all for a penny difference between a size 8 and a size 13. Trying to charge a different price would be a case of being 'penny smart; dollar stupid'. 

managers are aware of this low correlation and want to experiment a different management based on a fixed payment instead of a variable one; due to the financial crisis customers tip less than usual and so managers have to fix the tip to offer better (fixed) wages and attract good waiters. 

A rather negative view of structural reforms However, when Krugman sees influential people calling for structural reform as the universal answer to all economic problems, he gets angry. He considers that Structural Reform is the Last Refuge of Scoundrels. For Krugman, traditionally, structural reform was offered as an answer to the problem of stagflation, which makes a fair bit of sense according to him. Dany Rodrik also opposes structural reforms notably in his paper Goodbye Washington Consensus, Hello Washington Confusion?. He argues that ``evidence has come a more skeptical reading of the cross-national relationship between policy reform and economic growth'' (Page 5). Moreover, Acemoglu and Robinson (2010, chap 5) document that 

Also your "belief" that the vast majority of the income that the 1% receive is variable, from borrowing, etc, isn't actually true. 

If there are socio-economic problems cause be income inequality, how does the fact* that the faces of the ultra rich change factor into those problems? Does it factor into it at all? 

If there's 5 people, with enough food for 5 people and person 1 eats it all today. Tomorrow person 1 leaves and a new guy comes in. He eats all of today's food. When the 4 people sitting there starving start complaining that the share of the food is unequal and that they are starving, what does it matter that it wasn't the same guy who ate it all twice in a row? The problem here is the inequality itself not who is getting the unequal treatment. *Not actually a fact. Data shows this is the opposite of a fact.