(The reason I'm asking is that I want to punch some holes in the end of two bands so I can connect them, probably with zip ties, into one longer band. The first time I rode with them their urge to curl was so strong that the ends were rolled up and and it was halfway off my ankle when I got back. I think a longer band will stay on better. I want to know if I can punch holes without damaging the bands.) 

I've seen it said that when mounting things such as a light or camera on your helmet you want a breakaway mount so that in the event of a crash the helmet slides along the ground rather than snagging on it. What is it about these mounts that lets them break away? 

Like you, I've returned to riding after 20 years away. It's been a very rewarding journey. One thing I discovered was that I had an aversion to turning and leaning. Our neighborhood has relatively narrow streets, no markings, no shoulders, just country lanes really. I'd been practicing U-turns but they always felt wobbly and a little scary. One day, I didn't cut the turn soon enough and faced the choice of running into a mailbox or leaning hard and fast-pedaling out of it. It turned out I could safely lean pretty far, I just hadn't realized it, and it took this event to show me I could do more. Psychological barrier: eliminated. I practiced in the neighborhood for six months before I took it out on trafficked roads. This was a good thing, although I hadn't really planned to wait so long. It turned out I needed to work on myself just as much as my new-to-me used bike, mainly because I sidelined myself overdoing the hill-climbing and my knees told me to sit myself down for two months. After that, I only did what they would agree to, which was thirty minutes a day for three days a week and carrying the bike up any steep hills. This forced delay gave me time to work everything out in advance, from basic riding skills and equipment to aligning my head with the task and acquiring a high-rpm cadence habit. Only two weeks ago, at the end of November after starting in June, did I ride outside the neighborhood, on trafficked roads. Thanks to preparation, I can do longer rides now and feel comfortable. Having a great time, really. Regarding traffic, I've decided never to do left turns on busy roads. Instead, I do a right, then U-turn/turn around and cross. This feels much safer. I wonder if you haven't accepted the fact that road risks are manageable and can be reduced, but they can't be eliminated. You can get hurt, it's not up to you and once you've done all that can be done you have to not think about it. I wonder if your anxiety comes from your having not accepted it, and that part of you is trying hard to control something that can't be controlled. So perhaps part of the answer is to practice, practice, practice, then get out of your head and let your body do what it knows how to do, namely to balance. This answer has turned out just to be mostly an endorsement of what @andy256 said. 

If this is the kind you have, then leaving the bike in there should make no difference whatsoever. This trainer clamps onto the rear axle, it doesn't even touch the frame. When you're off the bike, the frame doesn't have to do anything except support its own weight - there's no possible way it could get damaged. You're probably less likely to damage the bike, since you won't be knocking it over. 

I don't know how common it is. I can tell you that it's not as big a problem as you would expect. Toe overlap only comes into play when you're making very sharp turns at low speed. Hitting your toe on the front tire would be dangerous at high speed - but at low speed, it's just annoying. And it doesn't even happen that often. 

I have a Campagnolo 10-speed cassette on the way, and I just want to know if I'll need a new cassette lockring tool to install it. I already have the tool for Shimano/Sram cassettes. In the pictures I looked at, the splines on the lockring look similar, but not quite the same: 

Bear in mind that you're only putting force on the cogs in one direction. So they shouldn't move around too much once everything is assembled, even if they feel loose when you slip them on the cassette. It's usually a good idea to replace the chain and the cassette at the same time. If they're heavily worn and you only replace one of them, you may get chain skipping. The divots that I see on your freehub are something to be expected - no need to replace the freehub. 

Just that, what kind of wheels use spoke washers? Is this a nice addition to any old wheel, or are certain rims designed to use these? Would these perhaps help with a damaged spoke hole in a rim? I'd guess you would not normally want to use these with rims not designed for them, because it would elevate the nipple head into the space occupied by the tube and tire. 

Are there chains where it matters which side is out and which is in? I don't mean which end of the chain leads as the chain travels forward during pedaling. I mean which side is out toward the seat and ground, versus inside toward the cogs and chainrings. 

so it's hard to know if this video answers your question. Difference between freewheel and freehub - 

Here's an online source of p-clamps, maybe you can find something suitable from them: $URL$ I haven't bought yet but I saved that link for when I get racks for my MTB-turned-hybrid. 

What are the qualities of bicycle bearing grease that make it suitable for that use? (The reason I ask is that I need to get some and I'd rather get the non-bike equivalent grease at the auto parts store a mile down the road than at the bike store 15 miles away.) (I'm assuming the same grease can be used for bottom bracket and hub bearings -- true?) 

Maybe double-check that there is zero debris in the threads. I ran into a similar-sounding situation and it made me very nervous given the stakes. It turned out to be small bits of finely-ground rock powder in the threads. I cleaned it with degreaser, wiped it well, blew it out with compressed air, then did all that again. After, I was able to tighten it most of the way by hand as expected. 

Did you buy it from a shop? If so, then take the bike back and tell them to replace the bars. If you bought it used from some guy, then it might be a little harder. I can't tell from the picture, but it's safe to assume that the bars are aluminum. I wouldn't trust aluminum that's bent that far - definitely replace them. Also, check the frame for dents and deformation - whatever it was that damaged the bars could have damaged other stuff as well. 

If you switch to V-brakes you will need new levers. V-brakes are designed for levers that have a lower mechanical advantage, but pull the cable farther. If you mix and match, your brakes will work, but not very well. If you want to stay with cantilevers, I recommend Cane Creek. 

Bike shorts. If you ride more than 20 miles at a time, they'll definitely make your ass happier. Gloves. Indexed shifting system (your bike is from the early 90s, so I assume you don't have one). You'll have to replace most of the drivetrain, so plan the job before you start and figure out if it's worth the cost. Shoes and clip-in pedals. It's not just about keeping your foot in place - the stiff sole makes for more efficient power transfer from your legs to the cranks. If you also plan to ride your bike in regular shoes, I recommend something like Shimano M424 pedals. 

You can use any grease you want. Bike grease, automotive axle grease, organic extra-virgin coconut oil, they'll all work for this task. But if you plan to do any further maintenance on your bike (and you should), then buy some bicycle-specific grease, because you'll need it later. 

yours is a freewheel or freehub, I don't think you've said the problem is your chain coming off the gears or it's staying on but not turning the wheel 

I'm shopping for spoke nipples and I see some described as specifically for front or for rear. Is this just a marketing tactic, or do some wheels need different ones like this? 

I have some of those reflective bands that snap around the ankle or arm to increase visibility while riding. How are they constructed such that they want to roll up? What's inside them? 

Also, that one hanger turned into three tools: the link opener, a tool to hold the ends of an open chain together, and one to hang the cleaned-and-drying chain from the tree over the driveway. 

Here's a picture taken when using Gorilla Clear Repair Tape (on seat tube above the FD) and packing tape (below the FD). For anyone horrified by the condition of the frame, keep in mind this is my beater bike, meant to look not worth stealing. If it hadn't come this way I'd have had to distress it on purpose. 

Are fat blobby welds inferior, other than aesthetically? Here's three examples, one's a BSO, one's a decent/good Trek and one's an expensive Felt downhill full-suspension bike. 

If you were a little older I'd say work up to it over a month or so, doing progressively longer rides to give your body time to adjust and tell you how it's doing, but at 17 you can recover from almost anything. Have a great time. I can't tell how much you've ridden already, but maybe (if you're not tubeless) practice changing a flat in the field to make sure you have everything with you that you need. Ride a mile from the house then pretend you have a flat, then change or patch the tube right there by the side of the road. 

Throw that thing out and get a rigid fork. You don't need suspension unless you're riding off-road, or jumping over cars, or whatever it is the kids do these days. And bad suspension is worse than no suspension. Rigid forks are pretty durable, so you may be able to find up a used one. Make sure that the crown-to-axle distance is similar to what you have now, otherwise it may change the handling characteristics. 

Park the bike inside, or at least under a roof. Even if you ride every day, your bike spends more time parked than it does riding. Clean and lube all the moving parts, especially the chain. Proper lubrication is a lengthy subject, and I won't attempt to cover it here, just keep in mind that the choice of lube depends on the application, and that WD-40 is never the right choice. If your bike is exposed to salt (from the sea, or from road de-icing) then you should wash it regularly. If there are scratches on the frame that penetrate all the way to bare steel, then cover them up. Any waterproof paint should work for touch-ups. Some people use nail polish. If the metal has already started to rust, remove all the rust before painting. Stickers or electric tape will also work for covering scrapes and preventing new ones. 

All the other answers deal with old, worn chains. I'd like to talk about another angle. I've only had it happen once, while I was stomping up a really steep hill. It was a brand new 9-speed SRAM chain. It snapped at a link that I took apart and reassembled while installing it; I guess that I didn't put the pin in correctly. Somebody told me that this kind of mistake is easy to make with the modern narrow chains - the plates are so thin, that there's very little room for error when installing the pin. And for this reason, you should never try to reassemble the links; when installing the chain, just keep removing links until it's the right length.