I encountered danger, here's what it looked like. I saw something worth exploring but it is too far away from my mission objective. My long range transmitter is broken or there's a mountain in the way of the transmission. I'll take this half of the crater, you take that half. 

Have cameras in the corridors and use photo recognition software to match faces with your internal employee database photos. In case that database has been previously compromised, check the photos against where the employees are sup[pose to be and look for patterns. 

Everyone will now have to eat bananas and any other crop that we produce through cloning. I know that bananas are grown that way. That's why whenever there is a fungus or other disease that affects bananas, they lose the entire crop. Every single banana plant has the same genetics. When that happens, researchers then look for another banana strain that is resistant to that disease and that tastes good. Then they clone the heck out of it and give it to all of the banana plantations. There may be other crops produced the same way and many others could be. It would be a lot of work and it is likely that they will only be able to feed a small portion of the current population. Another issue is if we can create a nutritionally healthy diet with just those plants. OTOH, the oceans will be fine. Plankton reproduces through other means. So, most of those food chains will be untouched. 

There's a really cool panel in some Batman comic where he rushing to get to a meeting on time and uses his batrang to hit a sniper who is hiding behind a statue. There's a time and place for an exploding boomerang, and it's probably trick shots. The simplest way to activate the explosive is probably with a radio-controlled detonator (maybe use some encrypted authentication so your enemy can't cause your belt holster to explode on you). Advanced versions could have variable timers, variable effects (one boomerang that can slice, burn, explode etc. user decides) Also of course you have to play on the word boomerang. Call the cutting one a cut-erang, the liquid nitrogen one freez-erang, but not never call the explodey one a boomerang because everyone's waiting for it. 

The problem here is your use of the word soul. Nobody knows what it means to exist as a soul. We know what it means to exist as a body. That would certainly be ending. We also know what it means to exist as a mind. "I think therefore I am." Therefore if I am thinking I am. Can the scientist think while inside the machine? If not it would be meaningless to say he or she was in there. Are the components of the computer available for use? E.G. when transcoding the consciousness were provisions made so the consciousness could actively control the machinery of the computer? Can the consciousness see and hear and communicate, travel to other computers (if not it's locked into a perpetual hell of thinking but no outside stimulus. Given that computers are super fast the perceived time would greatly exceed real time)? You might be tempted to say they can't move around, but remember that copying digital data is trivial --again think of it as a mind transcoded to a computer rather than a soul. I think we're assuming that no provision has been made for a simulated life, so you've got whatever already exists on computers and that's it. There's no sensation of body, no simulation of emotion (though these are certainly possible they'd have to be set up ahead of time.) Basically all you get is interacting with the computer in all the ways that have already been set up. Maybe online gaming would still work about the same way, but it wouldn't be immersive. You'd simply see the game in third person just like a regular user. Would existing without a body be good or bad? Emotions are probably almost entirely chemically derived (again, you might be able to fake emotions inside a computer, but this alone could be the work of a lifetime of hardware and system design) so you might end up with a pure reasoning creature with memory of emotion but no real way to feel anymore. You might be terrified by the choices made out of pure reason. The person would be incapable of suffering though. The worst it could get would be the abstract thought. This sucks. And maybe the decision that existence has nothing to recommend it over not existence at which point the computer person quietly executed the command 

Why not let Chronos see the future? Maybe he knew this would happen. Either he couldn't change it or this is exactly what he wants to happen. Maybe he acted angry because that will cause the outcome that he wants at some far future date. If Chornos can see the future but he can't change it, he might have gotten frustrated and stopped looking. Maybe human "free will" is the one thing that messes up Chronos' visions of the future. 

Boarding can only be successful on an unaware or unresisting ship. There are just too many ways to defend against boarders (including maneuvering). After that boarding methods depend on whether you want the crew/passengers of the target vesicle alive. If not, go in with full suits and use breacher rounds. If you want to take them alive, you have to bring an airlock with you. 

Our language gets increasingly complicated because people look for a word that means mostly want another word means but not quite. Or they use new, made up, words or old, redefined, words to distinguish themselves from the people who speak the other way (slang). If slang is used often and long enough, it becomes part of the official language. Gay use to mean happy. We also live in a world of increasing knowledge and complexity. We need new words just to describe new objects, events and ways of thinking (or we could just slap words together like the Germans do). o.m. already referenced 1984. Reducing complexity and restricting the growth of the language will force thought patterns into restricted and controlled processes. So, as much as I think that most slang displays lazy/stupid thinking, I would never consider banning it. Messy language and messy thought processes are likely what helps us be so creative. 

My mother knew she had a terminal prognosis and a projected lifespan measured in months if not weeks, but of course the question wasn't: 

Supplies A smart and capable scientist with adequate funding and WWI technology could build a largely subterranean facility with little difficulty. Hiding it from the air is not a big deal. Strict operational security keeps anyone from going in or out. Any locals who stumble by might need to come join the party. Keeping that many people fed is going to be a challenge though. You're going to need regular supply smuggling runs. Assuming supply by sea (I'm not sure if you want that bridge there and it's easier to hide sea smuggling.) I was initially thinking every three months, but smaller, more frequent trips is probably better. A single stocked rowboat from a ship offshore every month should do the trick and help prevent major problems in the case of a missed delivery. Lets assume a well for water supply since transporting that much water would really be a challenge. That much supply traffic is still going to raise eyebrows. If you want to be doubly clever you can have the scientist bribe the logistics people in the Dwarven army. An investigation into missing supplies could slowly uncover the fact that something is going on. 

Maybe the "sun" is more like a spinning yin/yang symbol. Day/night would be if the light or dark side of the sun is facing you. You can then go two ways: 

Put a bag around it. This isn't as far fetched as it might sound. I've seen numerous references to it in science fiction and other discussions. Sorry that I can't find them at the moment. Off of memory this was used in the Quantum Vibe web comic at some point in it's history. The main point is to cover the planet in a very thin plastic sphere and then inflate that sphere with air. If you build some support structure (a ring around the planetoid, for example, you can build airlocks and docking ports. That way you can get to and from the planetoid without ripping the bag. Minor tears from micrometeorites should be small enough to not cause a significant loss of air (small holes in a really big bag). It is best if the polymer is self healing but could be patched or replaced in sections. One story had the self healing aspect so high that ships could fly through it and the tears would heal before there was significant loss. One discussion talked about capping one of the Moon's craters with a mylar cover but that was a long time ago and might not have made it to the web. 

Lets reduce the scope of this question a bit to put it in perspective. Is there anything you do that you can be reasonably sure you do better than anyone you're likely to meet? Unless you have objective validation that you're a world champion at something it's unlikely. Objective validation violates the "we don't know about them" stipulation. We could go all touchy-feely and say you're better at knowing yourself than anyone else is. But is that really true? You could study me for a long time, get to know me, create simulations of me in your head. You could then use your objective perspective (free of self-deception and pesky emotional baggage) to predict my actions better than I could. (At least one of my ex-girlfriends can do this disturbingly well.) I can therefore imagine a race of aliens who know our psyche and biology better than we know ourselves. It wouldn't take long to do that if you started with a higher level of scientific advancement. Or you could say, well I don't know that I'm better than you, but I'm really good at the one thing I'm really good at. What is humanity good at? What does history say? Science? Ha. Our history is full of superstition and rejection of science for far longer than we've been making advancements in science. Conflict. Though true excellence is control and we're super bad at controlling escalation (disagreement leads to argument leads to low level violence leads to state sponsored violence or genocide). So maybe we're not good at conflict. We're good at picking fights. I'm better than you at picking a fight, and if you don't believe me come over here and I'll prove it. Uniqueness. We do unique pretty well. Art, craft We probably have woodwork the likes of which they've never seen before. If they have wood it's unlikely they'll have wood precisely like ours. I would expect spacefarers to have lots of metal and synthetic materials. In the future in space wood will be more precious than gold. Also, what makes you think we'd be invited to join an empire. If history has taught us anything, cultures join empires at the point of a sword. 

They are using the lever principle. By corrupting one company, it might lead to the corruption of other companies and since the companies are part of an economic system, that may lead to the corruption of that system. 

It is simple to hide in a big city and feed (if she's not picky about her food). Homeless aren't tracked by many people. In a large city, she can feed for a long time. If she is on the east coast, there are a large number of large cities near each other. She can move from city to city easily to spread out her kills. If the corpses are desiccated, they will burn easily or mulch easily. So, hypnotizing someone who runs a crematorium or someone who owns a wood chipper will hide her kills. Maybe even bypass the mind control and make deals with such people in each city for services rendered. A mob boss will want people taken out every once in a while. Having to have someone dump bodies into a wood chipper is not much cost to that type of person. 

What if the race that destroyed the planet was into some crazy science stuff. They found a way to tune the gravitational attractiveness of matter. Whole mountains could have been made neutrally buoyant by flipping half of the matter to gravity repelling material. Or simpler yet set to gravity neutral. That'd be some weird stuff. It'd still have mass so it would be hard to move around but it wouldn't fall to the surface if it broke off. It'd kind of drift away behaving as if it was in zero gravity. 

Do you ever open the fridge and look around, close it and then immediately forget what you saw? The mind tricks itself all the time. I have this amazing ability to forget names. It's like magic. I've met people who I have to immediately ask to repeat their names because there's something in my brain that just instantly drops it. It's hilarious when I drop it a second time even though I'm ready and trying really hard. It probably has to do with attention limits and some sort of weird social thing I'm doing when I first meet people. An illusionist practices this technique to exclude things from your attention (look over here while I hide the ball). I can imagine someone with the natural ability to apply a face forgetting nudge. Someone with the natural talent might not even be able to explain how it works. It could even lead to interesting situations where it doesn't work perfectly on everyone, or came into play by accident. 

If technology developed alongside magic, I can see a world where Insulars and Mages coexist. In this case, magic just provides alternative solutions to problems (need to get somewhere: fly or drive; need to hurt someone from a distance: zap with spell or shoot with gun). In this case magic can make quick, one off changes to the world but would not benefit from economies of scale. You might be able to summon an item but summoning 100,000 items would be harder than tooling a factory to produce them. Unless Mages are prevented from using technology, Insulars are going to have a distinct disadvantage. If a Mage can carry a gun, the Insular isn't much more of a threat than a Mundane. Insulars would have to relay on the slower healing times of real medicine. However, Insulars would make great cops and first responders. If some idiot Mage summoned demon, send in the Insulars. If some mage is growing senile, give them an Insular caregiver (who will not get turned into a toad). 

Ever noticed how people in time travel stories mess everything up? And then somehow by the skin of their teeth manage to put everything back to rights? Things probably don't actually work like that. About half of the time the calvary doesn't arrive in time, the answer to the riddle fails to pop into the hero's head, the match doesn't light, the green wire blows up the bomb. Time travel gives people infinite chances to mess everything up. Each chance to destroy the world plays out instantly as time travel is invented -- time travel takes all the possible spins of Russian Roulette and plays them at once. The moment you invent time travel you fork a possible universe off, do your messy business, destroy everything and the only possible universe that still exists is the one where you didn't. In any universes where time travel is invented the world is destroyed instantly. The fact that our world still exists can be taken as proof that we're on one of the few possible timelines where time travel doesn't, will not or cannot exist.