Piero Della Francesca painted the following Fresco to depict battle between Heraclius of Byzantine Empire and Khosrou II of Persian Empire. 

The Jewish community in Isfahan initially refused to convert; they were then ordered to leave the city, and were offered the choice of two uncongenial locations in the desert areas outside Isfahan. Again they demurred, and offered bribes to the vazir, who then said they could go and live in the Zoroastrian quarter of Gabrabad. The Zoroastrians, however, possibly incited by the vazir, refused to receive them, and drove them out. At some point the Jews appealed to the Sadr, the head of the religious institution, who voiced the opinion that the Sharıa does not sanction conversion by force. In the end, though, he appears to have washed his hands of the whole affair. Finally, the Jews were ordered to embrace Islam under pain of death. Incredibly, the Jews still refused to submit unless they were rewarded for doing so. After some haggling, every convert received two tumans and, in addition, the community was granted the sum of 5,000 gold dinars from the waqf (pious endowment) of the Fourteen Immaculate Ones (the Twelve Ithna Asharı Imams, the Prophet, and Fatima). Between 1656 and 1658, the Jewish communities in other Persian cities were subjected to similar persecution. In Kashan, Qum, Ardabil, Tabriz, Qazvin, Lar, Shiraz, and Hurmuz, the Jews submitted, but in other cities they resisted conversion. A notable example was Farahabad in Mazandaran, where the Jews, despite being subjected to various forms of torture, refused to convert, and in the end the governor gave up the attempt and simply enforced the dhimma regulations regarding dress, etc. Throughout the whole country, according to The Chronicle of the Carmelites, about 100,000 Jews were forced to convert to Shia Islam. The only contemporary Persian chronicle is the Abbasnama of Muhammad Tahir Vahid Qazvini and the Abbasnama concurs with the Jewish source Kitab-i Anusi in citing najasat, the impurity of Jews as non-Muslims, as the justification for the persecution. The Kitab-i Anusi quotes the vazir as saying: 

Two of the British tanks had to retreat due to their inability to pierce armor of German A7Vs. One of the German tanks was knocked out but was successfully retrieved back by the Germans. British however failed to recover their abandoned tank. Both sides suffered damages Two of the surviving A7Vs also had to retreat. British tanks were also forced to retreat by the German infantry and mortar units. 

As per T.E.D's suggestion, to summarize the detailed answer I have posted already, following are main points: 

Akbar's birth name was Shahzada (Prince) Jalal ud-din Muhammad. He was given the Kuniyat Abu'l-Fatah. So his fullname became Abu'l Fatah Jalal ud din Muhammad Gorkani (ابو الفتح جلال الدین محمد گورکانی). Moreover, Mughal aristocracy also used the titles Beg (بیگ), Khan (خان) and Mirza (مرزاء) to refer to Royal Princes and in some case, other aristocrats to signify their Persio-Turco-Mongol origins. So formally he would be Shazada Mirza Abu'l Fath Jalal Ud din Muhammad Khan Beg Gorkani. When Akbar succeeded his father to the throne, he adopted the regnal name Akbar, a tradition that was followed by both his predecessors and successors as mentioned in the earlier answer. The full string of titles that he adopted were: 

Alexander's route of invasion and conquest in Indian Subcontinent today exists in modern-day Pakistan. This is the map: 

Caliph Ali was murdered by a Kharjite on 21st of Ramadan. Granted it was act of one team instead of a proper battle but it is a part of the First Fitna (First Muslim civil war) and War against Kharjites. The first Fitna itself raged for years without any regard for Ramadan. Case of other Muslim civil wars is similar. 

(Mirza was a title of nobility. In this case, it means Prince). The choice of incompetent Prince Sultan Husayn instead of able Prince Abbas, made by his great-aunt Maryam Bagum and the chief eunuchs, ensured more years of weak rule and spelt the doom of the Safavid dynasty. Two rival factions, the powerful mujtahid Mirza Muhammad Baqir Majlisi and his supporters, on the one hand, and the royal women of the harem and the eunuchs, on the other, vied with each other for dominance over the complaisant Shah, whose standard reply when his advisers brought state matters to his attention was: 

Overall commander of Sonder Stab-F was General Hellmuth Felmy. The field commander of FF-Irak was General Werner Junck. The aircrafts were painted in Iraqi colors. Pictured, a British soldier is pointing out hastily repainted tail of a downed heinkel. 

So it was clear that Berke was already determined to wage war on Ilkhanate to avenge the fall of Baghdad. It is also stated that Mamluks had developed secret ties with the Golden Horde when they learnt that the Khan was both a Muslim and hated his cousin Helagu for sack of Baghdad. Also, it is reported that before the decisive battle of Ain Jalut, The Golden Horde provided much needed Cuman-Kipchak reinforcements to Mamluks which proved instrumental in defeating the Ilkhanate hordes. 

1. The first documented instance of this division that I could find was in Umayyad Era which is post-Islamic. Ibn Kathir and Ibn Khaldun, noted Arab scholars have also noted this divison however they were both born in post-Umayyad era. Nevertheless Pre-Islamic poetry does contain claims of being descended from Ishmael as a matter of pride. I couldn't find any documented references of this division before Islam which may have been due to the fact that Arab literacy was very low and they were a people who mainly relied on oral tradition. Or it may have been that Umayyads created this division (Note, division, not the legend itself) for some unknown political motives (Divide and rule?), who can say now? It could also be political opponents of Umayyads who may have sowed this division as Umayyads relied completely on Arabs for their power while holding non-Arab subjects out of power, which lead to them flocking to banners of opponents of Umayyads. So it would be imperative for any rebel leader to sow dissent in supporters of the ruling Imperial dynasty. 2. As per legends, not documented history. 

During the beginning hours of the Battle of Mohi, Coloman of Slavonia was able to repulse the Mongol attempt to secure the bridge for their safe crossing over the river. But within two hours after that, the Duke returned to Hungarian encampment after leaving a small force to defend the bridge. It was clear that Mongols were invading and the bridge was crucial for their plans. It doesn't make sense to me as to why would a seasoned commander like Coloman leave the bridge weakly held. The bridge was narrow enough (It took the Mongols 4 hours to cross with their army even when they were unopposed after retreat of the small Hungarian guard detachment). Any good military commander would have seen the opportunity to make the Mongols bleed right there like the Scots did with the English at Battle of Stirling Bridge. So why would an undoubted excellent commander like Duke Coloman just pack his stuff and leave to celebrate victory? I know there were still some doubts about Mongol intentions among the Magyar but I still can't see why Coloman was so oblivious to the danger and the opportunity.