In a world where interstellar travel is just beginning, and is expensive, does such technology make ocean-based travel obsolete? Does the ability to use air/space flight around the world make water based vessels not economical, or are there still reasons to use it? 

I have a universe where humanity has produced various civilizations on multiple planets (and no planet has achieved a single world government); and very few of these countries possess the know-how of nuclear weapons- but space travel is possible, although it can be expensive and difficult. My question is this: Could basically all nations have the technology to be space-faring, yet not independently produce nuclear weapons? Can these two technologies be separate? 

The Hero is a figurehead, a symbol, there solely to inspire people. It's no longer about tradition and warfare, it's political. It's less about the Hero BEING heroic as much as it is about the Hero now APPEARING heroic. 

But, as Shalveny states in their answer, generally names/titles are derived from the power source and the method in learning/developing. At the end of the day, it is your world and you get final say, but generally speaking it's commonly broken down along four main lines in popular fiction: Divine magic: i.e. magic either imbued as a direct result of appeal to a divine being (prayers, wardings etc) and used by religious bodies and agents (clerics, priests, magisters, acolytes etc) Arcane magic: magic that is not associated with any particular god or diety. Most commonly used by magicians/wizards/sorcerers etc and often depends on the strength of the wielder. Elemental/Natural Magic: Magic that is natural in source, often describe as maintaining the balance of life and guarding the natural world. Often straddling the border between Divine and Arcane. Users are most often depicted as Druids/shaman Ritual magic: Power is drawn through the completion of rituals - sigil, ceremonies, relics. Takes time to complete, and can often involve a sacrifice of some description. Shamans, cultists etc are often portrayed performing ritual magic, generally speaking doesn't necessarily require innate magical abilities and is very often used by the antagonists/big bads. 

It's everything that came to my mind as of now. If I remember anything else, I'll edit the question to add it. Feel free to guide me to resources I can use if you know some, an incomplete answer is better than no answer at all. Thank you in advance ! Sasugasm 

A controlled False Vacuum over the area This is not supposed to be possible, but let's admit that your engineers invented a weapon capable of producing a false vacuum, and control its expansion. Basically, a way to erase from existence a part of the universe cleanly and in the most horrible way possible. This would cause controversy. Why ? For the same reason that, in today's world, people fear that an uncontrolled black hole would suddenly pop from a scientific experience and delete Earth. Imagine that your mass weapon of destruction fails, and the false vacuum continues his way through the designated area. That would be really bad for the WHOLE universe. But also for another reason : because the area where the weapon has have been used is empty afterward. Which means it has some impact on the other galaxies around ! Imagine all the orbits changing, or the trajectory of comets taking different destination. The calculations of all your galactic empire become obsolete, and they have to be done again. Here is a cool video that explains it further: $URL$ 

Fallout 4 has an organization similar to what you are asking about. The Railway Faction, in game, is an underground organisation that protects and relocates escaped synths - they communicate the dead drops and signs, operate in cells and basically run interference for synths escaping from the Institute. If you want an actual transition though, from thugs and petty criminals to thugs and criminals with ideals, then there are a number of ways it could be achieved. The first is to make the change over time, slowly, so that it soon becomes accepted. Rules and regulations are put in place on who can and can't be targeted, and transgressions are dealt with severely. A change of leadership is also commonplace in heading towards a new direction. Another, is to create a secret society within the secret society, so that a select few (say the upper echelons) are aware of the true purpose and utilize the existing structures to get the end result. 

You'll need to fulfill the Messianic Expectations of Basically all 3; yet synchritize them somehow. Having Miracle Worker and God are the same won't convince adherents to Islam, their idea of God makes it so its absurd and beneath God to assume anything that might limit any aspect of him- including taking a material body. None of the 3 believe He has a body; God is a immense primordial intelligence who thought the world into being. You'd almost need a 'John the Baptist' forerunner fortelling the immediate return of Jesus- who Muslims agree has a second coming. Jesus is a prophet in Islam and might be the only person who could convince them that 'X' version of God is the real deal. Jesus actually displays more miraculous power in the Quran than Muhammad himself. This Jesus is also going to need to explain to Christians how they've deviated from the Truth, while still convincing them that they are still within the bounds of essential Truths if they put their faith in them. Will you keep the Trinity or not? If you do, then you may have a way to make this work well. comment (Jesus claims a kind of Divine Sonship and authority straight from the Father) Or maybe Jesus is the same Person as the Father- thus he is divine. [Christians say that the Son is the Logos, or Wisdom of God; where its almost like God's Self-Awareness is so real that it becomes a Seoncd personality, having the same nature and drawing on the same Power Source as the Father. The Holy Spirit is the Love of son & Father that becomes so real it has a Charatcre/Personality of its very Own). This returned 'Jesus' also must fulfill the Jew's expectations of their concept of Messiah, who will re-institute perfect sacrifices and fulfill all their sacrifices such that the only 'sacrifice' left is the Todah [Thanksgiving] Sacrifice of bread/grains. The temple probably will need rebuilt; but you'll need to fulfill the expectation that God once again dwells in the Holy of Holies in the temple. If jesus were also God, and He performs a perfect sacrifice in the temple.. then there you go, God's presence is now once more within the Temple. He'll need to convince the Muslims that this is ok to build over the Dome of the Rock. You could then Convince Christians that the Thanksgiving, (the Todah) sacrifice is the same Sacrifice of the Bread and Wine described in the Old Testament. The dead have to return to Life, as this is a tenant of both Islam and Christianity; possibly Judaism too. Jesus could say something like, 'As I transformed the Bread and Wine into my Body and Blood, now may the Body of Christ/The family of God once again be Transubstantiated back into flesh and Blood", thus fulfilling Christian understanding of the Last Supper, Apocalyptic expectations and also raises the dead by the same manner. Talk about a show of Power! The most troublesome spot you're going to find is this: Is Christianity's idea of Divine Sonship and being co-heirs with Christ true? Or is Islam's Divine Slave-Master relationship true? part of Islamic Eschatology forecasts that Jesus will come to 'break the crosses', which they think means make War on Christians. Maybe you could turn this on its head by saying what was meant was that Jesus returns to break the crosses that we all carry- to give us an eternal rest (which is what the word Sabbath means) from sin and guilt . All three believe in a single God who has one people on Earth so if this 'Jesus' is going to succeed He must unite God's people- whether that's the Family of God or the Slaves of God. God has to convince us and leave the Christian and Jewish understanding of free Will intact and let us decide, while displaying the power and Authority that God displays in the Quran. Strange though it may seem, jesus or a man who can convince us he is Jesus, may be the only way to easily unite such diverse beliefs. 

Cat-like claws ? Cat's paws have retractable claws. You can use that for your trolls. When they are not in imminent danger, their claws are basically hidden "inside" their fingers, permitting them to be civilized and doing complex movements. But when they feel like attacking someone, they can just unleash the claws and attack. No need for ultra long claws, just sharp enough to cut through things. 

Fish That is a surprisingly easy thing to farm. Make it the primary source of food for your nations, and massive buildings breeding them in thousands, and you're free to go. You can feed the fish with many things that is available at high altitude. Edit: You can also use insects as food, though I do not like the idea :p 

As Gary Walker pointed out, the prevalence of high quality 'counterfeiting donut machines' world wide means that it is nigh impossible to ensure that you are the only one making them. What needs to happen, then, is the addition to the donut of a singular ingredient that isn't readily available anywhere else. What this is, I donut know. I'm not a pastry chef. Whether this is some kind of special sprinkle, or even some kind of microdot ($URL$ it doesn't matter. Whatever system is designed to prevent donut counterfeiting is going to have a lot of holes in it, and leave a bad taste in the governments mouth. 

Given the technological constraints of 1910's-1950's, and that war would have evolved from a set of decisive battles on a single field (ala Azincourt) to a series of fronts (ala WW I +), the easiest way is simple: Spin. Run a massive PR campaign. The hero is selected and sent to an unspecified 'front line' location (unspecified for Operational Security reasons, of course). Given the spread out nature of the war, the Hero is always "over there", and the population would be relying on news reports, press releases and propaganda to give them their information - so give it to them: 

I am aware of being a newbie in the field I am asking my question... please be kind and explain what I did wrong if I make a mistake. The idea from where the problem bloom I love worldbuilding. Whenever I have a spare moment, I try to invent unique features for my world and how I can make them believable. This time around, the idea came from an article that talked about moons of gas giants habitable by humans. Immediately, I told myself 'wow, that's awesome! I need my world to be one of those!', and got into the process of collecting information about how to make it believable. Quickly, I found a lot of useful information (in particular questions on Stack Exchange, and some blogs found thanks to Google). Then I saw an article that made me think of another crazy idea : 

I can't recall reading your other answers, so please forgive if this has been covered elsewhere, but there are a couple of possibilities, the first that spring to my mind are how each is 'cast'. 1) Direct Divine intervention requires some form of request/prayer (i.e. "[insert name of god], in thy name [please do xxxx]") 2) There is a direct visual effect (i.e. a golden halo/glow appearing around the caster, the gods/spirits symbol appearing briefly) 3) Divine intervention/spells are only available to the truly faithful or devout, and may need some form of holy symbol to use as a focus (i.e. crucifix etc) 4) Magic requires the use of spell components and incantations. Material items that are used as to cast the spell but are consumed in the process (I think this used to be a requirement in D&D - too many years since I played it), whereas Divine magic doesn't. 5) Possibly, the divine intervention can only occur if the 'caster' is possessed by the God/Spirit that could leave a visually noticeable imprint on the caster, literally becoming a vessel of the divine will - eyes glowing, tattoos appearing that kind of thing. 

Sparta-like government The population is about the same that your City-States. Two kings rules the city, with a 28-member 'council of elders' limiting their powers. These men are recruited from the highest social class, the aristocratic Spartiates. Beneath is a middle class, called the Perioeci. Made up of farmers and artisans, the Perioeci pays taxes and can serve in the army, but they have no real political rights. At the bottom are the helots: a slave class. Classical Athens democracy For a City-State, I would think of no better choice. But I believe your City-States are a bit... too small for this kind of government. I will leave this here in case you want to adjust the numbers and give you a second option. 

Security would be handled much the same as in any other type of undulating terrain. Also, bear in mind that a desert isn't just rolling sand dunes, a lot of desert is flat, dry terrain. Dry watercourses, sparse scrub. Dunes are often uninhabited, and, one would imagine, if doing a royal tour the Queen and entourage wouldn't be seeing the whole lot, but more moving from oasis to settlement along the peripheries, hence solving a lot of the water problem. Anyway, back to the security detail. While the group is moving, there would, I imagine, be the standard scouts and outriders. I would have the 36 guardsmen split into squads of 12. The first 12 ride in front of the Queen, the second 12 behind. The last 12 are your scouts and flankers. 3 front, 3 rear and 3 down each side spread out so that they are far enough from the party to intercept, but close enough to be in regular contact. The Queen and Crown Prince ride with the advisors/protectors in the middle. If possible, one or two of them would be scrying ahead/around for any danger as they move along (not sure how magic works in your world), and others would be ready to defend the Queen while others focus on eliminating any attackers. Once camp is struck, similar protocol. The units of Soldiers take shifts with picket/sentry duty, as do the advisors. Tight security measures would insist on random patrol routes and the camp being cold - campfires can be seen a long way away in open terrain, and they kill your night vision like you would not believe. Hiding in sand is also problematic for any would be assassins/ambushers. Sand dunes are notoriously unstable, and more than likely to bury any would be assailant. It's the reason why you don't dig into sand dunes at the beach - they collapse. If they do manage to successfully hide themselves, then they would need extricate themselves quickly enough to maintain surprise. And they'd have to hide themselves along the main travel routes, possibly for days, places where, most likely, the vigilance of the guard would pay off. Horses could also prove problematic for any hidden assailants, as they spook easily and would balk at stepping anywhere where someone is hiding. Turning it around, if I was going to attack the Queen and her retinue, I'd do it like this: Attack the camp in the middle of the night, halfway between mid-night and dawn, with a primarily mounted group. There are two main objectives: 1) Scatter the horses 2) Burn and destroy as much of the camp as possible Infiltrators on foot cut the picket lines for the horses, a large group of mounted warriors ride through the sentries and camp, scattering the defenders, killing what they can and setting fire to the tents and stores before moving through and scattering the horses. In the confusion, kidnap the primary target, then leave quickly. Strike fast and withdraw. This leaves the defenders scattered and demoralised, with no reliable transport and low on supplies. As far as tracking them in the desert, if it's a large group, then they have to stay close to water. Having someone knowledgeable about the terrain, landmarks and available water would help immensely. Work our where the nearest water is that can accommodate such a group and head there. The more stable the terrain, the more likely there are to be tracks.