In a recent paper (Cosmic clocks: A Tight Radius - Velocity Relationship for HI-Selected Galaxies by Meurer, et al.), it was noted in the conclusion that: 

Source: European Southern Observatory (ESO) These are usually most noticeable around young stars as protoplanetary disks, disks that form planets. In the picture above, the gaps in the rings likely represent forming planets, similar to how the gaps in Saturn's rings indicate the presence of moons. Our own star has a few rings, though likely not as visually impressive: the asteroid belt, the Kupier belt, the scattered disk, and the Hills cloud. 

The James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) which is slated to launch in 2018 will bring us a better view of exoplanets, but will it be sufficient to detect signs of life on at least some of those worlds? A good answer will provide an estimate of the James Webb Space Telescope's capabilities to detect atmospheric data relevant to the presence of life. The preferred answer would also include an analysis of what it would take to say with a decent level of confidence that life was present on an exoplanet and whether or not JWST will be capable of this. 

I'm trying to imagine what a hypothetical observer on the surface of Alpha Centauri Bb would see in the daytime sky. I know it would vary depending on the orbit of b around B, as well as the position of B and A in relation to each other. What would the "sun" in the sky look like at different times on Bb? I know that at times B and A would overlap and appear as a single sun, but what about when they don't? 

An eccentric orbit is an orbit where the inner body does not occupy the center point of the outer body's orbit. Source: 

Some astronomers in Ukraine have estimated that there is a small likelihood (1 in 63,000) that the asteroid 2013 TV135 will strike Earth in 2032. (source) Don Yeoman of NASA JPL says: 

Again, not exactly an academic context, but Govert Schiling (the author of Deep Space: Beyond the Solar System to the End of the Universe and the Beginning of Time) in relation to astronomy defines deep space differently: 

The north of the invariable plane is the side that Earth's North pole points to. In fact, one of our other users has observed: 

The paper "Frequency of nearby supernovae and climatic and biological catastrophes" by Clark, McCrea, and Stephenson published in Nature estimates (at 50% probability) that the Solar System passes within 10 parsecs of a supernova every 100 million years. This supernova would be part of a 20-parsec strip in which an estimated 50 supernovae occur. They do speculate that a connection between the Solar System passing through these regions and climatic and biological events (such as ice ages) is possible. You can read the paper yourself for more details. It's only two pages and you can purchase 48 hour access for $5 from Readcube. Source: 

Yes, the neutron star RX J1856.5-3754 has an observed* radius of 17 km. After accounting for general relativity, its actual radius is calculated as 14 km. It is not the only neutron star whose radius is known. 

Yes, but not Earth-based ones. SHARAD (Shallow Radar) is an instrument on the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter which performs subsurface imaging of Mars. Here is an image from Wikipedia of deposit layers on Mars's north pole, taken by SHARAD: 

Note: I am not an astrophysicist. If someone with the relevant expertise finds my analysis of the source paper to be invalid, I would appreciate your help with correcting my answer here. This is a somewhat complicated question to answer. Black holes do precede galaxies in the form of primordial black holes which arose in the early Universe from quantum fluctuations. Supermassive black holes (that you find at the center of galaxies) may not come from these, however. There are a few possible ways that supermassive black holes may have formed: 

Yes, binary comets do exist; 8P/Tuttle is an example of one. This is an area that is still being heavily researched, but it is suspected that binary comets can "form from collision, mutual capture, or fission." In recent news, the comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko has also been revealed to be a contact-binary by the European Space Agency's Rosetta spacecraft. Sources: 

There are currently 3424 planets identified (including those in the Solar System and unconfirmed exoplanets). Of these, 3310 are confirmed exoplanets. Out of the 3424, 180 are in binary (or multiple) star systems. Of those, 28 are circumbinary. I am not certain if any circumternary planets have been identified, though I know some circumternary disks have. It is more difficult to identify circum-n-ary planets than those that only revolve around one star, so these numbers might not precisely represent the actual proportions. Source: 

Depending on how strictly you define "galaxy" it does seem most likely that the supermassive black holes formed inside early galaxies, but a type of black hole (primordial black holes) did precede galaxies. Source: 

In the best sky conditions, the naked eye (with effort) can see objects with an apparent magnitude of 8.0. This reveals about 43,197 objects in the sky. There are 9 galaxies visible to the naked eye that you might see when observing the sky, and there are about 13 nebulae that you might see. Sources: 

Technically, there is another term that actually has some use: circumsystem. This is used for objects that revolve around a multiple star system regardless of the number of stars within the system. 

UPDATE 10/21/2013: This just in, recent observations have ruled out the possibility that SMBHs gain mass only through merging with other black holes. For more, see this Astronomy.com article. 

Stars with an apparent magnitude of 7.0 or greater are typically not visible to the naked eye. So if you take a list of exoplanetary host stars, such as this, and you sort by apparent magnitude, in ascending order, then you will see a list of identifiable stars known to have exoplanets, until you reach an apparent magnitude of 7.0 on the list. Finding the star can be trickier, but Wikipedia will usually show you what constellation you can find the star in. With a little work, and maybe the help of some other posts on this site, you could probably identify which stars are visible in your area and time. Most exoplanets have not been given formal names themselves, but instead a lowercase letter is appended to the end of the name or designation of the star, for example "Beta Geminorum b (abbreviated β Geminorum b, β Gem b) and HD 62509 b" for Pollux b, the first planet discovered around Pollux. Incidentally in 2014, the International Astronomical Union did release a process for giving proper names to exoplanets, and Pollux b was given the name Thestias. If you look up other exoplanets on Wikipedia, you can find out whether they have been given proper names as well. 

Given what we knew about disc galaxies and dark matter up to this point, is this an unexpected conclusion? My sense is that it is strange that all disc galaxies have a constant rotation regardless of their size, but my intuition may be wrong. I know that dark matter speeds up the rotation of the outer parts of disc galaxies, but isn't it strange that they converge on this value? 

Yes, Ptolemy adopted Hipparchus's idea that epicycles and eccentric orbits could explain the irregular motion of the Sun. From David McClung's biography of Hipparchus: 

Yes, unless you want to get really particular with the "protoplanetary" part. For example, there are stars forming in the circumstellar disks around Wolf-Rayet stars [reference]. If we were picky, we might not call the circumstellar disk around this Wolf-Rayet star a protoplanetary disk (and instead refer to the planet-forming circumstellar disks of the newly formed stars as such), but there exists no clear line between the disks of gas within and the larger disk of gas around the Wolf-Rayet star of which they are a part. Source: 

Using the density and the size of the observable universe, the mass can be derived to be 3 x 1055 g. This figure includes both dark matter and traditional matter. I imagine that a historical deviation in mass might be detectable if it were significant, but I can't imagine what might cause a deviation that would be detectable on the scale we're talking about. Source: 

The research in other answers helped me come across the actual International Astronomical Union (IAU) standard: 

If "time" is considered to be a valid answer, I would like to propose a more fundamental principle: the wave function. Since a wave function is a description of the quantum state of any physical system, there must necessarily have been a wave function as soon as quantum physics applied to the Universe. Since we generally assume uniformity in nature, there is no reason to consider any sort of "pre-quantum" era. 

As Wikipedia explains in the article on the Zodiac, the Zodiac was originally developed with the assumption of fixed equinoxes. It is assumed this is because the Babylonians who developed the Zodiac were unaware of the precession of the equinoxes. At that time, about 2500 years ago, the vernal equinox did in fact lie in Aries. For this reason, in astrology, that time is referred to as "the Age of Aries". Of course, in modern times these astrological concepts are scarcely important to astronomy, and in the few cases where the astronomical symbol for the vernal equinox is used, it is more practical to have a fixed symbol than a changing one. 

That is referring to the stellar classification system which categorizes stars by their spectral characteristics. Class M stars have a surface temperature less than 4000 K, and "M7 or later" means surface temperature less than 2500 K. Though it should be noted that this is a working definition, and the Wikipedia article identifies ultra-cool dwarfs as objects with surface temperature less than 2700 K. It is possible that the term is still used somewhat loosely in scientific papers. 

Avi Loeb and Edwin Turner have written a paper about the possibility of detecting a civilization similar to our own on another world by looking for city lights. Their proposed method suggests observing the dark sides of planets when they transit in front of their parent star. Though they said that this method will require future generations of telescopes. Source: 

The simplest reason why your proposed explanation is not really that obvious, and thus was not considered is that the dimming of KIC 8462852 was not an isolated event. The dimming is a pattern that has been observed over years. There is no known phenomenon in interstellar space that would cause a repeated obstruction of that star, so it doesn't make any sense to consider that possibility when there are other phenomena (such as those captured in Boyajian's paper) that are more likely to be the source of the dimming. 

According to Spectroscopic Properties of Ultra-cool Dwarfs and Brown Dwarf by J.D. Kirkpatrick, the working definition of ultra-cool dwarf is: 

It is far from empirically known that the universe is finite in size. The observable universe is certainly of finite size, but that is just a product of the constraints of our observation. We don't know for sure whether the universe is finite or infinite, bounded or unbounded. [Source] What we do know is that right now the universe looks very flat as far as we can measure. As mentioned in other answers, the Universe has traditionally been defined as "all that is", though in practice in astronomy it is this particular "field" of space-time that we exist in. New theories in physics have brought with them the possibility that there may be other universes in this sense. The word we use to encompass all possible universes is "the Multiverse". There are different types of universes proposed, and you can read a good summary of them in the Wikipedia Multiverse article. From there you might read of Brian Greene and others that you might want to pursue further. For example, Brian Greene has a book titled The Hidden Reality: Parallel Universes and the Deep Laws of the Cosmos which might be of interest to you. Note: There is a sense in which we can say the universe is unbounded in 3D as mentioned in the linked source, but there are other senses in which the bounded/unbounded nature of the universe is questioned but which cannot be adequately discussed in this space. 

How was it decided which hemisphere was North and which hemisphere was South on Mars? Clearly, the designations "North" and "South" apply only to the hemispheres which contain the axis of rotation at their center, but what determined whether a hemisphere received "North" or "South" as its designation? 

1) Nearly all black holes are Kerr black holes. 2) There are roughly 100 million black holes estimated in our galaxy. 3) There is a confirmed black hole about 7800 light years away. 4) There is a potential black hole about 1500 light years away. 5) It is very likely that there are black holes even closer than that, but they are difficult to detect. Some of your assumptions are wrong, but for now the closest known potential black hole is still a pretty good distance away. Traveling that far with our current technology is impossible, and overcoming that hurdle is not trivial. Regardless, using a Kerr black hole for time travel may not be feasible anyway. 

The mass of the observable universe can be derived from its density. According to Dr. Jagadheep D. Pandian: 

It's not in any sort of academic context, but in relation to space exploration NASA defines deep space as such: 

As the moon orbits Earth, tidal forces slow down the Earth's rotation by 2 milliseconds per century. Eventually, in tens of billions of years, the Earth and Moon would achieve a double tidal lock, where both are stuck with one side facing the other as they orbit the Earth-Moon barycenter. In 7.5 billion years, the Sun will expand past the Earth's current orbit, but the Earth may drift out further, preventing it from being vaporized. However, this is beside the point, because in about one billion years, all of Earth's water will have boiled away, meaning that there would be no more ocean tides, and thus the Earth-Moon system will likely never achieve a double tidal lock. References: 

All right, I can hear some of you complaining already that it says right in the paragraph above that a wave function is a description, but isn't that what time is after all? It is just a description of a change in the state of the Universe. If you really want to split hairs, you can say it's actually a quantum state--but wait that's just a condition of a quantum system--but wait that's just saying that the first thing is a thing. What is a thing, really? 

* It's worth mentioning how astronomers arrived at this radius. Technically, fitting the X-ray data to a blackbody arrives at a calculation of a 5 km radius, which seems unusually small, so for a time it was believed that this star may be something more exotic, like a quark star. However, after atmospheric modeling based on temperature, a more accurate estimate of the emission radius was derived to be 17 km. Once gravitational redshift was accounted for, the value of 14 km was yielded. See Magnetic Hydrogen Atmosphere Models and the Neutron Star RX J1856.5−3754 - Wynn C. G. Ho, et al. 

I'm not a professional astronomer, but I'm going to take a stab at this. If anyone sees any problems, feel free to correct them. The Yarkovsky effect basically means that spinning asteroids over time will be pushed into a further orbit (more precisely, it increases the semimajor axis of the orbit) due to uneven heating and cooling. Apparently to estimate the age of an asteroid family, using only the Yarkovsky effect, we would start out with this equation: $$0.2H = \log(\Delta a / C)$$ This equation assumes a fixed geometric albedo for the whole family. $H$ here is the absolute magnitude. $\Delta a$ is equal to $a - a_c$ where $a$ is the semimajor axis. $$C = \sqrt{p_v} (da/dt)_0 T \cos \epsilon$$ $p_v$ is the geometric albedo. $(da/dt)_0$ is the maximum Yarkovsky drift rate for a body of size $D_0$, where $D_0$ is an arbitrary reference size (we could use your provided $D$ value above). $T$ is the age of the family that we are trying to calculate. $\epsilon$ is the spin axis obliquity. Note: I've had to remove my example solution because I could not figure out how to correct my errors from accidentally putting $C$ outside the logarithm. You can check out more details in my source below. Source: "Yarkovsky/YORP chronology of asteroid families" - Vokrouhlickýa, Broža, Bottke, Nesvorný, Morbidelli 

As pointed out in the comments, some do prefer to use different terms for quakes on other bodies, and you can see here that "marsquake" does have scholarly usage. That said, there is also scholarly usage for "earthquake" in this context. If you think about it, this makes sense given that one definition of "earth" is "the substance of the land surface", i.e. the ground. This definition of "earth" is agnostic to which terrestrial planet the land surface is on. 

I suspect that this question may get closed as too trivial, but to put it simply a year is more or less defined as the time that it takes for the Earth to complete an orbit around the Sun. Because the Earth rotates on an axis that is tilted relative to its orbit around the Sun, rather than perpendicular, the Northern and Southern hemispheres alternate being inclined toward or away from the Sun. The hemisphere that is facing the Sun experiences Summer and the hemisphere that is facing away from the Sun experiences Winter. So a cycle of seasons is roughly equivalent to the time it takes for the Earth to complete its orbit.