In any case where muggles can use magic, but don't have immediate access to it, the magical community would have to be very strict with magicians who show or teach magic to others. Otherwise, you'd get Julius magicians who just want to make some friends, and pass magic out to the muggles regardless of the rules. In any case where muggles are physically incapable of using magic, you're going to run into one of a couple scenarios: 

I think the major changes would involve males being more likely to stay back to care for the young, and females being more capable of and likely to go out and hunt or fight. Then the traditionally "female" roles would simply be provided by anyone of either sex who was weaker and/or more passive, while the traditionally "male" roles would be provided by the stronger, more aggressive members of a tribe or community. Obviously, childbirth would temporarily weaken the females with no corresponding issue for males, but we're talking a few months per child, not anything life-altering. Bear in mind, however, that racism is baked into our biology. One group or another will almost always be slightly stronger, and once racial oppression has started, there's very little that will bring it back. Over evolutionary time periods, there will be a natural culling of the enslaved/oppressed race. Anyone who opposes the oppression will be more likely to get murdered, and therefore less likely to pass on the aggressive genes. So the only real way to get rid of racism is to get rid of the underlying mechanisms that cause it. And I don't think that's actually biologically viable. Racism plays a critical role in our survival in primitive conditions. It's not until society evolves that racism becomes a negative thing. 

Your best bet here might be to ask a few of the several billion religious people on Earth why they don't commit suicide. Many people very firmly believe they're heading to an afterlife when this life is done, but suicide isn't particularly common. Here are a few reasons why: 

There's some kind of force that pushes things away from it. The closer you get, the harder it is to advance further, requiring infinite (and therefore unachievable) force to hit the center. There's time dilation near the singularity, black hole style. You can walk in, but it takes infinite time (relative to the rest of the world) to get there, so nobody's ever done it. There's a black-hole style vortex at the singularity. Anything near the vortex gets disintegrated and either feeds whatever energy source warps space near the planet or gets ejected into space like relativistic jets, preventing people from trying to come in from above/below the poles. 

History of Earth life. Source This says it took about 3.5 Ga just to get multicellular life. Then another 1.5 Ga to get humans. Still, Earth is a sample size of one, making it imprudent to try drawing sweeping statistical inferences from our single timeline. According to Wikipedia, researchers were able to force single-celled to multi-celled evolution in a laboratory. From there, it seems plausible for a planet to exist where conditions forced selection on single-celled organisms at a greater rate, speeding up the first stages of life. The Cambrian explosion was about 0.5 Ga ago, and dramatically increased the diversity of life on Earth. If first life to the alien's explosion happened in something like 0.5 Ga, and evolution since the explosion happened more rapidly than on Earth, you could have intelligent life orbiting an F-class star. A Note on the Habitable Zone So our F-type star lasts 2 to 4 Ga, and our planet will be in the habitable zone for 1 to 2 Ga. We need 0.5 to 1 Ga for the planet to cool down, but we can ignore that if the planet was outside the habitable zone to start with. 

Gamma radiation is NOT harmful in the amounts present in your system. As other answer have mentioned, gamma rays are basically always harmful. Even robots or other non-organic lifeforms will be slowly deteriorated by the ionizing effects of gamma radiation. However, that assumes you're getting hit by relatively high amounts on a consistent basis. Realistically, I don't think your black hole puts out nearly enough radiation to be a threat to anything on Earth. Radiation from the Black Hole Your other question says the black hole is in one of the L4/L5 Lagrange points of Jupiter. Those points are on the same orbit as Jupiter, so the minimum distance between Earth and the black hole is the difference between Jupiter's orbital distance and Earth's orbital distance. Earth orbits about 1.5 million km from the Sun and Jupiter orbits about 778 million km. The difference is then around 776.5 million km. According to the answer to your other question, the black hole emits 125.7 TW of energy. At 776.5 million km, that's $16.59 \frac{pW}{m^2}$. So a square meter receives 16.59 pW per second, or $0.523 mJ$ in a year. Radiation from Elsewhere I'm having a difficult time figuring out just how much ionizing radiation exists outside the Earth's atmosphere. However, we should be able to get a ballpark figure. This 2002 study on ionizing radiation says astronauts at the ISS receive about 160 mSv per year with the sun at a maximum (when the cosmic radiation is lowest). This approximately equates to 160 mJ/kg (edit alert: I originally wrote 160 J/kg, which is a thousand times too high, though my overall opinion is still the same). I'm not sure the average mass of an astronaut, but height requirements (at the time of the 2002 study) where roughly 5-6 feet tall. If we assume an average of around 5'6" (66") and mostly male astronauts, the ideal mass, given by the Devine formula is $50 kg + 2.3 kg \cdot \frac{(h-60 in)}{in}$ $=63.8 kg$. All told then, each astronaut receives about $63.8 kg \cdot 160 \frac{mJ}{kg}$ $=10.2 J$ per year. Relative Radiation The end result of these calculations is that your black hole is only increasing radiation by a maximum of about 5 thousandths of a percent. Because the solar cycle will die down, increasing cosmic radiation to your astronauts (to about double), and Earth won't always be quite as close to Jupiter (not really a factor, since the difference is only about 0.4%), your black hole will be even less of a relative danger much of the time. Also, an astronaut doesn't intersect a full square meter, and might therefore take up less than half the radiation calculated above. Also, because gamma radiation is pretty much entirely blocked by the atmosphere, it won't be dangerous to anything on the planet's surface. A Note on Specifications I used the value 125.7 TW from the top answer on the other question, because it looks like they actually did the math for it. This question asserts the power output is 20 PW, or about 160 times more power output. The end result is still less than one percent difference in harmful radiation. 

You can't realistically get close to 24-hour accuracy with any method mentioned. The only methods that close require atypical knowledge and very specific circumstances. More realistically, you're probably looking at an error window of 30-60 days. Try to stock up and stay as close to the gate as possible for those last couple months. Assumptions The question specifically asks how a person could know what day to return. My assumption is this is an Earth day, and I'm going to be generous and assume $\pm$24 hours is acceptable. Said another way, we're looking for accurate enough timing that you could walk away from the stargate for 364 days, then come back and be confident that you're not late, and no more than 24 hours early. (Note the question was edited so it's no longer so specific. The revised information tries to calculate the realistic accuracy and why this was my answer to begin with.) We know the planet has breathable air, but nothing else. For all we know, you're literally the only living thing on the planet. But since there's a presumption that survival is possible, I'm going to assume this planet is fairly Earth-like, is populated by plants and animals similar to Earth-life (particularly, they're made of proteins, vitamins, etc. that are digestible by humans), and that the environment near the stargate is similar to some environment here on Earth. The question asks about a "stargate", so I'm going with a Stargate approach: a few million years ago, some ancient almost-humans explored the galaxy, constructed stargates on thousands of planets, and terraformed quite a few of them. In that time, other aliens have moved in, invaded, crash-landed, etc., and natural evolution has occurred as well. The planet is similar to Earth, but may have marked differences from Earth. The question specifies that "I" got stuck on the alien planet. I don't know much of anything about the writer, so I'm going with a statistical approach. The writer obviously has access to a computer and the internet, so I'm assuming we're looking at a statistically-normal first-world citizen who is probably reasonably smart, understands at least the basics of core subjects at about a high school level, and to make the answer interesting, I'm assuming this person has a strong desire to live. Clearly, some of the suggestions below would fail if the planet were less Earth-like. For example, if it's tidally locked to the local star and the star is too bright to see any other celestial objects, sundials and the like wouldn't work. That just makes my answer more right, so it's not really important here. 

Your premise has a problem: if we're instituting democracy, an elected mage can't overthrow democracy. And if the mages have the power to overthrow democracy against the rules, they wouldn't wait to get voted into power first. In fact, why would the mages even bother to stop the elections? Why not just use their magic to subtly alter people from the shadows to get what they want anyways? Now, you say magic can be detected. So why not just pass all the ballots and voters through a magic-detector as soon as they're collected? Then arrest the offending mage, have the voter redo the ballot if the ballot was affected, or sleep it off and vote tomorrow if the voter was affected. Because you detected magic on the voters themselves, you know they answered accurately to their own wishes (at least, you don't collect their ballot until you know this vote was clean). So then you just re-detect magic on the ballots in a central area far from mages to see how many have been altered after the fact. Then arrest all the offending mages. Then count the altered ballots. If it's numerically possible for the altered ballots to have swung the vote, find the voters of the affected ballots and have them re-vote. If there were 3000 altered ballots and Pedro was 10000 votes ahead of Spock, then worst case scenario is Pedro should be -3000 votes (7000 ahead) and Spock should be +3000 votes (so Pedro is still 4000 ahead), so you do nothing. You mention that the voters' votes are secret. I assume this means we don't publicly announce the votes. If you mean that absolutely nobody can know who voted for who, then it's slightly more complicated. If the altered ballots could have swung the vote, we just have a re-election. We've already arrested most of the offending mages, so we just keep re-doing the election until the affected ballots can't swing the vote. While we're at it, we could go a bit draconian, say interference with the vote is treason, and publicly execute every mage caught tampering with the vote. That should help keep the number of re-votes down. You also mention that mages can't cast magic without a wand. So just make everyone strip down before entering the voting zone and remove all wands. (You could execute anyone caught with a wand, but it could have been planted just so you'd execute them, so we'll just remove the wand.) And to combat the issue of mages preventing voters from reaching the voting area, just make sure everyone votes. Even if they just mark "I decline to vote", we can know whether that declination was because of magic or free will and move on. Again, once we've collected enough votes where the remaining 2% of the population can't affect the outcome, we don't worry about finding every last beggar. 

There are a couple problems with your premise. First, there's no evidence anything travels faster than light (FTL), quite a bit of evidence that supernova remnants travel slower than light (not counting the light itself that travels at the speed of light), and of course no evidence supernova remnants travel FTL. So it's highly unlikely we're formed of supernova remnants that couldn't have gotten here yet. Second, even if there are some parts of the supernova that exceed the speed of light, it's rather unlikely they form any substantial portion of our solar system. It's far more likely the vast majority of our solar system (and therefore our planet and therefore us and therefore our brains that form the substrate upon which our consciousness manifests) is made of supernova stuff that traveled slower than light. That said, if you want to build a world where a bunch of supernovas ejected material at FTL speeds, it's possible to create a star system out of it. You'd want the supernovas to explode around the same time and be about equidistant from the eventual star system's location, then the mass streaming out could interact in the middle and happen to form a star system. It's of dubious likelihood, but is remotely plausible. Using Earth as a model, it takes a few billion years for intelligent life to evolve, so we run into a problem. Unless the stars themselves were billions of light years away, the light from the supernovas has long passed us by. So you'd need something like trillions of stars something like 8 billion light years away that all exploded at the same time, ejecting matter at twice the speed of light. Then all the matter got to your star system's location 4 billion years ago, created the star system, then 4 billion years later, life evolved intellect. Around the same time, the light from those supernovas finally starts reaching the star system itself. If you push the stars further away, or increase the speed of the FTL material, the intelligent life would still see "living" stars even though that life is made from the remnants of those stars when they died billions of years ago. I think a better way would be to not use Earth as a model, say the supernovas were in the same galaxy, life evolved really fast (it is made of FTL star stuff, after all [/handwave]), and the FTL stuff just happened to get funneled into an almost perfect beam at your star system's location because magic or something. Say there's some kind of harmonic thing going on with the stars in your galaxy and kind of handwave it is probably as "realistic" as you're going to get. 

I can't think of any reason why real science wouldn't investigate "magic", because in this context it isn't actually magic at all. It's like asking why science wouldn't investigate magnetism. That said, I can imagine a culture with superstitions about one branch of science or another. It's especially plausible if we add in some type of religious viewpoints. Obviously, real science is faith-agnostic. But real scientists have the same human traits as anyone else. And, let's go a little further. Real science includes things like testing on human slaves. It's our human morality that keeps us from doing it. Not that I think we should do it, but we need to look at the big picture and recognize that even in our enlightened world, we have constraints on science. So now, imagine a culture who finds fireballs to be inherently immoral. In this culture, scientists would obviously study fireballs, but they would find it wrong to go out of their way to cast those fireballs to study them, so the progress would be limited to accidents and miscreants, and could take a long time. If your world has gods and such who take an active role in the world, they could have any number of personality quirks, including things like "thou shalt not use fireballs". In this scenario, it would be much more plausible for fireballaphobia to remain part of culture for long periods of time. If there aren't gods or similar, it would be harder to keep superstitions up, but it's certainly not impossible. Isolation would help tremendously, because opposing viewpoints would be rare and easier to quash. Then, of course, you could have similar viewpoints for the "magic" group, who might find metal forging and other "science" stuff to be unnatural and unwholesome. Note that this doesn't really solve the problem of the factions outright denying the effectiveness of the other faction's science. But where there are differences of opinion, there will be propaganda to coincide. A strong enough control over the local media could keep the propaganda in place as the "one true truth", with denouncers being derided, exiled or even executed for something along the lines of heresy.