Haha... the Suetonius of the third reich. Oh dear. It's a history book by a journalist, who had a talent for writing, but no particular ability as a historian. In particular: 

The aborigines are believed to have migrated from India in prehistoric times. The Maoris are thought to have arrived from Polynesia and elsewhere in eastern Asia. They travelled by canoe. It's one and a half thousand miles from NZ to OZ, about the same as the distance between Britain and Greenland. That's a long way, but NZ is even further away from the islands that the Polynesians travelled from. Did they ever visit Australia and meet its people? 

Never, because there was always a population of human ancestors. You can try to pinpoint an exact moment to call them human (i wouldn't bother) but whenever you choose, there will always be enough that someone died. 

Apparently (wiki) corporal punishment was legal in schools until rather shockingly late. 1986 for English and Welsh state schools, 1998 for private schools, 2000 in all Scottish schools and 2003 in Northern Ireland schools. The wiki article refers to an incident where someone was slippered in a private school in 1993 and the teacher won the court case alleging that they had used degrading punishment. But this was a private school, not a state school. Apparently before 1986, it was up to the headteacher whether to allow corporal punishment in state schools. Was it still actually being practiced in state schools at that point? When was the last time it was? 

Kostomarov then describes in great length the first open confrontation between Nikon and the tsar in 1658 that caused Nikon to abandon his post. 

As far as I know, the important change here was Christianity that spread out in Europe. The common justification to condemn homosexuality is the biblical Sodom and Gomorrah story. The dominant Christian interpretation of the story views homosexuality as the sin that caused the destruction of these cities. 

In his famous 1872 book "Русская история в жизнеописаниях ее главнейших деятелей" ("Russian history in the biographies of its main actors") Nikolay Kostomarov writes (rough translation): 

I think the first time he is mentioned as "Alexander the Great" (at least in the sources known to us) is Quintus Curtius Rufus' "Historiae Alexandri Magni Macedonis", this "Magni" has been translated into English as "Great". Here it clearly refers to his talent as a military leader which allowed him to build up a huge empire. Quintus Curtius Rufus was a Roman historian, this book is considered to be written in the 1st century AD. Btw, Russian historians tended to focus on the word "Macedonis" which is why he is better known as Александр Македонский (Alexander of Macedon) in Russian. 

Note: this is an opinion question (especially the second part) and probably off-topic here. I'll try to answer it nevertheless. I'm not sure there is a single rationale behind this. 

If your character is going to the British Library, I can tell you how they store newspapers which they never bothered to film. I went there to read the news magazine Cavalcade, and the magazines are all bundled up together in hardbound books, one per year. The binding looks old, like it was done back in the 30s when they came out. 

In David Leip's political atlas, it says that 'Communist' gained 32 votes in the 1876 presidential election. The name of the candidates and the state where these votes were counted doesn't appear. Of course 32 votes isn't many, but I'm surprised even the word was in use back then. Is this website kosher? 

First, what is an official attitude, and did one exist in Williamite England? In modern times, governments try to influence public opinion by the use of spokesmen in democracies, and propaganda in dictatorships. They have a 'line' on this or that issue which they repeat, hoping to make it catch on. I suppose this is what you'd call an official attitude. Some countries go to the lengths of writing an official version of history which no one is allowed to deviate from, but most democracies don't go that far. In the 17th and 18th century, both monarchs and proto-dictators like Cromwell did a fairly poor job of controlling public opinion in this way. Public opinion was anywise a new invention: the public had no opinion until newspapers were invented and told the public what their opinion was. The official attitude was mostly expressed negatively, through the suppression of material believed to be subversive. Pre-publication censorship persisted until 1695. Contra the comments to the question above, free speech was not yet a secure principle. British constitutional history, unlike American, doesn't have many bright lines. The Glorious revolution had increased religious freedom, but less so political. Even after the licencing act lapsed, it was still possible to get arrested for something which displeased powerful people, through the sedition or libel laws. William and Mary did not use this power to suppress praise of Cromwell. Although they didn't want to associate themselves with a regicide, there were obvious parallels between the rebellions against Charles I and James II. Both were Stuarts, both were friendly towards Catholics, both tried to do without parliament. In his own time and after, Cromwell has always been an ambiguous figure among republicans. He was England's only identifiable leader who was not a king. However, he took on kingly airs such as a sceptre and royal sounding title, and suppressed attempts to establish a democratic state. Moreover, after the chaos and bloodshed of the civil war, people no matter what their political beliefs were very determined that the peace, order and prosperity of the Restoration period should be preserved. After the Stuarts' Restoration in 1660, Cromwell's name had been traduced. Even his dead body was defiled. If the House of Orange had joined in with that, they basically would have been admitting that the deposed Stuarts were the rightful rulers of England. Likewise if they had robustly defended Cromwell, they would have revealed themselves as lawless usurpers, just like him. It was best to just gloss over him as much as possible. If there had been a large number of works praising Cromwell, William and Mary might have been forced to reckon with Cromwell and make a decision one way or the other, but this didn't happen. A modern analogue is the pacto oviedo in 20th century Spain, which means the pact of forgetfulness. After the return of King Juan Carlos, Spain agreed not to pursue claims of revenge or justice against either side in the civil war, and instead to just put the whole thing to bed. A similar thing happened in contemporary England. There were a few diehard republicans, but they were left unmolested because they had no prospect of achieving a return to Cromwell's system, or to anything still more radical. This may sound like William and Mary were just burying their heads in the sand. If they were, it worked. Pressure for reform remained, but no serious attempt to establish a republic was ever made again. 

This apparently refers to Allied Military Standing Order Nr. 153. While I couldn't find the actual text, the text The Execution of German Deserters by Surrendered German Troops Under Canadian Control in Amsterdam, May 1945 and a bunch of others mention it. Essentially, this order was meant to maintain discipline and order within the surrendered German troops. The easiest solution was to keep existing military structures intact until a better solution could be found. However, there were restrictions: 

If Germany decided to invade Poland to get back East Prussia that it lost to Poland after WWII - would it be a war of independence? One needs a lot of fantasy to call the Polish–Soviet War (this seems to be the official name of the conflict) a war of independence. In 1919 Poland was already independent - it gained its independence with the Treaty of Versailles. The issue was rather that Poland wasn't satisfied with the territories it gained and would like to recover all the territories it lost in the partitions. This meant first suppressing the Ukrainian independence movement in the Western Ukraine (Polish-Ukrainian War). But given that Western Ukraine had a large Polish population one could still explain it with defending the newly born Polish state. This explanation no longer works for the Polish invasion of East Ukraine and Belarus in the course of the Polish-Soviet War. While these territories historically belonged to Poland (they changed hands a number of times actually) they didn't have a significant Polish population. So this had nothing to do with independence. Instead, there were quite obvious strategical reasons: 

If we're talking about the Kuomintang, then what's known as the Nanking Decade was when they held maximum power. In the very early republic Yuan Shikai controlled more territory, but not for long as his inability to stop the exploitation of China by foreign powers and his general conservatism made him very unpopular. Source: China in war and revolution, by Peter Zarrow. Also, neither the Beiyang government nor the Kuomintang could rule anything in the same way that Mao did. Chiang was more like a mediaeval European king, who got the allegiance of warlords, by being the strongest warlord around. 

During the Second World War, did the Arabs of North Africa care at all that the Germans were invading their countries, or did they think that there was no difference between the Germans and France and Britain? 

The Axis fought in North Africa because the Allies attacked them. No particularly deep analysis needed there, although it's worth mentioning that, unlike the Allies, the Axis forces never simply retreated in the face of overwhelming strength. Why they always fought an attack even when retreating would be strategically better is an interesting enough question, but the answer has nothing to do with North Africa in particular. Alan Brooke's diaries provide a practical perspective on all this. The Allies reasoning for the attack on North Africa was: 1) If we can't help the Russians in their fight on the Eastern Front, they will lose, and Germany will become impossible to defeat. 2) We need a second front to draw troops away from the Russian front, and give the Russians a chance to beat the Germans there. 3) We can't attack occupied France yet, because there are good east-to-west rail links across Europe, and the Germans will be able to bring the first reinforcements to France within hours of our attack. And once they've dealt with our attack, they'll be able to go straight back to the Russian front. 4) On the other hand, Europe's north-to-south highways and railways are relatively poor compared to those going from west-to-east. If we attack Italy, the reinforcements will arrive more slowly, and won't be able to return to Russia as quickly, either. 5) We can't sail all the way from Britain to Italy with troop-ships, warships and aircraft carriers, because it's too dangerous and we would need to carry a huge quantity of supplies. 6) In order to attack Italy, we need military bases close to Italy. So we need take North Africa from the Germans and Italians. In addition to 6), the Allies wanted to attack North Africa because many of these areas were French colonies. The Free French forces wanted them back. The allies wanted the Vichy French authorities to stop sitting on the fence, and force them to fight the Germans. Moreover, the Allies wanted to reopen the Suez canal. Axis control of the Mediterranean meant that Allied supply ships had to take humungous detours around Africa. Once North Africa was retaken (and Axis naval bases in North Africa had been captured by the Allies) the Allies were able to turn those ships around much faster, which meant more supplies could be taken quicker. 

Btw, it seems that the use of falcons by Germans is not confirmed and likely didn't happen. Pigeons were simply shot, both in WWI and WW2. Also, the "Brieftaubenverordnung" of 20th September 1940 banned homing pigeons in the occupied territories of Belgium and France. 

Given the nature of this speech, it is probably not the most reliable source of information - and it doesn't actually claim directly that North Carolina supplied more soldiers than any other state. In fact, if you search hard enough you will also find statements about Tennessee and Texas as the states that contributed the most soldiers to the Confederate army (not backed by numbers). For comparison one would need to at least look at the number of soldiers supplied by Virginia but that number is very hard to find. I finally found the book The numerical strength of the Confederate army from 1912 which lists the stated numbers of enrollment into the Confederate army: 

Maybe your source was National Geographics. However, it completely fails at explaining where this theory comes from and which facts speak in its favor (it prefers to present it as a fact). This BBC article does only a marginally better job, it lists some evidence but one is bound to ask whether a different interpretation of the same evidence wouldn't have been possible as well. Harvard Magazine manages to do it better (the interesting stuff doesn't come before page 5). To sum up: 

Did Chiang Kai-Shek and Hirohito, and other leaders of China and Japan, see any parallels between the Sino-Japanese war and the Spanish Civil War? Did Chiang make any message of support for the Spanish Republic, or did he not just see it as relevant to him and his problems? NOTE: I realise that this question is 'broad', but as I was unable to find anything it seemed futile to write the question in a way that would limit its scope to one country or group of people, because information on the subject is likely to be scarce. I will be interested in an answer that tells me about the responses of even a small number of people in China or Japan, or for that matter Vietnam, Burma, Korea, Siam... 

Alfonso XIII was deposed as King of Spain in 1931. As we all know, the Spanish republic in turn was overthrown in 1939. I know there were Falangists who wanted something Hitler-y, and Carlists who supported a 'pure' Catholic monarchy and alternative succession. But did anyone suggest bringing the king back, since he was still alive?. Obviously Franco didn't want to share power with anyone, but that obviously wasn't going to be his public rationale for keeping Alfonso away. 

And much more. Feel free to look through the document, you will see that to a large part its purpose was to humiliate Germany and to destroy it as a world power. This intent backfired - this treaty didn't let Germany get over its defeat, instead Germany kept seeking a way to retaliate and to circumvent the restrictions. 

I couldn't find any numbers for the Soviet army, merely the continuously repeated statement of unclear origin mentioning 15,000 delivered messages. Compared to the numbers above this would mean that the Soviet army barely used homing pigeons. I also couldn't find evidence for any significant use of homing pigeons by the German army in WW2. You can see how the pigeons were used by looking at the "celebrities": 

And the two stage elevator mentioned in Te Aroha News was built by Edoux and had a capacity of 60 persons. The book doesn't tell whether people were seated in this elevator and the illustration sadly doesn't help because it shows the passengers while they are changing elevators midways. However, the official guide of the Eiffel Tower (printed in 1893) says the following about this elevator: 

The answer is apparently: this border isn't defined anywhere. As you correctly noted, the result of the Potsdam Conference was the Oder-Neiße-line as Poland's western border, without any exception for Stettin. The sources that I looked at agree that the Soviet Union violated that agreement and gave the area around Stettin to Poland in July 1945. It is unclear what prompted this decision, I couldn't find anything in the Russian sources. Most likely this was simply additional compensation for the territories Poland lost to the Soviet Union. Neither could I find any reaction from the other allies - it seems that they didn't consider the matter important enough. There is lots on this in the German sources however. In particular, there is a documented parliamentary debate in West Germany following the Treaty of Warsaw in 1970. I will try to give a rough translation: