Bullets (and shells) of the guns of the day, had a tendency to "fly high." That meant that many of them missed the enemy. This was because of sights and "recoils" that caused bullets' actual trajectories to be higher than their "official" ones. The purpose of "aiming low," was to compensate for this fact and improve the likelihood of hitting a man SOMEWHERE. The usual idea was to aim "waist high." Such a bullet might hit an enemy in the stomach, chest, or legs, depending on the trajectory of the bullet. A bullet aimed at the face was more likely to kill someone if it hit, but also more likely to miss. From a military point of view, a chance of 2X of hitting (aiming low), which might wound OR kill, was better than a chance of X of hitting and killing. As a practical matter, there were more men wounded than killed in battles. But unless the wounds were superficial, they were nearly as disabling as a shot that killed. And "disabling" was the point of inflicting casualties, so that the enemy couldn't fire back. 

They would have left eventually, and probably sooner rather than later. The British had probably passed "the point of no return" with the Government of India Act in 1935. This greatly strengthened the provincial structure (where Indians could be reperesented), resolved some provincial issues (like splitting of Burma from India) and created a Federal structure of British and Indian held territories. The act transfered control over most internal matters, the "interior," health, education, and social services to the Indians, while leaving defense, foreign affairs, police, press, and electric power matters in the hnads of the British. This followed the establishment of a "diarchic" government that transferred minimal powers to Indian authorities in 1919, because Britain was grateful for "Indian" help in World war I. Basically, the structure for eventual Indian independence had been laid by 1935. Another important factor was the rise of Japan and China. Unfortunnately, the "real life" result was their participation in World War II, which brought about India's independence. But a peaceful result could have been their rise, and their joint stand against European colonialism in Asia. Japan had a model Parliamentary system (if not a full democracy), and China (before the rise of the Communists) was also moving in a democratic direction. Finally, the Americans had granted future independence to the Phililppines in 1934, with a scheduled independence date of 1946.With at least three strong examples in Asia, the British probably would have left India in the early 1950s. Even without this factor, the trajectory of the 1919 and the 1935 Acts suggested an early 1950s timetable for independence. 

The "London Enemies List" was a list of people connected to Revolutionary Paul Revere. It may have been a self-proclaimed list (e.g. through a club) or one compiled by Tories (possibly through "club" information). It was Malcolm Gladwell, author of the "Tipping Point," who perhaps first explained why Revere was so influential in the Revolution. It was because he was a so-called "Connector" who knew (and influenced) a lot of the key people. Gladwell pointed out that Revere was much better connected, and hence far more effective, than Samuel Dawes, who rode the same night, took a different route, and roused far fewer people to arms. Revere is celebrated for his "ride," when it might have been more appropriate to celebrate his "connections." You can see the list of Revere's acquaintances in the far right column, and how most of them were involved in other trigger events leading to the Revolution. In essence, we are now using modern data science to analyze history. Such "cluster analysis" is now also being used to analyze networks, and (supposedly) being used to fight terrorism. For instance, if we know that a certain "paymaster" who funded the terrorists of "9/11" recently transferred large sums of money to persons X, Y, and Z, we would look at those three people as likely incubators of the next terrorist act. 

It depends on how you define "deadly." In relation to the number of inhabitants, very deadly. Even in absolute numbers, rather deadly Tombstone, Arizona is a good case in point. (This was the site of the celebrated fight at OK Corral between sheriff Wyatt Earp and some bandits.) At its peak, the town had about 10,000 inhabitants. It also had something like 110 saloons and 14 gambling halls, that is, more than one saloon for every 100 people, and 1 gambling hall for every 700 people, according to the Wikipedia article. It was also a microcosm of the Civil War, with frequent fights between southern-born Democratic leaning "cowboys," and northern-born, Republican-leaning mine and business owners. These were hard-drinking, hard-living people that got into more than their share of gunfights. Other factors involved: This was a very disproportionately masculine group, even in a country in which the majority of the population in the 19th century was male. This group of people were disproportionately young adult; neither children nor old people thrived in this kind of an environment, although there was some of each. As another poster pointed out, a "Wild West" annual murder rate of 165 per 100,000 was more than 15 times higher than a "city" rate of 10 per 100,000 around the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries. In absolute numbers, that would translate hypothetically into 16.5 murders a year in Tombstone, versus 50 murders per year for say, Chicago's 500,000 residents around 1880. Another poster pointed out that the average for Tombstone was closer to 10 per year, relative to a peak population of 10,000, which would still be high. 

There were a number of supplementary proposals to the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact, that went beyond the original subjects, Poland, the Baltic states, and Finland. The timetable for this group was "catch as catch can." But the second group of proposals for the division of Europe (and more) did not contain timetables for two reasons: 1) They included proposals to divide the British Empire's holdings in the Middle East and India and beyond. The idea was that the rest of the division of the spoils would take place after these areas were seized from Britain, but there was no timetable for this seizure, hence no timetable for the whole. 2) Germany and the Soviet Union could not agree on the division of southeast Europe, Turkey, and the Middle East, even subject to 1), above. Both countries wanted the Balkans and the Straits of Turkey, and were also interested in Persia. Because they could not agree on the underlying division of these areas, they could not agree on a timetable. In fact, these disagreements led to war in 1941. 

On at least two occasions when cavalry was used in charges, it was "wiped out." These include the (in)famous charge of the Light Brigade at Balaclava, and Marshal Ney's cavalry charge at Waterloo. These charges did succeed after a fashion, however. The Light Brigade spiked a battery of guns, and the sacrifice of Ney's dragoons cleared the way for a (short-lived) infantry advance. The Confederates launched "Pickett's charge" (of infantry) on the third day of the battle of Gettysburg (coincidentally or otherwise following the arrival of J.E.B. Stuart's cavalry). Do the above, or other historical examples indicate that the Confederates would have done better to have the cavalry lead the way, e.g. to silence the Union artillery that devastated the Confederate infantry ranks? (The purpose of the cavalry was to "exploit" the infantry charge IF it broke the Union line.) "Better" in this regard does not mean that the Confederates would have won, only that they would have "upgraded" their chances from "none" to "slim" or reduced their prospects of defeat to "a chance versus a certainty." Confederate general James Longstreet was quoted in the Killer Angels (book and movie) as saying, "No 15,000 men could take that hill." Would 23,000 men (8,000 of them mounted) have had a better chance?