It's a different story if your goal is conquest and you don't want to kill everyone on the planet. Then you have a full scale war on your hands, and there are a variety of ways to go about it, which can end in a various degrees of disaster for both sides. 

Your premise is flawed. Investors loaned money to governments. Regardless of what governments use that money for, they are the one who owe money, not the colonies. Your governments are likely already neck deep in debt, so those investors will have to take a number and get in line along with all the other people who loaned them money. Like all the people who are loaning money to US or France despite abysmal debts. If you have investors who specifically gave money for space colonization because they deeply believe it makes humanity a better race, chances are they're fine with parting with that money in the first place. Secondly, your colonies will need people. Those people will be citizens of Earth nations. So you'll have governments selling colonization to people for the low, low price of eternal indebtment for you and your grand-children. Not going to lie, I've seen better value propositions. If you try to pull a bait-and-switch on them, they'll likely throw space-tea in orbit and tell you where you can shove your government. Furthermore, your colony is a territory of your government. You can't ask French Guyana to pay for the French debt because it's not cheap to export Nutella to there. Nutella is already going to be overpriced when it gets there, so you'd be asking them to pay twice with interests. That's just preposterous. Revolutions typically happen when people feel shafted by the system, and they would have legitimate reason to feel shafted in this particular instance. You can't pin the sins of your whole nation on one single colony. Historically, that hardly ever ended well. If you do pin it on them, you'll alienate them and eventually they'll either secede or abandon the colony. 

I've thought about that, and the first problem I stumbled upon is gravity. Each planet has a different gravity. That is a very real problem unless you can manipulate gravity at a local level. I can see three ways to deal with that fairly. A) Have pairs of matches, so that everybody plays home with home gravity once. If the two teams win their home match, you could break the tie by looking at the numbers of goals/points while away, or combined score of the two matches. B) The match happens on a third, neutral planet. Said planet should be picked at random. C) Alternatively, the entire season could be played on one planet. Say one year everybody plays on Mercury, next year Venus, etc. That's assuming players are physically able to play on different planets, but then again if they weren't you wouldn't have a system-wide federation. 

They say all is fair in love and war. When we plan to invade our enemy's planet, we don't want fair. We want to strike them while they're down. We infiltrated sleeper agents in key points of their infrastructure. Those agents have laid down the ground work we need when the day comes. Agent 2215 is a worker at Treenadia City West Fusion Power Facility. The plant powers half of the capital city, including its most critical infrastructures: the Planetary Defence Army's military base in TC, the Interplanetary Communication Hub and the sector headquarters for the Federal Fleet. 2215 can get us unlimited access to the plant's control systems. But we can't just switch power off, they will be back up and running before we can even strike. We need something more disruptive. Our initial thought was to turn their own infrastructure against them. Turn the fusion plant into an EMP generator, and let it propagate through the grid. The question is: how? The plant uses tokamak-style reactors. Maybe we could use their magnetic confinement in some way. The plant also has large underground energy storage facilities. Maybe we could overload them to trigger an explosive reaction. Maybe there are other options we overlooked. We need to disable electronics in a 500km radius at minimum, but we'd like to extend our strike up to a 2500km radius as much as possible. More than that, we need to disable orbital defenses, all in one fell swoop. How they are disabled doesn't really matter, we only need a good 6-12 hours window of opportunity for our invasion. The Interplanetary Communication Hub has large, powerful antennae. We're thinking those may help propagate an EM wave much further than it normally would, but we're not quite sure if and how it will work. Help us put the finishing touch on our plan, and we shall show them the might of the Alliance. 

Remember that people with disabilities still would like to use computers, and that we have come up with solutions for them. Some of them may be native to your system, some might be commercially available, some might be more DYI, but it should still be doable. Obviously, someone who uses these should have more insight on their strengths and limitations than me. 

What that new society will be like is anybody's guess. What's sure is that it can't be a society of entertainers. If everybody is an entertainer, who needs to be entertained? Likely, there will be a number of position in the service industry to fill, if only to put a human face on an automated system. People may be required to work these jobs part-time to get a welfare check, in which case the state may decide who gets to work where and when. There will be a select few that have to be the leaders of the world, politicians, machine-maintenance workers, teachers, etc. Most people won't really need to have very specific skills. They'll get educated because education is kinda nice to have, but they won't really need to know what's a cosine. 

Another idea would be tachyons, which is a very hypothetical particle that always travels faster than light in vacuum. Tachyons are most likely non-existant in our world, because they break causality, so your world would have to operate on slightly different physics than ours to allow such a particle (and to allow it doesn't break the universe). 

Now the last question is: will anybody care about million years old data? It's very possible that the location of the archive will be lost in time, or that the caretakers will decide to do something else with their lives. Or maybe in a couple centuries your country will be removed from history completely for any number of reasons. You can't predict what will happen in a million years, so it's hard to come up with a solution that will still be applicable then. 

As a bonus question: Where should the ship crash in order to be buried? The burial can take anywhere between 0 and 4000 years, but it has to be completely buried. The ship is the size of an attack submarine. I'm looking for biomes in general, not specific world locations. Bonus points if you can tell how deep it'll be buried. You can also take location into account when answering the main question. 

It should be noted that VR overrides reality, which is good in some applications, but that also is really not good in a lot of other applications. For instance, you can learn to drive with VR but the actual driving will be done with good ol' Mk-1 Eyeballs for about as long as there are human drivers. Wikipedia pretty much covers all current or near future uses of VR: training and education, 3D visualisation, gaming, movies, concerts and other entertainment avenues, and therapy. I don't see full sensory immersion changing that list much, and it wouldn't really be useful in a lot of these. Except maybe for porn. You've probably thought about it already. I'm not believing you if you say you didn't. Let's not kid ourselves, any entertainment-related technology that isn't endorsed by the porn industry is starting with a pretty large handicap. Betamax and HD-DVD are very clear examples of that. So there will be porn on it. And it'll be lucrative. 

I can't think of technical reasons why you couldn't build structurally sound medieval-looking buildings, especially with unspecified advanced construction materials and techniques. Design is the function of aesthetics and, well, function. Medieval fortified castles are more functional than renaissance style castles. Medieval fortification would make little sense if you have spaceships and therefore orbital artillery than can obliterate pretty much anything on ground. So it would be a question of esthetics. Maybe there's a particular architectural style associated with the kingdom/empire/republic (I'm thinking Greek-style columns as a symbol of power or somesuch), maybe it stems from religion/mythology (the reason we built ginormous cathedrals). Or more generally, evocations of a glorious past or preservation of cultural heritage. It's likely that a multi-cultural city would feature several styles of architecture. Maybe your medieval-looking architecture would be a result of that multi-culturality, a fusion of different style and more or less a symbol of unity. Or maybe it's one of the several style prominently featured, with a medieval district amongst other more modern-looking or just different. 

I think if you want to filter people from the voting system, then you need to filter way before they can even reach a voting machine. The system you propose is defeatable. Just have voting booth with privacy and a smartphone. It's also very arbitrary and hard to control. If you are going to filter people, you need a filter that isn't discriminating. Filtering people based on whether they know something or not, or whether they had proper education or not, it's flimsy. A better filter could be civil/military service. You serve for X years, and you get the right to vote. You serve for Y more years, you get the right to be elected or access some higher unelected offices. That way, it's a right you earn. Anybody can earn it, but they can only earn it at a non-negligible personal cost (i.e. giving years of your life to the nation). Any idiot can read a pamphlet from a candidate that will give all the answers your machine expects, but to go through years of service takes proper motivation. It wouldn't be something taken for granted, it would be something earned, and something earned is less likely to be misused because of all the trouble you went through to earn it. Obviously, no system is perfect, this one included.