A bit inflammatory but his point is well taken. In theory virtualization is supposed to provide complete isolation between the virtual machines and their host. In practice there are occasional security vulnerabilities that allow advanced attackers to circumnavigate these protections and gain access to other virtual machines or even worse their host (see An Empirical Study into the Security Exposure to Hosts of Hostile Virtualized Environments). As Ryan Ries mentions these kinds of vulnerabilities are pretty rare (which doesn't mean they aren't there) and often not disclosed by vendors but they do exist. If you are concerned about the potential for these kinds of attacks (and I think to some degree you should be) I recommend that you do not mix security zones on a single virtual host or virtual host cluster. For example - you would have a dedicated two host virtual host cluster for DMZ virtual machines, a dedicated cluster for middleware and a dedicated cluster for protected assets. This way in the event that a vulnerability is exploited in such a way that allows an attacker to subvert other virtual machines or worse the hypervisor itself your security model is still intact. 

Your images are not being referenced securely. (this includes backgrounds) Your Javascript source is not being referenced securely. If you are using Flash, the links within the object class must be secure. 

First a quick aside, to discuss testing with the right tool. ICMP tools have long been the conventional method of testing connectivity, but they are not always good tests. As you found out, you can happily reach your server via ICMP but not using FTP (running on top of TCP/IP). Would testing the latency of web site by sending ICMP traffic at the server that is hosting it yield meaningful and useful results? Probably not. A tool like httping or mtr would be a much better choice in this case. ISC has a nice little article about this issue here: Ping is Bad (Sometimes) 

The log file suggests that either WSUS 3.0 SP2 is not installed or is not able to be contacted by the SMS SUP services (SMS_WSUS_CONFIGURATION_MANAGER, and SMS_WSUS_CONTROL_MANAGER): 

You didn't specify what your environment is but if you're using Unix I think a combination of dig and grep should work. should be the hostname of your nameserver, is the domain your host is part of, and HOST is the host that you want to find all the CNAME records for. That's actually a tab character in the grep command, not literally (you may have to adjust the grep string). Also your nameserver needs to to be configured to allow zone transfers, the particulars of which will be implementation dependent. 

Try using either just Active or Passive mode to see if it's a firewall issue. Try a better FTP client such as WinSCP, or Filezilla. And finally, examine whether you need to use FTP at all. There are far better and more secure options such as SCP/SFTP. 

I fully admit I might not understand exactly how NetApp Volume Snapshots work but if my understanding is more or less correct NetApp Snapshots fail to meet my criteria for backups. 

The Novell Client needs to identify what IP address/es the server hosting NetWare Services is located at before it can actually login. This information is gathered through what Novell calls "Name Space Providers" (NSPs); since we're on IP only we're limited to using just SLP, DNS, a HOST/NWHOST file, or DHCP (TID10057730). You can access and disable which of these NSPs is available for the Novell Client to use by selecting or de-selecting them in the Properties - Protocol Preferences as mentioned earlier. According to the same TID after NT/2000 the Novell Client polls the NSPs in an "asynchronous" manner, so there is no "order" (unfortunately) in which they're polled. Additionally, the Novell Client will cache these "service names" locally. The default setting is to hold this cache for 21 days. If, you're trying to force the clients to look for the same NDS tree on a different IP address clearing this cache might be something to consider (Advanced Settings - Server Cache Timeout or HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\NetWareWorkstation\Parameters\ServerCacheTimeout). More information about how the Novell Client uses which "Name Service" provider can be found here. SLP however seems to be a method that is used in my shop. Novell has info out about how the Novell Client uses SLP here. However, as mentioned the best most "fool-proof" way to force the Novell Client to only access NetWare Service from one IP address is to manually specifying that IP in the 'Server:' prompt of the utility. This should in theory override any of the hints (i.e., netware_server.department.mycorp) and anything in the cache, but you will probably want to double-check somehow. 

Full stop. Do you want to become a Systems Administrator? If not, then you only have one clear path open to you. Either hire someone with the knowledge and experience to run your server infrastructure for you either in-house or on a contractual basis or pay someone to run it for you like managed hosting or the fancy new Cloud-based IaaS. 

Oh boy. I recently went through this with a SafeNet Sentinel Pro USB licensing dongle. It's ugly and I was ultimately unsuccessful. As @longneck noted, Hyper-V does not support USB pass-through. I haven't worked with Hyper-V on Windows Server 2012 but a quick Google shows that USB pass-through wasn't implemented. Your workaround is to use a 3rd party product that "exports" the USB connection from the Hyper-V host to your Windows XP guest across the network. Examples of these products are Fabulatech and KernelPro's USB Over Ethernet software. You could additionally use a network-capable USB hub to perform the same task. You still have two more hurdles to get over. First is that you'll probably need to install some kind of driver on whatever host is physically hosting the USB dongle. With the SafeNet Sentinel implementation the driver installed successfully but did not recognize the USB device on the Hyper-V host, a Windows Server 2008 R2 Core installation (e.g., it showed up as unknown USB device in Device Manager). Secondly you'll need to deal with the MAC address restriction. You will need to manipulate the MAC address of your Windows XP guest operating system to match the one your licensing device expects. This should be simple in Hyper-V by manually setting the MAC Address for the Windows XP's NIC manually in its virtual machine settings. I have no idea how the MAC address restriction will react to being exported across the network since at this point you're involving two MAC addresses in this chain. Depending on the sophistication of licensing mechanism it may balk at this. It's worth noting that all of this kind of behavior, even though it is arguably legitimate, is exactly the kind of thing these USB licensing dongles are created to prevent.