Getting feet confused with meters and screwing up your reentry plans. Resulting in a fiery death. Close encounters with space clutter. Resulting in violent death. Overestimating how long equipment will remain functional while you're in stasis. Resulting in eternal sleep, AKA death. Technological advancements while you're in stasis. Resulting in being salvaged for scrap by faster ships that put you on display in a museum, after 'accidentally' causing your death. Actually making it where you're trying to go and finding no one else survived and nothing interesting to do. Resulting in being bored to death. 

Faster? Just faster? Not 5 miles per hour faster? Ok fine. lean out the back and blow hard. Congrats, your going faster. If you really insist on trying to out speed the wind you could just make an oversized blimp, complete with propellers. Sphere isn't the most aerodynamic shape. 

It's still a sharp pointy stick. I wouldn't buy one but if you came at me with one I would definitely start paying attention. 

Living memory is a two edged sword. Sure they have the wisdom of ages but they also have the bigotry of ages. They remember that your great great great granddad still owes them money. Imagine a grudge that lasts as long as some religions. Set in their ways just doesn't begin to cover it. They need the young to drag them kicking and screaming into the future. Now you humans get off my lawn! 

No, it can't appear in nature because there is no addition of new water, and as the water falls off at the water falls, it is not replenished. The only way to achieve this would be with a colossal pump under the lake pushing up massive quantities of water, basically making it a colossal fountain. If you want something naturally occurring and similar, the most similar scenario would be that it has a higher cliff face on one edge from which more water pours down, replenishing the waterfalls. You would also likely need to town back the water falls. 

They could be raising an army. If a superior species were to enhance humanity with superhuman abilities they might still fall short of the superior super species, but still be useful. Especially if the superior species can enhance a lot of humans. 

If water is readily available I see no reason why it would not be a major part of fire suppression. The other main thing to consider would be increasing the distance between buildings to stop fire from jumping to neighboring buildings. I can't really see any reason to get more elaborate than that, water has always been the best low tech solution for preventing fires. 

World's Largest, Heaviest Turban (187-Pounds) Wonder if this counts as wearing a helmet. Ride safe out there. 

This could usher in a golden age or it could doom all of the Terran people. It really depends on the republics relationship with Earth. Were the other planets of the republic totally dependent on Earth? Was Earth repressing them? Was Earth just a tourist destination that provided nothing but traditional ceremonies? Without knowing the relationship to Earth, really it could cause anything to happen. Maybe the whole galaxy is going to commit suicide since now they'll never see the last season of Game of Thrones. 

Willy sells only the best! Won't stand behind his product though. Likes it better inside where he can breath. All sales final. 

Breed you own ants. Sterilize them. And let them take over the planet. Wait a few generations and your intelligent ants will be destroyed by cheap immigrant labor. Ether that or they'll elect an orange ant with bad hair, in which case they're doomed anyway. 

Is it ok if I have my stomach on the outside? It's what humans do when they cook after all. Let's invent lithotroph agriculture. You're macroscopic organism eats "rocks" by running over them like a lawnmower, just a little slower. As it passes it takes it's harvest while picking lithotrophs up from consumed rocks and laying them down on fresh rocks. Leaving a trail of devastated rock surface to mark its passing. Key here is it doesn't drag them forward. It pushes them sideways. Leaving behind lithotrophs to grow on fresh rock until it returns. Thus making your organism territorial. Bit of a symbiotic relationship really. Lithotrophs gain mobility. Macroscopic "rock eater" gets to eat "rocks". 

Unless I am greatly mistaken, there isn't even a need to move the reactor. You can simply route cables from the reactor to other buildings or tools in order to give them electricity. I assume this ship is landing? If so it could likely itself be a central structure to the colony, that serves many functions early on, including housing the initial nuclear reactor. 

This problem is one of the main reasons given why space soldiers carry pulse rifles. An electrical discharge can theoretically fry a human while not posing the same risk of causing a hull breach. However firing bullets inside of your space ship is generally not going to be a good idea. Even without causing a hull breach there are many other systems you can easily breach from the inside. Also if a projectile is kept weak enough to not pierce a space ship hull it stands to reason that your enemies would simply increase the thickness of their armor to equal or slightly exceed your hulls strength. If you are set on using physical bullets however, the easiest solution is a shotgun style weapon that fires tiny bullets at incredible speeds. When tightly packed the concentrated force could blast through armor, but if you miss and they fly further the spread would make them less dangerous to hulls. This is not however a remotely fool proof weapon, and anyone planning on using these would likely put on an oxygen mask before firing. The only fool proof projectiles would be "smart-bullets" that were able to identify when they were on a trajectory toward the hull and self detonate to spread out the force. However these would likely be incredibly complex,expensive, and hard to manufacture. You may also want to consider melee weapons, as it is harder to accidentally pierce the hull with a hand held weapon. 

The square cube law ensures that we're going to get plenty of lift if we can simply keep these things warm enough. Thickness translates to insulation so that could help with maintaining heat. Since the roof is held up by air the structure doesn't have to be substantial. Most of the forces on it are tension not compression. Thus it's really tensile strength that limits the size of these things. 

Presuming that the audience/readers are native English speakers I see no reason not to subvert English idioms. Subverting an idiom your audience has never heard of sounds pointlessly confusing. I think a simple mashup of the two gives an obvious meaning, makes it distinct, and reminds one that the speaker comes from a different perspective: What in Earth? 

Since we can color change already to display advertisements turn white when under attack then black to cool down faster. 

Things you can do when you're absolutely certain about the future: Buy insurance. With enough money and a narrow enough definition you can get pretty good odds. Start a cult. You don't care about seeming nuts. You care about getting people to do things. Be careful to tease apart what you know and what you assume. UFO's, saucers, and humanoid aliens walking about are all that have been foretold. Not our extinction. It may be that what you really need to do is prevent earth becoming a tourist trap. 

Solar Radiation may be best suited to your needs. If Solar Radiation were increased it could kill plants over vast areas, starting spreading from the equator. This would also be very inhospitable to humans without protective suits. Volcanic Activity is of course another option, if your planet is very geologically unstable then it could have large areas be prone to lava flows, covered in volcanic rock, or poisoned with acid. Post apocalyptic radiation Did they drop the bomb? If so it was probably targeted at more heavily populated regions built in fertile areas. These may no longer be inhabitable. Low Water Content Planet Obviously your planet doesn't have to share Earth's exact composition, if it has less water then it would have larger desert regions. Frozen Deserts Antartica is the worlds largest desert, but it doesn't seem to be exactly what you had in mind. 

I mean easier than doing the calculations, you can go underwater and try to throw a punch, and you'll see it doesn't really work. You generally need a weapon to fight underwater, and then a cut basically kills as it is really hard to stop bleeding underwater. 

Sure, toss a cubical bar magnet into space and you have a "planet" with a magnetic field. The only question is how big it is. If it's big enough it'll stop being magnetic or cubical. A spinning core requires a mantle. So if you want to generate the magnetic field that way you need to be big. Now sure you could build eight three sided mountains on a sphere to form a cube but once it's big enough you need to make the mountains out of unobtainium. How it formed will require a hell of a back story. 

So we use counter intelligence measures. Compartmentalize. Assume a leak. And use at least 3 people. 

There's your science. You conduct experiments and make observations. Not everything needs a calculation. 

Why risk wrapping the rails around the sun by going to mars? Let's go to Alpha Centauri so the orbits of the planets are trivial when compared to the distance between. Now stretching is a non issue. Just have that pesky speed of light to deal with 

I think you just invented the most fun physics toy of all time. What you are abusing is Sir Isaac Newton's second law of motion. Force equals mass times acceleration. You could also say: force divided by mass equals acceleration. That means if mass is infinite no amount of force is going to cause a net acceleration. This has fun consequences. For one thing if it's moving when you turn it on it's going to keep moving. If you drop it, even slightly, before turning it on it's going to slowly plow through earths core for no better reason than it's not stoping for nothin no how. See Newton's first law. (And Thor's hammer). If you don't move it before turning it on you can leave it hovering in the air. Gravity is still pulling on it but it isn't gonna budge. If it wasn't for your magic the earth would be moving toward it. It almost sounds like you've suspended the third law. Or maybe you just figured out how to have all the mass you like and not cause any gravity. I know I want one. I'll spin it before turning it on. Perpetual motion! Energy crisis over! 

People have just enough hope that they can advance through some sort of system of of this squalor, be it education or hard work. A lot of slave societies (like Rome or Caribbean plantation colonies) had some way for slaves to earn their freedom and that helped to keep the 'unpleasantness' of daily life from becoming mutinous feelings. The main problem here is that you are not dealing with overworked people, but people who cannot find employment, and they are in a different mindset. People can't leave, which could be caused by the government preventing them from leaving or spreading misinformation about the 'greener pastures', so that people don't want to go back. The main issue here is why would the government want to keep people at the city, since they seemingly don't need them? Maybe there is something more sinister going on, like a social grand experiment or something along those lines. The problem with that is that it will move the focus of your story away from your protagonist and on to solving the 'mystery', which sounds like it wouldn't serve your story well. 

Sure why not? All you need for intelligence is communication pathways and signal discrimination. That's a computer science AI perspective though. From a evolutionary biology point of view the question is, why does a fungus have hard intellectual problems to solve? It wouldn't bother getting smart unless it needed to. If you want to satisfy the biologists the fungus needs to benefit from this calorie consuming intelligence in some way. 

Put the city at the bottom of it. If you want to be cautions add earthquake stabilizers and inertial dampeners to your tall buildings. 

This can be done, but doing it with a satellite based laser is doing it the hard way. If you want to weaponise a satellite use it for what it's best at: communicating. Hire yourself a team of hackers. Give them the world's best anonymity shield. And set them to work hacking the world's toasters. Soon you are starting fires all over. That tank truck will burn nicely after it's breaking system has been reprogrammed. After the driver somehow rolls away to safety his cellphone's battery starts to burn. Sure, it's not a flashy death ray from above. But it is a death ray, from above. Burn you technophiles! Burn! Now excuse me, I'm going to go unplug my toaster. 

I think it would make the most sense for the biological cooling to be based off of how animals on Earth stay cool. However, animals on Earth actually tend to use natural radiators. 

More photosynthesis is the logical answer. The oxygen in Earth's atmosphere is the result of photosynthesis. So if plants could photosynthesize more then you would get more oxygen. You could also however increase oxygen by decreasing oxygen consumption from animals. If large areas of the planet were uninhabitable to animals but not plants (Radioactive maybe?) they would produce more oxygen, and animals in areas that are inhabited could have higher oxygen consumption. 

Depending on how hive minded they are, they may not need criminal justice. If they all truly act as one there would be no reason for one to knowingly harm another. If the hive mind was less absolute and crime happened, it would likely be up to tribe elders or leaders to decide punishment as they see fit. With a more uniform thought process shared by this species there would be less need for a developed court system, as the vast majority would always support the elders' judgment. 

If earth suddenly lost friction we'd all die in massive earthquakes and tsunamis as all the pent up tectonic energy everywhere is released at once. But after that we'd never have an earthquake again since now the plates are perfectly lubed. Not that we'd be around to care. Don't worry, the mud slides will give us a proper burial. 

Given that whale song is music to us humans and we humans can find meaning in passing clouds I'd have to give this an easy yes, if the aliens have talent. 

Depends on the smith and how complicated your design ends up being. You have me thinking of playing with piano hinges at the hardware store. 

Consider not folding the blades. Consider rotating one blade. You mentioned magic/technology. Let's create the world's first sword/blender. Why? Because it's fun to twist the knife. 

Biggest problem you have is that you've been asked to do this by the government. So lets take care of that. First, hire a bunch of pharmaceutical engineers. Have them develop an efficient way to extract poison from the jellyfish. Use that to supply the government with blow darts. This will turn out to be lame, but since you're a campaign donor and since it's what the government asked for, just not what they needed, you'll be fine. Now that you have a steady government contract you can hatch your real plan, skimming. Take the most deadly of the jellyfish out to make herbal supplements. Don't actually claim it cures cancer and warn people about how incredibly dangerous it is. Make them sign liability waivers. The more you hype the danger the more people will want it anyway. Soon as someone dies dilute the heck out of it and call it "homeopathic". Now you're free of reliance on the government. Use this same cynical view of mankind to branch out into other ailments until you have a vast economic empire. Whenever your enemy's confront you, you can hire a team of lawyers to sue them into oblivion. Or just smack em in the face with a bucket of jellyfish chum. Whichever's easier.