I must not be understanding what you're saying, because this makes no sense at all. Is World War II too limited in time to be true? Is Vatican City too limited in space to be true? Of course not. Historical events take place in time and space in exactly how much time and space they take. The central claim of Christianity is a historical one: that a man, Jesus of Nazareth, was God incarnate, who lived in Judea, died, and rose again. It is inherent to this belief, that God became a true human person, that Jesus is limited to that time and place. That claim can be evaluated for its historicity (at least to the extent of whether such a man existed and died). 

2. Faith as unquestioning trust or confidence in someone This is where a lot of people have sentiments that drive them to contrast faith with science. This is also closely related (if not synonymous) with complete trust. Just emphasizing unquestioning here. Science of course is known for being wrong. It makes no 'absolute conclusions' and holds no 'sacred truths'. Or barely any, if you want to nitpick the philosophical underpinnings. The physical theories themselves are not sacred. Every conclusion is a so-called 'tentative' conclusion, rather than absolute. Each conclusion has a level of precision presented up front - the margin of error. There are no sacred truths, only our best current models that indeed we hope to disprove someday. In science, you are allowed to question every conclusion others have made up to this point. Nobody is forcing anyone to believe the speed of light is constant - you can go out and do the measurement yourself. You really can. In this way, the scientific body of knowledge is imperfect, but pretty much trustless. At least when done thoroughly (especially regarding independent experiment reproduction). Note that word - trustless. This is in complete contrast with anything that asks for (or even demands) 'complete trust' or 'unquestioning belief'. It's like saying "take my word for it" for very bold claims. What science tells us is that true propositions don't don't care whether you put your complete trust in them or not. True propositions dont need, and especially dont demand your unquestioning belief. Truth can stand on its own two feet. Take Proposal X. If it is true, what does it have to fear from questioning? Go ahead and question it, if you are seeking truth, you will arrive at the conclusion it is true. If X is false, then it DOES have to fear from questioning. If false proposals tend to be culled very easily by questioning, then the false proposals that survive will be the ones that implicate virtues of unquestioning belief. In other words, unquestioning belief is only a virtue to the gullible, and only promoted by liars and scam artists with something to hide, or something to hide from. If Alice sees Bob as gullible, that will scar Alice's impression of Bob's intelligence, and she will very likely lose a bit of respect for him. 

I am a novice and amateur in the field of philosophy. And my answer may not be supported by facts. These are only my personal views. Ultimate Perfection: Its “limbo” from which due to some sort of entropy “The Beginning “ or the “Mother Big Bang” happened and the universe got its birth including “The Space” (Space is often considered pre-existing , but I differ on it). And limbo is mother of all sciences. And existing laws of science could vary when subjected to continuous changing dimensions of time, space and other new or varying physical factors. Actual Perfection: In material world if a matter obeys the rule of universe and act accordingly, it is deemed to be perfect. For e.g. in atomic world the sub particles behaves in a pertained manner as it has to unless it is subjected to external pressures. So in material world we can conclude everything is perfect but can be subjected to change. This theory can be challenged by quantum mechanics and uncertainty principle but I believe the uncertainty principle may be due to external uncertainty or continuous micro level change it the outside environment of the isolated atoms. Relative Perfection: This form is of mental world. Here some want apples to be oranges and others want oranges to be apples depending on their need, demand and comfort. Perfection is more of innate quality. And by applying some pressure on the matter we try to satisfy our need. So mental perfection is a perception of perfection. Degree of Perfection: As a friend above gave an example with screw, If the screw was a made of perfection the how difficult it would be to fix it but the screw needs 0.3 mm tolerance to be a perfect one. But if satisfies the customers need in satisfactory manner, it is perfect for him 

4. Faith as spiritual apprehension, spiritual perception Perhaps some Christians feel personally touched by the God. This witness of the Holy Spirit is evidence of God to them. Whether or not this constitutes 'valid evidence' for Christianity (or any religion with similar experiences) depends on your epistemology. This is one of those fronts where people argue past one another forever and ever because they never take the time to agree upon (or even find out) their premises. If two people don't narrow down where they agree and disagree with epistemology first, they will never be able to resolve a disagreement over 'evidence' of this nature, or indeed what constitutes 'valid evidence' in the first place. Sadly, most debates or discussions where disagreement raises over validity of spiritual apprehension never settle the agreed epistemic foundations in advance. Most people just have their way own way of thinking, and that's just how it is. Then if Alice reveals reason X for belief Y, but X doesn't make any sense on top of the epistemic foundations Bob has, then Bob will think reason X is rather silly. Bob thinks Alice believes Y for very a nonsensical reason. Example: 

With present technology on my belief only we can check the neurological impulses of a human reaction. In conclusion in present science isn't it an unrealistic methodology.......??? 

Information Gathering. Information Storing. Information Processing. All the three stages depend on physical and genetical capability of the person. Hormonal behaviour of the persons affects heavily Information Processing and to an extend on Information Gathering. As the three factors varies for each person, the three process also varies. Information is stored in the memory as a highly complex relational database along with the logic of relating the data. When we think the logic of compiling the relational data may be pre-compiled or be combination of partly compiled logics. While processing or storing of compiled data it may depend on your three factors, similar previous reactions (reasoning), present emotional mood(hormonal). 

1. Faith as complete trust or confidence in someone or something Why would this be a problem? Why would this be seen as a sign of weakness? Why might someone claiming this virtue be seen as 'inferior'? Complete trust is not to be taken lightly. To whom can we give our complete trust? To whom or what would it be perhaps unwise (some would say stupid) to give our complete trust? A christian might put their complete trust in any number of things. The Bible? Their spiritual mentors? Their personal spiritual feelings/relationships? We can make fuzzy generalizations, but ultimately every individual Christian can decide for themselves which things or people to put in their 'complete trust bucket', and which things do not deserve that level of trust. In this aspect of faith, someone may relate faith in X to weakness or inferiority if they disagree about giving complete trust to X. 

Data without logic is junk........!!! Data and logic without matched surroundings is again junk (identity crisis). How can we selectively extract required data from the actual data. 

what my sense tells, everything is perfect in its on capacity. Imperfection happens only when you compare what you feel better. Imperfection can happen only in thoughts not in material world. If u separate material world from mental world ..................Every thing is """"""PERFECT""""". 

As wiki definition, cognition is a group of mental processes that includes attention, memory, producing and understanding language, learning, reasoning, problem solving, and decision making. Here we can group it to three... 

5. Faith as walking under the guidance of God I looked up the famous 2 Corinthians verse about "Walking in faith and not by sight." Out of context you can apply any of the definitions. I tried to understand it in context though, and the above definition is the impression I get (sorry if it is incorrect despite my effort). It's also something I've heard my Christian friends relate before, so anyway. Ultimately, if somebody doesn't believe in God, they have to look at the world with their own eyes, and have to take accountability for guiding their own life. In fact, to someone who doesn't believe in god, everyone needs to look at the world with their own eyes, and everyone needs to take accountability for guiding their own life. Plato's cave is an interesting allegory, but by no means a useful argument. When two opposed perspectives clash, who is in the cave and who is enlightened? The allegory isn't an argument, it's just an analogy. So maybe indeed it is the atheists or non-christians who are enslaved to watch shadows. BUT, that's obviously not how they see it. Nobody confident in their beliefs sees themselves in the current moment as the slaves watching the shadows. To someone who doesn't believe in god, saying "Walk by faith and not by sight" is exactly equivalent to saying "Walk with your eyes closed so that you're blind to what's around you" and consequentially the "Blind will lead the blind". Sounds like a mess, right? You don't have to agree. It could a completely incorrect perspective to see faith as the guidance of God in that way. But regardless of the correctness, that is a perspective some people might have. And then having that perspective, that could contribute to why they look down upon faith in this regard.