It's a surprisingly tricky conversation. All the differences at play are so close to totally negligible, it can be easy to tally them up differently. It mostly just doesn't matter as long as it's some type of conventional bearing grease. In terms of how well a bearing system full of a given grease is going to function, if the bike is ever going to get ridden in wet conditions, then waterproofness and washout resistance are the most important variables by far. If the bike isn't ever going to be ridden in wet conditions, then it doesn't matter at all unless you want to try to save watts with your grease. If you do then my money is on Dura-Ace grease as being the best you can get, but it's a black hole of a debate topic. For shop use, I have come to view grease compatibility as being the most important differentiator, because it seems like getting it wrong there is the main way your choice of grease can actually have meaningful negative consequences. I'm a fan of White Lightning Crystal as general purpose grease because it's biodegradable, non-toxic and non-staining, but the problem is that aluminum based greases like it score badly on the compatibility chart, meaning arbitrarily squirting it into other people's greasy things you're adding grease to is probably a bad idea. Hub main bearings, bottom brackets, headsets, and pedals generally all take the same grease. Cup and cone type freehub or freewheel mechanisms generally need either heavy oil or light viscosity grease. 

You're taking the right approach, although 2(34+22)=112. Measuring half of the spindle as you did is fine as long as you're 100% confident it's a symmetrical spindle. In practice it's something I might do with the knowledge I have to double check later and fix things if by chance they didn't work out. Even if Sheldon's 4.5mm number is right on, this would give you 45mm front chainline, which would work despite not being ideal. Personally I don't know if it's just 4.5mm cut and dry like that in all cases. But it's probably worth a try. 

Frames are designed around forks with a particular axle-to-crown dimension, which in the case of suspension forks correlates pretty closely to travel. So it's not just a question of suspension fork or not; it's a question of what the axle-to-crown should be, or how much travel. For example, very early suspension forks with 60-70mm travel didn't require a radical change in geometry from the fully rigid mountain bikes of the day, and could be plugged into them and yield something reasonable. To the question of how to know what you're dealing with or what to do in the case of a bare frame with no information obtainable as to what it is: This sounds geekier and more complex than it is, but the best approach is to take all the point-to-point distance and tube-to-tube angle measurements you can from the bare frame, use those numbers to model the frame either on paper or in a simple 2d CAD program (freeware is fine), and then go from there to see what different fork axle-to-crown lengths are going to get you when you plug them in. In CAD this just means you'll be making the model of the frame, then rotating it around the axis of the rear axle as you stick in lines of different lengths to represent the different forks. You'll then be able to take one of two approaches. If you want to try to figure out the best guess you can as to what the bike came with originally, you can plug in different axle-to-crown lengths until you find one that gets you head tube and seat tube angles (which change with fork length) that both look suspiciously close to cleanly rounded numbers, say 71 degrees up front and 73 in back for a lot of hardtails. Manufacturers tend to design things in a way where if you measure the built bike, those angle numbers are similarly clean. There's not all that many length/travel groupings of forks to work through. Alternatively, once you have your paper or CAD model, you can just plug in different axle to crown numbers until you get one that results in head tube and seat tube angle numbers that make the bike how you want it, or as a way of getting the longest travel you can that still keeps them within your own metric of what's reasonable, or as a way of figuring out how to work with what you have, etc. BB height, standover, and minimum handlebar height also get affected. When making the model, remember to include headset stack height as applicable (14mm of lower stack height for an external cup headset, 3mm for ZS, and 1mm for integrated are the numbers I'd use). 

The design differences with modern pads are obvious. You get a huge simple block of rubber with no grooves. Nothing about the design of the pad is coaxing you to replace it any time before the metal part starts contacting the rim, a point that most riders will be able to see coming and all but the least observant will hear about the second it starts actually happening, before any serious damage is done. Pads like these are cheap to produce and last a very, very long time. I'm a heavy rider, and I have a set of these I got NOS on a bike that gets moderate use in all conditions that I've had for maybe 8 years now and the pads are about 1/3 worn. There are some theoretical arguments why grooves might help braking or prolong rim life, but I can endo the brake just fine and my rims aren't getting trashed. Many millions of pads of this design have given totally satisfactory performance. The reason brake pad design moved away from being cheap, thick blocks of rubber is 100% that you can't make any but the most trivial amount of money producing and selling them. They last too long and are too effective for how cheap they are. Only the most hardcore of cyclists become repeat buyers. Modern cartridge inserts are dainty and full of conservatively sized wear grooves because it creates a situation that gets more pads sold. Nothing bad happens if you wear them all that way down as long as you stop before you get to the holder, at least as long as you can be bothered to keep the brake adjusted along with the pad wear, and watch out for the worn pad overhanging the brake track. The compound doesn't change, the geometry of the brake doesn't change substantively in most cases, and the grooves don't do anything of note in either direction to braking power or rim wear. A core question about grooves is whether their presence helps or hinders the pad to clear water and debris from the rim, potentially increasing braking power even as they inherently decrease contact area. Personally I think they don't and because they in effect feed water in to the pad/rim contact area they probably are a detriment when it's wet out, but I don't have any data. I believe the contrary idea would be that as the pad touches down on the wet rim, the leading edge has the job of squeegeeing off water to get more friction between the pad and the brake track, and having grooves essentially gives you another leading edge, getting more area clear of water faster after the pad touches down. 

Interesting question and way of looking at it. Here's my take: those in the bike world who would seem most qualified to design scientifically optimal frames, which involves both mastery of all the advanced fabrication techniques and materials that are now available and the motivation to empirically figure out the handling and ride feel elements that can be hard to quantify, and which suffer when you just make things more stiff ad infinitum, usually end up working for companies where all the actual design decisions get made from a marketing and immediate profit perspective. The main question they spend their careers answering is, "How do we stay in the black in the next 2-3 years?" That's not to say that proper engineers aren't responsible for making some good bikes or moving the needle of progress and knowledge in the bike world forward, but they are not the only ones who do, and the mainstream companies they work for wind up pushing back the wrong direction on the needle quite often as well. Small framebuilders usually aren't proper engineers, they usually don't have access to the same range of advanced materials and techniques, and they work in environments where myth, lore, and intuition can have louder voices than scientific process, but they're usually in a better position to deliver optimized ride feel and handling experiences to the end user. A lot of the major trends and advancements in the industry get started by non-engineers working at a grassroots level. And, to answer your question, you can get started in that world by riding, reading, geeking out, taking framebuilding classes (usually 1-2 weeks), and participating in existing forums. Some other important pieces: Round tubes start to have some meaningful disadvantages for high level athletes in high level competition. For everyone else all the rest of the time, bikes based on round and simple ovalized tubes aren't stiffness- or weight-impaired in any meaningful way. If one does want to mess with more physically dialed frames, you don't have to be an engineer. You can just start doing carbon layups in your garage. Yes, without training you probably won't be able to do it with the same level of sophistication an engineer could. But you also won't be hamstrung by a marketing department or the need to make a product that has mass market appeal or that works for pros. So whether you actually wind up with a product that's any worse than theirs is not foretold by your lack of a degree. 

The stumbling block is that while Shimano mountain and road rear derailers used the same actuation ratio and were fully cross-compatible until the start of 10spd mountain, the front derailers have always used a different cable pull. So if you have a mountain FD as well, you'll probably find it's impossible to get the front shifting set up for no chain rub anywhere, and shifting performance won't be very good. There are many questions here that explore options in this scenario. 

I've never seen something like that, an eccentric to concentric conversion BB. Even if it existed it would have all the issues of an eccentric, so the only benefit would be if you really wanted that otherwise unattainable chainstay length. If you really, really wanted this, just having one made would be pretty easy. If you're having creak troubles you could try a Niner eccentric, which has been known to solve the problem. 

No. That kind of serial number hints at a small builder who just numbers all their frames sequentially, which is a practice any number of them have used. 

They are telling you what size of lower headset you need in terms of the Standardized Headset Identification System (SHIS). This is a naming system that tries to simplify headset standards in part by rounding as much as possible to the nearest whole number. This frame's lower bearing interface is a very common size known under SHIS as IS52, otherwise known as 1.5" IS. The frame bore size is around 52.1mm and the bearing OD is exactly 52.00mm, hence the simplified name IS52. The /40 and the /30 refer to the crown race. If you were using a tapered fork, it's got a fork race seat OD of 39.8mm and a crown race ID of 39.7mm, simplified to just "40" under SHIS. If it were a straight fork, the fork race seat OD is 30.1mm and the race is 30mm, simplified to just "30". What's confusing about what they've done here is that on their spec page, for the headset upper they only say "Integrated Campy Spec Upper Bearing (45x45 degree)." They probably should have also said IS42, which is the SHIS name for the same thing. As for the reason they're mixing standards like this, it's because the Campagnolo Hiddenset standard got an early foothold within the BMX/DJ world and is the standard to this day, and a lot of the headset uppers (key logo display points) people will want to use on frames like this use that standard, but they also wanted to make a frame that could take both tapered and straight forks, which wouldn't have been possible with the Campy standard. So you need a more BMX-y upper. If you have trouble finding just the upper, buying a whole headset isn't too bad of a waste of money because you're mostly just paying for an extra bearing, which you use as a spare when the first one wears out. 

And there are more examples yet. Another side to this however is that in industry the imperial system is really only the metric system in disguise, since in 1930 and 1933 the UK and US respectively began using 25.4mm as the reference dimension that defines one inch. That's why all the the fractional conversions are relatively clean numbers. But it means that the high-level work of keeping track of what defines either a millimeter or an inch in terms of physical and theoretical references is the same for both systems, and is done by the same organizations. 

Yes, all the 10-speed Shimano 34/50 Hollowtech 2 cranks are more or less drop-in replacements for one another. ("More or less" only because they could be subject to very small differences in where the rings fall, so adjusting the FD may be necessary.) You don't need to change BBs if the old one isn't worn out. 

Yes, as long as your bike has normal 135mm spacing, there's no obstacle with frame spacing or other frame compatibility. Despite the addition of new rear end/spacing standards, compatibility with standard 135 QR frames hasn't been dropped. 

With the Mavic adapters, the lip is supposed to go on the outside. They're not intended for use with single wall rims, hence the problem you're having. On a single wall rim like yours with the relatively deep, narrow channel in the rim well between the reinforcing sections, none of the reducer grommets available are going to work very well. The other option are the aluminum ones, which are usually superior, but they install on the inside and here they wouldn't work. Those Presta nuts that sink into a Schrader hole are bad news. They do nothing to prevent the core problem of Presta tubes in Schrader holes, which is stress around the valve from not being supported by the rim eventually causing the tube to rupture. Maybe on a single wall rim this is less of an issue, but I still don't like it. Just use Schrader tubes. 700x23-25 / 27x1 SV tubes are perfectly common.