USA (CPSC) for reflectors (at point of sale): The CPSC as coded in the Federal Regulations (§1512.16) says that the bike must have reflectors at the point of sale (when the bike is sold as new): 

Fine print: Images copyright by robokaren, cc-by-sa. And yes, I know that centrifugal force does not actually exist, but is a fictitious inertial force. However, it's still handy when explaining things to lay people. And yes, lemur children do have much grippier hands and feet than human children. 

The straps are getting wet with sweat and loosening, then constricting again when they dry. Nylon does in fact absorb water and stretch when it gets wet, so this is the more likely cause. 

The Veridrive is just the latest iteration of the idea of using an expanding or contracting chainring rather than a derailleur for shifting: 

That might be a security bolt - although the photo is unclear. Are you sure the bike wasn't stolen? The previous owner should have had the matching 'key' for the security bolt. If you don't have the key (and have made sure your bike isn't stolen by checking the stolen bike indexes), you can remove the security bolt by using brute force (grinder, dremel, vice grips, jamming an allen key into it, etc.). These are usually destructive processes. Otherwise, if it's just an allen (hex) nut, you can remove it with an allen key / hex driver. Your local bike or hardware store should have one that fits. Once you get it off, replacement quick releases are easily purchased at your bike store or online. You could even replace it with your own security skewer such as a PitLock, for which you'd have the key. If it were me, though, I'd keep the hex bolt as is and just get a $10-15 bike multitool that has the right size hex. The hex provides a modicum of security (especially if you fill it with a ball bearing/wax) and makes it a smidge harder for bike thieves to make of with. It'll just add a few more seconds to changing your tire but will prevent casual theft. 

The brake outer cable and ferrule most probably popped out of the barrel adjuster on the brake lever. This can happen when you panic brake if your brakes were a little out of adjustment -- basically you pulled in a ton of inner cable while you were saying "ohhhh mmmyyyyyyy" and then when you let go of your death grip, the inner cable went back out and as your brake liners were a bit sticky, brought the outer with it. You should be able to pop the outer cable back into the barrel adjuster with just some arm strength. Backing the barrel adjuster all the way back into the brake lever (or on the brakes itself) will help. Many brakes also have a detensioner mechanism which is designed to make it easy to detension the brakes (so you can take the wheel off). Once you get it back on, to prevent it from happening again: 

The only way to know for sure (unless you have access to an X-ray machine or ultrasonic tester from your side job ... say at Boeing or Airbus) is to take the paint off and see if it's a surface scratch or deep crack. Since it's a metal bike, sanding it down won't hurt it and if it is a crack, your bike is toast anyway. Aluminum frames can't affordably rewelded like a steel frame. Update: If you have balls or labia of steel and are willing to risk it (WARNING: STUPID ADVICE FOLLOWS) you could mark the endpoint of the crack with a sharpie and carefully monitor its progress while riding gently. If it lengthens or widens, it's a crack. If it doesn't, it still might be a crack. In any case, it'd be highly risky. 

However, many European carriers do not charge any fee at all for bicycles. Conclusion: Flying Versus Renting If this vendor that rents bikes in Italy is any guide, it'd cost about 300 euros to rent a road bike for twos week in Italy. So for an American, the break-even point with the airplane fees (around US$300) is two weeks. For Europeans, it'll almost always be cheaper for the EU-rider to bring their own bike. 

Yes, I've used a variety of folding pedals on my Dahon and Brompton and they're all a bit flexy. I've had plastic ones snap in half on me (and yes, that can be very painful/dangerous). The best ones I've had were all-metal ones in which the axle and folding pedal were both metal. But even those aren't as strong as fixed pedals -- and none of the folding designs are designed for putting all your body weight on (by standing to pedal). This is the MKS FD-7, perhaps the solidest of the folding pedal designs, but also quite heavy: 

An angle grinder with metal cutting disk (or abrasive disk) will remove a U-lock in about 30 seconds. It is shocking how easy it is to cut through the shank. The one consolation is that it does make a lot of noise and a lot of sparks (and requires either a power cord or an expensive battery grinder), otherwise more thieves would be using them. If you do not have access to an angle grinder (and don't want to stop by your local bike shop, auto mechanic, or police station, all of whom will undoubtedly have one), then a hacksaw with a new blade (or two) will eventually cut through, although it may take up to half an hour of vigorous sawing. You should be able to bring over most of your previous components. However, be aware that bottom bracket sizes/types have changed considerably, the caliper distance (reach) and mounting style of brakes have changed, and there are peculiarities to seat tube and front forks based on country and year. Thus, unless you are replacing an early 1990s Italian road frame with an early 1990s Italian road frame (for example), you may find limited component capability. Pedals for almost all recent bikes (except some cheap BSOs and children's bikes) are standardized thread so those will come over fine. Yes, dented frames are dangerous -- especially aluminium and carbon fiber as their failure modes can be quite dramatic. Steel frames tend to fail more slowly (and can be re-welded). 

There are two types of caliper brakes, the side-pull and the center-pull. You have the center-pull but are used to side-pulls. Side-Pull You're used to the side-pull. There, the cable comes to one side and squeezes the arms together. Because it's not symmetrical, it uses the pressure of the brake shoes when full-squeezed to center itself around the single mounting pivot. By design, the entire brake can pivot around that mounting bolt: [ 

If you are building your own kit, you can do whatever the heck you want. The reason pre-built ones have them is both safety and convenience -- you want to know when the e-assist is on for safety reasons, what power mode you're in, and how much power you have left so you're not stuck on the road. Without blinkenlights, it can be hard to diagnose problems, especially on the road. Is your e-assist not working because the battery is low or dead? A bad main power connection? Maybe the brake-cutoff switch is broken, etc. etc. If you are aesthetically against the blinkenlights, you can design your own enclosure that is more modest, use dimmer LEDS or tape over them, or relocate them to make them more discrete -- perhaps under the saddle where you can still check them when problems arise. 

You can ask your local bike shop to drill and tap water bottle mounts for you. With an alu frame the mounts may not be strong enough for water bottles but they are certainly strong enough for a pump, especially with a Velcro backup strap. Do not do this on a carbon frame. :) 

Unfortunately, your fender on your bike as-is is too short to protect your entire body and legs. You could make your own fender extension using milk jugs, wood, metal sheeting, plastic sheeting, coroplast, or any other number of DIY materials. Note: Image is from a website selling a fender for bicycles. 

The quick answer is NO, you can't bend back the fork. Or at least not at a reasonable price. Your bike looks right knackered. You could maybe find a used fork off a donor bike for free or cheap at a bike coop - but you might put said fork on and find your frame is bent. I'd say your bike is what we kindly refer to as a said "donor bike." It's brain dead and its best use is to give up its vital organs to a bike that might be able to use them. Given that it looks BSO quality, the parts aren't that valuable but if your next bike is a BSO, you might want a spare drive set, seat, brakes, or rear wheel. 

Sellers on Amazon.com have a lot of leeway in the naming of their products and advertising script they use. In that sense, Amazon is becoming more and more like ebay. Rather than the feedback (or lack thereof), the technical specs of the light should be warning you to stay away. Powered by only 3xAAAs, there's no way this light is getting more than a few dozen lumens. The AAAs don't have enough amperage and the fact that the light is using 3 of them indicates that it's more or less direct-drive and isn't using any sophisticated buck-boost circuitry. Even the advertising photograph showing it lighting up a trail is fishy. The light on that bike is clearly not the light advertised. It's much larger. If you really want to light up the night, you have to get a light that's powered by something more powerful than alkaline batteries. Most of us with 300+ lumen spots use lights powered by three or four 18650 rechargeable lithium-ions. These can give off a constant 3-4 amps of power each. And yes, reviews are easily faked. 

Note that Shimano repair parts can be expensive and/or impossible to find. It can often be cheaper in the long run to get an entire replacement (in your case, a new hub) rather than just getting the part. For example, for the hub listed above , the replacement inner assembly (Y-2YD98010; which includes the rotors, axle, and power connector) is US$40 on the big auction site while the entire dynamo itself is available for $49. 

Here's a blown up image of the top left two -- a fork-mount adapter and a light mounted on said adapter. Note that this placement is just about where ye' olde friction dynamo lights used to be mounted. 

A big part of what makes the cranks seem "short" is that the bottom bracket height is very high. On one hand, you might argue it helps improve clearance but really it's a function of the design with relatively large wheels. Because the bottom bracket is so high up, your legs can't stretch as far down as they might and so you have to raise the seat height, which then brings in a whole cluster of other problems. Sheldon Brown actually wrote about this problem here: $URL$ 

Center-Pull Your photo shows a center-pull caliper brake. It uses a straddle cable that goes to a yoke (both of these are missing in your example but can be seen below). The straddle/yoke design tends to self-center -- at least if the straddle cable isn't too deformed with age. The brake arms themselves don't pivot around the mounting bolt, but instead pivot on the pivots on the left and right side of the mounting assembly (they had red washers in the photo below). Because of the dual-pivots there is no need for the mounting bolt itself to pivot as part of the brake's normal operation. You can loosen the mounting bolt to recenter by eye and then tighten it back up, but it doesn't float around the center the same way as a side-pull: [ Both images from wikimedia commons. A footnote... Furthermore, I should note that these brake designs from the 1970s were built with much larger brake pad clearances than contemporary brakes. Your shoes might float a good 3-7mm above the rim on either side. Compare that to contemporary brakes which have very close rim clearances, just 1-2 mm. This means that you don't have to be as precise centering with these older brakes -- and you should allow more pad clearance than you might be used to if you have a contemporary bicycle as well. And you'll never get these old brakes to brake as well as a contemporary brake, they will always be weaker and more rubbery in feel. 

I wouldn't use any solvents because you have carbon rims. Hot air is the best solution. Use the heat from a blow drier to gently soften the adhesive to where it will ball up with rubbing from your fingers. If you only have a heat gun, you can use it but be careful as you can literally strip the paint off your rims with it (or cause your rims to deform/delaminate) - so I'd only use the heat gun very lowest setting. A stiff pencil eraser can also help bring up the adhesive. 

Scenario #1 is your best case as a new controller would fix it. But if it were the case, the controller would have blown by now (or gone into thermal shutdown / self protect). Does your bike throw a code and die completely when it tries to take you up a hill? If not, then it’s incapable of doing so even with a new controller - it’s the hub. The most likely scenario is #2 or #3 which are both expensive. Note you can measure the winding resistance if you have a very good ohmmeter that can measure in the low ohm range (a crappy harbor freight won’t work). Your stator resistance should be around 2.4 ohms. If your stator are measuring 6 ohms then your motor can only do 380 stall watts. But measuring low ohm resistance really does take a very good meter as a cheap meter will just be measuring itself or it’s own lead resistance.