I've always wondered if it isn't too unethical afterall to have enclosed my goldfishy in a tiny tank given her extremely small memory span. Assuming that it is shorter than the time it takes her to swim from an end to another, she never really "feels trapped", right? - especially if morality of actions affecting others (in the context of the "harm argument") is intricately linked to consciously felt emotional experiences. Otherwise wouldn't it make sense to then protect things like chairs as well (as long as sentience is what separates moral agents from material things.) Novice philosophy student here. 

If reincarnation is about humans dying and their souls taking on new bodies, doesn't a net increase in human population size contradict it? (I know I'm assuming that non-human organisms do not possess souls but if they did wouldn't that sort of push moral relativism way too far? Because that'd imply non vegetarianism is tantamount to cannabalism or homicide....) {The first is the primary question though you could share views on the other one too!} 

Maybe because you happen to be? All current events are caused by antecedent conditions, so at one level of analysis you can reflect back on the vicissitudes of life that brought you here. But if you're looking for a teleological answer as to why didn't those antecedent conditions play out in a different way out of the infinite possibilities​, you are in for some serious disappointment. It is you who must first justify the assumption that there should/can/must be a higher or bigger (preplanned?) "purpose" to anything at all. 

Two broad reasons come to my mind. A) Reality isn't just social construction. It has to be rooted in certain facts about individual biology and environmental demands. If biology was so insignificant that we could simply brush away existing bodily differences and they'd stop mattering, couldn't we then also simply convince people that they are of a certain sex or gender (for instance the one that popular belief assigns to them)? If one's perception of sexuality and identity were free floating entities "chosen" out of will and wish, then we could just coerce likewise people into believing they were of a certain gender (or by extension, persuade them that they aren't hungry and they'd just forgo starvation ). That's the first reason. Environmental demands that the sexes were differently exposed to from an evolutionary perspective would have lead to systematic sex differences. How "relevant" they are is no doubt a matter of malleability (or plasticity) of nature, degree of systematicity in the different environments and other such complicated factors. (Not to mention that they'd be exceptions to this trend) B) Secondly you need to understand thay social conventions are created to maximise happiness. Stereotypes, howevermuch of a bad word it may be today, are rom a completely neutral perspective only statistical predicitons or trends drawn from probabilistic data about social behaviour. And for all their fallouts, they do at the end of the day help increase efficiency and happiness. Think of any group, say vegetarians. Now it might be good to offer them salad and government policies might be formulated to subsidize salads for them but it is also true that they'd be many exceptions who just despise all kind of salads. Is it unethical to stereotype them and aren't the policies unfair to those who are at odds with the majority group? And that's it: a balance has to be maintained while targeting services or behaviour or products to groups based on the increase in happiness from this targeted/focused approach and the extent to which the members of that group actually share those characterisation (i.e. the reliability of that stereotype). Now, giving scholarships to students' with high SAT scores seems justified (because the statistical trend of high scoring sat takers having proficient academic careers plays out in real life and the benefits of this "discrimination" outweigh any negative externalities). But, disadvantaging people of a certain sex or race (women and blacks for example) depending on the differences in the average intelligence level might not seem such a good idea. I'm not giving any conclusive comments on the justifiablity of these policies but the point I'm making is about the trade offs involved and how these are continuously contested themes. So to summarize: gender matters, it cannot be changed completely out of willingness or political correctness, and it in many ways is a beneficial and productive social practice. 

Because we have much more evidence of the impact of old ideas than we do of the impact (or potential impact) of new ideas. Therefore it's much harder to know the relevance of new ideas and much harder to find any consensus of what will turn out to be important in the future. It is easy to deny an idea's relevance based on the lack of evidence and so many will deny it until it is impossible to do so. Maybe for good reasons, but maybe because of my second explanation for why present philosophers don't appear to be as important as those of the past. People seem much more comfortable giving away credit to dead people than people who are alive. (I don't want to go into the potential psychological reasons for this but there could be plenty of alternative explanations for this phenomenon.) 

I have heard that theoretically you can classify all things you can possibly talk/write about into 3 categories i.e. be, do and have. People and things can be something, do something and have something, but that is it. (Beliefs, experiences and intentions fall under the Have category; we have beliefs, experiences and intentions.) What is the significance of this? Is it true (is it possible to categorize all sentences into these 3 categories with nothing left over)? 

(late edit: I have come to the conclusion that no words (or claims) have 'direct' reference to reality since all words are about people's conception. Words reference particular concepts in people's minds (i.e. the people who used or are using the words). People's conception can then directly (from memories of empirical experiences) or indirectly (though other conceptions) reference reality. By providing definitions of words we try to understand the same concept but in the light of words referencing concepts which are more familiar to us. Preferably concepts we have real life experience with i.e. those that have a more direct references to personal experiences for us. We often continue defining the definitions until our conceptions reference direct empirical experience i.e. some evidence that what we are trying to conceive have some effect in reality according to our past experiences. This is why we can never fully understand things until we have real life experience with it.) I just answered this question about 'Whether a definition is a proposition?' by arguing that it is. My argument is based on one of my most fundamental ideas. It is an argument inspired by Quine, which leads to the claim that there is no fundamental difference between a fact and a definition. "Like other Analytic philosophers before him, Quine accepted the definition of "analytic" as "true in virtue of meaning alone". Unlike them, however, he concluded that ultimately the definition was circular. In other words, Quine accepted that analytic statements are those that are true by definition, then argued that the notion of truth by definition was unsatisfactory. " ($URL$ I will put my argument underneath so you know what I'm talking about, but my question is basically whether it is true or not that both definition claims and fact claims can (and therefore should) be verified and falsified against reality; does anyone know about any useful definitions (useful words) which have no direct or indirect reference to reality (i.e. the physical world); what words, that are not directly or indirectly verifiable against reality, not even hypothetically, do we find useful? "... The way I understand the theory, or my spin on it, is that ultimately all definitions have to be verified and falsified in the physical world just like facts do, since they are ultimately about the same thing; they are about our experiences of reality. When you define words with other words you are at the same time making claims about what is true (i.e. propositions). (side note: a made up a story can have definitions which are not about reality, but they are still about our experiences of reality since they are about a story which exist in a book, online or memory etc.) When you claim that e=mc2 you are both saying that mc2 is a useful definition of energy and that it is true that the function of energy can be determined by these measurements. A more straight forward example; when you say that the earth is round you are at the same time saying that round is a good definition of the shape of the earth and that it is true that the earth is round (it is actually no way near round since we have high mountains and deep valleys). When you attack the argument it can be about definition or fact, but if you change one you will have to change the other in order to stay coherent. If you say that 'almost round' is a better definition of the shape of the earth, then it is also true to you that the earth is 'almost round' and not round anymore. If you conclude that it is true that the earth is round then you are also saying that the shape of the earth is a useful definition of round. An interesting consequence of this is that 1+1 is not necessarily 2. In order to claim that 1+1 is a useful definition of 2 you have to prove it in the physical world. We have a lot of proof since we have added up a lot of apples and bananas throughout history, but there are cases when it is not true. If you add 1 pile of sand to 1 pile of sand you don't get 2 piles of sand, you only get 1. So 1x+1x is not always 2x and so it is not always true that 1+1 is 2 and so 2 is not always a useful definition of 1+1 in the same way that the shape of the earth is not always a useful definition of round (even though sometimes it is). Summary: all definition are propositions because unless you can verify or falsify something which they are supposed to directly or indirectly be about they are not useful definitions because they ONLY try to describe something which does not exist i.e. something which does not have the slightest present or historical reference to reality. What use would 1+1=2 be if it had never been used to verify or falsify any real world events?"