It would be plausible for communication only in absence of verbal language and (maybe) facial expressions. Since humans have language and no-verbal communication (posture, tone, volume of voice, facial expression), there is no need of another communication system. Facial expression in your case is not needed, because bio-luminescence develops in darkness. It would be plausible for attraction. But this kind of solution for attraction usually happens only in enviroments with abundant resources (darkness isn't a place with abundant resources), where a species can waste effort for attraction. That is why birds in jungles are more colorful than birds in tundra. 

Napoleonic wars were the continuation of the French revolution. Therefore, these wars were between the old and new order. All monarchs saw France as a potential danger to them, in the same way as Russian revolution was a danger to other countries during the XX century. So I think the best parallel is indeed the Russian revolution. The Soviet Union didn't try to expand its influence beyond their frontiers and that helped them to survive, even though they were isolated. While Napoleon, by extending his influence beyond France doomed the revolution. Because no prolongued peace was possible, only ceasefires thanks to his military talent. He was a virus that other monarchs must destroy in order to preserve themselves. By 1812 no step back was possible. If any it would have been only another truce. He must defeat completely all other monarchs in order to preserve his empire. 

A volcano eruption might add enough dust to cover the view of the stars and rings. It will also reduce the sunlight if the dust eclipses the sun. The dust does not need to cover the whole sky, because the winds might move the dust to cover only the view to the rings. 

I see these happening automatically given the wide range of opinions on nearly everything, except the last one. Unless abilities are one-in-a-million and relatively new, they will just be a common part of culture. Heritability would stimulate group associations, and stereotyping would further that, however, the most surefire way to implement associations is most likely geographic ability distribution. Some kind of landmark or location bestows abilities in a small radius around itself, whether it covers a town or a country, leads settlers to gradually become affected by -insert ability here-. The fast way: Take a stock super-power, but then add in a caveat that (usually) blows the helping half out of the water. More examples: Subject can quickly understand anything read, but is plagued with short term memory loss, rendering new knowledge generally useless. Shape-shifting normally causes death in the infant stage as it transforms users into their mental images (including non-sentient ones). Some, usually mentally damaged to impair visualization, can eventually grasp the ability, but the risk still remains. 

Awesome stuff is common knowledge Thousands of earth species are all but unknown to most, but the interesting ones (note subjectivity) are usually recognized. You have probably heard of a porcupine, skunk, lion, rattlesnake, funnel spider and plenty of other dangerous or unique animals, but how many have you actually seen in person. In the same way, knowledge of the strange alien ooglyboogly species will become common due to their unique blinding bioluminescence. The mighty strength of the notafillername is something all remember and fear. Amazing accross the universe Not exactly though. Before the final approach of the target planet, careful research is done (basic audience focusing) regarding what exactly impresses the planet's largest species. Some planets won't even be considered in the circus's route because its culture is such a tough crowd. Now as for humans... Being ourselves humans, we set the tone of "average" to ourselves. Other beings would be so drastically different that some mundane actions of ours are amazing in perspective. Just as monkeys are more naturally athletic than humans, humans may be more dexterous, resilient, or intelligent than most other species. 

Maybe your issue here is more a problem of weight and availability instead of a problem of health. A way to protect health would be a cyst around each zone with metal, so that might not be a problem. About the weight. Let's imagine we select iron (poor choice because it rusts, but just as an example). Iron density is close to 7800 kg/m3. So a plate of 5mm of iron (enough for your purpose) of 1 m3 would have a weight of 39.4 kg. Human skin has 2 m2 of surface, so you would need almost 80 kg of iron or its equivalent to cover the body. Other metals can be used, but the weight might be similar. Maybe your creature can keep those 80 kg extra. But here is the main issue: ¿From where that creature is going to absorb that amount of metal? ¿How that metal is going to form a crystal in absence of high temperature? After all, a plate of metal requires high temperature to be formed. Otherwise it would be only a bunch of separated atoms. Hence, what you need is a polymer or a compound instead of a pure metal. Something that can be synthetized at lower temperatures; natural examples are spider silk, tooth enamel, silk or lignin. 

Energy. The amount of energy to convert mass to energy (twice) is huge, remember the formula E=mc2. This means that transfer a 10 tons of mass means 10^20 [J], which is insane. Information. You are not transfering energy, you're transfering information, data related to how mass should be built. A human body has 7*10^27 atoms, while a terabyte are only 10^12 bytes. So the data transfer assuming a single "wire" will need so much time that the system would be useless to transfer more than few molecules. 

Almost all well explored abilities can, with a little creativity, have semi-believable disadvantages just slapped on. Unfortunately, most of the more flamboyant abilities (various kinesis types, shape-shifting), have very powerful advantages and would require even more devastating measures for balance. For most, throwing fireballs is totally worth it for lethargy afterwards. For example: The good: Light telepathy, allowing only for generalized mind reading (like sensing aggravation or lie detection) but nothing as complex as stealing specific thoughts or memories. The bad: Reading someones mind (as described above) takes focus and short range (5-10m) line of sight. Further, all stress, anxiety and likewise conditions of others nearby accumulate on the reader, obviously causing mental instability on most users. 

The first thing to accept is that the human race does not have a single mind. The criteria that helps someone decide not to research these alternate humans will cause someone else to. In other words, there will always be people that want to study them, but there are some countermeasures. It's inhumane As a front-line defense, make sure they have similar biology. Very similar. So similar that any attempt to study them would turn up results exactly the same as any human. In this light, media (and social media) would begin to take over. While this is merely a superficial solution, it will at least halt large scale, public research and overall reduce funding towards like studies. It's illegal Something atrocious happened half a century ago involving horrible experiments on the species. Over the following years, laws were put in place making the suggestion of trying to understand them highly sensitive. Once it's tied up in politics and made controversial, a great amount of support will be needed to change the status quo. It's complex Just make their various abilities too difficult too understand. Maybe the details span with information several orders of magnitude larger. Maybe some as of yet undiscovered scientific principle gets in the way of recording data. Something physically prevents them from grasping their nature. Or maybe passive telepathy bores all the researchers to death.