CC Public Domain from pxhere.com K3 sells hardware to clamp the numbers onto professional bike frames. So that component is "holding" the racer "numbers" on the bike. 

5.06(b)(2) is for force situations and changes which runner would be out when tagged if two occupy a base. 

The ball in the scenario touched a person not over fair territory, but over foul territory. The place it eventually struck the ground after such a contact is not relevant. 

The rule you cite appears to cover the situation when the pitcher starts and then stops the pitching motion or completes the motion but does not throw the ball. It is not explicit here, but it does not cover the situations where the pitcher begins a motion to throw to another base. Other rules (such as 6.02(a)(3) and 6.01(a)(4)) cover them. In the video linked, the pitcher is in position on the rubber, picks up his forward foot, turns, and steps directly toward second base. This shouldn't be seen as violation of 6.02(a)(1). Feints are specifically mentioned and not disallowed when the motion is to second base, so I see no reason for this to be a balk. 

When defining the conditions for a legal offensive formation and for receiver eligibility, there is no mention of where the ball is located. The eligible receivers need to be on the ends, not covered, and wearing appropriate numbers (they are here) and appropriate numbered ineligible receivers must be found between them (also true). It's just that for this play, the ball is snapped by one of the eligible receivers on the end, instead of one of the ineligible receivers in the middle. Handling the snap does not make the player ineligible, or make the formation illegal. See the NCAA Football Rulebook 7-1-4-a (FR-72) for requirements of the offensive formation and 7-3-3 (FR-76) for receiver eligibility. 

stop kicking hard, it's a waste of energy and oxygen. find your natural buoyancy point and swim there. Any effort in swimming UP is not moving you forward. Let you head be all or mostly underwater. Relax. in freestyle (crawl) your body should be rolling side-to-side with each arm pull, so to breathe you are just rolling your face out of the water, not lifting your head. This helps you maintain natural buoyancy and stops you wasting energy swimming up (to raise your head) focus the effort in your arms on moving water behind you, and avoid moving water up, down or to the sides as this wastes energy and creates drag. Keep you body as horizontal as possible. If your feet drop just 10 degrees you're fighting against 2-3 times the resistance as when you are perfectly horizontal. Swim smooth. 

Aquaskine has it, Total Immersion is awesome. Swimming is one of the lovely things in life where you'll get 10x better by doing it smarter rather than trying harder. It breaks down like this: 1. most people waste 95% of their energy (and oxygen) swimming up. Find your natural buoyancy point and swim there. Usually just below the surface with your head down, facing the bottom of the pool. 2. kicking is mostly a waste of energy. Kicking is mostly used to help your body rotate. Just 2-6 beats per stroke. Easy and peaceful. 3. breathing is done by rolling your head, not lifting it. As you reach your arm out in front of you, roll on your side with each stroke. Lifting makes your feet sink and you'll lose momentum and sink more, so roll, don't lift. 4. don't push down (in front) or pull up (in back) with your arms as these cause your feet to sink. Bend your elbows to 90' and only pull water toward your feet, focusing on forward propulsion only, no splash, no wasted energy. 

No. Bert is still entitled to 2nd base (there is no force). So there are no outs to be made on home plate or third (or on first). They need to throw to second. 5.06(a)(2) tells us that the following runner (Adam in your example) would be out if tagged, if both Adam and Bert are on second. 

There are three exceptions listed, but none of them apply in this case since the out at third base is not a force. The MLB rulebook also contains an Approved Ruling scenario that is very similar. 

Offensive statistics rise and fall over time. So to make things easier, I'm just going to look at figures since 2001. (2000 seems to be a bit of an outlier) Baseball Almanac has grand slam totals for MLB by league over the years, but only through 2013. I didn't find a free reference for the stats after that time. Unfortunately the figures dip a bit in the 2011-2013 range, which may be part of a trend that is partially hidden by not having more recent data. In the 2001 - 2013 seasons, there were a total of 1596 grand slams. From Baseball Reference, we can see that each individual team plays about 4860 games each year, or about 63180 games in total. But there are two teams competing at each game, so just under 31600 competitions in that time. (Bryan Turriff pointed out that I had forgotten that you're watching two teams at a time). This gives a 5.0% chance of seeing a grand slam in any random MLB game with similar offensive output. As Philip Kendall noted, this gives us the expectation of grand slams per game. But it is too high if you are simply interested in the chance of seeing a game with at least one slam (since some games may have multiple slams). Fortunately the first reference (Baseball Almanac) lists all games with multiple grand slams, so this can be checked. For the 13 years in question, there were only 15 slams hit in a game that already had one. Removing those 15 slams changes the figure only in hundredths of a percent, so 5.0% is still a reasonable rate.