The knot prevents the rope from feeding through the device while lowering in the case that you mis-judged the distance of the route. Another one I've heard in the past is B.A.R.K. 

If your intending to top-rope with it, or unimaginably lead climb on it, then absolutely not... ever. Polypropylene not only has a super low melting point, but the fibres are a really large diameter, which means they are super susceptible to abrasion, i.e. your rope cutting. It lastly won't stretch when loaded, which is all around bad news in climbing! The only ropes you should ever be using for this type of climbing is those with a UIAA stamp of approval. You can typically find a tag at the end of the rope with various information, including it's certification - but put simply: No tag, no climbing. 

In this scenario, (needing to belay with a broken hand), there is also an auto-locking munter hitch variation, which I actually think is a lot more appropriate. I have seen it set up incorrectly a number of times though, so if in doubt, clove it out. The munter hitch method places a biner on the load side of the rope, and prevents the hitch from flipping around, thus making it auto-locking. Climbing.com has a good write-up on that method here: $URL$ 

It's possible, even feasible, and I'll explain how to do so further down. I'd like first suggest that in the absence of a guide mode loop on your belay tube, your likely going to be better of using another system like the auto-locking Italian hitch, than using your ATC XP or similar. Read here for more information on locking Italian Hitch: $URL$ 

This is a great, and well thought out question! I'll try best as I can to answer as somebody that both climbs, guides, and teaches, but I worry that a correct answer doesn't exist, and at best it'll be an informed answer based on what we currently know. I'll elaborate below.. Question: 

This is simply a Clove Hitch on the belay loop. It could be quite effective to use instead of a belay plate if you can only use one hand because it doesn't require you to hold either side of the rope - it simply tightens and locks up in the event of a fall. The biner is placed where it is to make it easier to loosen the rope with one hand in-case it locks up. Once slightly loosened, you can simply pull the loop (coming from the tail side of the clove) through, and feed it back out to the leader. The reverse is also true if top-roping or using a redirected belay. Having tried this method in the past, I will attest to it being secure; even if a leader falls with slack in one of the loops of the clove, it will lock up appropriately. That said, if you ever need to use this method, I would highly recommend a 3 motion locking biner, or one that doesn't just twist lock. The issue with slack in the clove is the potential for the rope to run along the gate or spine when loaded, possibly cross-loading the biner or unlocking the gate entirely (depending on orientation) and ending up like so: 

Normal tests for these scenario's involve rapidly loading a rope, and in those test cases the first slippage scenario is somewhat rare (provided somebody left a sufficient enough tail, up-to a few feet in some cases). You can mostly expect failures to occur in this situation when the core is already damaged - a quick inspection should be enough to rule that out though. The second case also happens when rapidly loading the rope, and is the cause of failure in tests more often than the first. Unfortuantely, there aren't definitive ways to rule it out as a possibility, and no UIAA standards on slippage when rope is tied in this configuration exist, which leads me to my next answer for the same question. Question: 

Anchor may simply be a check to make sure you are tying in to the correct side of the rope. Belayer is a check to make sure the belay device is rigged correctly (this includes a gate-check for the carabiner), and Climber is a check to make sure the tie-in is done correctly. In our last guide training day, one of the instructors, a long standing-rock guide, used A.B.C.D. 

Reposting this from a Facebook discussion. It's a picture taken from a retail store where they have attached a pin-tag through the rope to prevent theft; a common practice at this location. My gut reaction is to avoid it like the plague, but I have a tendency to treat the rope like it's sacred. Has anyone seen this elsewhere? Would you climb on it? 

There are definitely some "checklist" mnemonics for new climbers, but no standard set. Even among the ACMG & AMGA, every guide and instructor might use something slightly different, or not use any at all. Here is the one I teach new climbers personally. It's rather simple, but it seems to stick. 

Answer: No, not very likely anyway. Not knowing how much force you need to put into the rope before it will start to slip or unwind is enough to deter me from using the single fisherman's. Yes, it does weaken the rope or cord by a certain amount more, but usually even skinny accessory cord is used in a capacity in which it's total tensile strength far exceeds what we are expecting it to load it with. Remember also, if you are joining the same rope or cord to itself, (most common application for this knot), and then loading it, chances are the force is mostly distributed between the two stands, which gives you a higher tensile strength maximum to work with. 

The knot(s) will stay in place, but one of the ends (the yarns) will pull through. The knot(s) configuration will change under tension, slipping over the other side and inverting. 

The simplest and most straight forward solution would be to connect yourself to a ground anchor. If you decide to do this while belaying a lead climber, you might want to let the rope slide a little when they fall, because you will loose the ability to provide a soft-catch by offsetting your body-weight. 

The bell curve in the post you have referenced is simply just a visual representation of some statistics; Namely, the number of climbers the gym serves, that are able to climb at any specific climbing grade. It may look slightly different at each gym, but if you were to add up these numbers yourself and plot them, you could create a similar representative curve and would find some similarities. From a sports science perspective, the largest gains come early on in a sport, so most people don't stay in the absolute beginner zones very long. Since most people aren't elite climbers, you can guess that the intermediate area will have the highest numbers. Here is an example of a simple bar graph, with the blue line representing the bell curve. Hope it helps! 

That said, if you are going to hang it up in your garage or some place similar and use it as a gymnastic climbing rope like the image below, go right ahead! You may even benefit from the knots you'll have to tie every foot. 

Here is a link to the properties of some common materials as further reading: $URL$ Beyond material properties, additional preferences will come from application, and which fabric will be easier to work with. For example, knots are easier to untie from thicker material, so Nylon will be a better choice if you are putting in lots of knots. 

While both materials do have slightly different properties, either one will work in the scenario mentioned. In-fact, any sling with the UIAA stamp of approval will likely have a working strength of 22kn - more force than you will ever be able to generate by falling if being belayed by a rope. The latter part is important, because the rope (among other things) is what will absorb the energy of your fall in this scenario, not the sling. Again, just to elaborate: Your rope is designed to catch the impact of your fall, a sling is not. In the videos presented by DMM you can see what happens when the sling is forced to absorb the impact of a fall, and it's not pretty. The question of what material to choose from will depend on the conditions more than anything else. Materials like Dyneema are lighter, and won't absorb as much water as Nylon in wet weather, making them the ideal choice for applications where weight or weather is a primary concern, like mountaineering for example. They also have the lowest melting point from all the climbing fabrics though, so will probably need replacing sooner. On the other hand, Aramids (Technora, Kevlar etc..) can be just as strong, and have the highest melting point of most materials, upwards of 500C celcius. This makes them perfect for those long rappels, or hauling and rescue scenarios like firefighting. They also happen to have a much worse shelf life when it comes to UV degradation (from exposure to the sun) however. Nylons fall somewhere in between on both counts. Ultimately, any UIAA approved sling can be expected to hold the force of a falling second when being belayed by a rope; and if switching leads, you can always use the climbing rope itself to tie an anchor also.