Eventually, we will probably establish a permanent presence on the Moon and on Mars. Initially, there will be few people, mostly military and scientists, and it will probably be under some degree of coordination by Earth-based superpowers space agencies dedicated mission control centers and perhaps the United Nations. However, as the population numbers increase the diversity in backgrounds, political inclination and worldview is bound to explode. Will each of these orbs be able to retain a unified planetary government, or will they explode into a myriad independent factions, each claiming a slice of land on the new world? 

Depends on how he plays his cards. The medieval world was disgusting, diseased and woefully violent. Being used to the egalitarian principles of modern times, he would treat the nobles as equals, which might result in beheading or in the nobles assuming they're dealing with a fellow noble. If he can't speak the (for him) archaic local language well (might take him months to learn properly) short term survival might be a serious issue. Given that he towers about half a foot over the locals, probably some military job might become available if he's up for it. Even basic high-school mathematics are insanely advanced by medieval standards, his knowledge of chemistry and biology would top the most advanced theoretical skills up until about the 1600 without even trying. The problem would be one of access and persuasion rather than of actually having useful skills. The medieval world is not known for its meritocracy, but for promoting incompetents of noble birth over skilled commoners. So his best bet would be to finagle his way into becoming the assistant of one of the less atrocious nobles. This would be a mutually beneficial deal: his skillset would allow the noble to rise meteorically, while the noble would 'open doors' for our time-stranded traveler. If that happens, the sky's the limit: Royal Doctor (with earth-shattering advice such as "wash your hands with soap before eating, and especially after using the ba... going off into the woods" and using certain kinds of mold to treat the royal children when they're sick.) Head of the Royal Mint (using negative numbers in book-keeping, and, actually, proper book-keeping) Apprentice or Head Weapons Engineer at the Imperial Court (Depending on how much chemistry and physics he remembers) But, most likely, he'd get a digestive tract infection during the first few weeks and die of cholera or some-such. 

There are few examples of radiotrophic ecosystems on Earth. Of those discovered, the radiotrophs are limited to single-celled organisms and unique mutant fungi. The reason seems to be due to a lack of concentrated radiation. The Chernobyl reactor is an energy source similar to a star or steam vent, able to support more complicated organisms. What would be a natural equivalent that would drive high energy ecosystems seen on the surface and deep sea? 

A hypothetical species reproduces by females impregnating males a la seahorses. However, their reproductive system appears woefully ill-suited to this task. Their genitalia are outwardly similar to and compatible with placental mammalian genitalia. The mechanics of copulation are outwardly identical: penetration, friction, and ejaculation on the male's part. How does the ovum get fertilized and delivered to the father's prostate/uterus? UPDATE: It seems the most efficient transfer of genetic material is in one direction only. The feasible alternative to ejaculation or oviposition would be siphoning. 

So you want be electric, son? I gotta tell ya, it'll be a whole evening of cocktails, in a very shady bar. Here, put your finger here. It's gonna pinch just a bit. We need this blood drop to craft the brews, so they'll pass by your antibodies with ease. 

Yeah, it's kinda difficult to answer. Twice I wrote a quick, dismissive answer, to the effect that the planet would be ripped apart by gravitational tides, or have waaay less time dilation than the 61000 factor presented in the movie, and twice now I deleted it. If it were using the physics of a simple 40 solar mass non-rotating black hole, the planet would stand no chance. However, the black hole, Gargantua, seems to be of the supermassive type (i.e. galactic core) and rotating incredibly fast, so the more complicated Kerr metrics rather than the good old Schwarzschild metrics apply. You'd be forgiven to think: larger core, more spaghettification. But that's not actually the case, at least not in the relative proximity of the event horizon of a giant rotating black hole. If you read Kip Thorne's book the Science of Interstellar, he has Miller's world at the outer centrifugal balance point. Even so, the gravitational tides are so intense, the planet is tidally locked to Gargantua, and severely tidally deformed into an oval. The more interesting bit is that since Gargantua is a supermassive black hole, to get the time distortion factor, the planet must be relatively close to the horizon. To be relatively close to the horizon and in orbit, it must move fast. Since Gargantua has about a billion km circumference, the planet must orbit in about 1.5-2 hours (from the perspective of someone on the planet), so about half the speed of light. From the perspective of someone further away from the black hole, the time dilation effects will make the world appear to orbit, ugh, the maths become impossible for me here due to the spinning of the massive black hole, so I'll take Thorne's word for it: it would seem to orbit every 100 miliseconds, appearing to achieve effective superluminal speed. Of course, escaping the Gargantuan gravity well to get the Ranger off Miller's world and back to the mothership would be a task well beyond 21st century technology. This was handwaved in the movie, of course (what was it, neutron star slingshots?). 

What you seem to want is a species whose culture is devoid of prejudice, but your proposed solution of removing all differences is impractical. If every member of the species is indistinguishable, then that would imply they have little to no genetic diversity and this is undesirable if the species is to survive for a long period of time. Furthermore, prejudice may be based on socioeconomic factors and differences of opinion. Addressing this would require removing individuality, which isn't impossible but means their psychology would be fundamentally alien to our own. I propose a few alternative solutions. No individuality The species as a whole lacks any kind of individuality: they all think and act as one. Since they cannot have differences of opinion, prejudice is impossible (anymore than our brains may be prejudiced against our limbs and internal organs). An explanation for this that most readily comes to mind is that the species is eusocial, like some kinds of insects. The species is divided into castes that perform different but equally vital roles, such as labor, combat, reproduction and complex thought. An example of this are the various "bug" civilizations in science fiction, such as Pseudo-arachnids in Starship Troopers, Formics in Ender's Game, and Tyranids in Warhammer 40,000. Empathy communication The species communicates by exchanging thoughts, feelings and memories directly rather than through imperfect intermediaries like writing and speech. This overcomes one of the vital enablers of prejudice: lack of empathy. Since this method of communication is so efficient, compromise is much easier to achieve and prejudice has difficulty taking hold. Any prejudices that survive will probably be held by the entire species and then only because they all agreed it is necessary. Depending of the degree of exchange they might not develop individuality or consciousness in the way humans understand it. At the extreme end they might consider their physical bodies expendable so long as most of their knowledge and memories are preserved elsewhere. An example of such a species would be the "Super Happy People" in the web novella Three Worlds Collide. Eugenics and brainwashing This is probably the exact thing you didn't want, but one possibility is that the species practices an extreme form of eugenics. Long ago most differences in appearance and opinion were wiped out (perhaps by natural disaster, perhaps by war), then the survivors used genetic engineering and brainwashing to create a truly homogeneous society. An example of such a society would be the Fords in Brave New World, the Borg in Star Trek, and the cenobites in Hellraiser. 

Subconsciousness Model Embedding machines in ourselves -- mind-machine interfaces that read our intentions directly can then convert those "intents" into actual machine code, without any conscious direction by us. 

I've spent a good deal of time thinking about this and related problems. The puzzle caused by the multidimensional linkages between growth and technological progress has been a difficult one to crack. You can look up the giants in the field of growth, such as Solow, Ramsey, Simon, Harrod, as well as the New Growth Theory. Production Possibilities Frontier I have come to think that the best framework to start thinking about this issue is through the use of an expanding production possibilities frontier (also PPC). 

That's tough. It's a huge question. Let's see, where to start? The era is actually relevant for several reasons. One is population size. The second is technology level, which matters mostly because it determines the cost and availability of newspapers, books, and communications networks that bring news from abroad and from different regions. Early Renaissance has the printing press and can easily have political pamphlets and newspapers as well. That's great for your democrats. Information must flow. First of all, you'll need a constitution. These are sets of rules that would be virtually unalterable, except by vast super-majorities of the population (at least 66%, and hopefully more). This is vital in order to guarantee things like due process, basic right to life, property rights etc. Thus, a constitution limits the amount of change (damage?) successive governments can effect. Your constitution has to specify the rules of the game. It is vital to have a separation of powers between the executive, legislative and judicial branches, and if possible to guarantee the independence of the Military and the Treasury/Mint. Let's go through the branches one at a time. Judiciary. This normally includes Judges and state Prosecutors. These guys must be free from political influence as much as possible to prevent the judicial branch for being used for personal or political vendettas. This is called the rule of law and is VERY IMPORTANT, possibly the single most important thing there is in a polity. They must assess the constitutionality of the acts of the legislature and the executive. While they have no enforcement power (that'd be the Executive), their words and pronouncements should carry a heavy moral authority. Presumably, your society already has judges and prosecutors. If they're not vampires, give them office for life or something. Executive They are responsible for actually doing stuff. So building roads, canals, aqueducts, schools, hospitals, reacting to natural disasters, going to war, directing the spies and agents abroad, negotiating important alliances and trade relations. Because of the nature of the decision-making process required (swift, decisive action is often required), this will be the most powerful branch, likely comprised of many departments/ministries but ultimately headed by a single person or a small committee. This will likely be the most prestigious branch. One way to reduce a bit the power of (and burden on) the executive is to delegate as much power as possible locally, to villages and groups of villages in the countryside, and wards and city neighborhoods in the Capital. In order to keep your Executive in check, you want to make their funding depend on the agreement of the Legislature, and their actions subject to review (and reversal) by the Judiciary. It is your choice whether you make direct elections for the executive body (I probably wouldn't, at first, to help avoid demagogues that are sure to prey on an unseasoned populace) or have the Legislature elect this person. The nomination can be based on popular signatures, nomination by the Legislature or by some body tasked specifically with this function. Legislature. These men and women represent the voice of the people. Here, you first have to decide who can vote. You can have one-person-one-vote rules, a weighted voting system (based of wealth, birth or professional/social status), limited universal voting (where only a subset of the population can vote, such as only males, but more usually also restricted on income), or restricted voting (where you have a limited set of electors, such as powerful nobles and sometimes rich merchants and industrialists who can vote). Second, you have to decide on how elections are to work. You can have individual districts (restricted geographically) or at-large voting (the whole country is a single district). In each district, you have to decide who wins. You can have US-style plurality systems (whoever wins the most votes wins), a threshold system (must have a certain number of votes in at-large systems or a percent of votes in multi-district, usually 50%). If multi-district, districts are often (not always, see US Senate) similar sizes and elected legislators usually have equal votes. In at-large systems, that's usually the case too, but nothing could stop you from making voting power equal to votes cast for them, up to a certain threshold, say 5-10% of total votes in the legislature. You can also have a lowest threshold for representation, and have all the wasted votes redistribute proportionally as extra voting power for the elected. Once you've sorted out electorate and elections, you have to decide structure of legislature (one chamber, two?), term lengths and term limits (if any). Do all the legislators need to get re-elected at the same time, or (like in the US Senate) 1/3 every 2 years? Treasury - To prevent debasement of the coinage, inflation and other bad things, there must be a degree of independence. Perhaps very long terms, or judicial protections from executive and legislative meddling? Military - This is the biggest worry. In history, most democracies and republics fall to military coups and demagogues. Often charismatic military leaders ARE demagogues (See Venezuela, Chavez). The military has lots of hard power (they can kill and kidnap people), so they can generally silence domestic opposition if they so choose to. A tradition of non-intervention in politics by the military is most helpful. It's doable though. Venice stayed coup-free for almost 500 years. You may also want to read this anti-coup primer. 

All organisms on Earth reproduce by one or more of fission, budding, vegetative propagation, sporogenesis, fragmentation, gamogenesis, or agamogenesis. How could an organism reproduce using none of these methods? The first thing that came to my mind was manufacturing or viral infection, but I don't wish to rule out other options. (By manufacturing I mean a biological equivalent of industrial manufacturing or 3D printing. By viral I mean the parent injects a virus into a host which instructs it to grow more infector.) 

Humans are derived from arboreal shrew-like animals that survived the cataclysm which wiped out the larger dinosaurs. As far as I am aware this series of events is entirely the result of chance. Would being marsupials have adversely affected the development of heuristics, tool use, civilization, etc? 

Establish an electricity supply. This can be hydro power, coal, gas or even wood and chaff powered. This will allow a whole host of technologies that will make your people richer, stronger and more secure. Establish outposts with radio access. This can be done either by scavenging and repurposing old radios from police and army bases, or by building primitive ones from leftover copper wire and primitive batteries. This will allow the towns to be in radio contact and prevent the raiders any chance at surprise. As an added bonus this might help you contact and recruit some of the (hundreds of?) thousands of hunter-gatherer survivalists that might still have working crank-based radio transmitters/receivers in their remote cabins. Establish a united authority. The extent of this will greatly depend on your surviving population density. Without heavy industry (which you won't have for a while) the effective transport range is rather limited by bikes, converted diesel trucks that run on impure oil and horses. Large scale maintenance (highway infrastructure) is out of the question. This can be done by conquest, but most people will still remember and long for the old national states, so the state-building indoctrination does not have to start from zero, so you could have states voluntarily form. This will allow a limited degree of specialization. Start dedicating surplus resources to education and medical infrastructure, before the generation of people with the engineering and medical knowledge is lost, and before damage to extant libraries renders all materials there unreadable. Create the rudiments of an industrial infrastructure. Again, depending on how much of the existing infrastructure you can reuse, you can do a lot of automation, even with relatively primitive electric control systems (mind you i said electric, not electronic). Mining, refining and metal-casting and plastic-casting could then commence. Weapon manufacturing will definitely be a priority. Perhaps even very basic electronics could be in range. Breed like rabbits. Goes without saying, and the motivations of survivors of the calamity will probably be similar to those of Nazi concentration camp survivors. Probably will result in a few centuries of patriarchal domination, but it's the lesser evil. As @MarchHo comments below, your people (if few enough) may need to set up a system to avoid future inbreeding. 

An Earth-like planet has two moons. One is a natural satellite similar to ours which causes tides and eclipses. The second is an artificial planetoid sitting at Lagrange point L2, the relic of an ancient empire. Due to its position the planetoid always rises a set time after sunset. From the surface of the planet the planetoid appears similar to our moon and even has phases. What would be the necessary radius to appear this size? What is the upper limit on its mass to be caught within L2 and is the resulting density feasible? Could the planetoid rotate under its own gravity? What surface composition would result in one side appearing bright and the other dark? 

Silver and werewolves were linked only recently. The specific instance of werewolves being vulnerable to silver appears to originate from the 1935 movie Werewolf of London. Prior to that film, werewolves and silver were not linked in folklore nor the popular imagination. However, the concept of werewolves being vulnerable to silver is recounted in the 1863 book Curiosities of Indo-European Tradition and Folk-lore by Walter Keating Kelly. There it is said that throwing iron or steel at a werewolf will cause it to turn back to a man and that werewolves which are otherwise invulnerable may be harmed with inherited silver and elder pith. In the 1987 movie Monster Squad, a group of teenagers initially disbelieve that a werewolf is invulnerable to harm from non-silver sources. They test their hypothesis by using dynamite to explosively dismember the werewolf. The werewolf not only survives but slowly and gruesomely reassembles its body. It is finally killed by a silver bullet to the heart. 

While Norway is not technically an EU member state, it is part of the Schengen Area, so in effect passport-less travel for your Polish citizens. When you get to Longyearbyen, talk to the Governor, Odd Olsen Ingerø (he's a charming fellow), and get a few small boats and a few ATVs. Tell them it's a high-volume renewable energy experiment or something. Show them some grant application papers with EU stamps on them. I'm sure you'd find a few dozen people there who'd pitch in with transport, for a modest fee. If they don't cooperate, talk to the local Russians. Bring plenty of good Polish vodka. US and Russian satellites will probably capture the thermal flash, although, with a bit of effort, you could time it to their flight patterns looking for a gap. The seismic stations will likely still capture it, but since Svalbard is part of the High Arctic Large Igneous Province, earthquakes and even a bit of volcanism are expected. Note that a sudden input of 100kt TNT equivalent ($ \approx 5\times10^{14}J$) of energy into the atmosphere and nearby ground will create a blast shockwave, regardless of the source of the energy. Perhaps keep that in mind for story purposes. 

The species is simultaneously hermaphroditic (but not capable of self-fertilization) because their ancestors rarely found mates and had to ensure that they would reproduce every chance they got (Source). I suppose their ancestors were solitary tool users similar to cephalopods (Source). By the time they developed sapience and a social structure, their reproductive cycle was too entrenched to go away (similarly to how tetrapods, like us, cannot become hexapods despite the advantages). In fact, humans are genetically hermaphrodites because males and females both have the genes for becoming male or female (Source). Sometimes these genes are expressed incongruously and an individual will display both male and female traits, but such individuals are generally sterile. 

How plausible is such a life cycle? What initial circumstances and selection pressures would lead to its development? 

Why go for animal tissue, when the plant tissues can more easily be adapted? Advantages are that trees can pretty much feed themselves, they build their own foundations, insulation and all the like by default. Less Genejacking required that way, and probably lower energy costs (since you don't have to feed your house 20 gallons of chicken soup every 5 hours)... As to the considerable proportions, just think about the redwood forests - i think anyone can agree those are rather considerable proportions. 

Your Setting is in an unstable equilibrium: Effect 1: The rare Male Magicians are kept far from the battlefield for preserving the breeding stock and coddled as noble rulers, magical researchers, or acting as prestige body-guards. Women mages mage up the combat brigades, acting as high-end shock-troops, fireballing left and right. Effect 2: The percentage of magic-capable as a fraction of the population will increase in every generation, if each male mage is allowed/compelled to have relations with all of the 65 mates or so that are numerically available to them. If female mages dominate politics this may change, as alliances of women might hoard magic-capable males in 'stables' of males kept exclusively for the ruling females. This will also depend on the battlefield death-rates. See next points. Effect 3: Alliances of female mages utterly dominate politics. If 1000 women have as much military power as 1 million soldiers, that sort of thing is only to be expected. Effect 4: If wars tend to cause light casualties (1-5% of the mage force for the losing side, say due to mages fleeing magically or having a magical defense advantage of some sort that gets them out of trouble) rather than heavy (50%-100% for the loser, if mages are particularly squishy, especially to their own magic), magic will become more and more widespread until it is either dominant or wars become far more frequent and deadly for the mages. The OP has still have not made clear a few points: