It's perfectly possible for someone to believe that morality is not for them. Overall, it does not pay, they decide. So, they reason, morally good things are exactly inimical to their self-interest, and therefore (judging what is good for them purely in terms of self-interest) the (morally) good is not the (self-interested) good. From this viewpoint, 'doing "good" things is not good'. It is also, less dramatically, possible to regard what are commonly regarded as 'good things' as not really good at all. They are products of self-consciousness, careless thinking, or whatever. So if these are the 'good things' in question, doing "good" things is not good. 

I would ask him why (if he knows) we have two ethical texts, the Nicomachean Ethics and the Eudemian Ethics, with three shared books. And as a related rider, which represents most accurately his settled views. I might also ask how he found Alexander (the future Great) as a pupil. 

Taking (or otherwise assimilating) vitamin C is sufficient to prevent scurvy if it can never be the case that X takes vitamin C and X gets scurvy (subject to a specified time period). Taking (or otherwise assimilating) vitamin C is necessary to prevent scurvy if it can never be the case that X gets scurvy despite taking vitamin C (again subject to a specified time period). In the terms in which your question is set, the answer seems then to be that taking vitamin C is both necessary and sufficient to prevent scurvy. However, there is a sufficient condition within the sufficient condition : only if X takes a sufficient amount of vitamin C will scurvy be prevented. Also the necessity condition works only if a sufficient amount of vitamin C is applied in the prevention. An insufficient quantity of vitamin C is not necessary to the prevention of scurvy since it won't prevent scurvy at all. Nice question. 

I would not so readily dismiss the supposedly antediluvian work on Marx published in the final decades of the 20th century. As to the injustice of the extraction of surplus value, Robert Tucker offers a wholly plausible explanation : 

We don't know how far any of Plato's dialogues reflect the views of the historical Socrates. We do know that in the 'Republic' 'Socrates' has no problem in finding a proper and important role for warriors in the polis. His military experience has certainly not driven him to pacifism. If anything in the 'Republic's depiction of the ideal polis bears the imprint of Socrates' military experience, or of Plato's impressions about it, it eludes me. Perhaps a more relevant dialogue is the 'Laches' in which reference is made to Socrates' military service. At 181a-b Socrates is portrayed as a courageous and honourable soldier in the retreat from 'Delium'. The same incident is mentioned in 'Symposium' 221a-c where Socrates is represented as cool, unpanicked, efficient, and brave. There is no indication in the dialogues that Socrates was psychologically harmed or otherwise affected by his military experience. In Laches he uses that experience as material for reflection. In spite of what others have said of his courage, he claims not to know what courage is and is soon usefully busy in seeking its definition. Military experience like everything else is grist to the philosophical mill. 

1 There's a difference between being 'accessible' and being 'known'. Everything might be accessible, knowable, to everyone about everything about everyone else - but not actually known. In the gap between the known and the knowable there is room for de facto privacy. 2 Simply knowing that I have a thought tells you nothing about my relation to that thought - whether I believe it to be true, am entertaining it as a fantasy, hallucinating, working out what can be deduced from it or estimating what is probable in the light of it. Ah but, someone might say, everything about your mental processes and states is transparent, so we could easily know what your relation was to your thought. Not so : my relation to a thought is embedded in a nexus of indefinitely many other thoughts. To understand my relation to it you would have to embark on understanding a virtual infinity of other thoughts. The task can never be completed, and where it falls short privacy is preserved. 3 'A thought' -a single thought - is a mere abstraction : it is like a Russian doll, informing every thought is a vast complexity of concepts which give it its sense or meaning. Consider how many concepts - zooloogical and cultural - are involved in thinking of a dog. This is another virtual infinity which practically guarantees a degree of mental privacy. 

I long ago found Keith Ward's work suggestive and even explicit about the purposiveness and teleology in which human life is involved. I would not normally quote so much but your question merits an answer, I'm under pressure of time, and Ward expresses what I would say anyway. As an answer it is perhaps better than no answer. REASON AND NATURE 

In the Meno a slave-boy solves a problem in geometry merely, Socrates claims, as a result of question and answer aided by a drawing in the sand. No information - knowledge - was imparted to the boy yet at the end of the question and answer session he has geometrical knowledge. He has it but he did not gain or acquire it, for he received no instruction. Socrates seeks to explain the situation via his idea or doctrine of recollection or anamnesis : 

God does not necessarily exist (assumption for reductio) If God does not necessarily exist, then it is conceivable that God does not exist It is conceivable that God does not exist (by 4 and 5) If a thing can be conceived as not existing, then its essence does not involve existence (I, Axiom 7) God's essence does not involve existence (by 6 and 7) God is a substance (I, Definition 6) If anything is a substance, then its existence involves essence. (I, Proposition 7, Demonstration) God's essence involves existence (by 9 and 10) God necessarily exists (by 8 and 11) 

How the field should be constructed or conceived Here you will have to explore the major texts to get a sense of what makes best sense to you - what appears most fruitful. Here's my advice on where you might start : Justin Cruickshank, Raphael Sassower, Democratic Problem-Solving: Dialogues in Social Epistemology ISBN 10: 1786600919 / ISBN 13: 9781786600912 Published by Rowman Littlefield International, United Kingdom, 2017 Vincent F. Hendricks, Social Epistemology: 5 Questions ISBN 10: 8792130534 / ISBN 13: 9788792130532 Published by Automatic Press Publishing, 2014 Rebecca K. Webb, A Conflict of Paradigms: Social Epistemology and the Collapse of Literary Education ISBN 10: 0739117564 / ISBN 13: 9780739117569 Published by Lexington Books, United States, 2008. Steve Fuller, Social Epistemology (Science, Technology, and Society), ISBN 10: 0253352274 / ISBN 13: 9780253352279 Published by Indiana Univ Pr, 1988. Raymond Boudon, The Crisis in Sociology: Problems of Sociological Epistemology (European Perspectives: a Series in Social Thought & Cultural Criticism) ISBN 10: 0231051786 / ISBN 13: 9780231051781 Published by Columbia Univ Pr, 1981. The doyen of social epistemology is Steve Fuller. I suggest his book, despite dating from the late 1980s, is the best place to start. 

I am not sure about the exact line of thought here. Probably my fault. But if it is an illusion that one is one's mind and an illusion (generated by the mind) that one is an ego or self, the question naturally suggests itself : to whom or what do the illusions occur ? Who or what is 'illuded' ? There can't be an illusion without something that has it. What is the 'one' that is not its mind and is not an ego or self ? What remains to have the illusions ? If 'one' is itself an illusion, the question recurs : to whom or what does the illusion of being 'one' occur ? REFERENCES J. Cottingham, Descartes, Oxford : Blackwell, 1986, ch. 2. Alan Tomhave, 'Cartesian Intuitions, Humean Puzzles, and the Buddhist Conception of the Self', Philosophy East and West, Vol. 60, No. 4 (OCTOBER 2010), pp. 443-457. 

Kant's primary emphasis in his ethical writings - certainly the Groundwork and the Critique of Practical Reason - is on our rational nature. Just as theoretical reason works on unconditional, universalisable rules (such as modus ponens in logic), so practical reason should display an analogue. It too should operate under unconditional, universalisable rules. Two examples of these are the two formulations you quote of the CI. Practical reason in the sense that is central to Kant's ethical theory is not instrumental, means/ end rationality - the calculation of efficient means to clearly conceived ends. Kantian practical reason is about consistency. 'Act only in accordance with that maxim which you can at the same time will that it become a universal law' (Groundwork, 421 : M. Gregor tr.). One way of putting it is to say that the CI embodies rationality in the sense of mutual consistency : we can all act on the CI without mutual self-defeatingness or conflict. (Just as we can all use modus ponens in theoretical reason without its causing conflicting views.) Kant's view is that there is a co-incidence between the consistent conduct (personal and interpersonal) that the CI requires and the conduct required by morality - at least by ordinary moral thinking. This is a major part of the point of his four moral examples in the Groundwork. What the CI rules out or requires, so too does ordinary moral thinking as embodied in the four examples. He does not, so far as I can see, explain the nature of this co-incidence. He presumably doesn't see it as purely chance, a mere contingency, but he also doesn't show how the requirements of the CI and of ordinary moral thinking necessarily co-incide. He assumes that they do. There are reasons to doubt that they actually do so. It is not at all clear that if the CI does rule out suicide (G 421-2), for example, ordinary moral thinking agrees in condemning suicide in Kant's unconditional terms. There is a further point. In Kant's view the summum bonum, supreme good, for humanity is the combination of virtue and happiness. But there is no rational connection, certainly no entailment, between acting on the CI and achieving happiness in the present life. Indeed, happiness may be defeated through the fact that the CI can and often does require us to act contrary to self-interest. Since it is rational to desire at our supreme good, the summum bonum, acting morally can be irrrational because it requires us to act against our own happiness insofar as it bids us act contrary to self-interest. Kant recognises that the pursuit of self-interest has a kind of rationality even though it falls low in the scales vis-a-vis the consistency embodied in the CI. Also happiness includes self-interest (which is not the same as selfishness) and is recognised as a part of the summum bonum. Kant's response to this problem, namely that acting morally, acting on the CI, does not guarantee happiness, so that the summum bonum is not necessarily within our grasp in the present life - indeed, seldom is so - by arguing for the rationality of faith in God, the afterlife and the immortal soul. In the afterlife, happiness and morality coalesce. God puts together what an imperfect world has separated. The trouble is that in the Critical Philosophy the existence of God, the afterlife and the immortal soul are all unprovable. What Kant calls rational faith, some others would regard as wishful thinking. There are Kantian atheists and Kant cannot demonstrate that his post-mortem reconciliation of happiness and morality is anything more than a desideratum (a 'nice if') rather than a fact. Hope this helps. I'll try to clarify if anything looks obscure or false to what Kant says. 

There are no authorities in philosophy, so appeal should not be made to them. No matter how clever, even brilliant, and widely admired, a philosopher is, he or she is only as good as the arguments that can be used to support his or her position. To attempt to push anything through on the grounds that 'Marx said that' or 'Russell said this' is the wrong way - or one of the many wrong ways - to do philosophy. Usually when this kind of appeal to authority is made, one is in no position to check the claim that Marx did say this or Russell that. Either the reference is vague or, if precise, one cannot halt the argument to verify the claim. (Part of the pragmatics of argument.) It might matter to check the claim now, before a chain of bad argument has unfurled further. 

The 'basic idea' occurs to a solitary individual, Nietzsche, isolated from 'people and time'. A tentative thought is that the basic idea was conceived as being for Nietzsche's sole guidance and not as a message to the world.