Depending on where you are applying, I would not worry about your last name too much. Many (most?) people from countries where Slavic names are not common do not understand what the 'ova' suffix means. In the US, for example, there are quite a few women of Polish descent with last names ending in 'ski' rather than 'ska' and most are probably unaware that the ending is 'incorrect'. Given that the requirement to make names gender neutral is restricted to hiding first names, I think it is safe to assume that whoever posted the ad is unfamiliar with Slavic last names and the fact that they can reveal the person's gender. 

One easy solution would be chat. Having to type to talk to a person sitting next to you might seem weird at first, but: 

One cup and one plate per person. Seriously, nothing else works. Hide cups and plates (in case you need them, for a customer or something) and only leave one cup and one plate per person. People will either start cleaning up for themselves or for others if they want to use them. I've done it twice, and it worked both times. The first time people started cleaning up for themselves, the second time they started bringing plastic cups and plates from home. In any case, the kitchen was clean. 

If you want to continue to grow as a developer, there comes a point where your individual contribution alone is not enough to continue advancing. Having ever more technical knowledge and solving ever more technically challenging problems are good, but too much of that alone will get you labeled as a cowboy coder. Making yourself irreplaceable by holding knowledge or obfuscating your work may give you job security, but it will limit your advancement possibilities. Eventually, you will be measured by how well you can technically lead a group of developers or set the technical direction that others follow. Being able increase team velocity by mentoring junior developers, sharing knowledge to help overcome impediments or generally improve practice are important components to this. In short, keeping things to yourself may help you in the short term, but it will limit you in the long term. 

A very popular choice in Europe is the Europass, an initiative of the European Commission's Directorate-General for Education and Culture. Other than a standard CV, the Europass offers tools for: 

If your current status is "waiting for Joe to finish what he's working on", then Joe (and everyone else on the team) should know about it. It's your manager's / scrum master's responsibility to either help Joe finish a bit faster, or find you something else to do while you wait. That's what stand up meetings are all about, keeping the team informed of every member's current status. 

Arguably the simplest form of gamification would be a friendly contest. It could be anything, as long as it's work related, fun, and not too competitive. Fun rewards could range from silly t-shirts to books, nothing too pricey, you don't want people to get fixated on the price. The contest topic should be something related to the current goals of the company / team / project, whichever applies most, and it shouldn't be anything more serious than a friendly challenge. Whoever fixed the most bugs this week gets a silly t-shirt it's quite different than whoever comes last will be fired. Next you could have some kind of leaderboard, if your work has easily quantifiable aspects. To continue with the bug fixes examples, whoever fixes the most bugs each week gets a gold star, or any other silly achievement token you can think of, and every now and then the leader gets a price, bit more pricey than a book (two books?), or a couple of days off work. It would be impossible to come up with specific guidelines for gamification, as the process is entirely subjective (what's fun for me may not be fun for you), and quite dependent on the nature of your profession and the dynamics of your workplace. For example, there were gamification elements in every job I had, even in the strictest and most disciplined environment I had to face, the army. Getting a bit more recreation time than the rest of my company for disassembling and re-assembling my Heckler & Koch G3A4 in record time (don't ask, I don't remember) would be one example. And, of course, no answer on gamification would be complete without a mention to Stack Exchange. Chances are there is (or there will be) a Stack Exchange for your niche, and if you think about it, it's a ready made gamification platform for your company. Have your team mates compete by providing excellent answers or asking great questions, and use the existing reputation / badge mechanisms to quantify their contributions and reward them. If you are a manager, you can always spice things up a bit and ask questions on work related issues yourself, rewarding employees that would give you great answers. What you need to remember is that gamification is not about getting direct and immediate results, but mostly about having fun. Small and frequent rewards, preferably awarding the less illustrious aspects of the job (think: documentation), and always light hearted in nature, as the core concept behind gamification is encouragement and further engagement, not competition. Further reading 

For someone like this, where common practices such as getting things in writing or confirming receipt are not working, there is not much to do. It sounds like you already have plenty of documentation (e.g. signed purchase order with the 800 pound / day rate) of his behavior. I think at this point you need to initiate a discussion either directly with him or with his boss about his behavior and how it impacts your work. 

Your thought process seems pretty reasonable. I would call or send an e-mail to your contact in the company and explain the situation as you have here: 

You should have a one-on-one conversation with your supervisor to discuss the issue directly. You can say that you have heard from others that she has concerns about your wardrobe. You can express that you would like to understand her concerns and see what you can do to address them given your personal constraints. You can also say that you have heard of negative comments about your appearance she has made to others and that you would appreciate if she would address those to you first so that you have an opportunity to respond. 

A few of my colleagues have a tendency of sending a variety of off topic emails, ranging from the usual "funny" stuff to serious, but still not work related stuff. I really don't like that, my inbox is extremely busy as it is, other than the usual work related emails I get a ton of automated emails, from our PM software, our build & deploy services and a couple other bots. On top of that, I'm working remotely, and email is my main method of communication with the company. I could be deleting all the crap as they come, but that's not really a solution if they just keep coming. A messy inbox leads to messy search results, every time I don't delete a "funny" email, it just pops up in a search result six months later. Email search being as inefficient as it is, this becomes very tiresome after a while. How can I, once and for all, put an end to the madness? Most of my colleagues are IT professionals, I feel that they should be very accustomed to email culture, and I really don't understand why any of them would feel the need to share the latest cute kitty picture they fished out of Reddit with the whole IT department, or why they don't just send it to my personal email. Working remotely also means that I'm at a disadvantage when it comes to one on one discussions. Small clarification: "co-worker" includes management, up to the top of the hierarchy. Not the main culprits, but it's not unreasonable to think that they enable the behaviour by setting a bad example (once in a while). 

First, you should politely remind your boss that you made non-refundable plans based on his prior approval. Next, it would be a good idea to see if you can find a positive solution to the dilemma. For example, can you do some additional preparation work in advance so your presence is not needed? Can you arrange for a coworker to take your place? Can you be on call at specific times while at the festival? If your boss still insists that you cancel your plans, then you can request to be compensated for canceling your plans and/or you can threaten to leave your job for something else. Given the long lead time between now and the festival, there is a reasonable chance that the company's plans or timelines will change in the mean time. Depending on how strongly you feel, you might wait longer to see if they will change before forcing the issue. You might also use the large time window to look for a new job and make them aware that you have previously made plans for that week that you cannot change. 

How do you avoid discussing anything non work related at work? The interest around politics may have peaked after the debate in the US, but in Greece politics (and more specifically the economy) is what everyone is interested in discussing for at least the past couple of years. You'd imagine that it would be far more difficult for us to avoid such discussions, but it really isn't. Just don't talk about politics yourself, and politely excuse yourself from the company when someone else starts the discussion. Coincidentally I've worked in two environments which can be considered polar opposites when it comes to discussing politics, one was a town hall (where politics were actually our work) and the other was the Army (where discussing politics is strictly forbidden). Couple of years after I left my position at the town hall, that involved regular meetings with elected officials, my co-workers there were surprised to find out that (at the time) I was a supporter of a minor opposition party. I had spend nearly seven years in an environment where politics were all there was to talk about without disclosing my own affiliations. I just never talked about it ;) Every workplace is different, but I don't think that in a typical workplace there's much room or time for non work related discussions. Certainly we all take a break once in a while, and we all might get caught in an uncomfortable discussion around the water cooler, but those discussions tend to be short (how long can your break really be?) and easy to evade. My standard excuse when things start getting uncomfortable, or I'm simply not interested in the discussion, is that... I have to get back to work. Simple, isn't it? 

The key message is: you should not be the team police officer. Instead, you should introduce them to some good practices, potentially through Lunch and Learn sessions or similar, and then see if you can get them to agree together to try some out. You will likely need management buy in for some of these. Most of the bad practices you want to avoid are covered in teams I work with by automated checking or self-selected, self-enforced group policies. For example, we have automated tools in the build that do static code analysis and report warnings when things are not properly checked. We collectively agree on enforcing a zero warning policy and the builds are monitored (by the team) to ensure compliance. Code reviews are instituted as standard practice: every change set is reviewed by another developer. In this way, no one is singled out for closer scrutiny. 

I'm guessing that's part of a casual conversation. Well, it's summertime, and a security audit is a long and painful process, so I completely understand where your colleague is coming from. That said, it's a necessary process, and probably an urgent one, since you've already identified some issues, and the developer did everything but outright admit that there are further issues. If you doing your job creates friction between the two of you, well, then it's probably time for management to intervene. However, I strongly believe that a team fails as a team, and really don't appreciate the blame game. Before you do anything you really need to be absolutely certain that you aren't overreacting over something that was more of a casual and possibly humorous comment than an actual request for you to postpone / dismiss the security tests. 

The high road in this particular case would be to first convince your coworker that you have a valid argument against what he proposed, and then, together, approach your manager about revising the decision. 

If you're expecting anything other than 40 hours per week to appear in their time sheets, then it's something to consider carefully. Computer work does not usually require physically using the keyboard and mouse 8 hours a day / 40 hours week. If someone clocks in at 10:15am, there is a good chance that they spent at least 15 minutes thinking about how to solve their current problem sometime between midnight and 10:15am. Focusing on such minute details is likely to lead to lower productivity, lower motivation and lower quality.