While it is true that alcohol disinfects, it is also a poor hydration source. First beers (e.g. in Egypt) were low alcohol content, even kids could drink it, and they were mayor protein/nutrition source while being more or less germless. You can argue that this is already a hygienic use. Southern and Middle Europe wine was much more available for drinking (Greeks and Rome in Ancient times, and later all the area during middle ages), but they diluted wine with water for regular consumption. Since wine has very low nutrition value compared to beer, we can argue that diluted wine consumed in large volume in daily bases is mostly a water-substitue / refreshing drink. 

About the particular example: Wheat and other grains have high nutrition value and dandelions not. You need to eat several kilo of dandelion to cover your basic calorie needs. 40Cal/100g, that is 400Cal /kg. You need to eat 5 kg if you are an office worker sitting all the day. But most probably you would be pretty sick in the first day if you can finish that, and you wouldn't be able to digest even that amount of calory due to the enormous amount of fiber it has in it. Also, dandelion do not grow everywhere, hard to collect, even harder to store. Most leafy veggies are originally poisonous, and needed domestication + cooking to make them edible. Wheat, corn etc are practically grass. Saying that dandelion is more common than grass is kind of arguable. All agricultural society based on domestication of grains and starchy roots/vegetables. Corn, potato, rice, wheat, malt etc. For the simple reason people needed calorie and protein. Dandelion has neither. Those people were not looking for loosing weight fast or something healthy and hipster to eat with their pizza. They were looking for survival. 

I am not a chicken expert, but just as with other animals or with human, pigmentation may affect not only hair/fur/feather, but skin, too. For example, dogs and pigs generally have big patches of pigmented skin often under their darker fur. That being said with some googling you can find chickens with eg. black skin (some black chicken from China called Silkie Chicken: wikipage of Silkie ). Blue (or bluish gray ) skin can easily be some local variation of this chicken or a similarly colored breed. 

Since the notion of nation-states is rather new, I would say that there are many candidates for this title from ancient times. 

From comment to answer: The starch and protein (e.g. gluten) content and composition of each grain types are different, even between different wheat types. For example, most wheat types of middle ages in Europe did not contain enough gluten and were not suitable to prepare bread! Wheat was often eaten cooked as polente or with water similar way as outmeal, instead of bread, depending on region and the type of wheat there. Even nowadays bread-flour (hard flour)is made from a given, high protein content wheat, while other wheat types used for other meals (e.g. durum for pasta). 

First off all, these movements exist in France, too, just see how France ironed and blended smaller regions like Alsac or Occitania to a more uniform French nation. Such kind of national movement was already present during e.g. the French revolution, where the properly cohesive force was the national identity. What you forget, your examples about national states where state boundaries were significantly different from national boundaries and/or nations with no independence/own states (unlike in case of France). Slavs were never even close to have a unified, big empire, not small part because slavs do not speak the same language, and also national identity existed even from the start: just take a look at Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia... Panslav movements (much like Italy or Germany) was just a way to justify independence from the feudal structure at that time, justify an opposition or to justify the Russian influence. Not accident that Poland was generally less enthusiastic about panslav ideology. Italy or Germany was also just a concept, to gain political influence over an extended region when present feudal structures were unable to hold them. It is not only about languages. Just as France did not melt in every French speaking region, Germany did not include Austria, german-speaking Switzerland, Luxemburg, Netherlands (local German dialects are rather close to Dutch), in spite many of these regions are traditionally part of Holy Empire or the Habsburg Empire and culturally very close to Germany. Let me also point out that XIXth century Europe, especially Central and Eastern Europe, were not ethnically that clear as most people retrospectively think. Most ethnics were mixed all over the place: the previous centuries filling the villages with settlers due to larger population movements following the wars and plagues, and as well as towns. Most town population e.g around the Austria-Hungarian Monarchy were bi or trilingual. 

The transition from Bronze Age to Iron Age in Europe occurred later than the transition in the Middle East. It started in the south and gradually worked its way north. It was most certainly a period of bloodshed, but then that's been true of most of european history, hasn't it? You might imagine pitched battles of armies, one outfitted in old bronze swords facing down adversaries all wielding new iron swords thanks to their closely guarded secret iron smelting technology, the latter of whom proceed to decimate the bronze users, slicing swords in half and so on. But... this probably didn't happen. 

As can be seen from this small sampling of Bronze Age civilizations, villages were common, with the largest settlements being on the scale of a medieval castle rather than a true town or city, with Crete being the major exception. 

The "Anasazi" colonized a fertile basin, grew to large numbers, and then collapsed when they maxed the carrying capacity of the land (perhaps coupled to a climate change event). They took to the cliffs and struggled to maintain their lives and religion as they fought with one another. But eventually nature proved the better, and they were forced to move to new lands -- the Pueblo Indians and Hopi of today. 

On the topic of the Aztecs, an intriguing book on this subject is Aztec Warfare: Imperial Expansion and Political Control, by Ross Hassig. The Aztecs were an extremely war-like civilization, that were constantly attacking and subjugating their neighbors. Interestingly, though, their style of warfare was quite different from what we are familiar with from western european history. For the Aztecs it was all about taking prisoners. The more prisoners you could bring home to sacrifice to the gods, the higher your standing. Thus, weaponry, tactics, and military strategy were all geared around maximizing capture of the enemy rather than defeating them in detail. They didn't really care about securing administrative control over their conquests quite the way the Europeans did, and often allowed the conquered to continue under their existing leadership, so long as they continued to send tribute. Typically the Aztec army would set forth from the capital at the start of the war season and go from one town to the next. They might start with towns that were lax in their tribute or that had refused to give it. When they appeared at a town, those people had the choice of surrendering or going to war; the Aztecs would be particularly harsh to those that resisted to dissuade others from doing the same. Flower War was another interesting warfare technique rather unique from European war; the nobility would leave their regular troops and engage in non-lethal battle with nobility of neighboring empires. These did not result in capitulation of their enemy, but were done for practice, honor, and to "test" the strength of the opponents. I suppose there is some analogy to the jousting tournaments of the European middle ages. Thus the Aztec empire was always a bit amorphous, with cities and towns shifting in allegiance depending on the strength of the king, the proximity of the army, and heaviness of tribute demands. The empire was maintained not by territorial control via castles and forts, but rather indirectly via political influence, propaganda, and fear. It also meant that the maximum effective range of the Aztec empire was limited to how far the army could march in one war season. Thus, while the Aztecs probably would have no qualms about conquering, say, Texas, the structure of their civilization would just not support such a long range expedition. Also, the central Mexico basin was a very agriculturally rich area and supported very large populations. Outside this area populations were more scarce. So I think the Aztecs would not be as interested in areas far from them where captives would be harder to obtain and more time consuming to bring back for sacrifice. While the Aztecs were distinctive compared with Europe, they didn't live in a cultural vacuum. Neighboring empires followed similar style warfare, prisoner capture, flower war, and so on. Religious practices, agricultural technology, war strategy, and more would drift northward, influencing the practices of other Native American tribes. The Flower Wars remind me much of the "counting coup" of the plains indians for instance. For contrast, I'd suggest reading Empire of the Inca by Burr Cartwright Brundage. The Incas engaged in war for keeps. They didn't take captives for sacrifice, they wanted territory. When they took a new region, they'd transfer some loyal families from Cuzco to serve as the conquered region's ruling class. Dissidents would be rounded up and relocated elsewhere in the empire. The Incas would terrorize the newly acquired until they accepted the Emperor's law without question. They also practiced warfare in a much different fashion. War was not to win social standing but to take territory, so their armies were organized much more differently; as they often faced enemies fortified in cliff-high strongholds they developed "tortoise" shield-rush tactics that would have impressed the Romans. Logistics were the Inca's particular talent. While marching within the borders of their empire, they would enlist the commoners of the province as porters to carry goods from one end of the province to the next, whereapon they'd hand off to people of the next province. The people would open up their granaries to supply the marching army; foraging and looting were strictly forbidden. The Incas also had a unique ability to "snowball" as they took new lands. Upon taking a new province they immediately enlisted the military man power of that province into their army, to be used as the cannon fodder for their next campaign. This both strengthened their army and depleted the resistance power of the new province. [Update] A third book I've been reading lately is 1491: New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus, by Charles Mann. This goes into much more detail into both the Aztec and Incan empires - from how they arose to how they fell - as well as surveying other Indian civilizations throughout North and South America. In school learning about the Native Americans, I was given the impression of the Americas as being populated by two civilizations (the Aztecs and Incas) and everywhere else was just nomadic people. This book really drives home the point that this was far from true: There are traces of complex farming civilizations dotting all over North and South America, that apparently died out of disease or other causes well before being encountered by Spanish or other explorers, for which little is known. As well, going back through time there was a rich history of other geographically extensive civilizations prior to the Aztecs and Incas - the Mayans and Olmecs are perhaps the best known of these but there were many, many more. 

One major use of artillery was against fortifications / castles etc.. Actually that was the most important role of artillery in the 15-17th century, and had little importance in open battles. Brass cannons were major investments, but they became the main tool of siege, like e.g. in the case of Constantinople in 1453. To destroy thick walls, projected stone cannon balls and similar are just more effective than the missiles/rockets. Similarly, cannons used on ships could effectively penetrate and destroy the hull of the opponent ship, while rockets are much less effective. 

Maybe it is a classic case of mixing up causation and correlation. First if all, correlation vs causation. It make sense that climate correlate (and limits) the geography of an empire. Romans had a certain diet and technology for agriculture, certain technology for building houses etc that was optimal to Mediterranean climate. They couldn't grow wheat and your vegetables in the north, because the soil is different, it also frozen in the winter, the climate is colder etc. Just like for grape, all the same arguments are true for basic food. You cannot build houses optimal for winter, because you use to build houses to protect yourself from hot summer. Many small nuances that makes a successful civilization far less capable when goes to far north. From that perspective, the wine-line is just the approximate border where the climate is "close enough" to the Italian one. Second, mixing up cause and result. For example: Coca-cola and pizza was much more wide spread on the western side of Iron Curtain than on the eastern side. Does it mean American influence is limited by the pizza supply? Making wine is at least a cultural phenomena as making beer. You can argue that there is wine in these territories, because Romans introduced there and it became popular. Other drinks, esp beer was already known and popular in many areas. Maybe they just stayed popular, if no one were pushing it enough, and nobody experimented enough with some super cold-resistant grape. From technology point of view, it is much more easy to make beer or whisky in UK (even in France). 

First of all, peasants were not slaves or anything like that. They were essentially renting a given lend, and most often than not they came into this relationship volunteerly as free men. In many if not most lands and eras getting free from this relationship was actually possible, and peasants could move to another landlord. After bigger wars or diseases that killed large part of the population of a given area, settlers from other lands are often came to work on the empty land. While the relationship of feudal landlords and peasant were not rosy, being landless (therefore independent from a landlord) was not difficult - being landless AND SURVIVE in an agriculture based society, that was difficult. For certain ethnics and religious were even forbidden by law to work as a peasant, e.g. Gypsies and Jews in Eastern Europe. Back to your original question: There were all kind of different kind of merchants. Some could have special status, or altogether could form independent communities. Merchants generally formed guilds to control and regulate local trade and negotiate with authorities. As cities are natural market centers and trade-posts, these guilds could give much power to a city or town. Many cities had local independence or were independent states. Independent state means independent not only local feudal rulers, but independent from kings, having own legislation, army, etc. Such city states with elected civil leaders were actually very common along major trading routes (e.g. Venice and Italian city states), and these cities often formed alliances (The Hansa or the Strasbourg-Zurich-Bern-Basel alliance) to protect themselves.