This will depend very much on your field. My daughter, who is a chef, left a job of many years to take a new one that lasted only a few weeks before she realized she needed to leave. She continued to use the same resume, changing let's say " Sept 2009-present" to "Sept 2009-Nov 2012" if she were searching right now. This wasn't a lie. Not one place asked "are you employed right now or not?". She never listed the few-weeks place on her resume. What I'm saying is that you're the one who feels you are applying with the unearned disadvantage of being unemployed. Places that are considering hiring you will not know and don't need to know. Your current employment status is really only going to matter when they ask how much notice you will need to give at your current employer. You can answer that based on how much notice you have left to work - just say 2 weeks for example - or even say "well, the way things are with them at the moment I think I could join another firm on as little as a few days notice" and don't explain why. (Of course, if you'd like a few weeks to catch your breath, and can afford a pay gap, go ahead and say 3 weeks or whatever other number you want.) 

This may or may not work. But getting angry, going to your boss to have people spoken to, or pretending you don't mind are all guaranteed not to work. So this is what I suggest you do. 

Employers don't really care why you want more money than they have offered you. The reason occasionally carries a little weight if it is an indicator of how strongly you feel on the matter and how likely you are to walk away if you don't get what you want. But whether you want to make more than 98% of your peers instead of more than 95% of your peers because the neighbourhood is bad or because you are constantly trying to win your father's approval makes no difference to the people who have to give you that money. They need to know two things: 

The way to get out of it, is each time you are asked, you decline. This may end up incompatible with continued employment in the long term, but you can do it. When someone asks you to prepare a talk, you say 

In the quite rare case where an interviewer is nervy enough to push further and ask specifically what those activities are, you need to insert a Real. Long. Pause. into the conversation. Not a "holy crap I need to think fast and make something up" pause but an eyes-locked, did-you-really-just-ask-me-that-you-didn't-did-you pause. Then try: 

Any of those are a lot better than a VP calling you insubordinate and telling you to "do as you're told" like a child. Right? 

Especially when your work force has to guess what your customers want, having a monoculture in your work force is a bad thing. Hiring only people who prefer keyboard shortcuts may produce a UI that is hard to use on phone or tablet, or with a mouse. Hiring people who only speak English as a first language may produce UI and documentation that is opaque to those who learned English as a second (or 5th or whatever) language. Hiring people who have only taught themselves may cut you off from useful skills and information delivered in universities and colleges, while hiring only those with formal education may cut you off from amazing self-taught people. Hiring only young people may lead to decisions that alienate older customers (around privacy, say, or automatic updating) and hiring only older people may lead to decisions that alienate younger customers. Hiring only people who've worked in small companies cuts you off from skills and techniques developed in large firms, and hiring only people who've worked in big entities cuts you off from some of the pragmatic approaches common in smaller places. Everyone brings a number of strengths to the workplace and many are hard to measure. The more variety you have on the team, the more chance you have someone who knows something nobody else knows. The more your team has people from all walks of life, from a variety of work styles and educational backgrounds, from a variety of team sizes and languages, from a variety of countries, then the less likely you'll get locked into "how we do stuff here" and miss something that you really should have done. It's really hard to predict in advance what particular unusualities will be helpful to your team. Maybe on one project having a colour blind team member will save you from major embarrassment. Maybe on another it's that programmer who majored in Actuarial Science but decided not to go into the insurance industry. Maybe on another it's that developer who grew up on a farm, or the one who speaks fluent Korean, or the one who spent some time on welfare, or who has actually used whatever it is you make. Since you can't know, the best you can do is hire people from a variety of backgrounds, of a variety of ages, genders, orientations, and so on. In some cases you won't know these things about the people when you hire them, and in others you will. But the less you want "someone just like the rest of us on the ten or twenty things we can measure" the less you'll get someone who's just like you on the other hundred things as well. 

And you got all accusing, pasting bits of their own email back to them to prove that since there's no script, there's no process, which apparently means anyone can do what they like and change the field at will. This would have made me angry too, and on top of that you cc'ed all kinds of other people on it. And when your more senior coworker tried to set you straight, you got into a mode of setting your coworker straight complete with "calm down", smilies, and "it was just". Apologize as soon as you can. Do not use the words "just", "only" or "clarification." Do not use any smilies. Start your sentences with "I". Emphasize you will not mess with the data integrity. Thank your coworker for alerting you to this possible problem before you just went ahead and ran a script. Conclude by asking when your coworker is free to work with you on the "making sure it's ok to update identifiers" matter, or by reaffirming that you will be meeting with the manager on that topic before doing anything more on this. 

Then smile - the interviewer has handed you an easy question and you haven't thrown it back at him because you can't predict if the guy next to you is someone you can get along with or not. Nor have you argued with the interviewer or corrected the question. In this way you're actually showing you can get along with people. One other warning. Some interviewers may be reverse psyching you here. They might expect: 

When I look at hiring someone with 20 years of experience I want to know which of those you are now (it can change over time of course.) So more than worrying about what people will think of you for not changing jobs, or for changing jobs, let me ask you: which of those three people do you want to be? Once you know that, you can start being that person and ensuring that your optics also reflect that you are that person. 

Your question is rather vague. You don't indicate who you're concerned about expressing yourself to, or a time frame. Nor do you indicate in any way in the question how you truly feel about the colleague leaving. It's normal to feel confused, angry, betrayed, relieved, excited, nervous, happy, and many other things too. Let me give you some suggestions. 

Productivity in an office can vary wildly. One developer can literally be worth ten times as much to the business as another, yet only be paid twice as much. Even allowing for overhead, I would be thrilled if all my staff became top performers - I would get more benefit from it than they would, and they would be very happy with the benefit they were getting. The two things you need to know are: 

In all three cases you may find your boss demands you go and tells you your job is on the line. It would be good if you knew in advance how strongly you feel about this. Will you quit over it? I also encourage you to take strong look at the bigger picture. There are 10 hours of meetings, there is probably an evening event, there is a chance to meet and socialize with a customer or regulator or colleagues from another location. You could get tremendous value form this if you knew what to look for and what to gain. Your boss can help explain this to you, if you ask correctly. I dont just mean a nice dinner and a chance to take a picture of some tourist attraction far from home, I mean an understanding of the dynamics of your business, your firm's relationship with whoever this meeting involves, how contracts get assigned, and so on. Approached as a learning opportunity, you might see this as worth the effort, whereas just focusing on "your" 3 hours doesn't feel that way. 

Here's how to proceed without knowing the gender of Alex. Avoid any terms that carry gender markers. If you want to email Alex, either just start right in to the body of the email without a salutation, or use "Dear Alex" or "Good morning". Don't refer to Mr Lastname or Ms Lastname, nor use honorifics like Sir or Madam. This will have the following advantages beyond gender agnosticsm: 

You didn't resolve this particularly at all. You avoided the coworker as much as possible after checking with your manager that it was ok to do so. Then during the coworker's final few weeks you avoided him to the extent of skipping his farewell event. Do not use this story as your "how I resolved a conflict" story. This story says "I let somebody needle me and tease me until it affected how we worked together, but I never really did anything about it." It also involves listing a bunch of technical shortcomings that at least one senior person believes about you (not enough tdd or testing) and doesn't rebut them at all (actually I know testing very well) or show why they aren't relevant. It is a story that can only hurt your hiring chances. It's great that you're thinking about the question. Think some more. Come up with a different conflict. Maybe you and someone you get on well with disagreed on how to implement something, so you both built small spikes and compared, and then yours was better (great story! you're technically excellent!) or the coworkers was better (great story! you're able to choose the best solution even if it wasn't your idea) and the project went forward. Go back over this whole job you just finished, and the one before at the hot company, and find a story that you can accurately and honestly tell that shows some aspect of yourself you're proud of. And this story, about the mean skinny guy who mixed personal teasing with professional critique, wasn't amazing at the job he was leaving but didn't like it when you were part of a group who discovered that -- what does it say about you that you're proud of? If you can't find that, stop telling it. You don't have to tell every story you've experienced. 

Without knowing your specific office culture and larger national culture, as well as her relative position within the office, it's hard to suggest which of these is right. But making sure your boss has no reason to ever ask "what's up with you and her?" is definitely the right thing to do. 

The reviewer may have just felt mocked in the instant and the directive may have been an ephemeral comment about "stop making faces at me while I give you your review." Or it may be a longer term thing. Perhaps a client felt mocked, or a visiting senior manager. Or it may be utter nonsense. The only way to know is to ask, as close to the occurrence as possible. If the sentence is said out loud, asking for more detail while the sentence still hangs in the air is a good response. If the review is over, then it wouldn't hurt to ask for a quick one-on-one to get more clarification on it. I can easily imagine scenarios where facial expressions are relevant to a job - any job. But of course, there are plenty of others where it isn't. So ask, find out, and then take an appropriate action (which may be arranging for that person not to do your performance reviews any more, because you work somewhere else) based on what you learn. 

Believe me, a person doesn't have to be a technical superstar to exhibit prima donna behaviours. It's just that they're the only ones who get away with it. When technically great people come and tell you they didn't get their pri 1 tasks done because a "help vampire" coworker bullied them into helping/doing-it-for-me with a set of pri 3 tasks, then the smug "I got all my tasks done this week" smile of said coworker doesn't last long. You can fire them, and your company will be fine. You can certainly discipline them without worrying you will lose them as a result. Things are different when it's your superstar. I know what it feels like to hold back when someone is clearly being wrong, because you think you need their skills. If you have big picture needs that are not being met, whether it's communication, "overhead and paperwork", supporting coworkers, supporting your process, whatever, a boss needs to set expectations with everyone that they have to do it. It may seem crazy to fire a good developer for not doing timesheets. But in some companies, it's crazy to bill less than you could, or to be unable to manage and estimate, because someone won't provide information the company needs. I come from a place of "Chris doesn't realize these things are important here" and so the first few times, it's private and it comes with an explanation. "Chris, I want to bill [a client] today so the money will be here in time for payroll, and I have no idea how long you spent. Get me those numbers right away please." If I'm always having to do that, then it becomes "Chris, I'm billing next week and I don't want to have to ask you to drop everything and get me my numbers. Please catch up your timesheets today." Eventually it becomes public, say at a status meeting "and next week is billing, everyone up to date on timesheets? Really? Chris, yours were 2 weeks behind when I checked just before I came in here. Make it right this afternoon, please." This reiterates your values to everyone and makes it clear where you stand on things. "Chris" will either start doing the damn timesheets like everyone else, or leave, or be fired. I don't threaten to fire people in status meetings, and I don't go to public shaming as step 1, but after a while this isn't about not knowing I care about timesheets (or work items, or documentation, or whatever else Chris is too good for), it's about not knowing I consider it a condition of employment. [Note: I chose Chris because it's a gender neutral name. But I just remembered I used to employ a Chris. He was no prima donna and not only didn't do the things I mention in this example, he didn't allow them from others either. Just in case anyone ever draws some kind of connection. Just needed a gender neutral name.] I have put up with crap in my time, partly from conflict avoidance and partly because "the rest of his work is so good" and I've come to realize that the impact on the rest of the firm of prima donna behaviour can outweigh the good they do. Either let everyone behave that way (maybe the timesheets are pointless after all), or get the prima donna in line.