Russian designs on the Bosphorus, The Dardanelles and access to the Mediterranean Since Peter the Great, Imperial Russia long sought to secure rights of Navigation from the Black Sea into the Mediterranean. Russia wanted full rights not just for commerce but for its warships - something that still motivates Russian foreign policy today, as evidenced by Russian support of al-Assad in Syria to maintain control of its port at Tartus. Russia was motivated to find reliable client states in the Balkans to hedge against its rivals, Austria and Turkey. Whilst it did hope for complete possession of the Straits, or to at least secure passage for Russian ships whilst denying it to other powers, no other great powers would concede such a prize to Russia. The British acted consistently to oppose Russian influence in the Eastern Mediterranean. Conclusion Russian interests in the Balkans seem to have been primarily: 

So in Answer to your question - the British 8th Army and the U.S Fifth Army occupied the Italian front in 1944, with the French First Army being deployed as part of Operation Anvil. Source: Wilmont, Chester, The Struggle for Europe, 1952 $URL$ 

As a quick aside, we would know that the Soviet Union did not use any forms of encryption at this time as the Soviet Union did not exist yet. The ratification of the USSR occurred in December 1922 (a year after the conclusion of the war at the Treaty of Riga in '21). Bolshevik or Soviet Russia would be the appropriate party to the conflict. I am sure that's whom you meant but it is worth noting all the same. Some more digging around seems to indicate the events you are referring to are Miracle of Ciechanów when the 203rd Uhlans sezied a Russian radio station and also refers to the Sekcja Szyfrów, the precursor the Polish Cipher Bureau. 

Short answer: Yes. Bismarck carefully maintained network of alliances designed to contain France after the Franco-Prussian War in order to prevent a war where France might conceivably try and regain control of Alsace-Lorraine. Bismarck believed that France would always oppose the unification of Germany as it would create a powerful neighbour on its northern border, and of course a powerful rival on the continent. See below for more details: 

Of course, it in fact happens all the time. Exactly how often depends on how one cares to define a "military force" - are we talking conventional armies, or irregular forces as well? There are many many examples of insurgency from the 20th century alone A number of examples can be found just inside Afghanistan, such as the mujaheddin and later Taliban fighting the Soviets and ISAF respectively, in contemporary times; as well as the resistance of the Afghans to the British during the First and Second Anglo-Afghan Wars -although whether the war was won for the afghans during this time is debatable. In fact the you mentioned quite an excellent example of the Soviets versus the Nazis in World War 2 - although it's quite debatable of whether the Soviets were less well equipped by the time they achieved victory. The Viet Minh/ Viet Cong guerrillas were vastly overmatched in terms of materiel versus the French and later, the Americans, yet they managed to achieve their strategic objectives - albeit at a terrible cost. So perhaps another question that might seem silly at first but is worth mentioning is what does "winning" look like in this sense. For example, whilst the U.S achieved its initial objectives of toppling Saddam in 2003, the insurgency did achieve its goals of turfing out the U.S Army and turning the country into a terrorist haven as it stands today, as well as destabilizing the rest of the Middle East. The North Koreans and Chinese were able to fight the U.N forces in Korea to a stalemate despite being far less well equipped. Whilst their initial goal was unification of the peninsula, that goal changed to "not getting roflstomped by the United States" - so one could argue that in light of how the odds were quite well stacked against them in terms of materiel, they still managed to punch above their weight. Of course, Whited's Law applies. So any example would require an examination of the actors' desired end-states; that is to say what were their strategic goals and were they accomplished? This might seem easy when looking at the unconditional surrender of the Third Reich from the perspective of the Allies. However, when examining the strategic goals of a poly-actor conflict such as Libya in 2011 the lines become increasingly blurred; the initial states of the rebels overthrowing Gaddaffi were achieved but was the conflict truly "won"? That's harder to argue looking at the state of the country today. Another example might be Napoleon's invasion of Russia - although Napoleon had the better army and was undefeated militarily he still ultimately lost the war due to the infamous Russian winter. Ultimately I feel that there are many examples of where forces equipped with inferior equipment have won out but often the reasons are quite complex and just as often have as much to do with the mistakes of the 'better equipped force'. Nazi Germany was arguably better equipped than its antagonists in World War 2 yet repeated strategic blunders cost them the war. One could argue that in 1940, France had technically the better equipment but its tactical doctrines and strategic calculus were wrong and as a result they were stunningly defeated. Varus and the Roman legions were destroyed in the Teutoberg Forest despite being far better equipped than their adversaries as a result of Varus' incompetence. So the answer is yes, but often rarely ceteris paribus. 

There are plenty of other good answers historically speaking, but I think right now a good example would be the construction of artificial islands in the South China Sea. 

Stalin opposed the idea because of the implicit agreement that the nations who liberated countries would be permitted to impose their ideology upon them. Churchill was (quite rightly) afraid of Soviet domination of Eastern Europe, wished to capture the Balkans before the Soviets could arrive. He and his staff also questioned the necessity of ANVIL given that the Germans would need to withdraw from southern France after OVERLORD anyway (which they did). Churchill (as well as Clark and Alexander) were proponents of a renewed Allied offensive north into Central Europe and on to Vienna, partly because it would have prevented Soviet occupation of much of Central-Eastern Europe, and that it would likely have brought a swifter conclusion to the war, as it would have put the Allies within striking distance of the Germans main source of oil at Ploesti. However, since Marshall held the "purse strings" (Landing Ship Tanks and other logistical resources) and Roosevelt was naive enough to believe that Stalin would conform to his idealistic view of a post WW2 utopia, ANVIL took place instead. Eisenhower, paranoid about the Germans sealing off the Normandy beachead also wanted to hedge his bets with a landing in Southern France - a critical mistake since if they weren't able to beat the Germans in Normandy, landing there would be a grevious error and attack from Italy would have acieved better results anyway. However Eisenhower desired additional ports in Southern Italy to hedge his bets. Alexander lost seven divisions to Anvil just as, Wilmont puts elegantly