This is a very common state of mind. Listen, if you can't squat 80kg without going into a "good morning", then you can't really squat 80kg. If at any point you have to break form in order to complete a rep, then you have to face it; you weren't actually able to complete that rep properly. Lowering the weight may seem like a humbling thing, but check your ego at the door. The reason a "good morning" happens is because you're not engaging the gluteus k during the lift. So what should you do to train them? Well, for one thing, you should be squatting with lower weight, because this helps build the glutes. If you stay in the 70-75kg range for a few weeks, then try 80 again, I'm sure you'll find the progress you want. Additionally, you can do auxiliary exercises that help train the gluteus muscles, such as deadlifts, back raise, and whatever else. But the key takeaway here is that if you can't properly squat X kgs for Y reps, then lower the weight or the amount of reps, and make sure that ALL of your reps are proper. Feel free to post a video of yourself squatting if you're looking for a form check. 

This is the important part. This is the correct approach. Just remember that progressive overloading isn't just about increasing the weight, but increasing the amount of reps, and increasing the surprise-factor. I.e. exposing your body to exercise it hasn't experienced before, or that it hasn't experienced in a long time. Bottom line I feel this needs to be said. There is no exercise or program that is so good that you should do it, and only it, forever. I'll harp on it one more time; variation is key, lest your body just adapts to the routine and finds no need to get stronger. 

We usually refrain from offering diagnoses here, for obvious reasons, but you touch on something important: Bench press prep. So I'll touch on it too. I would caution against doing the exact same prep on incline as you do on flat. On a flat bench, we covet the arched back and pinched shoulderblades, because the weight is loaded on arms that are perpendicular to the spine. When you arch your back on the incline bench, and you load the weight, your spine is like a twig. I'm not talking strength-wise, but take a twig, stand it straight up, and put weight on top of it. What happens? It will arch. And the more weight to put on it, the more it will arch. For a spine, this can be catastrophic. So I'll call it likely that you've had some sort of compression injury. I'm not going to outright blame the incline bench. I think the pain you have there is a symptom of an injury gained elsewhere. Since you describe the feeling as going down your arm, this sounds like a prolapse. Google "thoracic prolapse" (AKA herniated disc) for a bit more info, but the bottom line is you need to see a doctor. Any "diagnosis" here is pure speculation, based on very little information. A good diagnosis would ideally be based on an MRI as well. 

Well, yes. DOMS isn't only experienced after focusing on exercise, but whenever your muscles have been subjected to strenuous work which it's not accustomed to. It's very possible that cardio is the culprit, but for someone who doesn't exercise at all, even taking a flight of stairs could cause DOMS. It's sometimes hard to pinpoint the exact reason, given the delayed reaction. It's easy to think it might have been the cardio, when in fact, it could have been something else that you didn't even think about, and have already forgotten. 

That's the wrong interpretation. The reason why "ectomorphic" people have a hard time gaining weight, is not because they have a high metabolism, it's because they have a low appetite. You're simply not eating enough. And I know what you're going to say. "Dude, when we have tacos I eat like 6 huge shells and chug a litre of coke. My appetite is huge!" But this simply boils down to the fact that your appetite isn't measured by your largest meal of the week. It is measured by how much you eat overall during the course of a week. Hell, even that is too short. Instead of looking at how much you eat in a day (which can vary by large percentages), you should be looking at how much you eat in a month. Because when you eat super-huge meals one day, you'll just be eating less the next couple days, and you're back where you started. At the end of the day, if you want to gain weight, you have to eat more calories than you spend over any given period of time, preferably measured over a week or longer. On the same coin, if you want to keep your current weight, you need to consume and spend equal amounts of calories. 

Unilateral work will assist you in making sure you train both sides equally. And do make sure you train them equally. Training one side more than the other will only lead to another set of imbalances. That said, you should still be squatting, while being mindful of symmetry. This is of course because you still need to practice good form in order to learn good form. 

Short answer: Don't worry about it. This is a detail. Long answer: Restitution is very important, but as long as you don't go back to the gym and start doing another upper body workout immediately, you're still resting. You can, for instance, compensate by eating a bit more, and providing more nutrition to the muscles. So long as this is something that happens rarely, it's not something you need to worry about. Not even the most successful strongman or bodybuilder or fitness model gets 8 hours every single night. 

There is no one particular weight that is appropriate for everyone who is 110kg. Whatever weight you can do 8 reps with, do that. If you find you can do more than 8 reps of something, increase the weight. Just make sure you warm up properly beforehand. 

Sources During this n=36 study, the optimal fat burning zone - i.e. the point at which one has the highest fat oxidation rate - occurred on average at 54.2% VO2max. However, the great variance between the participating individuals makes it hard to pinpoint this as the fat burning zone. Interestingly, this article by Alan Aragon, suggest that while fat burning is seemingly higher during low-intensity cardio, post-workout fat oxidation was higher after high-intensity cardio, and that if one measures the effects of the two after a 24-hour peroid, it evens out. It also gives some insight into the difference between pre-workout meals, and lack thereof. It then states the following, which I will quote directly to avoid any errors caused by interpretation: 

Try to think of deadlifts as lifting with your back, but in a controlled, symmetrical and familiar manner. Generally, back injuries don't arise from simply lifting with your back. Problems arise when you lift something large, unwieldy, and unstable. A bar's weight is symmetrical around your lifting position. If the symmetry is ruined, and you try to maintain the lift, certain muscles will have to over-compensate, and this can cause extreme strains. "Real-life lifts" are more likely to be unbalanced, and asymmetrical. Things can break, and fall apart. Drawers can slide out, contents can shift and drop. Imagine if you're doing a deadlift with a bar, and half-way through the lift, someone removes a plate on one side of the bar. That is problematic! And the analogy is more likely to happen outside the gym. 

One way to find out if your hip sockets are the limiting factor, is to try and do a split, and if you can get an angle between your legs of 110 degrees or more, you're pretty much good to go. The issue with people who can't do splits because of their hip structure, is that their greater trochanter puts too much pressure on the iliofemoral ligaments before they have the 180 degree angle between their legs. This is something that doesn't normally change between adolescence and adulthood. For reference: