The only nation which has ever used nuclear weapons against an enemy was the US, and it used them against Japan to end the war in a way that Japan would not forget...ever. Argentina's aggression did not rise to even a remote resemblance to that of Japan's against the US... All of which leads to an intriguing answer and thought : Britain didn't use nuclear weapons against Argentina because Argentina was being silly and all it needed was a taste of old school Royal Marine stuff...In any event, Who in today's world would use nuclear arms against an enemy? Answer: Only in symmetrical warfare or terrorism. All of which leads to a thought that crosses my mind from time to time which I immediately reject because I cannot point to or express any connecting impression or idea which supports it. In fact, it is easily ridiculed as silly tin hattery. But from time to time, the thought crops up and winks a wink at me over my whisky and water..wa The thought: True terrorism which was seeking relevance for its cause would use a nuclear weapon. So why doesn't it. Nuclear weapons are easy to build or easily obtained from a nuclear state.... That history might denounce this true terrorist surely will not stop one whose belief system is that destroying a non-believing enemy even if it means destruction to oneself is preferable to allowing the non-believing enemy to exist. So why hasn't one been used by the Oceania ubiquitous terrorism we are informed of 24/7/365 by almost every media outlet in the world? Yes, thousands die each year at the hands of insane people who blow themselves up...and that is the reason for my thought....Insane people are the ones doing it....and there is no want of insane people in this world ... but that is a far cry from a world wide terrorism....even if we can attach it to the Muslim faith because there are those Muslims de minimus in number, but made large by media exposure, who vociferously believe the insanity of killing innocents as a means to an end... That no nuclear weapon has been used by those who profess to engage in terrorism as a means to their end--And what exactly is the end of the terrorism we see reported?-- suggests that there is a probability that the terrorists are kept in play by those who are desirous of ensuring anti-terrorist authoritarian control mechanisms which work exceedingly well against civilian populations and which could not be maintained outside an atmosphere of fear of terrorism.....And this leads to the thought that terrorism is sponsored by those who desire to maintain authoritarian control over populations, but cannot do so without some excuse. And the best excuse, bar none, is fight against a potentially nuclear armed existing world wide terrorist threat. Corporations which control governments are the only group of people who seem to benefit from terrorist control measures. Corporate sponsored private or military anti-terrorist forces in nations whose resources they are exploiting work remarkably well at keeping the local population in line when it complains about the exploitation...Think of those nations which own the World Bank and the IMF and the other banking interests and their corporate clients and corrupt governments.....With information instant in today's world, there must be a boogy man out there necessitating all that anti-terrorist armed force out there... Right? 

As always, the uniform would differ from one school to another school. But in the Showa period (1920s-1985) school uniforms is highly characterized by a strong influence from the military - especially the navy. Japan had been in rigorous military transformation since the start of Meiji period (1868), and it is reflected in the education system it produced - on creating youth with a strong character. Gakuran is the standard uniform for boys. It has a clear militaristic influence from the design. It is still used by delinquent groups nowadays to replicate the past militaristic glory. While for the girls, the standard uniform is the nowadays popular sailor fuku (seifuku). It's a tad different from the contemporary imagery of seifuku though. It still has a clear navy influence. 

I'm not sure it was military revolution that drives industrial revolution. There are several theories which try to explain the cause of industrial revolution. Barrington Moore, for example, proposed that it was the rise of the merchant class and the fall of feudalism which leads to mass production (which will lead again to three different political systems, but that's different story). But to answer your question, I suppose Martin van Creveld's theory may fit. He wrote in Technology and War: From 2000 B.C. to the Present (1991) and several journals. His basic assumption is: military revolution will always lead to a change in civilization. It is possible because a military revolution always involves military innovations: the change in organization (the way units is arranged, leadership, etc), the change in strategy and tactics, and the most important, the change in technology. Technological innovation is often firstly used for the need of the military. Like how railroad was used in the 19th century, and internet in contemporary times. Later then it would be adapted for civilians use (which explains the link). 

It should be noted that from the 1920s to 1930s the girls school uniform is undergoing a transition from traditional Japanese clothing to a more European style. Some schools might still sport hakamas for girls in the 1930s. You could see the transition here: $URL$ And if interested, you may read a section from this book to read the social context: $URL$ 

The incident you asked I suppose is the Westphalia treaty, or the Peace of Westphalia (1648). In the field of international relations the treaty is widely acknowledged as a big turning point in European history, as it established each nation as a sovereign states which hold sovereignty under its own. It happened before the Enlightenment era and closely related with all the religious discontent that sparked Enlightenment. Before Westphalia, politics and religion often intertwined. People follow state leaders in the same way they follow their priest. Secular conflicts is seldom far away from religious conflicts. As such, the Pope, as the holder of highest position in religious matter, often acted as the prime authority in dispute between states. This changed with the rise of Protestanism, as @T.E.D. suggested. Pope no longer have the authority to settle dispute between states as there are several powers which did not recognize Pope's authority. Conflicts between states kept going on, until it became the war now known as The Thirty Years' War, the conflict between Catholic states vs Protestant states. The Peace of Westphalia was born directly from the war. Europeans realize they need to maintain a stable international political system without direct involvement from religion. This is supported by the Enlightenment zeitgeist that religion should be less involved in politics. There they have thinkers such as Thomas Hobbes and Montesquiue, whose ideas later developed by Thomas Jefferson (of USA).