It depends on your rims. Some rims are much worse than others, and the effect is exaggerated with some tyres. Some things I've found that sometimes work: 

I used to ride in almost exactly the same gear as you (gym shorts rather than casual shorts), so I know where you're coming from. The mudguards (US: fenders) help a little, but not if it's actually raining while you're riding, as you basically ride into the rain drops. It's not the shorts, cycling tights/running leggings will do the same. Even waterproof overtrousers are of limited help as the headwind from riding tends to push them against your shin. And you get so hot you'll be almost as wet from sweat ("breathable" kit doesn't work too well with a film of wtare on the outside while you're actively sweating ). I haven't tried shoe covers but would only consider them in the winter -- in summer (even UK summer) I'd rather get rained on than boil. One thing that I found was that after riding for 40 minutes in waterproof shoes I could at least wring my socks out and sometimes pour the water out (you can't always stop pedalling for puddles, e.g. a little dip on an uphill). In hot weather (sometimes with sudden downpours) I wore sports sandals, and the water just went straight through and out the other side. Now I've got SPDs I've got ventilated shoes (even on the sole) and the water can't accumulate. My suggestion: Go for shoe covers when it's cold, but in warmer weather choose shoes that can't fill up with water (also maybe no socks). Either way a change of shoes/socks on arrival is probably appropriate, even though you have a .ac.uk homepage listed and can probably wear what you like. 

It's just worth mentioning that there are modern levers that serve the same purpose but are much safer. If you're trying to emulate the setup above you shoudl use the new products. They are known as cyclocross or interrupter levers and are discussed here and here. Other names include crosstop and inline. 

You can often do well by removing all the old sticky grease and re-oiling. Get off as much as you can with solvents and wiping, then flood with oil. I wouldn't use chain oil but the runniest general purpose oil you've got (even gt85/wd40). Clean off the excess and it should be a bit better. After using them for a bit, once again clean off everything you can and oil (I wouldn't use wd40 at this step, but a spray may be helpful, as might an oil with PTFE). I used 3in1 (once upon a time it was used as chain oil, but things have moved on since then); a light grease might also work its way in far enough. 

Canti pads have a much longer post. Unfortunately at ⌀7 mm I reckon it's too thick to cut an M6 thread unless you can find them with alloy posts (I've got a few different ones but they're all steel; online I find rumours of alloy posts). 

I wouldn't use silicone spray to waterproof leather, I'd use a leather boot proofer like Nikwax (the original product, not the brand). The spray is unlikely to damage the shoes but isn't very effective on smooth leather. Shoes that aren't designed to be waterproof often don't get perfectly waterproof even with treatment - stitching may leak and you'll certainly get water in around the tongue. Whatever you use, be sure not to get it on the soles, as it makes them slippery. I've found waterproof shoes to be a bit of a pain on the bike - water runs down my legs and fills the shoes. Shoe covers help with this but then you don't need waterproof shoes. In hot weather free-draining shoes can also be more comfortable. 

A parked car isn't moving, so you're not overtaking it. Whether it's legal, safe, or sensible for the car to overtake you is another matter, and very heavily dependent on the circumstance. Consider a long straight road with a line of parked cars and no oncoming traffic. You take up much of your side of the road staying outside the door zone, and the car is mainly over the line as it passes you with plenty of room. No problem. Now you approach a bend, the the centre line goes to a double solid line. It's now illegal to overtake you, parked cars or no parked cars (unless you're doing less than 10mph). Generally speaking you should rise far enough from parked cars that if one of them suddenly opens a door it doesn't hit you. That's not always possible (the worst obvious problem case is when the door zone is marked as a bike lane). Riding this wide is likely to delay cars behind you depending on oncoming traffic, and in reality that is something you need to take into account. 

I'd go smartphone based. Most of the apps have a free version to try out. The accuracy of most trackers whether phone based or not isn't great at a realistic price. Even then some effort may be needed in the tracking (changing load carried). If you're not talking about a training tracker but just to record calories burnt for a range of manually selected activities you've got a lot to choose from. I've stuck with Cardio trainer (android) for cycling, running and hiking (steps or gps on the latter 2) since it came preinstalled on my last phone. I'm not saying it's perfect but good enough and also gives me gpx files online. You're likely to find a better app but it's somewhere to start to help you work out what you want in addition to the basic features. 

Isn't standing out of the saddle for a hill less efficient than riding on the flat (assuming someone less than a seasoned pro)? Sheldon says so. If so the average efficiency is worse on the hilly route and for the same input it would be slower. Of course as the hills become less steep the efficiency tends towards the flat case - there may be some sweet spot but on the whole I doubt it. Also drag is an issue - on a circular flat route in constant wind you will lose to headwinds more than you gain from tailwinds. A detailed treatment of the wind effects by Osman Isvan is worth a read. Applying the effects of the headwind caused by riding to a route of alternating uphill (slow) and downhill (fast) sections, and given that the power lost to the wind goes with the cube of the speed you will again lose more power on the fast stretches than you gain on the slow. I've only approximated the maths in my head but would conclude that a flat route is better. Apparently you should even consider slope wind. 

This is the brake light I've got. It's not really in the right place for visibility on my bike, or bright enough to be worth much in traffic, so I've been considering how I might use it as a switch. One way would be to replace the battery with a piece of metal of the same size and bring wires out the LED hole. Another would be to attach a phototransistor and use that to switch a bigger light. Because it uses a piece of spring steel to actuate the switch, it doesn't restrict the brake cable travel. It must incrase the force required to use the brake, but only marginally -- I certainly can't feel it. 

That pump is set up for another sort of valve (Presta, you have Schrader). You can probably switch it by unscrewing the end, removing the rubber part and putting it back in the other way round. You might need to turn round a plastic or metal part as well. 

You do need to check the spacing between the ends of the axle (see Sheldon Brown as usual). Hybrids in particular may follow mountain or road standards for each component. It will be quite obvious if it doesn't fit though. 

Decathlon and InterSport are decent enough shops, but I wouldn't want to walk in, spend €700 on a bike and kit, and ride 2300km. There's also a Giant store in Nantes. In an ideal world you'd get something second hand and have it serviced (or buy second hand from a bike shop that has already serviced it). Getting all the luggage fitted and everything set up nicely might involve you taking or buying tools, and a trip to a hardware shop Nantes seems (according to Google maps) to have a decent selection of independent bike shops with good reviews. A chain bike shop that does servicing could also be good. These places will be able to fit racks, extra bottle cages etc. without difficulty. Even a big shop doesn't actually hold much stock, so your chances of riding out with something suitable are low. You'll need to plan carefully. One advantage of the big retailers is that you might be able to try a bike in a branch near you, and order it in to a suitably located branch to be built up for you. I'd probably go down that route because I struggle to find bikes to fit, especially second hand, but if you're more of a normal size than me, contacting a shop that sells second hand, and explaining what you need, could be very useful. I would write in French with the aid of Google, but include the same message in English underneath. I've ridden a fair bit (day rides) in the Loire valley, and there are plenty of little bike shops in case things go wrong in the first few days, or you find you need something extra. These aren't necessarily the places that have much stock of unusual parts. 

Your rims can almost certainly take the extra width. The real question is can your frame, forks, and brakes? Only you can measure that. Based on nominal dimensions (and some approximations) you would need an extra: 

Compared to sea level and short sharp hills, I don't know if I should be planning shorter rides to take into account the conditions, or whether I should go for something like The 2017 Col d'Izoard Etape du Tour, and if so how I'd train for the latter on local roads near sea level. 

You've tagged frugal but the upfront cost of many of these ideas is large (as you've noted for the internal-geared hub). A simple (e.g. 3x8) derailleur system with a cheap plastic half chainguard and a rust-resistant chain needs little attention and parts are cheap and readily available when they fail. The chainguard will keep your legs clean, and for the rare punctures (anti-puncture tyres are worth every gram unless racing) you can always carry disposable gloves in your puncture kit (I do, but more for greasy jobs). A workshop-built chaincase wouldn't be cheap unless the workshop is run by a friend; especially once painted. It also wouldn't be light (well I suppose you could vacuum-form something out of ABS; then it would be light but not strong) IGHs and folders make sense, but a chain case for a folder would be a challenge, and have to not interfere with folding. I'm sure its been done and we have folding-bike experts here who may have come across one.