Many examples of ancient science and technology can be found in The Forgotten Revolution. This book also describes how the application of mathematical models and the interpretation of hypotheses and axioms changed over the course of time in a spectrum ranging from idealization of nature, an assumed truth about nature to merely abstract non-selfcontradictory assumptions. Also note that mathema is was simply that which could be taught or learned, as opposed to the things that you have to experience yourself in order to understand them. 

The real weakness of the trilemma is the regressive argument. Every argument that can ever be muttered is finite. But this implies that the intuitive interpretation of "ad infinitum" or "infinite regress" to mean a series of proofs that goes on forever cannot be the correct interpretation. A more reasonable interpretation is that of an unfinished argument. But it should be an unfinished argument where we have the option to hear further parts, but we don't know whether the argument will lead to an axiomatic foundation, or a circular argument, or stay a regressive argument. Another issue is that an actual argument is not a linearly ordered series of propositions, but a tree of propositions (or a directed graph, if we want to take circular arguments seriously). Some of the propositions in this tree might be proved by a circular argument, some by an axiomatic argument, and for some we can't decide yet how or whether they will be proved. The regressive argument fails to distinguish different possible (valid and invalid) means of proof, because it doesn't investigate the consequences of "we can't decide yet where they will lead". If we can decide that an argument will never lead anywhere (for example because the propositions become less plausible instead of more plausible as the argument goes on), then it should no longer count as a regressive argument. Or at least it should be distinguished from a "proper" regressive argument. There might be more different cases hidden behind the regressive argument, but what has been said is already enough to clarify why I feel that the regressive argument needs further elaboration. 

As if there were, on the one hand, people who are (merely) just and holy, and, on the other hand, people who are necessarily just and holy! These would be the perfect people, angels-like, unable to err... Socrates's actual intention seems to me, however, more mundane. I think that he uses the term "necessarily" merely to qualify an implicit, trivial implication. As if it was written 

Yes and no. When Descartes was within his argument, he surely viewed "cogito ergo sum" as applying only to himself. At the crucial moment in the argument when he needs the Cogito, he needs it as a sure ground of knowledge. And, at that moment, he did not know whether other people existed. Descartes had come to doubt anything that is learned through the senses. And the existence of other people is surely learned through the senses. So he himself remained the only candidate for "cogito ergo sum". 

When an agent provides "reasons", she stands for, and takes responsibility for her action. It signals that the agent acted (wasn't passive), and acted under favorable circumstances for deliberate action: in clear mind, in possession of one's faculties, in possession of relevant and correct information, not under threat (duress), and without unexpected interruptions. When an agent provides "excuses" for an action, it signals that she did the action, at least in part, because of some unfavorable circumstances, and would not have done it otherwise. She pleads for diminished responsibility, on the basis of some unfavorable circumstance for deliberate action, like: being retarded or disabled in some relevant way, being drunk, being drugged, being sick, being insane, acting under threat, facing an unexpected interruption (there was a train strike, the dog ate my homework), innocently possessing wrong information (he told me the time was nine o'clock) or being passive and not acting at all (I didn't push you, I just fell over). In Western philosophy, these distinctions were first discussed by Aristotle, in book III of the Ethics, under the title of involuntary action. 

The label conjecture is only used for proposition that might one day be decided to be true, false or undecidable. The proposition P≠NP is considered to be a conjecture, but the consistency of ZFC is not considered to be a conjecture. The reason why we believe that both propositions are true is that we haven't found efficient algorithms for NP complete problems, despite intense efforts, and we haven't found a contradiction in ZFC, despite making heavy use of it. We found unpleasant properties of ZFC like the Banach-Tarski paradox, but being an unsuitable model of physical reality is different from a mathematical inconsistency. The consistency of Peano arithmetic is an even more interesting example: It seems to follow from Gödel's second incompleteness theorem that the consistency of Peano arithmetic cannot be proved by purely finitary means. This was indeed the opinion of von Neumann, expressed in a letter to Gödel before the publication of Gödel's results. Gödel himself explicitly rejected this conclusion in his paper1. Indeed, Gerhard Gentzen later proved by finitary means that Peano arithmetic is consistent. Especially on page 555-556 (~ page 64 of the proof), he proves that the ordinal numbers smaller than ϵ0 are well ordered by finitary means in a way which cannot be formalized in Peano arithmetic. The result is that we believe that Peano arithmetic is consistent, but (at least some mathematicians still believe) that its consistency can't be proved. Well, even mathematical proofs depend on general context, implicit assumption and explicit premises. Axioms are either part of the general context, or part of the explicit premises. Edit I used Banach-Tarski paradox and Gentzen's consistency proof as examples for the unclear relationship between mathematical "conjectures" and real world "relevance", even so the actual examples I personally care about are much simpler and probably even "solvable", at least in theory. I did this, because these are well known and well investigated examples. The drawbacks are that there are unsettled controversies over them (like the criticism of Voevodsky's position regarding consistency), and that I'm not at all an expert on their details. I now read some of the original publications and parts of the controversy, and I have to admit that at least the historical account in my answer was misleading and unfair to Gödel. The least controversial modern "answer" to the consistency problem is probably given by the reverse mathematics program, which shows that Voevodsky's position is really quite questionable. 

Next, the Jansenists were a Christian Catholic order, in 17th century France. They were involved in a continuous quarrel with the Jesuits of the day. The latter accused the Jansenists with heresy, on the grounds that the Jansenists held that God's Grace was given (if at all) deterministically, not influenced by the Free Will. Ultimately, the Jesuits managed to get the Jansenist doctrines condemned by the Pope. And when the Jansenists evaded the papal bull, and did not give up their teachings, their order was dismantled by force. The Jansenists, on their part, accused the Jesuits with lax morality. The Jesuits were accused with relying on explicit and elaborate sophistical arguments to justify "usury, homicide, regicide, lying through 'mental reservation', adultery and loss of virginity before marriage". The Jansenists themselves were moral puritans. In fact, the term "Jansenist" became a synonym for "puritan". Tying the two threads together, I think that Barthes may have been using the word "jansenist" in the latter sense: Jansenist -> puritan -> pure -> genuine That is to say, that the common form of boxing, unlike the common form of wrestling, was a "Jansenist", that is a pure, genuine sport. 

Contingent existence seems to have been a "matter of fact" for Hume. He supposed all "relations of ideas" to be knowable with certainty. Therefore contingent existence, to the extent that it is not known with certainty, must be a matter of fact. 

P.S. Transcendental logic does not seem to be related here. Perhaps you are mixing transcendental (a property of inquiries) with transcendent (a property of things)? 

I do not see any connection between the sea-battle argument and modal logic. The thesis that the sea-battle argument seems to support (which can be put: that future states of affairs exist (already) in the present) is not a modal one, and I don't see how a modal argument could support it. When Aristotle uses the word 'necessary' in this context, he seems to mean 'logically necessary', i.e. true by dint of logic. This is largely equivalent to what was later called 'analytic' and 'tautological'. Here is the quoted paragraph re-rendered using such terms: