In addition to @pericles316's detailed answer, Summary: As I understand Ames (cited paper and a letter, see below), there are indeed cases where plants bred for increased resistance with the intent of avoiding man-made pesticides had to be withdrawn from the market because of acute toxicity to humans. Ames does not claim that all (nor on average, nor usually) organic plants have higher pesticide levels than conventionally grown plants, (Slightly OT: but he argues that there is some trade-off between man-made and natural pesticides and that breeding plants for pest resistance does lead to increased levels of natural pesticides. He seems also to be worried that an irrational level of fear of man-made pesticides is going on, to an extent that resources that could be used more efficiently against other causes of cancer are blocked by this fear. He also talks about the trade-off between pest control and harmful consequences of not having pest contol, e.g. of toxins produced by molds. Sources: see the papers @pericles316 linked and the one below). 

Tomohiko Suzuki, author of the book The Yakuza and the Nuclear Industry, claims that several members of the Fukushima 50, workers who stayed behind to work on the Fukushima dai-ichi nuclear reactor post 3/11 when others fled, were Yakuza members. Was this the case? Why I'm skeptical: 

Australia is often seen as an egalitarian country, or as a country which used to be egalitarian, but whose egalitarianism is under threat From the first source: 

The following anecdote has gone viral, seen as a gaffe by someone ignorant of the atomic bombing of the city. From The morning catch-up: a Battlebus poll, a surprising secrecy advocate and a majestic gaffe 

I'm wondering how much can be skeptically concluded from the The Swedish study. They list as participants 

... which means they have approximately constant temperature over the day (see table in Georgios Florides and Soteris Kalogirou: Measurements of Ground Temperature at Various Depths). As for the economic loss by due to the vapor: The strategy of tanking half full doesn't save you anything - it is true that you'd loose only half as much during each tanking as only half of tank's volume of saturated gasoline vapor is pushed out by the inflowing gasoline. But you need to tank twice as often. How much do you actually loose? A general rule of thumb is that evaporation of a liquid will increase the volume by a factor of 1000 (calculate more exactly from density of liquid, molar mass, temperature/partial pressure). So assuming an empty 60 l tank still saturated with gasoline vapor. The DVPE is the vapor pressure at 38°C, which is specified in norms. E.g. for "summer blends" of gasoline, it can be 60 kPa. Normal pressure is 101.325 kPa. So at +38°C air temperature, roughly 36 ml of gasoline would be in the vapor. This is the equivalent of driving something between 250 and 1200m. Todays gas price here in Germany is 1,529 €/l, so the loss would be 5.5 €ct (if it was +38°C instead of snowing...). You could also save 5.5 €ct by getting 30 l of gasoline for 0.2 €ct/l less, i.e. buying gasoline if it is about 0.1% cheaper. I'm calculating this on 30 l, because if you manage to get a full tank of gasoline for 1 €ct/l less by not tanking when the tank is still half full, you'd save 60 €ct, i.e. 10 times as much (FYI daily differences in gas price can easily be 5 - 7 €ct/l here). 

The claim seems to have originated from Outkick the Coverage, which also accuses ESPN of left-wing bias MSESPN Pulls Asian Announcer Named Robert Lee Off UVa Game To Avoid Offending Idiots 

Ages ago, I heard about something called "The Puppy Channel" - a channel in the United States that broadcasted nothing but puppies. On Reddit's TIL (Today I Learned), there's a Reddit entry, with over 3000 upvotes, saying 

Was there a cable channel called The Puppy Channel, which broadcasted for three years footage purely of puppies? 

and in the Daily Mail as Fisherman reels in SUPER-FISH off the coast of Japan. The blog EarthTouchNews says it isn't the result of the nuclear accident, saying NO, THIS WOLFFISH IS NOT A FUKUSHIMA RADIATION MUTANT. 

(The mechanism and dangers in the claim are discussed in one of the a popular science book about statistics and statistical fallacies by Beck-Bornholdt and Dubben (afaik available only in German), either "Der Hund der Eier legt" or "Der Schein der Weisen" or "Mit an Wahrscheinlichkeit grenzender Sicherheit" - I don't have them here, so I cannot look up the exact quote nor the papers they refer to. In any case, these books were published 2001 - 2005, so the general problem is well known since a long time. They also propose a study design for ongoing comparison of medical treatments that avoids the ethical issue of subjecting one patient group to inefficient treatment.) 

Wikiquote has it as unsourced, and there's an unsourced claim that a variant, "To learn, read. To know, write. To master, teach." is a Hindu proverb. 

It mentions that a variety of infection routes exist. It can be spread via saliva, even when there isn't biting: 

Regarding only hearing about these claims from his detractors, a seemingly sympathetic accounting of Gandhi confirms that Gandhi had these sentiments about black people. From Wikipedia Mahatma_Gandhi#Gandhi_and_the_Africans: 

Suzuki has apparently edited fanzines about the Yakuza, so I wouldn't be surprised if he has made exaggerated claims about them. I have encountered many bogus claims about nuclear energy - I wouldn't be surprised if some sections of the media biased against nuclear energy decided not to scrutinize these claims too closely. I have also seen dubious claims about organized crime. Sometimes people make extraordinary claims about its level of influence, while others (in both fiction, and non-fiction) have glamorized organized crime. Both the former and the latter would be consistent with bogus claims about the yakuza's involvement in the Fukushima 50. 

There is another wear-related problem with the Möbius-band: conveyed material rests getting between belt and the rolls (e.g. if you convey sand or stones, you will get little grains in between there, and that will cause lots of wear) So you probably could use it only for certain applications, because for other applications you may end up with even more wear than not turning the belt at all. Note that if the surface wear does limit the life time, but is different on the material and on the machine side of the belt, you may not get any benefit from turning - but then it is questionable, whether the Möbius-band helps at all. However, I'm not sure at all whether this kind of surface wear was/is really what limits the life of these belts. Maybe someone else can add wisdom? I have a bit of experience with flat transmission belts in "ancient" machinery. They don't get "thin" at the surface, they will usually rip across (the old leather belts regularly needed to be repaired), maybe because of a little cut at the side that propagates quickly. 

Is this pamphlet, apparently published by the Swedish government (the web site involved would be an extremely elaborate hoax if it was made up by extremists), a guide for men who've "married" a child on how to use the Swedish welfare system? 

Have they had some sort of HIV/AIDS test for some people? Yes. From HIV/AIDS in the United Arab Emirates 

Wikipedia's entry on the town says that isn't the case, but the citation is fairly terse, rather than explicitly addressing this claim. 

Since then, the reports have spread, possibly virally, to media which don't allege left-wing bias by ESPN. I tried searching ESPN for official confirmation, but couldn't find any. I came across ESPN broadcaster Robert Lee taken off UVA game due to name, but that's an automated publishing of an article from a news agency: 

You are asking three different things, and I think that is the cause of the confusion here. "As good as new" is something quite different from "safe", and still different from whether replacing the tire it is a good idea. 

1000 seed weight is 26.74 g according to Kew Gardens seed database. 0.06 - 0.2 mg CN⁻/g apple seed gives 1,6 - 5.3 mg CN⁻/1000 apple seeds My old paper pharmacology and toxicology textbook (Estler: Lehrbuch der allgemeinen und systematischen Pharmakologie und Toxikologie, Schattauer 1990.) gives 1 mg CN⁻/kg body weight as lethal dose. The CDC info linked by the claim agrees with that. Thus, for the standard human of 70 kg, about 70 mg of CN⁻ are lethal. I.e. eating (and chewing) 350 - 1170 g of apple seeds, which translates to roughly 13000 - 44000 seeds. Now, I didn't find citable numbers of seeds per fruit for apples (the claim assumes 10 seeds/apple - which I judge is a plausible number), but for the claim that 20 apples contain a fatal amount of CN⁻ to be true, with the numbers above, each apple would need to contain 660 to 2200 seeds. I'd judge that this is about 2 orders of magnitude off. 

The United States isn't necessarily the richest country even with the top 5% wealth holders. I'm not sure if GDP is a perfect measure of wealth, but it should be closely correlated. If you go by nominal GDP, then Wikipedia lists Luxemborg as the highest, with the US in 14th place. If you go by purchasing power parity GDP, then Wikipedia lists Qatar as the highest, with the United States in 7th place. If you think Luxemborg and Qatar are too small to count, then Norway does better than the United States on both counts, and has a population of approximately 5 million. 

Was this amendment proposed? I'm not an expert on US law, so I don't know what "proposed" means. I tried doing a Google search, but got a lot of user-generated content.