Children like making up stories and sometimes hit on several real facts about other people through totally random chance. Children can access the memories of relatives of a deceased person through some unknown mechanism. (Living psi) Memories drift around in the ether at death and sometimes fall into other people's heads totally independent of the question of survival of the soul. (René Guénon's "psychic residues") Stevenson was systematically deceived by his interpreters, or for some other reason didn't see what he thought he saw. (Cartesian demon) Regardless of what country you're in, for some reason -- pursuit of fame, confirmation of community beliefs, etc. -- people have a strong inclination to fake reincarnation-like incidents. 

No, reincarnation is not open to empirical validation: The problem of how life after death can be scientifically studied is not a simple one. Parapsychologists believe progress can be made in a scientific fashion, but they have received doubt both from the skeptic community and from sympathetic, neutral philosophers of science. It is this latter criticism I will focus on. The remainder of this answer is an extremely brief and hopefully accurate discussion of Michael Sudduth's new book A Philosophical Critique of Empirical Arguments for Postmortem Survival (Palgrave Macmillan, 2016). The example of Ian Stevenson's work on reincarnation is pretty straightforward: he proposes to simply find case studies of alleged reincarnations who possess factual information about their past lives that they couldn't have come across by normal means. This would seem to be evidence of some kind of paranormal activity, and indeed, much of the criticism of Stevenson has focused on trying to disprove his dozens of examples. However, what Stevenson provides is data, not a hypothesis. The "survival hypothesis," the statement "The soul survives death", does not cause us to expect any this-worldly phenomena in itself. We could be living in an orthodox Christian world where the future states of the soul do not affect us in any way. That doesn't make the claim unusual; according to the Durhem-Quine thesis, there are very few scientific claims that can be falsified by themselves. To restate Wikipedia's example, Galileo seeing rings around Jupiter could be explained by Jupiter being surrounded by a dozen small moons and thousands of tiny objects in a ring, or it could be explained by a scratch on the lens of Galileo's telescope, as one of the other intellectuals of the day suggested. So, a truer statement of Galileo's hypothesis is actually "Jupiter has rings and I can see them perfectly well through my telescope". The second half of this is called an auxiliary hypothesis. It's not essential to the main hypothesis but we need it to get from the data we currently have to the main hypothesis. Similarly, the survival hypothesis in a more testable form must make more specific claims that cause us to expect data, like "The soul survives death and goes to Heaven, and people can experience this themselves through near death experiences," or perhaps "The soul survives death, reincarnates sometimes on Earth, and retains at least some of its memories, and we can confirm this and rule out cold reading through carefully controlled interviews." The latter is closer to Stevenson's actual view. But we are not done with auxiliary hypotheses yet, because at some point they lose explanatory power. For example, if Stevenson were to narrow down his claim to "I myself spoke to a reincarnated person once, in a unique event that cannot be duplicated," that's not particularly helpful for our lives. In the more general form he gives in his books, Stevenson's claims can be explained in all sorts of other ways: 

This is extremely reminiscent of Spinoza's account of the universe. In brief, he assumes that there are substances and modes, which are independently and dependently existing respectively. From this, he deduces that there must be one infinite substance (he calls God) that contains all possible things within it in infinite ways (Prop XVI, Part I, Ethics). However, from your cosmological account, it really shouldn't matter from what position we begin in explaining all of existence, since whatever happened happened, and now we're stuck with absolute finitude. So, I will restrict myself to just this claim and attempt to not predicate any particular assumptions for its cause. I will assume that you are personifying "law" rhetorically and not making an implicit assumption for the existence of a God. If you were, then we'd be in a heap of trouble philosophically. If we are absolutely determined and in accordance to the principle of sufficient reason, then it follows that there is no free will--I cannot freely choose my actions. From your statement, 

I'll try and rephrase your question and then possibly answer it: "How can anything happened in a completely determined system?" It reads that the following is the crux of your argument (which I rewrote for you): 

From looking at the meaning of deliberately, to do something deliberately would be to do something with intent and reason. Now looking at your three sentences, there is a question of who thinks S ought to do A and how S ought to do A. (1): The one asserting the sentence is claiming that any agent S ought to do A deliberately. Here, S does not necessarily already believe that he/she/it ought to do A deliberately, but rather the assert-er does. There is an additional condition in (1) regarding the manner in which S does A. If S were to do A unintentionally, then S messed up. However, this is interpreting "deliberately speaking" as "with deliberateness." If such is not the case, then "deliberately speaking" refers to the manner in which the assert-er is asserting. The addition then says nothing regarding S or A but is a rhetorical appeal to the methodology in which the assert-er is working. (2): Unlike (1), this sentence does not say anything about the assert-er. We are assuming S's beliefs and what S knows to be true and deducting a normative claim from that set. (3): This sentence differs from (1) and (2) in that it is, prima facie, a nonethical statement. If we equivocate an "instrumentally rational" action with an action that ought to be done, then we can say that (3) is no different than (2). However, this assumes a lot about S and A that we don't know. Let's also look at how "instrumentally rational" could be true, while "ought" would not. Suppose that for S, following every instruction in the Torah is an ethical necessity that ought to be done. Yet, S cannot find any instrumentally rational deduction as to why S ought to live a kosher life. This does presuppose that S does not consider any deduction including a faith-based claim to be rational, but we can easily allow this to occur since (3) does not mandate S to be infallible. 

Is it possible to use empirical evidence to build a case that reincarnation really happens? (Note 1: This is separate from the question "can belief in reincarnation be justified in general?" See: Ought we only form beliefs based on sufficient empirical evidence?) (Note 2: This question was partially borrowed from a deleted Skeptics.SE question by njfife. My answer will be copied from there) 

None of these alternative explanations actually falsify the claim "The soul survives death, reincarnates sometimes on Earth, and retains at least some of its memories, and we can confirm this and rule out cold reading through carefully controlled interviews." They just tell us we haven't truly tested it yet. But alas, that tells us that we need additional auxiliary hypotheses which reduce the explanatory power of the survival hypothesis so much that there's no particular reason to accept it as an explanation of Stevenson's data over any of the other hypotheses. In particular the living psi hypothesis would seem to cover any anomalous data that could possibly be claimed to support the survival hypothesis. So according to Michael Sudduth's book, the argument that "the soul survives death" necessarily has no explanatory power, regardless of the more specific data it is meant to analyze, or the specific test meant to prove or disprove it. There is no way to state it in a way that becomes scientifically valuable. Sudduth concludes that the survival hypothesis is not a scientific hypothesis, meaning that it can't be evaluated empirically. This is the problem with much of parapsychology: experiments may suggest to a reader that something weird is going on, but it's hard to turn "something weird" into a scientific hypothesis, especially when it's an anomaly that is not systematically reproducible and varies its nature widely between experiments. Such deficiencies reduce the explanatory power of any hypothesis significantly. 

I gather that the lack of a free will implies a lack of moral certainty. Since we cannot choose any of our actions, we cannot be accountable for them? And since this "law" of deterministic finitude assumes the materialization of consciousness, reason, and experience, then all knowledge and thoughts are likewise determined. In all honestly, at this point, I am extremely tempted to work backwards causally to explain from where we originate, but I promised that I wouldn't. Moving on-wards. You did not account for a plenum of matter in the universe, or rather, if every possible point in the universe (including points that contain no matter) are affected. So, I will now consider two cases: Case 1 (the plenum): If the universe is a true plenum of matter, then we find ourselves in a Leibnizian/Parmenidean system of a monad. Put simply: There can be no difference among everything, since everything is matter. It would then follow that: 

Everything we have come to know is an illusion of difference. From this, we have come to the wrong conclusions about free will, "creation", etc.. However, we are all one and imperishable. But, it would then follow that motion cannot be. This was a big problem for Plato. If every point in the universe is filled with matter, then if any bit of matter moves, then there is a difference between the prior position and the current one. But we can't have difference because this would assume that there was a part of existence that the matter could move into and thus contradict both the assumed plenum and the true lack of difference. So, we come to a somewhat paradoxical conclusion that all of existence really has no motion or direction. Everything just is, is one, and is still. If this were the only assumption and there was no account for a beginning of creation, then we could accept pure nihilism. Hmmm. Case 2 (no plenum): Everything is completely determined, but there are empty spaces in the universe. This case is more aligned with current models in physics than the previous case. Nevertheless, we still have determinism from material finitude. From that we can once again extrapolate various claims of nihilism and meaninglessness. Not very exciting of a framework, huh? Anyway, your thought: 

The term "conspiracy theory" was invented by Karl Popper as a way to describe Marxist theories of history as a collusion of the bourgeoise class against the working class. So, as far as I can tell, someone actually arguing after Popper would say Marxists are actually seeing the world in a similar way to people who claim that climate change is a hoax, vaccines are poisonous, historical world leaders are reptilian, etc. by placing the motives of large groups of people in an "open society" under suspicion. From my perspective, regardless of value judgments about conspiracy theory, the entire "hermeneutics of suspicion" fits the category. Nietzsche's historical thesis is largely a conspiracy theory about the nature of Christianity, and many popular writers have interpreted it as such. Alex Jones claiming that "there's a war on for your mind" is being very legitimately Freudian. However, when I went to read the academic literature on this, I found that this view is in a distinct minority. Placing, say, governments, doctors, or environmentalists under suspicion is considered a "conspiracy theory," but Marx, Nietzsche and Freud are not generally claimed to be "conspiracy theorists." There are only a few sources that make such a claim, and they appear to be on the fringes of academic philosophy. I was unable to find any critical literature examining the difference between the hermeneutics of suspicion and conspiracy theory. I would appreciate any book recommendations, no matter how heavy.