The stars in any given constellation can be at vastly different distances, there is no link between the distance and the size of a constellation. The constellation boundaries are purely artificial boundaries. 

This is a common problem with Newtonian type telescopes and DSLRs, the sensor in the camera is too far back to reach focus. As mentioned in the comments a low profile focuser may help or move the main mirror up the tube, I've seen this done on some Skywatcher Newtonians to solve similar problems. 

Constant for every star with different declination's. Though you would have to assume the the declination is such that it can have an azimuth of 90 each, not all stars will. Depending on your latitude some stars will never get to an azimuth of 90, they will either be always be further north or south. 

As months are not of fixed length it is only possible to calculate an average. From Wikipedia: The average frequency of a blue moon can be calculated as follows. It is the period of time it would take for an extra synodic orbit of the moon to occur in a year. Given that a year is approximately 365.2425 days and a synodic orbit is 29.5309 days, then there are about 12.368 synodic months in a year. For this to add up to another full month would take 1/0.368 years. Thus it would take about 2.716 years, or 2 years, 8 months and 18 days for another blue moon to occur. So for a 70 year life span the average number of blue Moons would be 70/2.716 or 25.77. 

You don't have a perpetual motion machine because you are losing energy to space in the form of heat, light, solar wind, etc. Even if you want to restrict it to the case where you are not expelling gas, you are always going to lose energy to heat radiation. The Sun loses mass all the time. It will keep doing this until it cannot generate enough internal heat to counterbalance its tendency to contract due to gravity. There is a whole progression where it burns its hydrogen, then its helium, etc. Finally, when it runs out of stuff to burn, it collapses and "blows up" in a nova or supernova, or it could just fizzle out. Its fate depends upon its mass. 

The dominant effect could be different other places. For instance, the moons of Jupiter have to deal with the dynamo generated from the Jovian magnetic field. And in a case like Io, the atmospheric stripping doesn't happen as quickly as expected because apparently every time Io goes behind Jupiter and loses sunlight, its atmosphere condenses out and falls to the surface! 

Looks like you have a periodic error issue. The worm period on the AVX is about 9mins I think. The issue has a period of 90sec * 6 = 540sec (9min). 

There is no reason why it couldn't, though the chances of it happening are small. There are hyper velocity stars that are not gravitationally bound to the Milkyway, if a planet is ripped away from its star due to a close encounter with another star or black hole it could be given enough velocity to reach a galaxies escape velocity (about 537 km/s). 

Due to the complexity of the problem (see my comment above) and the fact that you only want a rough answer why not try calculating the times of Sun rise / set at say one degree intervals for the whole Earth and then compare these with the times you have. If one degree is not near enough you could use a smaller interval and also use a range in the comparison (say +/- 5 mins). Exactly how fine your location spacing and time range is will depend on how accurate you want your answers and both could easily be tweaked until you are satisfied with the results. This approach may not be the most efficient, but with the speed of modern computer shouldn't take very long. 

One thing to keep in mind is that the Kepler instrument is not a telescope like Hubble. It is a photometer and though it uses CCDs to look at the sky, it doesn't return a picture in the usual sense. The way it operates is that you only look at the pixels around the object you're interested in because otherwise you'd never get all those pixels transmitted to the ground because there are so many of them. To observe the comet, they looked at the track it would make across the Kepler field of view. They chose only the pixels you'd need to look at the comet and its tail, and this turned out to be a 15-pixel-wide swath across the detector. That band across the image you see is that swath. You'll notice that most of the picture is black, which are all the pixels that they didn't look at. The stars in the scene where the image isn't back are the stars that Kepler was also looking at. However, I'm not intimately familiar with raw Kepler data so I can't tell you why the stars are in clusters of four. Because all the stars are lined up in the same direction, I would surmise that this is because Kepler was tracking the comet and the stars were moving in the background. From the way they were going to take the measurements, each 36 hour observation was made up of three observations, so I am at a loss as to why there are four dots per star when this would suggest there would be three. The answer to the science question can be found from the observation proposal. To summarize: 

Rings are made up of a large number of individual particles, each in elliptical orbits. We see rings as circular because we don't see and follow the individual particles just the overall swarm of particles. Their individual orbits average out and just appear are a circle. The individual orbits are constantly being changed due to collisions between particles, and gravitational influences for moons. Saturn's F ring is a good example of this. As can be seen from the images the ring is not a circle. 

AIP4Win has a comprehensive photometry package, also I believe MaximDL (though more expensive) has some as well. 

Its a nice idea, but it wouldn't work. To stay in the Earth's shadow a telescope would need to orbit the Earth in the same time the earth orbited the Sun so that it always stayed on the opposite side. For its orbit to be this long it would need to be a long way out, remember geosynchronous orbit (one orbit in 23h 56min 4sec) is at a distance of 42,164 km. For a 1 year orbit the telescope would be so far away that its would not be in orbit around the Earth but the Sun, as it would have a much larger gravitational influence. It would also be too far away to be in the Earth's shadow cone. 

For your second question, it depends upon whether you are talking about composition by number, or composition by mass (the numbers you give are roughly the composition by mass). If you want to get really specific, you can add in the other elements too. To answer the first, you add them up proportionally. 

The Moon indeed "wobbles" about in its orbit because it goes around the Earth in an ellipse and not a circle. From our point of view, it wobbles a little back and forth such that over a lunar cycle, we end up seeing about 59% of its surface. The effect is referred to as lunar libration. You can find a number of videos that show how the Moon looks to us over the course of a cycle. 

At least in the case of Mars, the solar wind carries a magnetic field by the planet. In the Martian atmosphere are ionized particles created from interactions with UV light, cosmic rays, etc. The moving magnetic field creates an electric field that accelerates the ions away from the planet. This effect was very recently measured by the MAVEN spacecraft: