The average angular diameter of the Moon, as seen from the Earth, is about 31 arcminutes. The angular diameter depends on the distance between the two objects and the diameter of the object being viewed. Specifically, for small angles, it is the diameter divided by the distance. When the distance is the same, the angular size is proportional to the diameter. The distance remains the same when viewing the Earth from the Moon, but the Earth is larger. According to NASA, the diameter of the Moon is 3,476 km, and the diameter of the Earth is 12,756 km. So, because it's proportional, the angular diameter can be calculated as follows: $a_{Earth} = a_{Moon} \times {d_{Earth}\over d_{Moon}}$ $ = 31 arcminutes \times {12,756 km \over 3,476 km}$ $ \approx 114 arcminutes$, or just under 2 degrees. This is approximate, because not only is this valid only for small degrees, where the tangent of an angle can be approximated by the angle itself (in radians), the Earth-Moon distance varies because the Moon's orbit around the Earth is an ellipse. 

The body (Moon, Mars,...) moves in the opposite direction of the Sun viewed along the right ascension (or elliptical longitude) axis. The sidereal day is 4 minutes shorter than 24 hours which means that a static celestial body (a star) will rise 4 minutes earlier than the day before. However planetary bodies move (more or less) along the ecliptic, which is the Sun's path during the year along the celestial sphere. The Sun moves on average 4 minutes in elliptical longitude (and hence in right ascension with a bit more variation) every day. So for a body to rise earlier, the body would have to move slower along the celestial sphere than the Sun (or move in a retrograde direction). This is true for the outer planets (including mars) but not for the Moon, which moves in the same direction as the Sun and much faster (one orbit per month). If the observer is at a sufficient high latitude on Earth (either north or south of the equator), the inclination of the celestial equator will be small enough so that a body that increases its declination rapidly enough will be able to rise earlier on the second day. 

With respect to the Sun, the Earth rotates once every 24 hours. But because the Sun's apparent position changes in the sky due to Earth's revolution around the Sun, the Earth rotates once every 23 hours, 56 minutes, 4 seconds with respect to the stars. Because of this 3 minutes, 56 seconds difference, all stars rise and set 3 minutes, 56 seconds earlier each succeeding day. This applies to the time of a star passing through the meridian as well. So, on the next day, April 29, Arcturus will pass the meridian at 22:56:04. 

Basically, Huygens used good methods, except for using "numerology and mysticism" to determine the size of Venus. He was lucky that Venus was almost the size of Earth; that made his estimate for the AU pretty close. Not long after, Cassini used the parallax of Mars to determine the AU. (Same article as linked above.) 

Stars in our galaxy, the Milky Way, no. It's only around 100k light years across, it contains 100 billion - 1 trillion stars, of which we can individually "see" only a small proportion. Most of those are very close, the furthest around 1500 light years, and most of those are not supernova candidates at all, let alone black hole candidates. Even allowing for our best telescopes, we still only resolve a small proportion of stars individually. The galaxy probably experiences roughly one supernova every 50-100 years. So even if all of those were visible stars (which they aren't: even of the largest stars in the galaxy only a small proportion can be seen with the naked eye), and all the supernovae resulted in black holes (which they don't), then at most 15-30 naked-eye-visible stars could already be black holes, and only up to 1000-2000 total stars in the whole galaxy regardless of visibility are in the duration between going supernova, and earth entering the future light cone of that supernova. This extremely loose upper bound is by no means "most of the stars that we see", and in fact the chances are that none of the stars you see when you look up at the night sky are already black holes. It might well be that none of them ever will be. It's also unlikely that any star you observe with the naked eye is dead, since their lifetimes are of the order of 10 million years (for the largest) to billions of years, and their distances from earth are 1500 light years or less. But there are a few stars, like Betelgeuse, that we know are near the ends of their life and that therefore might be "already dead" in this sense. Using telescopes we can see some individual stars in nearby galaxies, or at least indirectly observe them since they're lighting up nebulae that we see, up to a few tens of millions of light years away (these tend to be blue supergiants, I think). Of these, those on course to turn into a black hole may well have lifetimes less than or equal to their distance from us. It's not necessarily the case that all or even most of them become black holes, I'm not sure what's typical of the types of star in question, but for those stars you can say that many or most are already black holes. The most distant individually-resolved stars are all dead one way or another. If you allow for us "seeing" each star in a very distant galaxy, even though we can't resolve any of them individually before they supernova, then the numbers change again, but my instinct is that it's not the case that "most" of the observable universe is already collapsed into black holes. But the stars may well be dead even though they aren't black holes. We can see galaxies 10+ billion light years away, which is about the entire lifetime of a star like the Sun. To come up with "most", though, you have to firstly agree what counts as a star and secondly survey what kinds of star those galaxies contain. If you end up concluding that most stars are (by comparison with the Sun) tiny little red-brown things with lifetimes in the tens of billions of years, then most stars aren't already dead no matter how far away the galaxy they're in :-) On the other hand, the brighter objects that contribute most of what we observe via telescope in the most distant galaxies, sure, certainly die in far less than a few billion years. Note that in special relativity the concept of "simultaneous" is a bit difficult to pin down. But I've followed the convention that if something is X light years away, then anything we observe from it between now and X years from now, has "already happened". We're not necessarily entitled from where we're standing to say that it's "already happened", since it's not in our past light cone, but good enough :-) 

For the same reason as (1), the path of totality would vary from a maximum amount down to nothing. For annular eclipses there would be a similar path of annularity instead. But whichever path it is would always be centered on the equator. 

Any bacteria present in a meteor would not necessarily burn. According to the Bad Astronomer's "Bad Addendum" to another unrelated point, "A Meteoric Rise", meteors sure do get extremely hot, but that outside part usually ablates away, leaving the inner part that was extremely cold for who knows how long, which may not have warmed up much during the fall. 

But then there was the transit of 1769. Observations in Norway and in the Hudson Bay were made for the northern observations, and Captain James Cook was sent to what is now Tahiti to make a southerly observation. Jérôme Lalande compiled the figures and calculated a solar parallax of 8.6 arc-seconds, close to the modern figure of about 8.794 arc-seconds. That calculation yielded the first fairly accurate calculation of the Earth-Sun distance, of 24,000 Earth radii, which given the Earth's radius of 6,371 km, about 153,000,000 km, the accepted value being about 149,600,000 km. 

If I understand your question correctly than your problem is that the primary direction of is the intersection between the prime meridian and the Earth's equator, instead of the vernal equinox. The geographical latitude is the same as the declination, but to get the right ascension you will need to rotate your coordinates around the z-axis by an amount that is equal to the sidereal time at Greenwich ($\theta_G$). This is done, simply by replacing the the longitude (lon) with the sidereal time at your location $\theta = \theta_G-lon$. 

The Sun's spectral type is G2V, which means that the spectral class is G2 and the luminosity class is V, which means that the Sun is a main-sequence star. An example: The following record is for the star Arcturus (α Boötis): 

There are two additional files on variability: and , which provide information such as variable type (GCVS) and max and min magnitude and also the variable star name. You can find a description of the variable type in the General Catalogue of Variable Stars (GCVS) in the file if you download the GCVS at $URL$ 

Using the Earth-Moon distance and the separation of the Moon from the Sun in the sky when the Moon was at exactly half-phase, Aristarchus calculated the Earth-Sun distance. 

Again, because of the elliptical orbit of the Moon, the length of totality or annularity still can vary. Even during a single eclipse, the length of totality depends on your exact location on Earth. Your exact location determines your exact distance from the moon during the eclipse, which will vary depending on whether the Moon is getting closer/farther and how fast. There are formulas for calculating this, but I'm sure they are quite complicated even with the moon orbiting over the equator and with Earth having no axial tilt. 

They could time the transit, which would last hours, with great precision. But they had to wait until the next transit of Venus in 1761. Then, observers observed the black drop effect, which made it very hard to time the event from start to finish precisely. 

For some stars, yes it could be. There are certain stars that we can individually observe, and that we believe could go supernova more-or-less at any moment. Betelgeuse is probably the most famous example. It's 640 light years away, it could go type II supernova any time (expected within the next million years, but could conceivably happen within the next 640 years as we observe it, such that it's already happened). It might become a black hole when it does (although a mere neutron star is also on the cards, I believe, and probably more likely). Furthermore, when we observe a distant galaxy it is certain (as far as our theories are concerned) that some of the stars contributing to the light from that galaxy have since become black holes. However, since we aren't resolving individual stars in those galaxies even with our best telescopes, you could have an argument whether we're "seeing" the stars or not. 

The Hipparcos number identifying the star can be found in bytes 43-48. Of course this only works for multiple stars with orbital solutions. For variability, three fields are provided in the main Hipparcos file: 

where Spec is the spectral type, N is the number of stars in the Hipparcos catalogue with that spectral type (nb. many stars do not have a spectral type, or a spectral type with the star type (e.g. main sequence or supergiant) missing), the average and standard deviation of the absolute magnitude (M_V), the average error in distance in percentages() and the maximum error in distance (max(d_err)). NB. I did not take extinction into account! So you can use these values to calculate the distance to a main sequence A or B type star. $D = 10^{(m-M_V)/5+1}$ But as you can see the errors are quite large. For A/B type supergiants, even the average error is more than 100%. The lowest average errors I found (25%) are for F type sub giant stars (type IV). 

Generally, the closer you are to the equator, the more the sun would be covered. But this would vary slightly depending on the distance of the Moon from the Earth, and it wouldn't depend solely on your latitude. As Gerald points out, the moon's shadow, in which you would see a total solar eclipse, is cone-shaped. Different points on the Earth close to the equator would experience a different cross-section of the cone, which may be narrower or wider depending on your exact location. Where the eclipse is partial, the apparent size of the moon would control how much of the Sun is covered. A further-away moon would appear smaller in the sky and thus cover less of the Sun. Close to the borderline where the Moon appears to graze the Sun, the Moon may miss the Sun entirely if it's far enough and it appears small enough. 

No it does not have the same composition everywhere. In the core hydrogen is fused into helium, so the fraction of hydrogen (denoted by $X$, between 0 and 1) decreases while the fraction of helium ($Y$) increases as time goes by. There is not much exchange of matter between core and envelope so the envelope will essentially have the same constitution as when the Sun formed. In other stars the convection zone extends into the core, and for these stars there will be more exchange of the different elements within the star. Evolved stars (e.g. red giant stars, horizontal branch stars) often have multiple shells where different nuclear fusion processes occur. An Asymptotic branch star, for instance, has a carbon-oxygen core surrounded by a helium burning shell, surrounded by a inert helium shell, surrounded by a hydrogen burning shell, surrounded by a very large envelope consisting mostly of hydrogen. For non-degenerate matter density depends on the pressure. The deeper you descend into the star, the higher the pressure and therefore the higher the density.