These are only a few ideas that would tend to make feudalism a better choice than large-scale authoritarianism. 

Civilization emerging from the conflict between agricultural and pastoral ways of life In late prehistoric and early historic times, we see a three-way struggle for supremacy between these three human ecologies. The hunter-gatherers got shouldered aside pretty early. They were, in general, too close to the margin of survival to compete effectively. Those who weren't absorbed into agricultural populations were generally pushed into more remote or forbidding areas: forest or desert mostly, or the icy lands of the north. The hunter-gatherers could live in these areas because hunting and gathering are pretty sustainable if given time to adapt. Nobody else wanted those places. Neither nomads nor agriculturalists could grow food very well in those places. The retreat or vanishing of the hunter-gatherer people cleared the decks for a rather dramatic, millennia-long struggle between agriculture and pastoralism. Pastoralists tended to be militarily far more formidable, because keeping predators away from the herds meant that courage and violent skills were desirable characteristics. Also, once they learned to ride horses, their mobility and cavalry tactics tended to present a formidable challenge to the settlements of agricultural people. Consider this brief list of fairly famous pastoral nomad tribal names: Scythians, Sarmatians, Parthians, Huns, Alans, Avars, Bedouin, Mongols, Seljuks, Ottomans, Tuareg, Tatars, Comanche, Sioux, Cheyenne, Kiowa... There's thunder in that list. These are names (often, of course, not names that the people themselves would have recognized) that we remember as fierce, resourceful, indomitable fighters. The increasingly large settlements of agriculturalists, on the other hand, were at a disadvantage. Not only were they less martial by cultural training (farmers with brawling, violent temperaments are less efficient at sowing and harvesting, and cost the community more in incidental damage), they had a lot of good stuff to loot. Stuff that nomads hadn't learned to make, or couldn't make or grow. Thus came the great aggregations. Smaller agricultural villages were too vulnerable, once the nomads appeared on the scene. So they began to grow, and build fortifications, doubling down and to make arrangements for mutual defense. Faced with these hardened targets, the nomads also developed larger bands, but they seldom had the staying power of the settlements of civilization. The nomads created mechanisms of joint war parties, ad hoc expeditions whose goal was to plunder a foe too large for any single nomad tribe to take on. These eventually tended to develop into habitual associations: confederacies of nomad people who sometimes didn't even have much of a common language. Yes, there were the grand imperial ventures of Attila and Genghis Khan and Tamerlane. However, the Pax Mongolica only lasted some two hundred years, and Genghis's empire was, although vast, too closely tied to his own formidable persona. It was, in a sense, just an incredibly large instance of a "tribe", with Genghis as the titular Father figure: an ancestor that bound his polyglot empire together. The concepts of political legitimacy that the agricultural peoples haltingly pieced together over centuries never found a very comfortable home in the wild hearts of the horse people. So, the original question: 

One of the most significant differences between steampunk and contemporary technology is the computing style. Despite excellent counterexamples such as The Difference Engine, steampunk is, aesthetically and conceptually, much more natively analog than digital. Most people these days are unfamiliar with analog computing. I wrote a blog post, The Crafted World of Analog Computing, that lays out a lot of the differences between digital and analog work. Here's a partial summary: 

I'm not going to dare anybody to try to use physics to explain the impact of such a painting. Because that's just luring people to be silly to make a point of some kind. Art and poetry are not about physics. Neither are love, tragedy, horror, or transcendence, or mystery; or more subtle concepts such as "liberty" or "ennui". But they are all a rich part of human existence. We live them, or at least we understand, to some extent, when we hear them told. That's really the point. So why do we want to force magic into the mold of scientific reductionism? Consider magic in fiction. Here's something from The Face in the Frost, by John Bellairs: 

This actually has some very interesting dramatic possibilities. @SerbanTanasa says "Never bring an ax to a Gamma laser fight", which is right and true, and I gave him a +1 on the strength of it. However, this isn't really a gamma laser fight either: it's an attempt to destabilize a complex system, via attack at the only feasible attack surface: the patterns of software code execution internally to nodes on the orwellian network, and message passing along the network itself. This is kind of cool. Complex systems are amazing things. They may be incredibly tough, able to take terrible damage... and shake it off, and gradually resume normal, or normal-ish, operation. On the other hand, a comparatively minor perturbation can propagate through the system, irretrievably destabilizing the system so that it shatters; or collapses into stable patterns that are not much like what they used to be. This is because complex systems are composed of feedback loops. Feedback loops are the fundamental analytical unit of systems theory, just as much as vectors are the fundamental analytical unit of physics. Your attackers would need to generate malware that would be designed to inflict the kind of critical damage that would shake the system apart. It isn't about physical damage, particularly; it's about disrupting the feedback loops. You can do this by destruction of key nodes that are routes for feedback; or you can do it by inducing oscillations in the feedback loops until they fly apart under the strain. Of course, your rebels would probably try everything. Their attacks would, in effect, become part of the system they are attacking. A fratricidal part. ...Damn, I hope you do write this. It could be a lot of fun to read. :-) 

To answer your question: How long would it take for the Mars Colony to become able to defy the authority of Imperial Earth?, you need to first answer the corollary: How do the Martians get it done? This is in turn worked out by analyzing Earth's control over Mars. The Martian goal is "trade as equals, rather than being a colony that must pay tribute". This means that Mars has the initiative: until the Martians do something, Earth will be likely to remain satisfied with the situation it has already set up. To dig a little more into the Martian goal, here are some characteristics that would be necessary: 

There's an inherent conflict here: An Earth-like planet, with "Earth-like vegetation, trees, and forest creatures", is not at all compatible with the concept of a more or less uniform, world-spanning forest of deciduous type. There's simply too much variation in climate, terrain elevation, weather patterns, and distribution of moisture to permit this kind of thing, ecologically speaking. You could address this by postulating an incredibly dominant tree species (or stable group of collaborating species) for your forest - capable of establishing terminal forest conditions in everything from arid cold weather to hot humid areas, and managing elevation without difficulty. Alternatively, you could modify your world to reduce the tendency to climatic variation. I'm guessing that the former would be less difficult. You may want to do both. (Of course, you could reduce the area of coverage of your forest, leaving parts of the world empty of the human habitation that depends on the forest for housing, food, and materials...) Surface travel So here's a world-spanning forest. Forested terrain isn't easy to traverse on foot unless there are known pathways through the trees. Pathways provide not only easy passage through undergrowth, but also are navigational aids: if you are traveling under a forest canopy, it's terribly easy to get lost unless you are following a trail. I think your serious consideration of tree-level bridges is a good acknowledgement of this... as a corollary, your stone-age/early iron age civilization isn't likely to have the resources to keep very many surface roads clear of forest regrowth. One perhaps significant question: are their areas of forest, similar to terminal pine forest in our world, that suppress undergrowth and leave a pleasant and easily traveled forest floor? I realize that you've specified deciduous trees, but I don't think the ecological dominance of pines is limited to conifers... These areas would make a large difference in traversability on foot. Water transportation One of the most important remaining topographical questions is, What are the bodies of water like? For a lot of purposes, water transportation is the cheapest way to move people and goods over distances. Navigable creeks and streams can handle canoes or similar; larger rivers permit rafts and flat-bottomed boats; lakes (even narrow ones) will support open boats, rowboats, sailboats; larger lakes and seas give you larger vessels and kayaks. Most of these vessels are attainable by stone-based technologies, and easier still if you have iron tools. Consider the birchbark canoe, the dugout, the curragh and kayak made of waterproofed skins stretched over frames of bent branches. Large planks, for larger vessels, are not typically something we'd associate with stone technology: however, the easiest to build are riven (or "reeved") planks, which are excellent for clinker-built (aka "lapstrake" hulls; reeved planks are are apparently within reach of a determined stone-age woodworker. Air transportation When it comes to your interest in gliders, I tend to agree with ckersch's concerns about the difficulties of the initial leap in concept. I do not think the means of building gliders would be outside the reach of a patient and craftsmanlike stone + iron civilization There are a couple of planetological tweaks that could make air travel more plausible: 

This imbalance will result in a much greater preponderance of Turkish than of English in whatever spoken language the islanders settle on. This example can be generalized. Some personality types are much more likely to enforce their vocabulary on the group. gestures will probably persist Given that gestures, facial expressions, and pantomime are the initial means of communication between people who are trying to survive, a fast-developing vocabulary of well-understood basic gestures is likely to be hammered in hard, and would probably prove too useful to discard, even when the spoken vocabulary is converging on a stable form. The likely result: a persistent mashup of spoken and gestural communication. Combining the two points, you have a generic template for the mode of communication that your castaways will adopt: common gestures and somewhat arbitrary multilingual spoken vocabulary. 

Has this basic answer: The hunter-gatherer peoples really seldom could. The agriculturalists and pastoralists displaced the hunter-gatherers in any lands they wished to take. The pastoralists, even as they responded to the increasing size of agricultural opponents by increasing their own political groups into confederacies and Hordes, remained tribal at heart. 

One admittedly tangential point: Extremely intense magnetic fields can cause enormous fatigue and (probably) strain on the heart. How? because blood is saltwater, highly conductive. Moving a conductor through a magnetic field creates electrical current; and, more to the point, requires physical force. Your heart, in an intense magnetic field, is working extra hard just to get the blood to move. It sounds ridiculous, perhaps, but my aunt was actually subject to this. Her office at the National Bureau of Standards (now NIST) was on the floor directly below a lab in which a researcher was creating high-intensity magnetic fields. By the end of the day she and her officemate were about ready to pass out. This went on for a while, until the researcher took a day off, and the exhaustion did not occur. Someone figured it out, they moved their work location, and the tiredness went away for good. Now, I seriously doubt that any planetary magnetic field could be anything like this. The mechanism for this kind of intensity would probably not be physically possible in a planetary core. (She told me the field intensity in gauss; I don't remember what it was, only that it was impressively large.) So probably this particular issue is not important. However, it's an interesting example of an extreme magnetic effect that would be very hard to anticipate. Possibly this would be of interest to you. 

The answers so far have given a lot of good discussion about the specifics of individual languages. A few further observations: personality goes a long way Given that each language is represented by a single person, accidents of personality and linguistic facility will go a long way towards determining the makeup of the shared vocabulary. For example, let's say that: 

If the dragons are malevolent and even moderately intelligent, defense over the long term is probably impossible, for a devastatingly simple reason: Burninating the countryside, burninating the peasants. The answers so far have mainly dealt with short-term tactical considerations, and have done so quite well. However, there's a strategic side to this question: medieval societies are fundamentally dependent on the harvest. Without reliable yields of grain, people will starve and disperse. No more towns, castles, etc. The land will be depopulated. ("Desolation of Smaug", indeed!) So, how effectively could the fields, barns, hayricks, oxen, and so on be defended against even one fairly tough fire-breathing dragon? None of the tactical answers discussed above seem up to the task. All of them seem to rely on concentration of distance attacks, with some good attention paid to driving the dragons into established kill zones. (+1 to @Shalvenay for that one.) However, none of these is a reliable means of defense of a broadly distributed agricultural base. You can't concentrate attacks on a dragon that can go wherever it wants to destroy the crops. This is not unlike the problem of Viking raids in medieval seacoast Europe (mainly Britain and France) when the Vikings could show up when and where they wished, do their looting and killing, and be back out at sea before the local barons could arrive to give battle: