Udumbarika Sihanada Sutta Your belief can be conditioned by contemporary thinking, other religions beliefs or maybe you logical deduction. Holding on to these beliefs generate caving and aversion hence misery so as you practice let go of them and let the right view develop in your mind based on understanding. Every moment rebirth is happening where mind and matter disintegrates and reforms, were taking a new body at death is only a special case or rebirth. Until you understand this these are also view so do not get too attached to it. The Dhamma is Universal hence you do not have even categorise this as Buddha Dhamma, X school dhamma, Y lineage dhamma, Z teacher's dhamma, this view of dhamma, that view of dhamma, this view of reality, that view of reality, this view of truth or that view of truth, this school of thought, that school of thought in which case the efficacy of the universal teaching is lost as it becomes sectarian.1 As the working of Dhamma is Universal regardless of whether you believe in it or not it happens. A person who believe in gravity or and on who does not will, be equally hurt when you fall and hit the ground. The same is true if you label yourself physicist, X_ist, Y_ist or what not. As iterated before, through you can start without the doubt about rebirth. To progress in the 8 Fold Noble Path, you will have to straighten you view: 

Source: Titth’ayatana Sutta. Hence the puzzle and math problem inevitably create some sensation which falls into the the 3 categories of either pleasant, painful or neither pleasant or painful. Similar passage appears in Dhātu Vibhaṅga Sutta also. 

This does not look like Jhana. Jhana is blissful. Sometimes you might experience Piti and Sukkha. These may be intense. 

If you end up with more energy switch to developing concentration. Also you should look at calming the fabrications. In Anapana if you note the length of the breath, which nostril it is going and coming at what proportions, you breath become very slow and eventually stops for some time. Then continue to watch the sensations in the upper lip. Look at the sensation any metal states create around you head. In case you get lethargic or sleepy start scanning the body using large areas and in rapid speed. If you are not too sleepy then try looking at just sensations in the upper lip or your mouths upper plate while placing you tongue on the place of concentration. These will stir up energy. When doing your daily activities look at sensations in your body. Shyness, being elicited, etc. and other personal traits sometimes have sensations associated with them. (Also you breathing will change.) By looking at them they will arise and pass away or if not you can be in more control of the situation as you know what state you are in. (Please leave a comment if I have missed something or you need more clarification.) 

If you feel you cannot focus on meditation any more then what ever practice you are doing seems to be causing stress. This implies you are not practicing properly and natural progress of meditation you should experience more happiness, joy, zest, tranquility. ((Ekā,dasaka) Cetanā’karaṇīya Sutta, (Dasaka) Cetanā’karaṇīya Sutta). Maybes you should double check your practice. 

But in a sense again it is not worthy to attach any value as in absolute terms it is beyond ones control. Trying to control is misery and attaching temperament attribute perception something which will change is also misery. 

You learn the Dhamma and see that this sounds right You see it is logical You practice and empirically verify and see that it is in fact true. 

SC has a API. E.g. : $URL$ Also see: $URL$ Also the data is in Github. E.g. $URL$ Similarly you can download the whole Access to Insight website as files: $URL$ 

Sexual orientation and desire is a mental construct, hence an illusion as these concepts breakdown at the level of Kalapas, but gender is an part of matter constructing the corporeal body (Rupa), which is considered and absolute truth (something that does not breakdown due to meditative scrutiny into the finer constituents). 

Yoniso Manasikāra Sampadā Sutta Insight practice can be combined with calmness practice as in Saṅkhitta Dhamma Sutta: 

You are sum total of past conditioning including that of your past conditioning ue to yourself notion. 

There is craving and intention. Enlightened people had intention but not craving to achieve their goal which is what you should aim to develop. Craving for the goal also will set you back. 

Not necessarily but the brain helps as a more convenient store, hence brain damage can hinder memory. Also why you cannot remember of past lives is that you now have a new brain. Jhana meditators can recall past lives hence this is not necessarily true as sense impressions have persisted. 5 Hindrances is one case of we cannot remember and as meditation overcomes this you can remember better. [(Nīvarana) Sangarava Sutta] As for conciseness it arises and passes. At death it passes in one body and arise in another. This process don't end at death or with brain damage or death. 

Since you are emotional best is to pratice in the context of an organised course. Due to emotions perhaps you might not pratice as intended or in the right way without guidance. Following centres have a wide outreach and I personally have positive results thought the pratice: $URL$ I have not tried this out but the course most likely like the other hence would be benificial: $URL$ 

The book Jesus Lived in India speculated Christ was a disciple of Buddha but current form of teaching in the bible there is much divergence to believe this. If this is the case and considering how he behave at the cross we can speculate that Christ might have been a Bodhi Sattva. This is speculation though. In one Buddhist era there can only be one Buddha and the next is Mitriya. Thence, no Christ is not a Buddha but perhaps at most (if we were to speculate) a Bodhi Sattva or just a disciple. 

Multitasking or engaging in activities like listening to audiobooks is not an issue for mindfulness. What is needed is Wise Attention, i.e., being free from unwholesome roots, hindrances and Vipallasa. 

Nirvana is the central concept of Buddhism, there 37 factors which cover the teachings leading to Nirvana. When you practice this as get to Nirvana you see the 3 marks of existence of which one is anattā 

The Buddhist goal is Nirvana and on jet to reach it is called a Sekkha. Success comes then you have reached the goal and free from all stress is accomplished (Asekkha). Even you are are not fully accomplished, the practice may help you manage your day to day stress, until one day you do not get stressed any more. Also do not procrastinate doing the tasks as this is the last day or moment. This would help in your worldly aspirations also. 

At the last level you can progress to higher levels of concentration as you are just dealing with perception and sensations through as you progress you have to make this perception very subtle where there is hardly any perception (neither perception nor no perception). Following two guides might also be very helpful: 

The Buddha found the reality pertaining to our misery and the way out of it. Anybody giving fair trial to the Buddha's practice or eradicating misery for one self can be considered a practising Buddhist. Some level of devotional acceptance of the teaching and the Sangha can also be considered Buddhists. So most importantly is to develops some faith in the techniques and consider it your teacher and guide (without some faith you will not give it fair trial) then putting it to practice is the most important aspect off becoming a practising Buddhist.