An apologetic pastor at my church once pointed out that we have three epistemological "tools" two of which many "logicians" may consider to be unlogical or unreasonable. These three are: 

I can't see how there is any debate about simulation vs experiment, especially if the simulation is run on a computer. Do you consider calculating the weight of a piece of paper in writing a simulation or an experiment? Or what if you do something more complex, like solving a set of differential equations to calculate the energy needed to make a crease in the paper, also by using a pen and paper? (Similar to @Alpha's comment about electronic computer simulations but even more fundamental and close the person asking the question) We do experiments to gain knowledge of the underlying workings of a system. With this knowledge we can build mathematical models that represent the system to a certain desired degree of accuracy and detail. These models are programmed into a computer to run simulations and extrapolate a possible outcome based on the boundary conditions entered by a user. In order to verify the computer's results it is ambiguous to say that you ran two simulations and the results are the same, thus it is correct. You need to verify the results by doing tests (experiments) in the real-life situation. You can do as many quantum mechanical simulations on a quantum computer as you like, the simulations will never give you more fundamental knowledge about a system than that which you put into it. Scientists used simulation to postulate the existence of the Higg's Boson, but only until they did an experiment in the Large Hadron Collider, did they physically find it and so could confirm that their mathematical models were indeed correct, but until that moment everything was just speculation, no matter what the simulations tell. 

The definition according to the built in dictionary of OS X is: profoundly immoral or malevolent. So there are morals and will involved. Morals are about right and wrong. And I quote again the OS X dictionary: 

What does exist however is change. Can you travel in change? No, because you yourself are change, part of change. See it as a guitar - string that has been plucked and resonates or an echo chamber. But with the only difference that the echo or sound does not get muted but stays the same power, but only changes frequency and the echo chamber changing shape as a response to the frequency. Could you go back in time then to a place where there was a certain mixture of frequencies and a certain shape of the echo chamber? Theoretically yes. All you'd need was a substantially good sound-system and some means of measuring the actual and desired sound and shape characteristics inside the echo chamber without having the sound system and yourself inside the chamber to begin with, otherwise it probably would not be the same, unless you could cloak yourself or make yourself and the system acoustically transparent. The final thing you'd need would be some computer or device that could compute the necessary output frequency mixtures (properly positioned in dimensional space, no less), to get to where you want to be. Of course this needs to be transparent or non existent as well. Really simple when you think about it. Just use some non existing equipment and change history. :P 

Based on the way OP phrased the question: If we consider the equations by literal "symbolic value" instead of implied value, why do we consider that "=" is an equality operator? Do we not need to consider all the symbols in the same context? I think we should consider all symbols under the purpose for which the symbolic representation is invented i.e. math. It is just as nonsensical as it is to start writing in English and in the middle of the sentence switch over to Chinese symbols and trying to enforce the grammar rules of one language onto the other. 

Reason - the very thing being questioned by the OP Experience (relates to measurement and testing, experience of the physical world) Faith (not referring to religion, but trust) 

Reason is "obvious", as people pointed out, it is the deductive process by which we gain clarity on a subject. Through experience we might make some inferences about the "reality" we perceive. Given consistent experiences from various agents in various situations, through reason we may assemble a picture of reality, or at least the reality of the sample space and test subjects. One thing we tend to take for granted in our everyday reasoning endeavours and tend to overlook when we try to answer questions such as the one posed by the OP is faith, or trust. Ultimately, when you come to a logical conclusion and are sure you know the answer you unwittingly, and maybe reluctantly, place faith in the correctness of your reasoning and consistency of your experience. 

The question completely lacks insight into Kant's political theory. The categorical imperative has nothing to do with politics. What is politics? In The Perpetual Peace (Appendix 1), Kant writes: 

This is a longer comment on commando's and your conversation: Kant's theory has nothing to do with solipsism. It's impossible that there's nothing else out there but our mind because we need to be affected before there is any thought. Nonetheless, as we human beings have no intellectual intuition, we can only perceive things, and what we perceive aren't the things as they are, but only how they are for us. There is no more "for us" when we die, there is no one left to perceive, and ergo the whole world (as it is for us) vanishes. Of everything else we know nothing. Of course we can think of a time when there was no "us" to perceive things. That doesn't change what people can and cannot know, namely things for us and things in themselves. 

It would be useless to quote the whole paper, though I really think that it might answer your question. That leaves me to say that, though it might have seemed to you that they're not used synonymously, both the encyclopedia and the legal praxis claim they pretty much are. As you already figured out, your first thought, namely that "duty" might entail an action, is not right, because of the negative duties. Both concepts can refer to the human as human or to specific qualities. Both have, even etymologically, a reference to the object of the duty/obligation. No difference, even there. There might be a little legal difference, for it seems you can have duties that aren't part of the contract's obligations, but that should have no impact on philosophical jargon, I reckon.