The peace arrangement with Rome included a hefty amount in war reparations to Rome which heavily impacted Carthage's ability to pay these mercenaries. The mercenaries were sent in small groups to Carthage to be paid, but the Carthage gov't couldnt and the number of unpaid mercs in Carthage grew. 

Not quite sure if this is a full answer to the question, but will try anyway. Iran has an interesting position in this war as they were kinda neutral yet pro-german at points...both the Soviets and British had identified the chance of a pro-german coup in Iran. Baku, an oil field in present day Azerbaijan, was actively sending fuels to Germany prior to the war. However in March 1940 the soviets launched a full scale invasion of northern Iran and took Baku and it's oil fields. The British also invaded (potentially with the support of the US) and attacked Iran, seizing the oil fields of Bander-I Shahpur and Abadan, destroying Irans fleet and air power in the process (The Shah in Iran compared Germany/Russia invasion of Poland to what the Allies did to Iran, the invasion was rapid and the spoils were quickly divided). I assume these are the oil fields you talk about to the south of the Caspian. Not sure on how accurate this source is here, but it will suggest that Russia and the Allies nearly went to war themselves over Iranian oil. $URL$ 

I need to challenge that line as the answer here is...they weren't. They had an extremely easy time dispatching Hungarian and Polish defenses in their first round of invasions/raids, however Hungarian and Polish forces were mainly light cavalry and not what we would call 'knights'. Knight orders actually fared decently vs Mongol horse archers. The first defeats to the Mongols taught Polish and Hungarian leaders a couple lessons, in particular that "Two elements of the Hungarian defense had proved effective, however: close combat with mass armored knights and stone fortifications"." $URL$ 

The key reason is the Ottoman empire and it's policies. Prior to the Ottoman empire, the Suljuk Sultanate (Sultanate of Rum) put tremendous stress on education. The Ince Minare Madrasa (source at bottom) was one of 24 Colleges built in the Sultanate of Rums capital of Konya and well over 50 of such structures were built Anatolia. The Sultanate of Rum was directly responsible for the height of Islamic literacy and their literacy rates far exceeding medieval Europe and quite likely even the Chinese. However the Sultanate of Rum collapsed in the face of the Mongol invasion, becoming vassals of the Mongol empire. From these ashes rose the Ottoman empire who put almost the exact opposite stress on literacy and education. There are a few reasons here: 1) The Supression of the Oghuz. Early Ottoman history is a long and violent struggle with the Oghuz tribes. To keep them subdued, education and literacy was withheld (and likely part of the reason of the ban of the printing press). 2) Nature of the Ottoman empire. The empire was somewhat a conglomeration of a variety of peoples and languages...Greek, Lydian, Phrygian, Cilician all fit into this empire (IE you could be a subject of this empire without really speaking the tongue of the empire). Many of these peoples were nomadic and education/literacy was an expensive prospect for little gain. I have seen the proposal floated that the Ottoman empire was actually more literate than given credit for, but these people were literate in their mother tongue and not the Turkish language. 3) Scripting (though this point is somewhat debated) wasn't easy. To make proper use of 'Ottomanish/Turkish' script, one needed to learn 2 languages to really be effective (correction in progress). The Elite would learn both Arabic and Persian, allowing them to effectively make use of their scripting, however most subjects of the Ottoman empire would only speak their mother tongue. Edit from comments: sourcing on that can be found here $URL$ "It borrows, in all aspects, extensively from Arabic and Persian, and it was written in the Ottoman Turkish alphabet. During the peak of Ottoman power, Persian and Arabic vocabulary accounted for up to 88% of its vocabulary,[3] while words of Arabic origins heavily outnumbered native Turkish words". Apparently if you didn't speak Arabic and Persian, the Turkish written language was pretty much unintelligible and a good segment of the Ottoman empire used kaba Türkçe ("raw/vulgar Turkish") 4) No specific mission to educate youth. Somewhere in Christian Europe, the mandate to educate youth came about. Mosques and Imam's had no such explicit mission to educate youth in this manner. As an odd side note, education was usually around the Quoran (believed to hold the key to all knowledge, not simply Theological), which was written in Arabic and does not help that much with Turkish literacy. 5) No stress on Education by the Ottoman empire. $URL$ wrote in a few of his books that educational facilities in the Ottoman empire were exceedingly rare. Erdine (a major city close to Istanbul) only had one middle school and one high school to serve the entire city, and this wasn't uncommon throughout the empire. By the time the Ottoman empire began to address this lack of education, it was already the 18th century and the majority of the world had long surpassed the Islamic world. Madrasa information from Google books: ($URL$ 

It would be hard to compare with other contemporary civilisation at the time viz Egyptian or Sumerian as not much written information available of that time. However, archealogical finding suggests many technological advancements 1) Sanitation - use of covered drainage system, (what now called) WC, reservoirs, public bath, dams and step wells to name few (source wiki) 2) Maths : circulation of coins and weights suggests use of decimal system, accurate measurements 3) metallurgy : Civilisation had extensive knowledge of bronze, tin, copper and lead Since whole Indust valley civilisation was residing near Rivers they must have knowledge on channelling water and building high wall to protect from floods. 

Emperor Harsha (also known as Harshavardhan, around 600 AD) had his widowed sister along with him in his official court. She was active in day to day politics as suggested by travellers of that time. source : Cambridge History of India (old version published in 1920, can be found royalty free) 

India got under complete British control only after 1860. India had used rupees in various forms for 1000+ years and it would have been difficult to get people use to different currency altogether. When first British merchants arrived in Surat, Mughal court ordered them to melt down British sovereign gold coins and get them converted to Mughal currency. The reason being only emperor was officially allowed to mint money (and reading of kutaba in his name). Any one else minting money was in directly defiance of Mughal (Shivaji did this against Aurangjeb in 1680ish). Thus East India Company themselves minted coin in name of mughal emperor for quite some time (til 1840) 

Third Battle of panipat is what you are looking for - The battle was fought between Ahmad Shah Durrani and Marattha Empire near Delhi (now capital of India) on 14th Jan 1761. Technically Ahmad Shah won the war however didn't gained much from it and had to return back to Afganistan. Estimated losses on both sides around 150,000 however more civilians were killed after Marattha were lost. one of the source : $URL$ 

Could be either of two reasons - 1. out of respect of moughal empire (which is unlikely as they were blamed for melting Silver from Red Fort) 2. fearing repercussion from all muslims who would rise against Hindu power i.e. unite against maratha to take revenge thus leading costly wars When you read historical accounts (Siyar-ul-mukhatarin or History of Marattha) you will know that Maratha rose to power with support from Nizam who did nothing to oppose them. IN turn marattha didn't molest Nizam in deccan but focussed more on northern territory. 

Not really due to British involvement. By the time Hitler attacked Russia, these oil fields were in British hands. I believe the same goes with Iraqi oil fields further south. If Russia lost it's Baku oil, I believe Siberia might be the only remaining option. A second source for verification. $URL$ 

There are parts that are reliable and parts that are not so much. You can readily tell, simply by the name of the work itself, that it is written from the Roman standpoint (to the Jewish people, this book would be entitled 'The Roman War' after all) and it's skewed to a pro-Roman stance from that. That being said, he appears to be a mix bag himself with his position lying somewhere between loyalty/appeasement to the Romans, but somewhat faithful to the Jewish aristocratic's he descended from (stating the aristocrats were peaceful and accomodating) instead blaming the conflict on 'Jewish brigands/rebels/bandits' (probably 'extemists' in todays language) He does appear to have access to military documentation from the Romans side and much of this information is verifiable. He also got distances very close to exact. $URL$ 

There was a massive change genetically in England that suggests a huge number of the native population was killed off. This is relatively unique, especially within Europe. Quite literally, the majority of 'Roman English' speakers were killed off and their language wasn't able to influence Enlgish as heavily as it did the Romance languages. 

Pottery is likely one of the easiest things to trace in early neolithic human history and has become a major route of linking cultures and proving early trade. Neolithic pottery is actually quite abundant (it survives the test of time quite well) and we can often trace a peoples movements and transitions of culture via their pottery. Pottery is one of the first pieces of technology that emerges with urbanization (a 'city' provided both the need for pottery and the ability to create it). A pottery style is often unique to a culture and the (relatively abundant) pottery left behind gives good insight into which culture left behind the city ruins. The best example I can give is from the Halaf-Ubaid Transitional period ($URL$ When a culture or region transitions from one culture to the next...was it a gradual transition or was it abrupt? This answer can often be deduced from the pottery 

Hitler is apparently the product of capitalism and was purposefully financed to dismember the glory of the soviet empire I guess. The part here that really confuses me comes from your question: "There is a meme in the US about British meddling in Europe. " It appears to be a meme regarding the US doing the financing, not just the British. I'm not 100% sure why a meme declaring the US being the #1 cause of the Nazi rise to power and WWII would be a meme in the US, short of Russians mass posting on American facebook walls maybe?