I have encountered the concept of eternal return e.g. in reading about Friedrich Nietzsche (1844 – 1900) and Pythagoras (c. 570 – c. 495 BC). This is one formulation from Nietzsche's The Will To Power: 

With respect to Buddhism (and its Theravada tradition), the Kalama Sutta is often quoted in this context. From the translator's notes in the version translated by Thanissaro Bhikkhu: 

I've noticed similarities e.g. in Derek Parfit's (1942–) Reasons and Persons, in David Hume's (1711–1776) bundle theory, and in Michel de Montaigne's (1533–1592) Essays. Parfit is active at a time when the West has obviously become aware of Buddhism (and Indian philosophy in general). He showed surprise when resemblances between the Buddhist and his view of the self were pointed out to him. If memory serves, there is evidence that Hume has been at least partly aware of Buddhism via Jesuits at the Royal College of La Flèche. Montaigne was an approximate contemporary of the Jesuits' founder (first Jesuit mission to China in 1552), but in his case I have not heard of a similar link. Perhaps it is just a coincidence that La Flèche is not too far away from Montaigne's home town Bordeaux. 

I have the subjective experience of free will but also observe the following: it does not seem to be possible to plan ahead and make a willful decision as to what one's exact thoughts shall be in 5 minutes (or even 1 minute). By then one may still be involved in a certain overall task (such as reading a book), but what specifically will go through one's mind by that instance (whether a philosophic thought about free will or a thought about dishes in the sink) cannot be predicted or planned with any precision or reliability. Such future thoughts seem to be much more determined by external events outside one's control (e.g. the phone ringing) or other thoughts that immediately precede them. Hence freely choosing one's exact thoughts may be an illusion, and since conscious actions follow from thoughts these may also be more stringently determined that we like to think. So here is my question: is this kind of thought experiment indeed relevant to the philosophical question of free will and if so, have such arguments been pursued in greater detail elsewhere in the literature? 

Roberto Mangabeira Unger's series of talks Beyond Nihilism sorts historical religions and other -isms (democracy, liberalism, socialism, romantizism etc.) eloquently into three orientations, namely The Overcoming of the World (e.g. Buddhism), The Humanization of the World (e.g. Confucianism), and The Struggle with the World (e.g. Christianity). To me his project for countering nihilism seems somewhat akin to existentialism, but this -ism is never mentioned in the talks. Could somebody familiar with this line of work by Unger please explain whether existentialism fits The Humanization of the World, or The Struggle with the World, or neither? From my current (limited) perspective I am inclined to think it is the first, whereas Unger advocates a (possibly) new form of The Struggle with the World. 

I came across the following quote in a radio programme (Das Philosophische Radio, in German) that is devoted to matters philosophy. The resulting question borders on sociology but I hope it is still okay to ask it here also due to its origin. A listener gave this possible explanation for wide-spread fear in contemporary society (translation courtesy of Google Translate): 

In his book Time Reborn: From the Crisis in Physics to the Future of the Universe theoretical physicist Lee Smolin takes a shot at the anthropic principle. He is not in favor, because the principle supports cosmological theories (such as eternal inflation) that cannot be falsified by observations. I think one can agree with the sentiment that theories should not just rest on a principle alone but still view the anthropic principle as self-evident. In any case, the following reasoning by Smolin for refuting the principle's role (in reasoning about the cosmological constant, but it could be X) seems flawed: 

On whether you may be looking in the wrong domain: much of (micro)economics also centers around this question (why human agents behave the way they do). You could do worse than starting almost at the beginning by reading Adam Smith (a contemporary of David Hume) on economics. 

Is another philosopher (or competent interviewer) on record for describing in similar concise terms how the history of philosophy (when viewed from a similar perspective) went on in the subsequent generation(s) since ? 

Is this (from Barry Allen's letter to prospective graduate students) just an individual assessment or the expression of a wider pattern for understanding the complicated landscape of continental (French) philosophy? If the second, how could the pattern be stated in abstract form, i.e. without reference to those specific names? 

So here you have an answer on some authority: philosophers do not agree on whether rebuilding a human body would rebuild the person. Some say yes, others say no. FWIK Parfit himself might answer no, because he favors the memory-related view. 

The word contemplation is mentioned a bit earlier on (I think once, but certainly not as often as the giraffe or Buster Keaton ...) Author Peter Adamson also suggests six articles/books on Plotinus for further reading. P.S. Notice that early episodes have been transcribed into a book, so those can be searched at your convenience. 

I would argue that point no. 1 cannot be dropped because the anthropic principle (in point no. 4) is about "life": anthropic stands for "of or pertaining to mankind or humans, or the period of humanity's existence". Without human life (if the argument starts with point no. 2) there is no observation and nothing is "evident from observations". So my question is this: is Smolin's argument indeed flawed or am I missing something? 

I found this question scribbled in the margin of a library copy of Montaigne's essays, and I wonder what the answer could be. 

There must be applicable quotes from (the later) Wittgenstein. E.g. the following one seems to argue that Hegel would be interested in categories of things (and perhaps denote them by symbols like X) whereas Wittgenstein would doubt such generalization (and perhaps describe family resemblances using ordinary sentences and words instead). 

These excerpts make Zhuangzhi's ancient and Nietzsche's more contemporary (early) philosophy sound very similar e.g. in their pessimism as to what human knowledge can achieve. My question is this: have the similarities and possible relations between the two philosophies been studied and if so, what are the main conclusions drawn? (BTW, I'm not asking for some homework exercise but would like to delve further into relevant sources after noticing these matches.) 

This sounds like an internally consistent argument that a (conservative) politician, sociologist, or philosopher might make. Is there any philosopher who comes to mind and whose work could serve as a basis for the listener's observation regarding a possible causal link between such infantilization (including virtual bravery) and fear (concrete anxiety)? 

The earliest directly related quote from Western, presumably independent source that I am aware of is by Blaise Pascal (1623 – 1662): 

I've come across these quotes by German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche (1844 – 1900) and about Chinese daoist philosopher Zhuangzi (4th century BC). from Nietzsche's The Birth of Tragedy from the Spirit of Music: 

I have noticed that the Wikipedia article on eternal return cites only a single (brief) argument against eternal return in Georg Simmel's (1858 – 1918) formulation: he seems to be arguing that time may run into "local loops", so not everything is bound to repeat infinitely often. But more than this counter-attempt must have accumulated during the concept's long history (also in Eastern philosophy). What (substantially) other argument's have philosopher's (and others) put forward against the concept of eternal return? What is seen as its main fallacy and can account for the fact that it is (apparently) absent from contemporary discourse. 

When I encounter postmodern philosophy I often receive the impression that irony must be involved. There is also a clear historic path from Nietzsche to postmodernism. But so far Nietzsche himself did not strike me as ironic, rather as an earnest and even grim writer. I've been re-reading Nietzsche's The Birth of Tragedy from the Spirit of Music and found myself somewhat surprised. Here is Nietzsche arguing at great length that one must be skeptical as to how far rationality (rational arguments) can reach. He chooses Socrates as his arch enemy, Socrates who is thought to have said "I know that I know nothing". Here he is writing in Germany in 1872 (when Prussia had just defeated France in battle and established the German Empire in 1871) about the tragic fate of heroes. Yet he reserves highest praise for a contemporary hero not for "hard" battlefield valor but for "soft" composition of music (which happened to be the occupation of his friend Richard Wagner, whom he then adored). While these (what appear to me as) manifest contradictions may not give a fair impression of the entire book, let alone Nietzsche's larger body of work, they make me wonder: does Nietzsche hide an ironic meaning behind what he ostensibly presents and have later philosophers (and historians) judged him partly as an ironic writer? 

Following up on @James Kingsbery suggestion of The History of Philosophy without any gaps podcast as a source, this excerpt from the episode 89. Plotinus on the Soul (at 20'10") seems relevant: 

If memory serves, in the context of Reasons and Persons "which is the real you" would be an empty question. There would be no answer to this question and e.g. the claim "we have two distinct persons" would be neither true nor false. You could still decide on a specific answer, but this would not add anything non-trivial to what is already known on a reductionist level. Also in that context, the premise "consciousness is unitary" would not hold.