By the time of Koine greek, in general, it was much the same as today, but I always see the Ancient Greek pronunciation being taught, why is this? Is is it because most people learning koine in english tend to be Christian and learn it purely for just for biblical interpretation, not for to be fluent? 

Depending on the language, gender inflection can arise from natural gender, or even perhaps as a way of simplifying an extremely complex inflection system, but regardless, grammatical gender is a just a construct for classifying words with similar inflectional qualities: strong, quick to anger, easily gives into peer pressure, etc. they're all the same in these qualities, therefore, we call them all masculine. (yes that is a joke) That being said, does a language, such as Hochdeutsch for instance, which uses one inflectional pattern for plural which is isolated, being unique from the three main grammatical genders, technically have four grammatical genders? The Usual Endo-European Masculine, Feminine, Neutered, but also Plural. There is no masculine-plural nor feminine plural as in a Semitic Language, but the inflection is not the same as another grammatical gender's. I thank any answerers in advance. 

Thinking about it, most of the Romance languages I have heard nasalize vowels quite frequently and it seems consistent: that has me wondering, is there any evidence to show that Latin was a heavily-nasalized language? 

My mouth anatomy is a little "lacking," but I think the area I am speaking of is between the vellum and the posterior faucial pillar. 

Anglo Saxon did not distinguish by voicing usually, particularly with the sounds /s~f~z~v/. After the adoptions of the Latin Alphabet letters "f" and "s" were doubled when representing a voiceless sound in the Wessex dialect's accent when it fell between two voiced sounds in the same syllable. That being said, are there any runic writings that attest to something similar them-in? or was this something that seems to have just been introduced by those who introduced the latin script? *I am aware of the younger futhark introducing dots to distinguish voicing and I am aware of some anglo saxon rune sets introducing the letters kalk and gar to have runes that specifically only made the sounds /g/ and /k/. 

English's spelling was changed after sometime and became more like French in some areas, such as the digraph ⟨ou⟩ to represent /u/, after ⟨u⟩ came to represent /ʊ~ʌ/. The reason I ask this, however, is not related to french, but because of how often the the letter ⟨u⟩ today is read as /ju/, which I sounds like it could have been an attempt at pronouncing /y/, and that was an historic phoneme in english. A probably weak example is the spelling of the word "busy," which comes from "bisgian," /bizjiɑn~bizɟiɑn/. All of this is really my speculations on not much. 

Where S1 returns the agent noun and S2 the patient noun. I don't think an exhaustive ECD has been constructed for English. However it's not clear whether you are looking for an existing tool that returns actantial nouns or trying to build your own. [1] Mel’čuk, I. (1998). Collocations and lexical functions. In A. P. Cowie (Ed.), Phraseology: Theory, analysis, and applications (pp. 23-53). Oxford: Clarendon Press. [2] Mel’čuk, I. (2006). Explanatory combinatorial dictionary. In G. Sica (Ed.), Open problems in linguistics and lexicography (pp. 225-355). Monza: Polimetrica. 

The first one is called Поцелуев мост (Potseluev Bridge or literally ) and the second one Утро (Morning). The artist is Покидышев (Pokidyshev). This transliteration table is useful when you need to translate Russian but aren't familiar with the Cyrillic alphabet. I use it with Google Translate. 

I recommend that you look into Lexical Functions1. They are used in specialized dictionaries called Explanatory Combinatorial Dictionaries2 and describe semantic relationships between lexical units. Specifically, what you want is the Si function: 

Speech often (always?) deteriorates for people with post-lingual deafness. This presumably occurs because of insufficient auditory feedback. Given that people with Wernicke's aphasia cannot comprehend language, do they also experience speech deterioration (that is, speech becoming disjointed and/or ungrammatical) over time as a result of hearing themselves speak, but not understanding the sounds they produce? 

I added this: which will match 0 or more words before . is a word character and is equivalent to is a word boundary 

Where are clitics initially Merged in Italian? [1] Cardinaletti, A., & Shlonsky, U. (2004). Clitic positions and restructuring in Italian. Linguistic Inquiry, 35(4), 519-557. [2] Adger, D. (2003). Core syntax: a minimalist approach. Oxford: Oxford University Press. 

I'm trying to port Cardinaletti & Shlonsky's analysis of Italian clitic placement1 to the Minimalist framework for a term paper. The course is based on Adger's textbook2 which mostly focuses on syntax trees of English sentences. I'm trying to represent simple sentences like and using syntax trees. In the first sentence, the locative clitic ci is in a clausal position, and in the second sentence it is attached to the lexical verb. My intuition is that ci is initially merged as andare's complement in VP, but I'm not sure if it's possible to move the clitic to an entirely new projection (LocCL)—between T and vP—later in the derivation to account for the word order in the first sentence. I'm not entirely sure how I'd motivate that movement either since clitic climbing is optional. 

I'm working on a paper on the history of computational phonology. As I understand it, Chomsky & Halle's SPE acted as a catalyst for research in the field, namely by laying the foundations for two-level models and POS taggers. Fraser and Bobrow designed the first phonological rule-testing system the same year (1968). The introduction of automata in phonological rule systems by Kaplan and Kay, years later, seems to be a turning point. Prince and Smolensky's Optimality Theory in the mid 90's as well. What are other important papers / innovations in computational phonology? I am still doing research, but your input is most welcome. This is my list so far: 

I am not to well versed in all of the inner and outer workings of the international phonetic alphabet, and I was curious if /∅/, not to be confused with /ø/, could always be used for silent characters. A fine example would be with the word light, transliterating it as [ˈlaɪ∅t] as opposed to the usual [ˈlaɪt]. 

I have noticed that I have the ability, like all, to force air out of the little places behind the tonsils, and I was curious if this is an actual articulation? I don't know what part of the mouth, or vocal tract, this would be. I notice that the more I pronounce it, the more it kind of sounds like a pharyngeal fricative. I am not quite sure which part of the mouth exactly is the pharynx, I just know I can pronounce pharyngeal sounds. I guess either it is a pharyngeal fricative and I am not used to thinking of it differently, or perhaps an allophone of the pharyngeal fricative? 

Ignoring languages such as spanish that distinguish between /ɾ/ and /r/, as such is not what I refer to, are there any languages that would differentiate between say, /p/ and /ppp/. It is a weird concept, but it is something that came to mind. I suppose, with the example I have in mind, the stammer would be realized as [pĭpĭpĭ], if that helps. Recalling back on the first, differentiating between /ɾ/ and /ɾĭɾĭɾĭ/ would be what I am referring to. I suppose the simplest example would be languages such as latin that use(d) double consonants to differentiate. e.g. anvs, [anus] (ring) vs. annvs, /an.nus~anənʊs~anːus/ (year.) 

This question is actually spawned from a rather embarrassing personal blunder years ago, that was that when I had first begun to learning an heavily inflected language, I had made the mistake of assuming that if an article declined, then it carried enough grammatical information that the noun went undeclined. Now the reason why I ask this is because it was natural for me -- different things are natural for different people, but I do declare that if it was for me, could it have been for another culture? EXAMPLE: Because it has been requested, here is a made up example, using some Old English declensions mixed with Contemporary english: Let's take the undeclined word King, it's article is þe. If the word is in nominative, the undeclined form, one says þe King, if it is plural, then a man says þa kings, if it is in dative, then it is, for singular, þæm Kinge, plural, þam Kingum, if it is accusative, then it is þone/þa king/kings. So what I am asking is, is there a language that will, instead of declining the noun and making the article agree with it, will instead decline the article and leave the noun be, so instead of saying: Iċ geaf þam kingum þæt sweord, you would instead say I gave þam king the sword; this being done because the article carries the necessary grammatical information to tell you the gender and number of the noun King. NOTE: I felt that using "king" instead of "cyning" would push the point across a bit easier.