I don't believe any technology would do that. Plus, containing the star would be expensive. What about letting the star contain itself and you just devise something to capture energy from solar flares? It's a lot more energy than you need for powering ships. You could invent some sort of "gravitational discharge channel" which would look like a lighting path starting at your ship and forming lots of branches ending below the sun's surface through which you suck high energy particles. You could argue that your channel is in fact some kind of small wormhole that your scientists invented. Depending on the size of the channel, you would be able to take more or less from your star. There isn't any point in depleting the star until it becomes supernova. This is most likely not scientific, but for game purposes, it should work. 

I have not enough knowledge of chemistry to tell you how this could be done, but your creature could produce desensitized nitroglycerine. According to the Wiki entry, you could mix it with 10-30% of acetone or alcohol and it won't explode. Your creature could create some sort of explosive egg, in which the nitroglycerine with acetone is the yolk. When the yolk membrane bursts, the explosive "white" reacts exothermic with the acetone or alcohol giving the nitroglycerine enough energy to explode. 

Some of these dinosaurs are social, so I would definitely try to tame them. Instead of hunting dogs, one might get hunting velociraptors. The herbivorous ones could become awesome beasts of burden. I would make a big lance out of a hard tree, tie it to my brontosaurus and charge against my enemies or prey. Or I could use my tame dinosaur to make sling three traps or dig holes for the T-Rexes. As others pointed out, small dinosaurs can be dealt with spears, the way Maasai hunters deal with lions. The main problem in this world is that humans would have too much meat to eat, so we'd all end up tall like the basketball players. 

I think this is more complicated than stopping the bullet with an identical bullet of the same but opposite speed. Your plasma will not stick to the bullet, so it must vaporize it. You would need energy equal to the kinetic energy of the bullet, plus the heat needed to melt and vaporize it, plus the energy lost because your plasma would go around the bullet. 

I think it depends on how far are the land masses from each other, what trees are available for rafts, and if there is enough pressure from other humans or predators to force them to the sea. There is also a need for a seafaring culture, like that of the Vikings, or Greeks. Oceania was colonized by people who rode sea currents from South America (or so is the theory). To prove such theory, someone made a raft out of balsa wood and traveled for three months from Peru to Oceania islands. He also had 2 attempts to cross the Atlantic in a papyrus boat, the second being successful. The balsa raft in the first expedition was made with stone age technology. I don't remember where they were keeping their fresh water, though. 

I remember reading Tarzan by Edgar Rice Burroughs. The protagonist is a an extremely strong man, capable of hand to paw combat with lions. The origin of his strength is attributed to living among gorillas all his young life. What hand wavy arguments could I invoke for that incredible strength, speed and stamina of Tarzan, the ape-man? It doesn't look to me like any human being would win a wrestling match with a hungry lion, however hard they would train. Tarzan is slightly more than 2 meters tall, he must have very strong bones and very efficient and powerful muscles. How did he get those, it's a mystery. 

I think it would be a lot less "white collar crime". More or less everyone with slightly above the average level of intelligence would be very careful not to "sin". There would be much fewer Enrons, Bernie Madoffs or Hitlers. In such a world, I would probably not even consider slashing the tires of the guy who takes my parking spot. On the other hand, much of the petty crime, drug and gang related crime would still exists, because if those people don't care about the jail, why would they care about hell? There might also appear sects of true satanists. People who know they will go to hell and they try to sin (commit crimes, get drunk and drive buses into crowds) as much as possible before dying. As the things described in the question stand, the devil's business would suffer, especially if contacting the dead for details on the afterlife was easy and certain. If not, the world would be just like ours. Supposed there was a certain level of skill required to contact the dead, there would be many quacks claiming they can speak to the dead. With that happening, skeptics would appear and claim there is no afterlife and then things would start to work out as they work in our world. 

I once played Black & White. In the game you are a god and you power depends on people praying to you. So, you could pray to the humanity as an entity to accept you for what you are and give you more power. For us, individuals, it is hard to understand if there is some sort of collective will of the people, but our society already behaves as a life form. Unfortunately, that life form doesn't seem to be self aware. So, I imagine that god praying in church for us to do something about the global warming: "Please, humanity, don't screw this one up," as he feels uneasy with wiping us out, in the biblical sense. But, I think, praying should mean that whoever is doing has no control, so the god should not be omnipotent for whatever reason and should feel powerless to influence the humanity. For example, he can perform miracles including earth destruction, but has no clue how to get us eradicate poverty of our own free will. 

In any case, I believe the world rebuilding would work more like in the Alpha Centauri game. People would know technologies existed, but would have to scavenge for resources, and left-overs from the previous civilization. There will be battles and wars between factions and things might end with another apocalypse. Edits regarding what to do to make the world recover faster: I think preserving the cooperation is the first issue, the second is the pursuit of knowledge, and the third is the grooming of leaders. To solve all these, I propose creating a new religion. The religion has to put value on tolerance, open mindedness, selflessness, pursuit of knowledge and general good. One could write a new version of the New Testament, leaving out all the pointless supernatural stuff, damnation, apocalypses and proselytism. Jesus would be a luminous figure who shepherds the weak through the value of the shadow of death. Unlike the current Jesus, the new one defeats Stalin, marries Arwen and dies of old age. Before dying, he leaves his guidelines on how people should cooperate in order to fulfill the true destiny of mankind: space exploration. The guidelines should deal with how to choose better leaders, how to educate the public, should design the main rules for a participative democracy, etc. Should civilization collapse, this new Bible would be the last brake. The second thing would be putting in place a Constitution that guarantees equal rights to everyone. Every citizen would also have equal obligations regarding public service and personal education. Once those are out of the way, it would be time to get people organized for massive scavenging. In other words, finding old labs, factories, mines and trying to figure out how the old technologies work. Other scouting parties will aim to find other survivors, especially those with technical skills. The food and fresh water have to be assured for human colonies. Assuming those can be found, the survivors should find among themselves or among other scattered groups agricultural engineers to build the most efficient farms possible. For many years, the top priority should be farming and scouting for seeds and animals to raise for food and work. 

I propose a being that needs gravitational waves to survive. The being is a star (black hole, whatever) that has millions of wormholes terminated above its surface. The other ends of the wormholes travel light years to space until they find a proper source of gravity such as another star. The wormholes are such that the other star gets sucked in. As long as feeding takes place, gravitational waves are produced and your being is happy. Sometimes, a larger celestial body gets your being turned inside out through its own wormholes, which is terribly painful, and causes serious psychotic breaks. These end with other stars being devoured. Edit: some thoughts about how such being would exist. To make a wormhole, you need a dense kind of matter with negative energy relative to the vacuum. It is not known if such thing could exist. The being in question could be made of this type of negative matter, plus normal matter. Normal matter is made of electrons and nuclei held together by electrostatic forces. Since the negative matter and normal matter would repel each other, it is hard to make a mixed atom. But, you could make a mixed system similar to a ionic crystal, in which the positive ions are particles of normal matter, while the negative ions are particles of negative matter. That mixed part of your being would have a zero gravitational footprint as its density is close to that of the vacuum. Although your being might have zero mass, it can still get attached to celestial bodies, if its mass has a total dipole. Dipole means that overall, your being can be imagined as two centers of positive and negative mass slightly separated from each other. This is similar to what ferroelectric materials are: crystals with long range order in which positive charge centers are slightly displaced from the negative charge centers. The interaction between a mass dipole and a another mass could be strong, but it will decrease with the distance much faster than the interaction between two masses of the same sign. Your being would be a huge structure made of negative and positive mass, exhibiting a large mass dipole. On the positive end of the dipole, it should have a normal star or even a black hole, while on the negative end it should have the wormholes. The wormholes are structures with walls of negative matter, so they would only get attracted to other negative matter. The positive mass attached to your being should have a larger mass than the wormhole, so there would still be attraction between it and the stars to be consumed. When a star falls through the wormhole and tries to circle your being in order to fall on your being's celestial body companion, is should generate gravitational waves. If this process is violent enough, the gravitons could generate pairs of negative and positive particles. These pairs could be adsorbed to the surface of your being, effectively helping it to grow itself, similarly to the way you grow crystals by beam epitaxy. You could also split the vacuum to generate negative matter for the wormholes. If the celestial body to be devoured at the other end is too big, I can't see why your being plus star companion couldn't be forced through its own wormhole. In fact, I think you would also have wormholes going through that wormhole, but I don't want to think how that would work out. As far as intelligence goes, you can assign your creature any intelligence level, but probably it wouldn't need to be too smart if it doesn't seem to have competitors. So, the psychotic breaks would be a personal touch. Otherwise, your creature would only "think" when there gravitational waves are strong enough to disturb its structure, as it happens during feeding. 

I think it depends a lot on your apocalypse. If you had a mega-volcano, a huge meteorite impact, the post-apocalypse resources are scarce. If that's true, you can expect the world to degenerate further. There would be small bands of survivors, each with its own rules. Your world would look a lot like the one in The Road, or Mad Max. On the other hand, if there are enough resources, even if one had to constantly walk around with Geiger counters people would organize and it would happen fast. Your world would work more the way America worked: lots of land grab, lots of business, lots of shooting. The question is more how would people organize in the post-apocalyptic world. Some conditions need to be met: