It's in your record, both for future promotions (you're an employee who is valued enough that they did this), and as protection if needed (you can't be too terrible an employee if they pre-offered you a job). Depending on your office politics, they may be positioning this as a "see, we did something nice for you!" gesture. But you seem to recognize it for what it is, so you're not going to take this nice letter in lieu of a raise. :) If you decline it, it's sending a signal that you're not interested in a full-time position with them - which may trigger other actions from them. (Namely, you may be taking yourself out of consideration for future jobs at that company, since they'll assume that you're on your way out the door). 

Absolutely nothing. I've had a corporate trainer openly recommend that you should take an interview once a year or so, partly to stay in practice and partly to make sure the grass isn't greener elsewhere. That said, there's no reason for your boss to know that you're doing it. I certainly can't think of any situation where telling them is to your advantage. 

That itself is IMO sufficient reason to wait as long as possible: Once you hand in your resignation, you may become a target for abuse due to your employer's resentment at your leaving. If your colleagues who left felt the same way as you do: "their rights were not respected", they did the smart thing by waiting until the last day and then taking their vacation time, so they wouldn't have to be exposed to potential abuse, etc. In your position I would be inclined to take their example. 

No need to "apologize". IMO that is decidedly unprofessional, unless your client explicitly pushes you up against the wall about it. If that does comes to pass, don't try to squirm out of it, just apologize that you're still a beginner and tried your best, but you're not yet seasoned in making accurate time estimates. Don't get into long explanations and excuses. Be short, to the point, and professional. Offering "extras" as compensation for the delay might not be such a good idea, as others have mentioned: That tends to cheapen you and makes you appear a bit desperate (never a good thing), puts focus on your lack of experience, and leaves you vulnerable to endless requests for "freebees", etc. But what's done is done. Avoid that in the future. You didn't charge based on time, you were up front and honest with them from the beginning, and priced the work based on your experience. So, I think you are off to a good start. As long as you delivered a solid working product, I don't think you need be too concerned. The client may seem impatient, but if you did a good job they will soon be appeased when they enjoy the fruits of your labor. For the future: Until you get really good at estimating your delivery times (that takes quite a while, and often even experts make mistakes on that) triple or quadruple (at least...) the number that first seems viable to you. 

You already attempted to "engage your HR rep". You are an employee. It is your right to declare the filing status that is most appropriate for your needs. Filing status is selected on a W-4 form, which is published by the Internal Revenue Service for the United States Government. Suggestions 

Does your HR rep have a supervisor? You could speak with that person. You could talk with your own manager. It is part of his job to help you with such matters, once you have gone through proper channels. If there is a more senior person at the company, who is "in the know", you could casually ask what he or she would suggest, without going into particulars of your withholding particulars. This should be done as a last resort, as people have a tendency to gossip. Your boss, and the HR rep's supervisor, will not gossip about you. 

Every industry, and every firm, has its own attitudes about this sort of thing, so if you don't know for sure, you should play it safe when taking a new job: IMO you need to do three things in order to figure out how best to handle this: 

I'm repeating this because of its importance: In all of your dealings at work - with your manager, HR, other employees, etc. - keep all your personal distress and grief out of it as much as possible - you will just hurt your own cause otherwise, by making your own personal issues the problem: Just say you had some personal issues with employee X outside of work, she seems to have brought them into the workplace, which you believe is unacceptable - and here is the proof. The rest is up to them. 

You'd need to tell us a good deal more about your present situation to expect a good answer on that. For example: If you're 25 and have been on the job for two years, the answer will be entirely different than if you're 40 and have been on the job for ten years. 

This sounds like an issue for your manager to take up with the CEO. Your role is going to be support and documentation. The boss needs to make the argument to the CEO that it was agreed the move would take place, and that your groups needs a bit of executive push to get things moving. If you can show documentation that people are actively resisting (e.g. "there's no plug" = "hey, there's a plug right there"), that gives the boss ammunition to make the case that there's office politics at play rather than physical issues. One trick is to have your evidence in place, and arrange a meeting with boss, CEO, and the PA (and whomever is blocking, if that's not the PA) to discuss a plan to go forward, and let them dig their own hole. (Oh, we can't move you because there's no plug there. What about the plug that's already existing? Oh, IT can't do it. OK, let's get IT in here to discuss alternatives then.) It's a bit of theatre, but I've yet to meet the CEO who is happy when their will is thwarted. 

That's good that you have a contact phone number with someone at company. You should definitely call them, as it takes minimal effort. It also demonstrates your enthusiasm. You should say, 

Do this, else you will continue to be at the mercy of your HR rep's ignorance with you W-4, and potentially other matters that are of greater importance e.g. pre-natal care for your wife if you have major medical, or your bonus/ profit sharing distribution. Also consider the fact that you may be penalized by the IRS for underpaying your income taxes, due to inadequate withholding. This IRS guide specifically describes the scenario which pertains to your situation, that of filing jointly rather than separately, given the amount of income earned by the employee and spouse. 

The key word is status, as it is nicely neutral, but gives you a more authoritative tone. It is better to know for certain if they aren't interested, so you can stop wondering and look elsewhere. 

Yes, yes, a hundred times yes. There's this idea that you can bring an offer to your boss and get a counteroffer to stay, but I've never heard of it working that way. I'm sure someone has made that trick work, but more often than not you've just attached a giant target on your back. Again, look at it from their POV - you've just announced that you're going to leave. That means it's suddenly in their interest not to give you a raise (you're leaving anyway), not to give you added responsibilities (you're leaving anyway), not to give you anything sensitive (you're leaving and could end up at a competitor)... you get the idea. Unless you have a very special relationship with your boss (if you're not sure, you don't), the first they should hear about you looking for a job is when you give your notice. 

You may be hurting your own cause by doing that: You believe you are making yourself more valuable to the firm, and perhaps you find that necessary because of your absences and acknowledged lack of very many credentials - that is understandable enough, and objectively speaking it is laudable. Unfortunately, what happens in the workplace is not usually so kind and idealistic. You may actually be unwittingly cheapening yourself: "IT guy? He's a maintenance guy too - knows a little bit about everything and not very much about anything. I saw him painting the other day - let's ask him to take out the trash and clean the bathrooms after everybody goes home..." (That is all honest work, and I don't mean to demean those who do such work - they are hard-working, valuable people. But it's not your work.) Shine at your assigned role and leave the rest for those whose job it is. That's how you highlight your own particular value. 

Zeroth: your health is more important than the deadline, the project, or your job. Deadlines can be missed, projects can be delayed, and you can always get another job. First up, you need to talk to your doctor and get - in writing - what your condition is. In particular, things like "you can sit for a couple hours at a time max". Make sure you and the doc are in agreement as to what your current capabilities are without compromising your recovery. Second, get a meeting with your manager and HR. The theme of the meeting is "I want to contribute as much as I can without compromising my recovery (as per my doctor's note) - what can we do to facilitate this?" Can I work from home (so I can lay in bed - take breaks as needed?). Can I come in a couple part-days a week to help out on the fires? The doc says I can't work full-time just yet, but I don't want to leave you hanging any more than necessary. Basically, you're putting the onus on them to be flexible. You mentioned your PM wouldn't approve working from home - well, they must not need you so urgently as they claim, if they're not willing to accomodate your medical needs, right? (You'll notice I'm mentioning doctors and medical a lot - that's because you have a hard limit on what you can and can't do, backed by a doctor's note. Don't let them turn it into a question of "oh, you just don't wanna".) Now, maybe your jurisdiction doesn't allow partial returns (mine actively encourages it). If so, then that's no fault of your own - that's just the way the world turns, and it's not your fault. 

Do not include the projects that pertain to Y before your actual job-related projects about X. It doesn't matter if you made money from your projects on Y. You were employed by your company to work on X, and that is what you should display first. Even if you do display the Y projects first, the interviewer will ask you, "Were these projects what you did at work?" You can't lie because it will be easily discovered, not to mention dishonest. So then what is the point of putting the Y projects first? It will only get in the way for the interviewer, who will say, "What did you do at work?" Definitely include your project work on Y, especially if it were compensated. Even there you need to be a little careful, as you don't want to give the impression that you do a lot of moonlighting. But it is very helpful to include the Y related projects, as long as you actually accomplished something and can use them to demonstrate some familiarity with Y. Make sure that they appear after your current experience, and just before, or after, your education, depending on how much emphasis you want to give to that.