(obviously defining what you mean by this) then you would have a hypothesis that you could compare with the other possibility (typically against your other possibility of size). 

Either, as a not insignificant portion of modern thinkers (influenced by neurosciences), you consider that the law of conservation of energy is inviolable. In which case any thought about free will is bound to be a form of delusion. But in that case, you have to reject a large part of human philosophical traditions, including a significant part of the thinkers of the Enlightenment. Or you are willing to pursue on your line of thought, in which case you have to admit some form of singularity, where the principle of conservation of energy might not apply, at least in the terms we envisage it. If you pursue even further, you might to have to make a few more assumptions about space and time. 

If we look carefully, a republic could have any of the three mode of representation: autocratic, aristocratic or democratic -- but since in practice Kant rejects the third one, it is easy to understand that to him a republic would be either aristocratic or monarchic. An "aristocratic monarchy" would mean that the represenatives of the people would be selected to criteria of adequacy. It may be strange for us that a constitutional monarchy would qualify as a autocratic republic in Kantian terms, but it appeared perfectly logical. On the other hand, it is still perfectly acceptable today to designate a political system as a aristocratic republic, i.e. the Republic of Venice of the Middle Ages; in Europe most republics were so (notably Switzerland), until well into the 19th century. I would say that once this is clarified, his thought appears quite consistent. Indeed, Napoleon I was Emperor of the French Republic and this was not particularly shocking at the time, since he was simply reconnecting to an old Roman tradition. But in Kantian terms, we can imagine that he would have called his regime a despotism, because there was no separation of powers any more. Now to clarify your assumption, at the time of the foundation of the USA, the term democracy did not have always have an excellent connotation either. The Founders did not officially present themselves as "democrats" and the word democracy does not appear in the US constitution. It is only in the 1820s that the term lost its negative connotations and progressively acquired its modern meaning (essentially one man one vote). This change is reflected in Webster's definition. Indeed the Democratic Party was founded in 1828. The US Constitution, when it was conceived, was thus republican. In the US and Europe, the question was still hotly debated whether all citizens (male) would be or not allowed to vote, possession of property being often a key criterion (race being another one). Hence saying that the phrase "we the people" is representative of "democratic" ideology is an ex-post reconstruction that uses a modern word in an inappropriate context. 

Both memory and the imagination of the future (their form, not their content) are actual; they can be experienced, because they are in the present. The perception of the past and the future occurs in the present. Conclusion: the only actuality there is, is the present. The concept of past comes from experiencing a recording of motions, and the concept of future from an imagination of motions. Both past and future are abstractions (ideas). 

It seems to me that you are asking a question that is too profound for anyone to dare provide an answer. I will try, but cautiously. In the way you are formulating your question, it seems you are touching the underlying question of dualism versus monism - i.e. whether there are two "substances" (often represented as mind/body) or one (the physical world is a totality). In general, what you call strong continuity would gravitate toward dualism, whereas monists do also have approaches to that notion which would be in the direction weak continuity. Also, as the questions noted, you might want to provide a working definition of consciousness for your purposes, especially if you wish to avoid conflicts or confusions with subjects such as psychology. I also realize that it would be great to have a sensational experiment that would be able to adjudicate between dualism and monism, just as the "double slit experiment" was a major step forward in the particle versus wave theory of light, by showing that photons behave both as waves and particles. Unfortunately (as you suggested with the EEG experiments), things are not that simple, because we are not dealing here with phenomena that are outside of us and thus measurable and shareable (regardless of the intrinsic difficulties of measuring very small quantities, physical science has grown a remarkable consensus). By contrast, subjectivity is what it is: subjective. Logical reasoning on this subject are likely to be undecidable, for one specific reason: dualism and monism are conjectures, or more properly axioms, from which a considerable amount of things depend: not only one's view on a specific class of physical phenomena, but on the process of research itself. About research, we are not dealing merely with experiment data here (a subject on which there is ample consensus) but with considerations on how this process of reasoning with hypothetico-deductive logic and experiments is occurring! For example, here is a sentence of Henri Poincaré a Mathematician who laid out essential groundwork for the Philosophy of Sciences (at the beginning of his book Science and Hypothesis): "Experience leaves us our freedom of choice, but it guides us by helping us to discern the most convenient path to follow. Our laws are therefore like those of an absolute monarch, who is wise and consults his council of state." While it is a very effective statement, it raises further questions: what is freedom of choice? How can we be an absolute monarch -- who is required to act as an Enlightened ruler? The problem is that using both logic and experimentation to analyse logic and experimentation is a recursive (feedback) process, a terribly difficult thing to do. It is very easy to end in petitio principii or to derail into unconscious contradictions, or even short-circuits in the mind. And indeed, discussions on this subject sometime degenerate in slanging matches where both logic or experimentation have little to do any longer. It seems we are having a hard time at controlling the feedback process of acquiring data on ourselves ("introspection"). Hence, assuming that someone could make a defining experiment for themselves about consciousness, it could very well be that their inability to make subjective processes objectively observable by others would preclude that knowledge from becoming part of science as we understand it. And discussions might be moot. I am not saying that the quandary is unsolvable (and there might be several avenues of approach). I am merely laying out why it is a very tough nut to crack. 

Your question is so vast that it is almost daunting. I will try to approach it from a perspective of how you go about creating a model for reality (as in science or computer simulations). That might seem reductive at first, but it might be useful. First of all, it goes both ways: it could be that you have first have a whole (e.g.car) and as you process you realize it has parts (e.g. it has wheels, engine). Conversely, you may realize it is a part of something bigger (a company fleeet, or a batch of cars in a factory, etc.). So how do you go about making your model? If you are following a rational process, you will try to find the "best model" which, among others: 

Quoting the preface of the Book Science and Hypothesis, by French mathematician Henri Poincaré: "(...) we should examine with the utmost care the rôle of hypothesis; we shall then recognise not only that it is necessary, but that in most cases it is legitimate. We shall also see that there are several kinds of hypotheses; that some are verifiable, and when once confirmed by experiment become truths of great fertility; that others may be useful to us in fixing our ideas; and finally, that others are hypotheses only in appearance, and reduce to definitions or to conventions in disguise. The latter are to be met with especially in mathematics and in the sciences to which it is applied. From them, indeed, the sciences derive their rigour; such conventions are the result of the unrestricted activity of the mind, which in this domain recognises no obstacle. For here the mind may affirm because it lays down its own laws; but let us clearly understand that while these laws are imposed on our science, which otherwise could not exist, they are not imposed on Nature. Are they then arbitrary? No; for if they were, they would not be fertile. Experience leaves us our freedom of choice, but it guides us by helping us to discern the most convenient path to follow. Our laws are therefore like those of an absolute monarch, who is wise and consults his council of state. " In my humble opinion, that pretty much exhausts the subject, perhaps not for the fine points of philosophy (in which case it would be worth reading the whole book as well as later litterature), but certainly as far as daily needs are concerned. 

That is called the principle of economy in science, also called Occam's Razor (see for an introduction). I was taught: "An engineer is someone who knows what they can disregard." Of course, the more elements one throws into a model, the more complicated it becomes, and the more calculations one has to do. In practice, what you need to consider in your model should not omit any essential facts (hence it needs to be complete, something that Gödel was very interested in). But the dual of this rule [its mirror image] is that it should not contain too many entities (hence it should be economical). In order to be optimal, your model will have to strike a balance, keeping into account many practical factors (such as the measuring equipment you have, the state of mathematics and calculation techniques, the resources available, etc.). One of the simplest and most striking examples is celestial mechanics. For calculating the trajectory of Earth around the Solar System with fairly good approximation, you can safely ignore the details of geology, paleontology, history, economics, social sciences, etc. The only thing you need to consider is that our planet is a lump of matter -- and when everything is said and done, a "center of mass", i.e. a pinhead. Fortunately, we do not have to take into account such factors as the level of the seas or the evolution of the New York Stock Exchange. We could say that this principle of economy was very strikingly embedded in Carl Sagan's comment on the picture of Earth taken by Voyager 1 in 1980, called the "pale blue dot": "The Earth is a very small stage in a vast cosmic arena. Think of the rivers of blood spilled by all those generals and emperors so that in glory and in triumph they could become the momentary masters of a fraction of a dot. Think of the endless cruelties visited by the inhabitants of one corner of the dot on scarcely distinguishable inhabitants of some other corner of the dot. How frequent their misunderstandings, how eager they are to kill one another, how fervent their hatreds. Our posturings, our imagined self-importance, the delusion that we have some privileged position in the universe, are challenged by this point of pale light." — Carl Sagan, speech at Cornell University, October 13, 1994