When you look across history, pretty much any society with enough trade to require bookeeping and stratified enough to support kings will have developed (or borrowed) some kind of writing. The Advanced culture in Peru and the Andes in South America was too isolated from other such societies to borrow their systems, so what they came up with on their own was probably the world's most interesting (if not practical) writing system: Quipu, which consisted of strings colored and knotted strategically to communicate information (numeric certianly, but many argue much more). The only other pre-columbian drawings in South America I'm aware of are the Nazca lines from southern Peru. They are rather odd, in that they cannot really be properly appreciated from ground level (although there were typically hills nearby from which they could be appreciated by their creators). There are a lot of theories about what they were for, but few of them include information storage, like you'd get with a proper writing system. The reason for this being the only writing system known in South America is probably relatively simple: The Andean area contained South America's only real advanced civiliation (The Inca by Pizarro's time). 

Picture from story in The Guardian I'm seeing a lot of people talking like they see a resemblance with modern Welsh or other Celtic peoples, so I think it would be good to look into exactly what Cultural lineage he might share with modern Britons. So the question is, what exactly was the culture of this man, and are any of the modern cultures of the British Isles descended from it? 

Your question mentions references in Shakespeare. The other work I know of from before 1800 that mentions it a fair bit is Voltaire's Candide. It is mostly a satirical send-up of the philosophy that this is "the best of all possible worlds". But in the process of burning that idea to cinders, war rape is invoked at least twice that I can remember. I believe the phrase that was used was "fulfilling the natural urges of soldiers", the implication being that this phrase was being used to justify it. Given that this was a satire of those views, I think its quite fair to say that Voltaire (and presumably his intended audience) viewed it as an endemic evil in the world, along with the various murders, starvations, slavery, mutilations, etc. that were related in that story. 

Turns out the answer to your question touches on the rise and fall of the Hittites, and the rise of the Phoenicians (and later Carthaginians). Metals were a large part of the return cargo on the Phoenicians' trade routes at that time, and Iron ores in particular seem to have been one of the main cargoes that were carried back on the Sardinian branch of the network. (The Iberian branch was more into Silver ores) 

Now the Kris is actually used in a lot of places in SE Asia. However, that style of scabbard marks it as most likely Philippine: 

The two technologies never directly competed (as the question implies). The last Kinemacolor film was made in 1914, while the first Technicolor film wasn't made until 1917, and it doesn't appear to have entered serious usage until the 1920's. So the real question we are left with is why Technicolor succeeded, where the earlier technology failed. The main clue I see in the Kinemacolor wiki page was that the company never made money (despite installing projectors in several hundred theaters), and some mention of the projectors being expensive: 

I'm less fond of this distinction, as it seems to be used as a way to selectively dismiss the efforts of certain societies, who it could be argued were merely practicing sensible agricultural diversity and crop rotation practices*. Of course a lot (most?) of the world did not independently develop agriculture, but rather acquired their techniques from nearby practitioners, along with their cereal crops and domesticated animals. These people generally didn't go through much of a noticeable transition period. * - Native American societies in particular had to cultivate multiple crops, because their main cereal crop lacks an essential amino acid. 

Having been a compulsive reader of my (USA) school history texts, I can tell you that up until at least the 70's, very few went that far forward. My grade school texts (which were quite old) didn't really go past Reconstruction. This was probably plenty, because I never once had a teacher who managed to make it all the way through the text anyway. I don't believe I ever even had a school history course cover World War I events, let alone II. As to why they ended there, that's arguably a good thing. Many people (even quite a few on this site) will argue that any event for which the majority of the active participants are still alive is not yet "history", but rather a recent event. Technically you could argue that anything for which any participant is still alive is not fully history. Its not really possible (or at least easy) to take a proper dispassionate historical view of events when you have first-hand knowledge of them at hand. Certainly if you throw in all the extra passions involved with parents in a school environment, it would be next to impossible to pull off properly. In the 1950's and '60's, I think its inarguable that the events of the late 40's were still very much current. Popular media of the time certainly picked up the slack though. WWII movies were a major genre back then, as were novels, histories (both popular and academic), and TV and radio works. This included works on the Holocaust, such as this mini-series from 1978. This list of Holocaust-themed films includes 11 US films from 1946 to 1967. 

So I don't think its reasonable, or helpful, to consider it equivalent to the office George Washington held in 1789. I hope the rest of that book's "facts" aren't of similar quality. 

I think the main reason is simply that the grades from that level onward are designed to create a lot of personnel churn for all but the top (some would say most well-connected) officers. Mostly what I think you are observing is an effect of how difficult it is to get promotions past that level (O-4 in US military code parlance). Promotions in the US military are governed by US law as to how long the person has to have been in the military, and in their current position, before they are eligable. This is implemented via DOD Instructions 1320.13 and 1320.14. Getting to O-4 only requires a collective 10 years of service, and nearly every officer (80% by law) are allowed the promotion. However, to get past that point requires a three year further commitment at your current level, and 16 years service (then 3 more and 22 years for O-6). To make matters worse, nearly a third of O-4's will never make it (30% by law), and only half of O-5's can make it to O-6. You get three opportunties for this promotion. When you become eligable due to years of service is called being "in-the-zone". You can get a "below-the-zone" early promotion one year before that, an "in-the-zone" promotion, or a (apparently very rare) "above-the-zone" promotion a year after that. If you don't get promoted after that, you are expected to retire. So once you get to O-4 and above, there is going to be a constant yearly stream of retirements, both of people forced out, and of people who don't want to wait 3-6 more years for a crack at a promotion. 

Now I had always half-jokingly assumed this was some sports reference, as "opening day" to me means the first day of the season for an athletic league. However, I noticed that the words here are credited to Isaac Watts in the early 1700's. This is before any organized sporting leagues I know of. Given that, I'm at a loss. What the heck is he getting when he says "opening day" here? 

(full-size image at the link) If you follow the link to examine the graph's data more closely, it looks like the inflection point happened sometime in the century between 1650 and 1750. Kangxi reigned from 1661 to 1722. However, there doesn't seem to be any historical consensus on what caused this growth. Lots of other things were changing in China then. There was a great migration of people from the North to the South. The Qing drastically reformed the tax system to lessen local corruption. The wealth of the country greatly expanded. I even found one source that mentioned that the Chinese developed a new variety of wheat around 1650 that allowed them to start double-cropping. 

Loki was actually the son of a Frost Giant, and as such often is not counted as a proper member of the AEsir. When he appears in stories, it is usually as an antagonist for the hero(es) of the tale. As such, I don't think he was the subject of much veneration. The only common running theme I tend to see in numerous depictions of Loki (such as the one below) is his punishment of being bound with a snake over his head. Most of the rest show him taunting someone. 

The general war was actually between Great Britain on one side, and France, Spain, the Netherlands, and the new United States on the other. However, only the French were acting as direct USA allies. (The Spanish, for obvious reasons, weren't real keen on the idea of helping colonies in the Americas revolt). If this sounds complicated, it was, and the treaty negotiations to end it all were even moreso. For starters, France insisted on USA independence being recognized up-front, which is why the Treaty of Paris covered only that and not the grievances of the other parties. If that sounds oddly like altruism on the French part, I can assure you it was not. They were purposely delaying negotiations this way so that they and the Spanish could try to take Gibraltar. Sadly for them, they failed miserably. As a result, all Spain managed to get was Florida (half of which they had conquered, and the other half they traded for the Bahamas) and Minorca. France, which was bankrupted by the war, did even worse. They essentially traded back everything they took from Britain for everything Britain took from them, with the exception of Tobago and a small bit of land in Africa which they got to keep. The Dutch fared so badly in the war that they actually did pretty darn good just to get most of their prewar possessions back. The Brits only kept the parts that were in India proper.