Chinese Wikipedia writes that different authors gave different orderings. (Examples: scholar-merchant-farmer-artisan in 春秋穀梁傳·成公元年 and farmer-scholar-artisan-merchant in 荀子·王制篇.) It then claims without citation that 

1959 national referendum: Rejected 66.9% to 33.1%. Introduction of Women's Suffrage at the Cantonal Level. 1959: Vaud and Neuchâtel. 1960: Geneva. 1966: Basel-Stadt. 1968: Basel-Landschaft. 1969: Ticino. 1970: Valais, Lucerne, Zurich. 1971: Aargau, Fribourg, Schaffhausen and Zug. Feb 1971: National referendum passes 65.7% - 34.3%. The Appenzells only gave women the right to vote (cantonal) in 1989 and 1990. 

In Switzerland, it had to pass a popular referendum. (Switzerland also joined the UN and legalized abortion only in 2002 — both decisions that were passed through referendum.) Similarly in Liechtenstein, 1984, where the 4th referendum in 16 years only narrowly passed despite support from newspapers and both major political parties. Passing a popular referendum is a much higher bar than say passing a law (e.g. UK, 1918) or a constitutional amendment (e.g. US, 1920). (Edit: I don't mean in general. I mean just for the issue of women's suffrage. Just my opinion.) And in France for example, the Committee for National Liberation simply gave women the right to vote in 1944. Were it by referendum, it would probably have taken years more before French women had the right to vote (though perhaps not as late as 1971). 

Anyone who listens to Question Time in Australia's parliament would notice the many questions from government backbenchers that invite ministers to either extoll the virtues of government policy or condemn the opposition as being dangerous for the country. However, there was a time when backbenchers would ask genuine questions regarding the impact of various bills on their electorates instead of Dorothy Dixers, which apparently only became popular in the 1950s. Why did Dorothy Dixers displace genuine questions in Australian parliament? Did the practice receive similar uptake in state parliaments and irrespective of the party of government? What was the media's response? 

In his History of the Peloponnesian War, Thucydides includes a number of made up speeches based upon "what was called for in each situation". While this is frowned upon in modern histories, it seems to have been perfectly acceptable practice then and their inclusion had no bearing on the historicity of the rest of the work. Every work by an ancient historian that I have read contains such speeches, although the quality and relevance to the situation varies. What was the first documented case of a historian expressing opposition to the use of fabricated speeches? When did the practice begin to lose acceptance amongst historians in general? What were the reasons for this change of view? 

The premise of the question is false. It's not true that the KMT/ROC "[went] to the island of Taiwan and not to any other island". Rather than choosing to "go to" Taiwan and not any other island, Taiwan merely happens to be the largest island that the ROC still has control of. The ROC also "went to" many other islands. Or more correctly, the ROC also had control of plenty of other islands besides Taiwan. (Indeed even today, the ROC still has control over at least three groups of islands besides Taiwan: Matsu, Penghu, Kinmen.) For example, another one of the last bits that the ROC had control of was Hainan, which fully fell to the PRC only in May 1950, 7 months after Mao declared the inception of the PRC. So I think the question should instead be: "Why did Taiwan (along with some minor islands) not fall to the PRC?" And the answer would be that in June 1950, the Korean War started. And the US decided to change its previous stance (of not trying too hard to help the ROC) to "drawing the line at" and protecting the "unsinkable aircraft carrier" that was Formosa/Taiwan. The continued existence of the ROC on Taiwan to this very day depends largely on US protection. P.S. Some KMT troops did flee to Burma (and prove an annoyance there for some time). 

The gold rush in Australia saw many Chinese migrate to the country, with the Chinese population in Australia reaching around 40000 in the 1860s. Many brought with them vegetable seeds to grow near their camps and towards the late 19th century, the fruit and vegetable markets came to be dominated by Chinese growers (although not necessarily growing those of Chinese origin). Which fruits and vegetables were introduced to Australia by Chinese migrants during the gold rush? Of those, which came to be grown commercially? How successful were attempts to sell these in cities and towns with lower concentrations of Chinese people? 

Both of the following accounts are from Polybius. At the Battle of Tunis, Xanthippus used his elephants to charge the Roman line. While some of the Romans avoided the elephants to charge the Carthaginian right and the formation held due to its depth, those at the front were trampled. The Romans were later flanked by cavalry and the elephants also accounted for the bulk of the casualties from then on. During the period before the Second Punic War when Carthage was consolidating power in Spain, Hannibal defeated a combined force of the Carpetani and other neighbouring tribes in a battle in which the majority of the killing was done by elephants. However, the Carpetani had to cross a river to attack the Carthaginians, so it's quite possible that the battle could have ended the same way without the elephants. 

Other than race, one key difference between the two institutions was that serfs were obliged to do military service: 

For 1900 onwards, the US Census Bureau has population estimates for each US state, for each year. There are also decennial censal counts for 1860, 1870, 1880, etc. But where can I find population estimates for each US state, for each year from 1865-1899? It seems that there are no official US Census Bureau estimates. Using the decennial counts, I can certainly make crude interpolations, but I am hoping that someone somewhere has constructed more precise estimates (as the US Census Bureau has done for 1900 onwards). 

One possible example is the Ecuador-Peru war of 1941. Were there others? Just to be narrow/precise, restrict attention to any wars that were ongoing any time between Sep 1 1939 and May 9 1945. 

What were the effective dates of each of these two laws? I am asking for purposes of my academic research, which relates to the history of the American family. 

I imagine that these chickens were plucked in order for one to tell that they had "curly yellow fat" or were "bony". 

Those conquered by Liu Bang prior to the defeat of Xiang Yu were from similar cultural backgrounds. The fact that Xiang Yu could reasonably think that he was surrounded by soldiers from Chu singing Chu songs indicates that Liu Bang did not practice forced assimilation, or at least had no reputation for doing so. After the unification of the empire, Liu Bang was generally too busy killing off his old generals to do much conquering of different cultures. The only contact with foreign subjects that I'm aware of was with the southern and eastern Yue, both under peaceful circumstances. In both cases, local leaders were allowed to continue on as Kings (in the case of eastern Yue, this entailed a change in title from Chieftain) with a great deal of autonomy. Source: Records of the Grand Historian by Sima Qian, translated by Burton Watson 

Scheidel notes that Chinese cities were typically governed by officials who came from outside the region. Thus, they were viewed as government appointed administrators rather than the community leaders who formed city councils in the cities of the Roman Empire. In times of disunity, Chinese warlords were more likely to be acting as pretenders to the throne than as representatives of regional interests. In terms of philosophy and religion, China was founded on a combination of legalism and Confucianism. Both of these stressed the importance of centralised control and an ordered society. Rome was founded upon first paganism, then Christianity. Scheidel does not mention the former, but Edward Gibbon makes the case that paganism allowed for greater tolerance of the local customs of conquered areas, and it makes sense that this also allows for greater acceptance of autonomous government. When Rome turned to Christianity, it was to "churches that had evolved outside and in some sense in opposition to the imperial state" and therefore "could not offer comparable services" in terms of governance to Confucian scholars. 

I don't know much about ancient Egypt but presumably we now know more than Adam Smith. So I was wondering to what degree is the above quote true? This page for example says its wasn't a "rigid inheritance". 

I know little about North Korean history, but their official narrative and what I had also believed is that - long story short - Kim Jong-Il basically just inherited his dictatorial powers from his father, as per his father's wishes. There does not seem to be anything on the Wikipedia page of either Kim Jong-Il or Kim Il-Sung that contradicts this "long story short" version of North Korean history. Yet, I was surprised to read in Jang Jin-Sung's Dear Leader (2014) that there was in fact a vicious power struggle. So my questions are: (1) Is Jang correct? (2) If he is correct, was this already common knowledge amongst students of North Korean history, and just unfamiliar to the broader public? Or are these new and surprising revelations? Some excerpts: 

For example, on October 1st 1949, the People's Republic of China (PRC) was proclaimed. Would hundreds of millions of people then suddenly have switched from being citizens of the Republic of China (ROC) to the PRC? I was inspired to ask this question because Tu Youyou has been heralded as the first science Nobel Prize winner from China (presumably meaning the PRC). But Yang Chen-Ning and Lee Tsung-Dao also won the Physics Nobel Prize in 1957. According to Wikipedia, both moved to the USA in 1946, but became US citizens only in 1962 and 1964. So what was the citizenship of these two men when they won the Nobel Prize in 1957? The PRC or the ROC or something else?