Source: 10 minutes 53 seconds juncture; Lecture 5, Video 4 (transcription); MITx: 24.00x Introduction to Philosophy; by MIT Associate Prof Caspar Hare PhD (Princeton) 

In [1.], Socrates says that you can't seek what you don't know, because you don't know what to seek. Yet in [2], he does believe in seeking what you don't know. So do [1] and [2] conflict? 

A novice, I do not feel prepared yet to, but shall in future, read Hume; please tell me if Hume's originals answer my question. Source: pp 30-31, Philosophy ; A Very Short Introduction (2002) by Edward Craig. 

Source: p 208, Introducing Philosophy for Canadians: A Text with Integrated Readings (2011 1 ed). Primary Source: Book 2, Chapter 8, ¶ 8, An Essay Concerning Human Understanding (1689) by John Locke. 

As Chief Sealth said, "All things are connected." If a particular theory explains X, we might indeed be left to wonder if X could be explained by yet another theory. But suppose we also develop theories that explain Y and Z - and there's no conflict between our theories. Better yet, suppose these different theories appear to support each other. If you have literally thousands of theories that explain countless phenomena, and everything appears to fit together, then you've created what you might call a framework. Now, let's say we take one of your "infinite number of other theories" and plug it into X. Even if it appears to be a tenable theory in isolation, does it mesh with all the theories explaining other phenomena? Things like electricity, the internal combustion engine and medical science aren't just a function of theory; they have to actually work - and they do work. So why would anyone want to rewire a country's electrical grid based on some whimsical philosophical theory? Only a fool would suggest that science is 100% accurate, and, in a philosophical vein, one might question everything science has taught us. But when it's time to eat, get dressed or buy a home, most people are going to trust science over philosophy. Which isn't to say they're in competition. I subscribe to the view that philosophy is a tool or discipline that helps us understand things that scientists can't examine. To put it another way, science might be thought of as the study of the known, while philosophy is the study of the unknown. 

Later, the Prof discusses the Standard Form, in which the premises are written above the conclusion, each on a separate line. But the Prof doesn't explain the 2 different orders of the arguments. So in writing, why would a conclusion precede a premises? Does the Standard Form imply easier readability, whenever the premises precede the conclusion? 

Source: pp 235-236, With Good Reason, An Introduction to Informal Fallacies (2000 6 ed) by York U. Prof. S. Morris Engel 

I conjecture the 3 wants above mean different desires: 1 and 2 mean primitive superficial urges or John Stuart Mill's phrase 'lower pleasures' (eg:chocolate, guilty pleasures, etc...); but 3 means John Stuart Mill's phrase 'higher pleasures' or second-order virtuous aretes. Did I neglect anything? 

If Stephen Hawking could have traveled back in time 10,000 years, he probably wouldn't have survived more than a day without special technology. Would you say he was biologically unfit, or would you say he was perfectly fit for a technologically advanced society? Imagine if we achieved a one-world government, and the plutocrats who run the government decided that every human who isn't white should be exterminated. Would you call that natural selection? 

Books that ignore the problems with people and society, treating misanthropes as misguided people who need to be fixed. Books that seek to eliminate misanthropy by fixing the flawed people who make other people hate them. Books that admit the human species may have a few problems, but which urge misanthropes to lighten up and be more patient with the people who are torturing and murdering other people, campaigning for nuclear war and figuring out new ways to wreck the global ecosystem. 

Original Source: Michael E. Tigar BA JD (Univ. of California, Berkeley), “Defending,” Texas Law Review 74 (1995). Source: p 196, How Can You Represent Those People? (2013) by Abbe Smith, Monroe Freedman (Editors) 

I already understand, and so ask not about, the definition of Appeal to Unqualified Authority. Instead I ask about the history or etymology behind this term, a question of the history of philosophy, and not of linguistics because: 

My conjecture: 8. is that causes the Adverbial to incorporate more Conditions. 9. matches the fact, and the picture below depicting, that any SC ⊆ its NC: 

I challenge not that natural sciences are synthetic, but only that they are a priori. I exemplify my confusion with universal constants, whose existence (I understand) is a priori. However, how can a person's knowledge of them be a priori? Only some external experience can inform you which rational numbers describe them. For example, every human experiences atmospheric pressure, but you cannot know the unit of standard atmosphere somewhere until you experience some measure of it (eg: a barometer or a report about atmospheric pressure). So your knowledge of natural sciences (eg: atmospheric pressure) must be a posteriori? 

What do you mean by "philosophical implications"? Like whether the 9/11 attacks were justified? Whether the response to 9/11 was justified? Whether 9/11 was actually a "false flag attack"? There must be individual "philosophical figures" who are willing to "debate" just about anything. However, I'm not aware of any significant philosophical 9/11 groups comparable to Scholars for 9/11 Truth, etc. I just discovered a book titled The Impact of 9/11 on Religion and Philosophy. There's also a book titled Philosophy and the Return of Violence. I'm not sure if it focuses on 9/11 or if it just includes a chapter on 9/11 ("Philosophy after 9/11"). Personally, I'm skeptical that 9/11 is really such a big deal in philosophical terms. It was one of the most significant events in modern history. It was more or less the justification for the phony war on terror, which has ruined the lives of millions of people. It changed the United States; this isn't the country I grew up in. But, practically speaking, how is it really different from past wars, false flag events and other conspiracies? Good and evil, power and greed are hardly new concepts. However, the author of the second book disagrees with me. He claims 9/11 changed the very nature of philosophy. Though I've only read very brief excerpt, it sounds like he blames 9/11 on Muslims, making me wonder if his book is really just propaganda. Scientists, political activists and philosophers all have to wade through an ocean of disinformation and propaganda, and it isn't surprising that some philosophers (or pseudo-philosophers) are contributing to that propaganda, just as pseudo-scientists are supporting the government in its war against science (e.g. Neil DeGrasse Tyson and Bill Nye "The Science Guy" stumping for genetically modified food). In summary, you asked a question that includes the word "or," and the short answer appears to be YES, there are indeed philosophical figures who are "debating" 9/11. 

A crime comprises 2 elements: 3. Actus reus, 4. Mens rea. I understand that 2 is separate from 3; whether or not the defendant deserves leniency, changes not the defendant's actions. I also understand that 1 and 2 reference separate stages of the Criminal Trial: 1 the Judgement, and 2 the Sentencing after the defendant has been convicted. But is not it possible that 2 can affect and connect with 1? If 4 is absent, then a jury may treat the defendant with leniency by deciding to find the defendant NOT GUILTY (innocent)? Then the defendant would not be convicted? 

Source (from older edition): p 289, A Concise Introduction to Logic (12 Ed, 2014), by Patrick Hurley 

Not only is it possible, it has degraded humanity. But it has also provided benefits. First, the bad news: People live relatively long lives today, thanks to modern technology and plentiful food. But if you took away all that technology, people would start falling over dead by the thousands. Thousands of years ago, people with various illnesses or "conditions" would have been weeded out by natural selection. Today, there are countless people who are kept alive by medication, therapy, emergency surgery, etc. The war against the environment is another byproduct of "progress." People didn't live in their own sewage 10,000 years ago. On the other hand, technology has given us electricity and ice cream. 

Source: With Good Reason, An Introduction to Informal Fallacies (6 ed, 2000) by Prof. S. Morris Engel PhD. Here, 'apology' means expression of regret, and not the Ancient Greek meanings 

I understand the first paragraph (on the general distinction between FC and HG), but I do not comprehend how 2 is a class statement. To me, 2 can be equally interpreted correctly as 3 below. I accept that 2 is likelier than 3, because 2 asserts a decrease in the mean average of fuel consumption, whereas 3 asserts a decrease in each vehicle's fuel consumption but 3 is certainly possible (For example, if suddenly a law were enacted that allowed only electric cars). 

As I understand it, there are just two primary known economic systems - capitalism and socialism. Of course, they come in different flavors, including communism (extreme socialism) and what I call "free market capitalism" on the other end of the spectrum. So some philosophers might advocate capitalism as (in their opinion) the lesser of evils. But keep in mind, also, that there's a lot of propaganda in philosophy. In plain English, some of the philosophers who cheer for capitalism may actually be propagandists. It would be interesting to make a list of philosophers who are notable capitalists with another list of philosophers who are equally passionate about socialism. What are their credentials - and political connections? What other socio-political issues do they discuss, and do their opinions generally along with the political Left or Right? Karl Marx, of course, was a big fan of socialism, and I think most people would agree that he was essentially a leftist. Ayn Rand, on the other hand, was very right-wing, promoting capitalism as a virtual religion. Nor was she a friend of workers - or American Indians. Those are just anecdotal examples, but if you put together a list of philosophers with particular economic-policy leanings, I suspect you might learn some interesting things. 

What exactly does the bolded mean? Is the bolded a type of relativism, which includes the defense of dead luminaries' immorality by asserting their being only 'a product of their environment or time' (eg: Woodrow Wilson's racism)? As another example, the bolded appears to reflect US Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg's (relativistic?) reaction to Justice Felix Frankfurter's rejection of her application to be a law clerk because she was female: 

2 appears irrelevant to 1. Why would 1 need an independent variation of the world? To achieve 1, (omnipotent) God could have incorporated this difference (painless pinpricks) while creating the original world, by excluding pinpricks from pain and leaving the same everything else. I might have misunderstood 2; I am confused by the concept of 'independent variation'.