Scientific background: Tiny errors in reassembly would be indistinguishable from the errors introduced by an X-rays or radioactive radiation: Almost the entire body is entirely unaffected, but at some points, an atom is missing from a place where it should be, and instead running loose somewhere else. So, the cumulative long term effects would be the same as those of excessive exposition to X-rays or radioactive radiation: Increased risk of cancer. Also, heavy teleporting in a very short time would cause radiation sickness. This would, of course, only kick in if you teleported like every five minutes for a whole day. Another effect of this is, that teleportation of electronic devices would also be affected: Any stored data may be corrupted by some bits getting flipped due to the reconstruction errors. This includes permanently stored data as well as data in working memory. 

Out of the way Simply put, don't block their fleet's way. Your main reason to be invaded is your strategic location, so just offer it to any passer-by. Sweden let German pass, so they were cool. Thailand and Belgium (in WW1) didn't, so they got invaded. Simple. Everyone's friend Again, look at Sweden and Thailand. While they let the Axis force pass, they also harboured Allies spies, so everyone just cool with them. Your planet could act like an espionage hub for everyone, a neutral ground for some secret diplomacy, a safe haven for refugees from all sides. You could also create some small organizations that align with different faction, but secretly be control by the goverment. Summary To put it simple, make they understand that your value as an independent planet is much higher than as someone's pawn. Give them what they want the most, then give some unique bonus that allow them to look over you. 

Pro steel: The material strength of titanium is less than that of steel. This means that it would be the titanium sword that gets the dent when it clashes with a steel sword. After a fight, the elves would need to remake the edges of their titanium swords. Pro titanium: The lower weight of the material would allow for greater length of the swords than steel, allowing the elvish fighters to score hits before their opponents can even reach them. Pro titanium: The lower material weight would also allow the swords to be thicker than their steel counterparts, actually allowing the titanium swords to be stronger against breakage than their steel counterparts. So, while it would be the titanium swords that gets the dent, it would be the steel sword that breaks. Which one do you prefer? 

great chance of success since your country is surrounded by mountain, and the enemy have land-ship to move around, it quite safe to say the invasion route will be pretty much fixed. that mean the enemy will have to walk pass your traps if they want to advance. easy to carry well, much easier than carry a big cannon. that allow you to plant them in unexpected place, like a bridge inside enemy's territory, a supply storage, etc.. also, since you dont need many people to plant a mine, you could send many team to simply littering the country with land mines. hard to avoid without any metal detector, the only way to find mine is either: a. dig up every road ahead and b. send a guy to "check". if they choose a. , you can always re-mine a clear route and they will have to dig it up again. if they choose b. , mix anti-personnel mine with anti-landship one and let them figure out themselve. multipurpose when not busy blowing up people and things, mine can be used for many other purposes. they can be used to creat landslide or avalanche, to make boulder to block a road etc. and the most important.. losing a few mines dont have any significant setback for you, while losing your single superweapon is an instant gameover. heck, if your can place your plant behind the 2nd line of defense, then you can keep going even after your barony has been overruned. 

How to explain gigantic subs: Well, you obviously need a reason for large subs. As a matter of fact, subs are relatively poor at actually controlling an area (or water volume). To do this, it might be necessary to use a large fleet of small subs. However, small subs cannot use nuclear reactors, as those have a certain minimal size. So, the small sub fleet would have to do with battery power. But how can you reload your batteries when you are on the other side of the planet, and want to avoid surfacing for whatever reasons? Enter the big sub carrying sub! It would work a bit like aircraft carries today: You have one really big vessel, which contains at least a dozen small vessels, which are the big vessel's eyes and arms. These small vessels patrol the area that is to be controlled, and they strike against any enemy they find within their action radius. Once their batteries are down, they return to their carrier for a battery charge, remunitioning, and some fresh supplies. The carrier sub itself would be huge by todays standards. It would likely contain several powerful nuclear reactors, large ammunition storage areas, and have several places for the small subs to dock. The parts that need to be at atmospheric pressure would all be contained within a number of long cylinders, each no more than five meters in diameter for structural efficiency. This pack-of-thin-cylinders design would go quite well with its purpose of being a carrier of many small subs, I think. The big sub itself would not have much defensive capabilities itself, relying on its fleet of small subs to defend it, just like aircraft carriers rely on their air force to defend them. The big carrier sub might contain a few big offensive missile type weapons, though; weapons larger than the small subs can carry. Such a carrier sub would really be able to control a certain volume of the sea, which is hard to do with the modern subs which are mostly built for offensive strikes on the surface. The modern subs are built that way, because we humans are most interested in controlling the earths surface, for obvious reasons. A civilization that mostly lives underwater would have much different priorities: They would desire to control either water volume, or areas on the bottom of the oceans, so I think, big carrier subs would suit them well. 

a net. Sound strange enough, since you can't kill anyone with a net. But for an avian race, getting tangled up and fall from the sky would be pretty much lethal. However, it's not the main point. Because it's stone-age, your crow won't fight in open battle, but raiding -just like the native American warfare. And that's where a net come in handy. 

the best answer is the combine of many factor, like real life suck, the game is very addictive and have high reward, etc.. However, there's another factor that i haven't seen mention here: They have nothing else to do. If you have the technology to make such game, then i think you can also creat robot and A.I that will pretty much replace human in the workforce. You will have a huge population that clueless about what to do with their life at that point, people who dont have any goal to achieve everyday, any place to go at 8 AM, any thing to do after wake up.. these people will pretty much try anything that give them a sense of meaning, and thus, flock to your suicide game.. 

If the four diagonal beams are held in a 45° position by the support rope and each other, there will be no bending forces on the structure whatsoever, and the anchoring will be next to trivial. 

What does this mean for a low tech population trying to build space-worthy vehicles? It means, they are screwed. They need to contain liquid fuels, some of which need to be pressurized, within a container that is only allowed to weight about 1/8 of the total fuel mass. It is quite hard even for us today to build such light-weight structures that are still strong enough, and we have lost rockets as recent as 2015 (Falcon 9 launch failure) due to structures that did not hold up under the forces exerted on them. Low tech means, you need to include high safety margins to avoid catastrophic failure, and high safety margins mean much more fuel, and much more rocket to hold that fuel. The lower your tech level, the larger the rockets need to be. We need rockets that outweight their payloads by a factor 25, just to get some small payload into space. How big will that factor be for your low-tech people? Can you imagine your low-tech people building significantly larger rockets than the ones we build today? If not, I'd say, any space-faring society needs to be at least at our level of development in the middle of the 20th century, when we first started sending rockets into space. And all this does not even include any potential for fighting battles in space...