I'm not saying any of these arguments are true - they obviously don't convince me - but it's the kind of thing you hear. Most people also bring up some version of " it's natural, therefore there's nothing wrong with it" which is obviously fallacious. 

Firstly, the private language argument isn't a single argument in the normal sense of a logical argument. There is disagreement among commentators on which sections of the PI constitute the private language argument, probably better described as the private language arguments as there is more than one thread of thought. You're saying it's possible that the criteria could be private (hence the language would be private). Isn't this what Wittgenstein is arguing against in his PLA? He doesn't like the idea of private criteria being grounds for understanding. He is not against the idea of someone inventing their own language (e.g. a Robinson Cruesoe lone man on an island inventing their own language). Wittgenstein is saying that the idea of an essentially private language is incoherent. I think you might be misinterpreting the emphasis of Wittgenstein's points - I don't think he's taking public criteria to be a premise to prove no language is private, he instead directly tries to argue against private criteria to show private language is incoherent. Wittgenstein believes the Cartesian is mistaken. 

Thank you for those who reply. Maybe let me condense my query a bit. It is that 'I think, therefore I am' seems a bit tautological, that when he says 'I', it is simultaneously implied the cognitive activity of thinking which is necessary for I to recognize myself and to utter 'I'. Also, surely, both 'I' is identical and we are ascribing different activities or states which has the same subject 'I' relied on, and this sounds a bit tautological to me. So when I read the critic by Bertrand Russell, I promptly agree. 'If the cogito does not presuppose a substantial self, what then is the epistemic basis for injecting the “I” into the “I think”? Some critics have complained that, in referring to the “I”, Descartes begs the question by presupposing what he means to establish in the “I exist.” Among the critics, Bertrand Russell objects that “the word ‘I’ is really illegitimate.” Echoing the 18th century thinker, Georg Lichtenberg, Russell writes that Descartes should have, instead, stated “his ultimate premiss in the form ‘there are thoughts’.” Russell adds that “the word ‘I’ is grammatically convenient, but does not describe a datum.” (1945, 567) Accordingly, “there is pain” and “I am in pain” have different contents, and Descartes is entitled only to the former' 

I'm not entirely sure what you mean with respect to the Socrates quote. If you mean that Wittgenstein's philosophy encourages you to stop doing philosophy (stop examining) then you are correct. It is quite clear that Wittgenstein had an affinity for "simpler" folk - people who were non-philosophers. During some of his lectures in Cambridge, he quoted from detective and Western movies. In one of these detective stories there is a comment from the author about how unusual a clock is, how it measures something that isn't 100% real. Wittgenstein thought that this kind of confusion from a non-philosopher was much more important to speak about than the same kind of confusion from a philosopher. His purpose was to show his new form of philosophy - one which would allow the philosopher to stop asking questions. He believed that the kind of problems and doubts that philosophers get into (e.g. thinking the conception of perception, or time, or numbers is unusual) are not signs of superior thinking among intelligent people, but instead signs that philosophers are being more easily led astray than normal folk. The reasons Wittgenstein abandoned the Tractatus are many. For one, there were specific problems with certain ideas found in the Tractatus, such as the idea that the bottom-level propositions of the system are independent, however there are certain sentences which are dependent. E.g. the sentence "the house is painted blue all over" precludes the statement "the house is painted red all over." Ramsey played a large role in convincing Wittgenstein about this. There was a long period of transition between Wittgenstein finishing the Tractatus and reaching the era in which he wrote PI. He came to realise his fundamental picture of philosophy was mistaken. The ideas of the Tractatus are still heavily influenced by the Augustinian picture of language found at the start of the PI. This isn't to say Wittgenstein disagreed with all he wrote in the Tractatus. His conception of philosophy vastly changed, however there is still stuff in the Tractatus he would agree with I'm sure. He originally wanted to publish the PI along with the Tractatus so the genesis of his ideas would be clearer. 

There are 2 things that would help you explore this further. The first is how Aristotle defines 'Substance' in the context of his '10 Categories of Being' (Organon - Categories - start with the primary source here (part 5), or look for a translation in your first language, and a secondary source discussion here). In layman's terms, I like to think of this as 'the goo from which the universe is made, that we recognise as something because it has a particular form'. But ... what do we really recognise? Content or form? If we knew each other and you saw me from a distance, recognised me, and waved, you'd have seen my form, but you'd simultaneously have recognised me. Are these 2 things or 1? In your example, in basic terms, if you pointed at the marble, and asked, 'What is it?' Your simplest, shortest, most precise answer in each case would have to be, 'It's a marble'. But what is it that makes it a marble? This brings me to the second thing that will help out - Aristotle's four principles of causation, referenced in your link - material, formal, efficient and final. They're interdependent. The marble is a marble because it conforms to the ideal of 'marbleness', the material it's made of allows it to display that form, for that to happen, someone somewhere (we're talking of a man-made object here) must have made it, and to do that, they must have had a reason, the simplest, most obvious one being, 'to make a marble'. Sure, your material can change, but what happens to the other elements of the marble when you focus just on the material? Do they suddenly disappear? And where does substance fit in? Some questions for you to ponder on as you explore this subject. Enjoy! 

Assuming time has the following characteristics? I don't really agree with any of the characteristics there. What does it mean to say the present is fictional? To me those characteristics are fairly characteristic of metaphysical assertions which transgress the boundaries of sense. I think the river analogy is the most common one. Wittgenstein had some great things to say in his Blue and Brown books about how the analogies people make with time cause a lot of the philosophical muddles people get into. When people see an analogy, they tend to ask questions that don't make sense. E.g. there is a certain analogy between time and a river. That is all well and good, but it runs into problems when people carry the analogy too far (like Augustine did with his puzzlement about time). If one imagines a log flowing down a river, while we stand on the bank, we can imagine saying the log is now downstream, now in front of us, now upstream. That kind of analogy is used to describe events in time. One can ask meaningfully "the log has gone away, I wonder where it is now". But to carry this idea over into the analogy with time is the misstep in thinking. It causes one to ask questions like " oh, I wonder where the past has gone, and whether it exists" 

Indeed, the thinking activity of a reflective person presupposes such a 'reflective person'. What I observe is that there are certain attributes or characteristics in words, words like 'think', 'articulate', 'summarize', 'deduce' are mainly applied to human-beings. If 'think'(subjectively) is privileged to human beings, then 'thinking' along will prove the existence of someone, if not 'I'. If these words are not only applicable to human, that some animals also possess such capabilities, there is also one distinction of human beings from animals, that is the power of subjective initiation and the 'awareness of such initiation'(self-consciousness). When someone uttered 'I', he is already using both of the attributes, that it is impossible for us not to think but simultaneously initiatively utter 'I', hence it is sufficient as proof of the existence of 'I', and thus 'think' is surplus or as a further elaboration for 'I'. It seems to me that both 'there is thinking activity, therefore someone'(if thinking is privileged to human beings, and uttering such sentence is a think activity) or 'I, I am'(with the recognition, self-awareness of 'I' and such recognition entails thinking activity in the broadest sense) are both sufficient to prove existence of at least something, and the latter is sufficient to prove the existence of 'I'. Is it valid? 

To a certain extent, it is difficult to fully adhere to Wittgenstein's views and continue working in academic philosophy, as, if you agree with him, most of the major debates are settled so there's not that much left to write about. It's a bit like whack a mole - every now and then a new philosophical puzzle will surface, and you will have to address it, but the main big picture arguments are settled. For example, after writing PI, Wittgenstein didn't completely stop doing philosophy. He wrote On Certainty afterwards. What PI managed to do however, is to free himself in a way, to offer him a way to stop doing philosophy when he wanted to. To understand this I think you need to understand how Wittgenstein's found his own philosophical problems distressing. I believe writing PI allowed him to let go of a lot of the big problems which previously had distressed him - he was able to see where he went wrong, and he no longer asks the same questions. It is kind of a given that most people working in academic philosophy would not agree with Wittgenstein as they are actively working in areas that Wittgenstein followers believe is already settled. So mainstream philosophers on the whole do not believe he solved all the problems, as they are working philosophers so they're working on problems they believe are unsolved. That said, I have put a lot of time into reading Wittgenstein's various works and reading supporting academic literature, and I find his works very convincing, in comparison to any other philosopher I've read. I'm writing this while on the way to somewhere else, so forgive me for the lack of citations, although I would be free to provide sources if you have any questions. 

My question relates specifically to the use of the Greek verb δρώντων part pl pres act masc gen attic epic doric aeolic contr in Poetics, 1449b-28 in which tragedy is defined, among other things as a representation of action/people acting. The verb is shown to be used in two ways: Action, and Action in a ritual context. Would an application of the second use be correct or at least possibly correct in this particular case, thus defining tragedy as a representation of ritual action? Alternatively, to what extent was the use of the word by later authors who used it specifically in the ritual sense (eg Iamblichus, Pausanius, Plutarch) a reference to the earlier usage? 

Take a look at the way Spencer-Brown applies his Laws of Form to logic. If you equate 'nothing' with an unmarked state, a mark cancelling another out = the unmarked state. If you equate it with an act of distinction per se, then it becomes a mark. See Appx 2 p 90 of the 2010 edition available here. A good layman's guide which links to more advanced work can be found here. 

I'm not aware of a term for this, although in law, the "but for" test is actually used as an argument to show that someone was negligent. See more here: $URL$ I agree it's clearly flawed 

First thing I would say is that there are actually a lot of people who think Descartes is mistaken in his Cogito argument. See the criticisms at $URL$ I don't think anyone would disagree about concepts being held by people. Although I can think of some odd situations where one might decide to say something like "google translate doesn't understand the concept of sarcasm, but does understand the concept of double negatives." Also, I wouldn't say there is one person who was the first to invent the concept for something. To take "jazz" as an example, I don't think there was a first jazz musician who came up with its concept. It was a gradual thing 

What do you mean by "know" and "feel"? I'm sure you've happily used the word " know" in places where you weren't talking about things you were feeling directly. Do you doubt that your friend's feet are sore after a marathon, just because you can't feel their pain? It kind of sounds like the idea of sense-data to me that was popular around Russell's time. Like " I can't be sure that I am really looking at a football at the moment, but I can be sure that I am perceiving the sense data which looks like one" (like seeing these various colours in my visual field). Thus I should, to be correct, in future, say "I see the sense data of a car" instead of "I see a car". To me, it's just a useless change in notation, where the phrase " I see the sense data appearing to be X" will take on the role of " I see X". 

I think the writer is quoting the original text from the chapter "Essentials for Nurturing Life"" (in Chinese 養生主). At the beginning of this chapter, Zhuangzi says (since I don't have an English translation, I just put my literal translation and some understanding here) our life is limited, and knowledge isn't. If we get ourselves addicted into knowledge (actually Zhuangzi, or the Taoist doctrine, resists all types of addiction and we shall not be bound by anything. So in my opinion, in Zhuangzi's sense, we may still be fully liberated if our mind is not attached to anything, and if one daoist believer cannot attain liberation due to the imprisonment, he can just suicide), then our spirit (I don't use mind since mind requires us to be rational, and it seems to me spirit in Zhuangzi's term requires us to be consciously liberal rather than rational) cannot be liberated and it would be dangerous to our life (in the spiritual sense. Chinese people may say your life is pointless or fruitless if you live a restrained life that you can't liberate your spirit). So in this sense, one living such a life is not wise as well. This might be why the writer of wiki Zhuangzi uses "foolish".