"He seems to believe that a man has something more than just a brain, he thinks that there is something more in there and not just experiences" It's odd, isn't it, that otherwise rational men believe that sort of thing? I think the reason they do is twofold: One is that the brain (and mind) is a chaotic system; while it is deterministic, there is no way to predict what its future state will be. You have to wait and see. So, it is unpredictable, but not random... which gives a fairly rough description of what free will FEELS like. It seems self-evident that we aren't making RANDOM decisions, but also self-evident that we are MAKING decisions, not following a predetermined script. The solution in the past has been to say that we do not behave in a way either random or predetermined, but some ill-defined third option, generally due to the influence of some preternatural force (soul, essence, or some other evasive concept.) Secondly, there are huge but inevitable problems with perspective. When we start to reason or do science about ourselves, particularly our own consciousness or perceptions, it sometimes gets very tricky. We see this in philosophical problems of free will, solipsism, idealism, etc., and in scientific problems dealing with quantum mechanics, the anthropic principle, biological definitions of life, and so on. It's harder to reason about a problem when you are, yourself, a fundamental component of the equation. 

This thought is one echoed in Indian Metaphysics - the cyclical universe and in physics via Poincares reoccurence theorem which is traced to a question in Celestial Mechanics - the question of the stability of the Solar System. But can repetition characterise infinity? Or should it be natality, that is true infinity is characterised by non-repetition that is however 'far out' one goes nothing repeats, there is always some modality, some aspect that is essentialy new? In Spinozoan Metaphysics, for exampe, there are an infinite number of modes that are essentially different from each other; the first two being extension (ie matter) and thought - the incommensurability of the two is exactly the hard (ie very dificult and probaby impossible problem of consciousness); here Spinoza is implicitly remarking that the infinity (of God) is characterised by plenitude, by incommensurability and by fullness. 

Anthropological research has shown that there is a deep felt need for religion in all societies. When a society has self-consciously done away with god one has to unearth exactly what is their god. In this situation I am using 'god' for philosophy/theology/worldview. It's an easy mistake to think that we by our own strength and our own self can come up with a fulfilling and convincing theology. This is the work of many men and many generations and not of the individual thinking in a void. An easy parallel is that of language. In this paradigm, Athiesm or Epicureanism is a religion as much as say Islam. One can wonder what will become the 'canon' for the New Athiesm, or what shape or form will condense as its own rituals and saints to genuflect at. As religion is more often referred to certain established forms of worship, its better perhaps to call them worldviews - but this doesn't really capture the its force. 

I agree with Themobisback that the fear of death is an instinct, ultimately with a biological origin. Most animals instinctively run from predators, even if they don't really understand what death is. Another problem with death is that it brings us face to face with the unknown, which is always scary. One of the biggest philosophical debates regards the existence of God (as well as the nature of God). Many people don't know if they're going to Heaven or Hell or if they're simply going to cease to exist. That can be very scary. Yet another problem is one of transition. When a loved one dies, we can feel a terrible sense of loss. And if you're about to die, you might similarly fear being separated from your loved ones more than death itself. 

Wyoming once adopted the slogan "Wyoming - Like no place on Earth." It wasn't terribly popular and was soon scrapped. Some people joked, "If it isn't like any place on Earth, then exactly WEHRE is Wyoming?" I couldn't resist asking if this qualifies as some kind of fallacy. (I suspect there are a lot of state nicknames and slogans that ought to be scrutinized for fallacies!) 

So what's the point of discussing ethics if the philosophical community can't even make up its collective mind regarding the morality of a pedophile judge or the person who brings him to justice? 

First, Objectivist principles are intended to be rational guidelines for maximizing long-term happiness. Accidents and emergencies are, by definition, exceptional events, and behavioral principles aren't always applicable. Secondly, Objectivism is against altruism in the sense of an obligation to sacrifice to others. It isn't globally opposed to acts of kindness or charity. The traditional objectivist answer to the question is that an Objectivist bystander should make as well-informed assessment of the risk of providing aid, compared to the value the other's life holds in relation to the objectivist, and act accordingly. This judgement can't be made by anybody other than the individual, because only they know their values. An objectivist who is drowning would call for help, in the hope that others would save him (i.e., believe that the drowner's value is worth the risk). It would be wrong for the drowner to believe that the bystanders had a moral duty to risk death to save him, but not wrong at all for him to appeal for freely given assistance. Personally, I think that a practical objectivist incorporates a little bit of game theory into their behavior, and knows that a some minor assistance to others as a general rule can grease the spokes of society... again, as long as it's freely given and reciprocal. 

The idea that it exists to strengthen the patriarchy is silly; the concept of fatherhood directly benefits the female vastly more than the male. According to evolution, it likely came about as a consequence of human's extended childhood. Because of the immense amount of resources that a human child requires, and the fact that a human woman is very limited in the number of children she can have in her lifetime, her mating strategy necessarily becomes primarily about picking a male who can share that burden...providing and protecting the child. Both males and females 'want' (in the Darwinian sense) to continue their bloodline. Males can become a father with very little investment, but children who have a father who invested in them are far more likely to survive and prosper, and are more likely to have children who do the same. Mothers who select fathers that do so are also more likely to have surviving descendants. This doesn't really address the purely ethical considerations of fatherhood; that's a philosophical question that depends on what ethical structure you have adopted. I'd say that most ethical frameworks have a conception of responsibility, though, which describes half of fatherhood... and of maximizing happiness, which is the other half. Men who haven't raised children are missing a fundamental joy in life, like men who haven't fallen in love or never appreciated art. 

Emotions are commonly thought of as irrational impulses that impede rational thought. Yet emotions evolved for a reason, and they often have an intuitive function. For example, if someone punches you in the face, you're probably going to be afraid and/or angry, and few would call such a response irrational...even if your response isn't as rational as it might be if you had the time to sit down and think about what happened. Emotion can also follow logic. For example, if your "belief system" holds that it's wrong for the rich and powerful to exploit the poor, then you're naturally going to be angry when you discover that some billionaire is doing just that. So here's my question: Are there any philosophers who have portrayed emotions as either neutral or good, at least in some cases? Again, most philosophers would agree that we should generally rely on rational thought rather than emotion. But without passion, philosophy would be as dull and lifeless as science often is. 

Everyone has to die eventually. Some die when they're young, but if they aren't struck down by illness, accident, etc., they'll "die of old age." Humans and other animals also become more feeble and prone to illness and injury when they're older. As for youth being optimistic, who says? That sounds like a generalization. I'm reminded of the saying "Ignorance is bliss." In this spirit, young people may be more optimistic because they're relatively naive. Older people have generally seen more of life's harsh side, and they're also more likely to sense the end of their life coming. Once again, this is a reason to associate older people with death. My answer is a very simple, non-philosophical one. I'm sure others can flesh it out with some more philosophical insights. 

Classically, particles are described by mass, spin, and charge. Can we consider then that particles are bundles of properties? For all particles which have the same value for these properties describe same kind of particle; for example - one cannot distinguish between one electron and another. One could argue, additionally, that particles possess angular and linear momentum; and of position in space and in time; for no particle is found in the void - itself and nothing else. But given that these values can vary; are they better expressed as extrinsic (or accidental) properties; and the former as intrinsic properties - properties that characterise the particle? edit It's probably worth making clear that I'm considering electrons as bundles of properties as nothing to do with QM itself, or that they're beyond direct perception; but because there is a small number of definite intrinsic properties that picks out an electron - and all electrons thus picked out are indistinguishable; whereas humans can be picked out say by describing their biological nature we wouldn't then say one human is indistinguishable from another; the same goes for mugs, rocks and radios. 

One answer has been already been elaborated - that there is no inertial frame associated with the photon. Another answer is to take this seriously and attempt to interpret what this may mean. One observation is that this means that the photon is out of time (and space); ie timeless. This is reminiscent of Parmenides conclusion two Millenia ago that reality is without time; which has been resuscitated by the 'neo-parmenidians' Barbour and Rovelli. But your objection is how do we explain causality here; well, even in Relativity with the above interpretation we have a timeless entity (the photon, in its timeless frame) which still has an effect (in the frame of the world) ie causality, in a sense. There is another option, which goes back to Aristotle, and then via Mach; which is that 'time is an aspect of change' (Aristotle) and then Mach, time is exactly the change in the motion of the stars; part of Barbours work shows that time in classical mechanics as an independent parameter 'falls out' which is good evidence for the Machian view. 

Of course not. As others have pointed out, no one is perfect. In addition, universities have been infiltrated by some pretty seedy entities. Corporate interests have been working hard to discourage certain kinds of research as well as suppress the results. I had some experience with that when I worked in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in the 1980's. The government played a lot of games with refuge employees, telling them what they could and couldn't say. Do some research on BP's manipulation of universities in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. There are also a number of academics who have conducted some pretty bizarre studies that deride conspiracy theories and/or conspiracy analysts. For example, there's a physicist named Brotherton who concocted some kind of formula he claims can predict how soon a conspiracy will be revealed (assuming it's a real conspiracy). Brother's associated with some university in the UK. Here's a link to one of his videos. Also, some of the Ivy League schools (particularly Harvard) have a really sleazy reputation among the politically astute. You might want to ask where the propagandists, media rats, corporate attorneys and politicians get their degrees from. 

In practical terms, global population would go berserk unless this sudden spurt in longevity was accompanied by a massive die off and much slower reproduction. If the length of childhood and puberty remained the same, then you have to wonder what the average 500-year-old would remember about his or her childhood. Furthermore, think about the amazing changes people who lived for a hundred years experienced even a century ago. A person who lives for 500 years would witness unbelievable changes. I would think that would in fact be somewhat traumatizing. Would people still work forty years before retiring for the next 700 years? Or would they work for 700 years? Would they switch careers every century? While the chance to live for more than 500 years sounds exciting, I suspect it could actually be a little scary. If people still succumbed to disease and injuries, think of all the friends and acquaintances you would lose over a period of 700 years. Think about all the people whose lives are impacted by poverty or drugs. Would they be mentally disabled or homeless for 700 years? And what kind of health would people over 100 years old have? If they were healthy enough to play soccer for 500 years, then their joints would wear out long before that. Fortunately, medical science can replace knee joints. It's hard to say how such a revolutionary change in aging would change our perceptions on mortality. People would obviously still be mortal, and they would obviously know they're going to eventually die - and they could possibly die from disease or an accident the next day. On the other hand, a 500-year lifespan would give a person more than enough time to at least pretend to gain immortality by writing 500 books, building elaborate tombs or whatever. It's interesting to speculate on how intelligent a person might be after 500 years. An active learner might become so smart he or she could no longer relate to people less than a hundred years old, and vice versa. On the other hand, this could ironically result in sort of a throwback to the past when people respected their elders as reservoirs of knowledge. Today, little kids often seem to pick up on computer skills and social networking conventions faster than adults.