I have been reading Sorrows of Empire by Chalmers Johnson, and one of the things that stuck me was a quote by Soviet hydrogen bomb creator Andrei Sakharov who was released from political imprisonment by Premier Gorbachev in large part to analyse the Strategic Defense Initiative. SDI was a massive military research program to develop a missile shield to render Inter-Continental Ballistic Missiles obsolete. After the fall of the Soviet Union many of the project's supporters and conservative supporters of Ronald Reagan claimed that the policy was largely responsible for initiating an arms race which "broke the back" of the Soviet Union. However, it seems that the Soviets really didn't consider SDI much of a threat, in Sakharov's words, 

According to Dr. Richard R. Muller in his December 2003 article in Air and Space Power entitled Losing Air Superiority: A Case Study from World War II, he argues that the Germans had definitively lost air superiority over Europe in fall of 1944. Here he describes the final hope of the Luftewaffe to regain control of the skies, and the unlikely nature of such a proposition to succeed, 

There were two major foreign policy trends in Europe at the end of the nineteenth century; colonialism and ensuring the balance of powers on the European continent. The major powers of Europe (Great Britain, France, Germany, Russia, Italy, Austria-Hungary) were motivated by the memory of the chaos caused by Napoleon's conquests in the beginning of the century and the instability caused by Prussian conquest (Prussia was the per-cursor to Germany, the latter formed at the end of the Franco-Prussian war in 1871). They built a network of alliances to ensure that no European country would dare to go to war in Europe for fear of having to face not only one country, but all of that county's allies as well. The two allied blocks managed to keep Europe peaceful for almost a century managing a balance of power until the events mentioned above. While Europe remained of limits to expansion for those major powers, much of the world was open for exploitation. Much of the conflict between European nations was restricted to competing over territories in Africa, Asia, and the Americas instead of fighting for the more difficult to acquire land and resources of Europe. Thus, when the massive network of alliances failed to prevent a European war, not only was the war fought in Europe, but amongst the colonies of the major European powers as well. This is why World War I is considered by many to be the first truly international war. Look into the major powers above, for more on Italy read this. Look up the "Triple Entente" and the "Triple Alliance". Those were the two major blocks of alliances which were supposed to keep a European war from happening. Also, on the role of the United States and Japan. The US spent most of the war trying to stay out of the European conflict. The US public was not willing to go to war in Europe, and it wasn't until this event that the US started to change their mind on the issue. I would look into that and the German reaction to said event to learn more about whether America would be a potential ally in your re-enactment. Japan was also cut off from most of the conflict geographically speaking. However, the Japanese used the war much like they would the next world war, as an excuse to expand their territorial holdings at the expense of another major power. Look here for more information. 

Russia was the ally of the socialist Baath party in Iraq, of which Saddam was a member. However, the Iran-Iraq war changed this allegiance. Since during the cold-war there were really only two poles (in military, economic, and ideological power), most countries allied with one or the other. This ultimately became a binary decision, as allying with one would require joining that ally's international "camp". The Baath party in Iraq had initially been enthusiastic with the deposing of their enemy, the Shah of Iran, in 1979. However, when largely Shia Iran called for the overthrow of the minority Sunni-led Iraq, this sentiment obviously changed. The US obviously had their own animosity towards Iran as it had overthrown it's ally the Shah, and held Americans hostage. The US government was more than happy to supply Iraq with arms, including biological weapons, in their bloody fight with the Iranians. This lead to an alliance with the Americans at the expense of the Iraqi relationship with the Soviets. While the Americans were hoping that both countries would demolish each other leading the way to weaker more controllable states, they would have much preferred the more secular government of Iraq to the anti-imperialist and militantly Islamic government of Iran. This is why after the war, the Americans continued to arm Iraq, despite Saddam using American chemical weapons to murder the rebellious Kurdish population. Much of the reason that the Soviet Union did little to interfere in the 1980's was due to their weakening economic situation. When the first gulf war was initiated by the US in 1991, Russia was not in a position to resist. Furthermore, considering that the Americans were leading the global coalition to force Saddam out of Kuwait, any military assistance provided by the Russians could be seen in a negative light by the international community. Not to mention that any direct involvement would been seen as an act of war against the US, which would be very dangerous given the tenuous nuclear balance maintained between those countries. 

The second article is far more illustrative as to why Reza Shah's popularity declined so markedly near the end of his rule. The Shah's reign grew increasingly autocratic as his administration gained power, and to the ulama's opposition to a Turkish republic. Ironically enough, the ulama's opposition of the Turkish republic would ultimately give the Shah the power necessary to push through Turkish style reforms. Reza Shah was very impressed by, envious of, the modernizing Turkish republic. One of the ways he attempted to emulate their success was by imposing a western-style dress code which was designed to reduce class and gender barriers. Chehbai explains the further utility of western dress in the mind of the Shah and other modernist reformers, 

A general trend I have noticed in French history, dating from the fall of France after the defeat at Waterloo and the subsequent losses in the Congress of Vienna, is that there is a strong urge to regain a sense of international prestige. Through out the nineteenth century France slowly degrades from being the world capital of liberal democracy and intellectualism. In the latter half of that century, France suffers an embarrassing and crushing defeat by the newly formed power of Germany in the Franco-Prussian war. This defeat is then compounded by the utter devastation of what was once the most feared military force in the world. Even in much of the 20th century France is seen as a major world power. As a personal aside, my mother's generation in the Netherlands learned French as their first foreign language, and despite the rise of America, it wasn't until roughly generation X that English replaced French in this regard. Taken all together this explains much of France's attempts to maintain their cultural identity and obtain positions of international importance (such as their attempt to be the home of the EU government among other things). While there are some economic arguments that can be made on the behalf of French colonialism to justify French action in Indo-China, they seem to be much less important than the irrational cultural motivation for doing so (similar to America's need to invade overcome the "Vietnam syndrome" to 'justify' the overblown invasion of Grenada). 

The official reason was to avoid a long and costly battle attempting to force the Japanese to surrender by invading the mainland. The Japanese were tenacious fighters and their tactics of Kamikaze suicide bombers and their courageous defense of their country in engagements such as the Battle of Okinawa, lend substantial credibility to this claim. Some such as General Eisenhower disagreed to as whether such a maneuver was really necessary. 

I would relate your question to that of asking whether a hammer builds a house. The shortest most accurate answer is "no". A more nuanced answer requires some explanation however. A hammer doesn't build a house, just as a book has never produced societal change, because both lack two vital qualities: agency and uniqueness. The fact that both lack agency is obvious. Outside of say "Beauty and the Beast", hammers and books generally don't act without human intervention. Like previous posters have noted a book can be used as a tool to spread ideas as a hammer can be used to drive in nails and thus bring pieces of wood together. The other point has not been noted, which is that a book is not necessary to produce societal change and a hammer is not necessary to build a house. In both cases the tools can make their respective jobs much easier, for example think of constructing a house by hammering nails with a shoe, yikes! On the other tack (PUN!), largely illiterate societies have produced movements without any assistance from no fancy book learnings, yet most of these movements only produce results (such as overthrowing dictators) by the direction of a literate minority. Such an observation would lead to Vladimir Lenin's theory of vanguardism. Thus, no a book has never produced the impetus to overthrow a ruler, but like a hammer to building a house it would be very difficult to incite a popular overthrow of a dictator without using the guidance of ideas produced by books and pamphlets. 

I think you have mostly answered your own question here. Your answer seems to presuppose a sort of "binary logic", a belief that only one of your theories can be completely correct or is completely incorrect. I would also note that the only difference between the first half of the 20th century and the second half are the relative power of the actors involved and the ensuing history. In the second half of the 20th century the Soviet Union was able to protect an encourage those that preached its so-called "communism", likewise those who opposed the Soviets could point to any number of logical inconsistencies and fallacies that Soviet actions spawned. Prior to this socialists of all stripes were an embattled minority, on the rise in Europe and whose growing popularity increased social, economic, and ethnic divides. Not only was there less protecting this group, but the social uncertainty lead to increased fear of this group, and stronger counter-reactions than in the comparatively more stable second half of the 20th century. At that point there were two well defined "poles", the communist east and capitalist west, and thus a lot less uncertainty than the tumultuous and very uncertain beginning of the century. Much of the anti-communist sentiment came from various places. Members of the monarchy and the status-quo in numerous European powers saw the communists as a threat to their wealth and status, although they might not have been entirely conscious of this, and may have likely been motivated by religious sentiment as well. In addition, members of the traditionalist elements of the proletariat and the peasantry definitely joined ranks with the bourgeois against the communists on religious grounds. The petty-bourgeois, which ranged in wealth from powerful merchants to small family run businesses, had both influences working on them and it did lead a number of that group into the reactionary ranks. Classic socialist theory would say that the ideology of the ruling class (ie. religion, morals, world-views, etc.) are formed by the bourgeois to form the "superstructure", essentially the justification of their control over the "basis" element of society (ie. control of the means of production and capital accumulation). The traditional Marxist would say that your theories are not conflicting, but actually working in tandem. 

From my understanding of Soviet history, it is unlikely that his role in Stalinist purges played any role in his removal. Few of the individuals who ran afoul of the Great Purges in the 1930's returned to political power (or an active social life/living life). At least not those who were implicated enough so as to hold a grudge. Additionally given the scope and chaos of the purges in the late 30's even a high ranking official like Krushchev had little control over the program and was himself a potential target. Krushchev ran a greater risk of offending the old Stalinist guard during his "secret speech" in the 20th congress denouncing Stalin. Although, neither does the aforementioned speech or the Stalinist minority appear to be the motivation of the Brezhnev conspiracy. The conspirators were far more interested in furthering their political power for the sake of personal gain as opposed to an ideological objective, and neither the purges or Stalin seemed to play pivotal roles in their motivations. There is a good description of the heightened corruption of the nomenklatura in Moshe Lewin's "The Soviet Century" and it is a good general history of the Soviet Union, particularly in terms of political history. 

It is my understanding that the Soviet Union supported governments in Syria during the cold-war primarily as a counter-balance to American influence over regional powers particularly Saudi Arabia and Israel. Could anyone elaborate on the relationship between the Soviet-Union and Syria, and its larger geo-political connotations? How might the relationship between Syria and the Soviet-Union (and possibly Russia after the end of the Cold-War) have influenced Syrian politics and the present popular "Arab-spring" era reaction to current dictator Bashar al-Assad? Bonus for well-documented sources!