Opinions seem divided on whether a lever and prong can be made just as tight. Some say the lever can be put on tighter, but apparently using a rack as an anchor point when putting on the prong belt can get it just as tight as with a lever. 

I get a popping/clicking sensation in my left hip joint when doing leg raises. It is also the side that tends to get the most easily irritated when doing squats with a wide stance, and I've had my share of knee pain on that leg. Then there's my right shoulder, which has consistently let out a crack with overhead movements for as long as I've known. Yet, neither of these things stands in the way of continued training, nor has it seemed to indicate some problem that has become worse. Our bodies are far from perfect, consistent or even symmetrical. Just the anatomy of the acetabulofemoral joint shows a lot of variation. Some people have deep hip sockets, others more shallow. With some there is a large femoral neck angle, with others much sharper. That can lead to some things happening, like sounds, that other people don't seem to have. There can be any number of causes, like a ligament snapping over a joint. What's important to determine is if it is an actual problem, or merely a small nuisance that doesn't necessarily develop into an issue. If continued training results in pain or a worsening of the phenomenon, you'll need to consult with a physician to help you and determine if there's some underlying problem, and if you can actually continue to train the movement. If however it's just kind of annoying, it might just be a thing you have to deal with. On leg raises I find it helps if I do some outward rotation of the legs. That means, rotate your feet out, so they form a v-shape. Try varying angles to see if the problem resolves at any of them. I've likewise had success reducing constant shoulder popping on front raises by slightly adjusting my arm angle and making my hand a bit less pronated. If the exercise just doesn't seem for you, there's alternatives to try. I've tried dips only twice in my life, and both times felt horribly wrong, beyond what some technique improvement would solve. So I don't do them. For leg raises, if you want to train the hip flexors, there's a lot of other exercises. Spread-eagle situps are pretty good. If you do leg raises for training your abdominal muscles, try to get less hip flexion in it and focus on contracting your abs to bring your hips and legs up, rather than rotating at the hips. That might also reduce the problem. 

The obvious answer regarding exercises: squats. Stay away from the smith machine, please. Learn how to do squats with the barbell. They are safe when proper form is used and the safety pins are correctly set in the squat/power rack. You can just set the bar down if you fail a set. If you want to focus on posterior chain, low-bar squats would benefit you best. These would give a proper workout to hamstrings, glutes and the lower back. For the ultimate guide in form I suggest you read Starting Strength 3rd edition by Mark Rippetoe. The StrongLifts 5x5 site also has some pretty good form articles which would be a good place to start. If you want to focus on quadriceps development, high-bar or front squats could prove more beneficial. You could mix it up, of course, but progress could be slower. Deadlift would also serve you well. 

How is your time spent outside of the walks? Do you have a job sitting at a desk? Standing up? Moving about? This will all influence the end result. Usually, on those calculators, I tend to just fill in "sedentary". The problem with choosing an activity level is that it is a big guess on the calculator's part. They define "lightly active" as exercise or sports 1 to 3 times a week. I go to the gym 3 times a week, but spend about 1.5 to 2 hours there every time on strength training. It's not exactly light. However, if I would spend that time doing cardio, I'd be burning a lot more calories. Meanwhile, someone who's got a physically demanding job and doesn't do any exercise outside of that will use a lot more calories than me on a daily basis. A better approach is to try a number of calculators online, using the sedentary activity level every time, and take the average of their estimates. This will give you an indication of your total daily energy expenditure without exercise. It's only an estimate since the actual value depends on a lot more than the factors provided to such calculators. People of the same gender, height and weight will have varying metabolic rates due to genetic differences, body composition and lifestyle. After you have the estimate, a good approach to get a more accurate number is to track your calorie intake using one of the various tools available online (MyFitnessPal is a popular choice), eat exactly the estimate and monitor your weight. The best method is to weigh yourself every morning, either before or after going to the toilet but before eating or drinking anything, and then take a weekly average of the measurements. This will reduce the impact of normal daily fluctuations. If the weight increases over a few weeks, the calorie estimate was a bit on the high side. If it decreases, you're in a caloric deficit. If it stays about the same, you've found the correct number to start from. The number is going to change over time depending on weight loss or weight gain and activity. 

Do something that disrupts homeostasis. For example, lifting weights. Recover and let your body adapt to its new situation. Repeat from 1, but with a stronger stimulus. Once a situation is reached that is satisfactory, maintain it by applying the same stimulus over and over. 

Gaining muscle mass requires a caloric surplus. Losing fat requires a caloric deficit. You can clearly see the contradiction. It isn't going to work, and especially not if you train for mass only once a week. You see, if you're in a caloric deficit, meaning you consume less than you expend, your body will have to provide the missing calories itself to maintain function. That energy is going to come from fat stores and possibly muscle, should protein consumption not prove sufficient for things it considers more vital (such as, say, keeping your liver running). Building muscle mass is an anabolic process which will require energy, thus calorie intake. If you are in a deficit, it is not a priority for your body. Now, from this it is maybe not unreasonable to believe that it could be possible to build muscle and lose fat at the same time. After all, if you provide a stimulus to your body in the form of heavy weightlifting that signals it that its current state is inadequate so it must improve muscle tissue, while at the same time being in a slight deficit, maybe there's no reason to believe our biology isn't clever enough to invest in muscle tissue and burn excess fat (which is there as an energy store anyway). You'll find sources out there that state this is indeed possible for beginners in strength training, and that with a careful calorie and nutrient balancing you can "recomp": slowly lose fat while also slowly building muscle. The problem with all of that is, that it's mostly hearsay. Conventional wisdom can be wrong, and just because something is repeated enough doesn't make it true. Even if it were true, progress in this way would be slow. What you can be sure of, however, is that a caloric deficit will result in weight loss, and that a caloric surplus (at least on top of your total daily energy expenditure without considering training and additional protein synthesis) is a requirement for muscle gain. So rather than gamble, you might want to go with what has been proven time after time to work. Focus on one goal, then the other. 

If I'm getting this right, your approach would be to start the program at an artificial deficit and apply linear progression until you are at your actual 5 RM. After that, you'd try to introduce a moderate caloric surplus to maintain linear progression. Correct? The problem I might foresee with this is that maintaining linear progression on a strength-based program like this is something that would be typical for a novice. At 2.5 years of training, assuming your programming prior to this was okay, you should no longer be a novice. Let's find out if you do still qualify as one regarding relative strength. I've entered the data you've provided in the symmetricstrength.com website, which I consider a good resource for estimating your level because it is based on generally accepted strength standards and research. Here's the results: 

So what must happen is that the new training stimulus is provided within the window of supercompensation, when heavier weight can be used, this constitutes a new stress that the body is not adjusted to, and the cycle repeates with a higher baseline. 

That's a fairly good start. Your goal is not unrealistic. With that time frame you could focus on a small caloric deficit to lose weight very gradually, which will be easier to do than an overly aggressive approach. But keep in mind that building muscle will be hard or impossible in a caloric deficit (it is feasible for beginners), so maybe the time frame is even a bit too long. At 185 cm, given your weight of 84 kg, I can't imagine your body fat percentage is really that high. 3 months might in fact be sufficient. Get your body fat low enough to bring out visible abs, then eat at maintenance to keep your physique, or slightly above your TDEE (which by then will have changed, so re-estimate or repeat the above experiment) in combination with weightlifting if you want to gain muscle. If you want to avoid new fat deposits, your gains in muscle and strength will necessarily have to be slow. So see if you're okay with that. If a pleasing look is your goal rather than raw strength or gaining a lot of lean body mass (and fat in the process), that's fine. 

Not directly. Fat and muscle are very different beasts. Fat is fat, muscle is composed of protein (a bit simplified, but you get the idea). Indirectly, yes. If you are a beginner in weightlifting, you are at a stage where burning fat while gaining strength and muscle mass is possible, and far easier than it'd be at a later stage. The fat gets used for providing energy while the training (and a sufficient intake of protein) enhances muscularity. So while you don't "turn fat into muscle", you can lower one and raise the other. 

First let's see how the exercises square up on the whole. Studies have been performed regarding the EMG (electromyography) activity for various abdominal muscles in a variety of exercises. You will find the results for the exercises in stimulation of the rectus abdominis and obliques, relative to the traditional crunch, in this Wikipedia section: $URL$ For the durability of this answer I'll reproduce the table here: 

Let's plug in your data for a TDEE (total daily energy expenditure) estimate. I don't know your age so I put in 30 as a rough estimate (close enough to a younger or middle age). I've selected a sedentary lifestyle, because in my opinion a raw TDEE estimate without formulas guessing your calories burned by activity is more useful as a baseline. You come out at an estimate of 2222 kcal per day. What a nice number! Note that this is an estimate. To get more accurate data you'd need to track your full calorie intake every day for a few weeks (at least two). Then weigh yourself every day (preferably right after waking up and going to the toilet and before drinking or eating). Then check the average weight every week and see if it changes to any significant degree. If it hardly changes over the course of a few weeks when eating about 2222 kcal every day, that's your average TDEE. If it drops, you're eating a bit below, if it rises, you're eating a bit too much. This is a good starting point to begin working on. You'll need to create a caloric deficit through diet, exercise or a combination of the two. 

I'd say the second option is the better one. As JohnP noted in his comment, running 45 minutes as a beginner is quite a lot. Even if you can do it during the workout, it doesn't mean the stress you imposed on your body isn't in excess of what it is accustomed to. So now you have to rest longer to recover, limiting the number of workouts in a week and reducing the efficiency. The jump from 30 minutes to 45 is also a factor in this. The stress increase must be a bit more gradual. Going from 30 minutes to 35 would have been more realistic. You could also have increased the speed while keeping the time the same (again, in a sensible amount). I suggest you rest now until the DOMS has disappeared, then do a 30-minute run again and increase the workload at every workout (time or intensity) in a much less dramatic way, while respecting one rest day between workouts, to allow your body's adaptation to exceed the demands placed on it. 

Is there any choice that's definitely better? My goal is to continue linear progression as long as possible and gradually move into the Texas Method programming style (where deadlifts are on the volume day, but I feel more inclined to put them on the intensity day). 

There are sleeves for the elbows and knees which trap heat and, depending on thickness and elasticity, provide compression. They're typically made of neoprene. Ignoring the aspects of support and stored elastic energy assisting in some movements, is there evidence to support the notion that these would reduce the potential for injury? Warmer muscles (up to a certain point, I assume) are said to be less prone to injury, and I've also heard a higher heat would lubricate the joints better, presumably because it could affect the viscosity of synovial fluid. After all, we "warm up" before exercise. Is there actual scientific proof that warmer muscles, connective tissue and joints directly benefit from this heat, or is it possibly a case of correlation being mistaken for causation? As in, the heat is merely the effect of the metabolic processes and/or mechanic action taking place in the body and what actually prevents injury is a gradual increase in load and intensity? Same for compression. Does this actually provide a benefit during exercise other than support and taking over part of the stress on the body tissues?