Aristotle does comment, as a matter of fact, on the uniqueness of final causes. He does it near the beginning of the Politics, where he discusses the "natural roles" of men, women, children, slaves, Greeks and barbarians. He states there that an artifact sometimes has more than one final cause (= inherent purpose), while a being produced by nature always has a single final cause. Nature assigns a single final cause, because this is best. And nature does what is best, and also does not spare any expenses. 

Given this distinction, Descartes formulated the principle, that the level of perfection of an idea must be derived from the perfection of its external cause. 

Time, for Bergson, is not different from duration. On the contrary, Bergson's view is that time is duration. Explanation: Bergson uses the word "time" like all of us do. That is, he uses the word "time" to capture the common, pre- theoretical and uncontroversial aspects of time. On the other hand, Bergson uses the word "duration" in a special, theoretical, technical sense. Duration for Bergson is an inherently continuous and inter- connected process, a process that cannot be broken into separate moments. When Bergson identifies time with duration, he means that the parts of time, unlike the parts of space, do not exist separately, side by side. The parts of time inter- penetrate, they are inseparable parts of a single continuous, connected process. Bergson complained that in science and philosophy (not his own) time was often thought about as space- like, as composed of separate moments. He advanced arguments against the space- like conception of time. 

What is at issue, it seems to me, is the scope of the qualifier "necessarily" in Socrates's sentences. In other words, what does the qualifier "necessarily" apply to? Socrates is saying things like: 

Bergson had many unusual views, but what he wrote on individual death seems plain and commonsensical. Since in death one ceases to experience, one cannot imagine one's own death from within. On the other hand, one can imagine one's own death from without, by looking, as it were, at one's own dead body from outside, from the standpoint of another. So Bergson didn't seem to have special views on the death of an individual. His more nuanced views concern life as a whole, not individual life. 

The quote from Russell is in conflict, not with Utilitarianism, but with some versions of Pragmatism, in particular with William James' Pragmatist Theory of Truth. Note that Bentham's quote refers to the good and the right in actions; while Russell's quote refers to the holding and to the truth of beliefs. Those are two different areas. A rational person is usually supposed to hold a belief in proportion to the evidence that supports that belief, regardless of any practical consequences that the belief may have. And so, utilitarians are not usually expected to hold the view, that Russell's quote opposes, that a belief should be held according to its consequences. Some others, however, have indeed held that view about beliefs. One such thinker, with whom Russell personally debated, was William James. In the essay The Will to Believe (1897) James developed an argument, according to which it is allowed and justified, in some cases, to hold a belief even when one doesn't have sufficient epistemic evidence in its favor. The main class of beliefs that James had in mind were religious beliefs. The basic idea of his argument was, that if we have to wait for evidence, we are bound to miss the benefits that some (e.g. religious) beliefs could bring about. In later publications, James developed the Will to Believe argument into a general theory of truth. He came to hold that a "true" belief was just a belief which was beneficial to hold, in the long run. This received the title "the pragmatist theory of truth". Russell opposed James' theories, on various grounds. One of his arguments was that, even if some (e.g. religious) beliefs were beneficial, what gave them their psychological power was the that the believer believed that they were really (i.e. not in the pragmatist sense) true. 

Historically, there hasn't been, it seems, any significant objections to the ontological argument on behalf of the trinity. The trinity-being is almost never mentioned, in accounts of the ontological argument. See for example the section on the ontological argument in the Catholic Encyclopedia where the trinity is not mentioned. The ontological argument has been indeed often rejected by christian theologians, following the philosophical objections of Thomas Aquinas (see the above link), but those objections were not related to the trinity. From a logical point of view, I also don't see any special conflict between the ontological argument and the trinity. 

The one-many relation is more encompassing than the particular-universal relation. The particular-universal relation is one type of the one-many relation. For example, the relation between a particular human being and humanity (in the sense of an essential property) is an instance of the particular-universal relation, and also of the one-many relation (humanity - one, humans - many). The relation between a particular human being and a group to which she belongs, is also an instance of the one-many relation, but not of the particular-universal relation.  

Kant's title "the ontological argument" does reflect a specific use, among philosophers, of the term 'ontology'. Etymologically, ontology pertains to being, existence. As Kant (and many other philosophers) use this term, ontology does not pertain to questions of the form: what exists, but to questions of the form: what is existence, what are special properties of existing objects, as such. So the question "does God exist" is not, by itself, an ontological question. On the other hand, the question "is there a being which possesses necessary existence" is ontological. That's why the "ontological argument" to God's existence is indeed ontological, while other arguments to God's existence are not ontological. 

What did convince Descartes that some of his ideas must indeed have a source external to himself, was the following causation principle: 

Descartes was not easily convinced that he himself could not be - unconsciously, as in dreams - the source of all his ideas. 

Quine's argument about existence relies on Russell's theory of descriptions. Therefore, one source of criticisms on Quine's thesis are criticisms on the theory of descriptions. The theory of descriptions (On Denoting (1905)) was motivated by a desire to avoid admitting non existing objects. Russell's famous example was "the king of France is bald". The expression "the king of France" seems to refer to an object. But since there is no king in France, what does the expression refer to? Now according to Russell's theory, the sentence "the king of France is bald" does not refer to any objects at all. Instead of reference, there is an underlying quantification ("there is a king in France, and.."). Quine (On What There Is (1948)) merely took the theory of descriptions one step further. He argued that Russell's move applies to every name and referring expression, not just to problematic ones like "the king of France". So Quine, following Russell, eliminated all references to objects in favor of quantifications over classes of objects, as the way in which language connects to the world. That is the meaning of the motto "to be is to be a value of a bound variable". The theory of descriptions received various criticisms. The most famous work, in this regard, is probably Saul Kripke's Naming and Necessity (1980). Kripke explored the functions of names, and attacked Russell's and Quine's thesis that a name can be replaced by a description, without remainder. Several contexts reveal deep differences between names and descriptions. Some of these contexts are modal (related to necessity and possibility). Kripke's criticism has been received as very effective. After it, The descriptive theory of names has been no longer widely accepted. Philosophers got back to the (apparently) more common-sensical view that names do refer to objects. This, however, reopened the problem of non-existing objects. 

But geometry is still, according to Hume, accurate and reliable relative to knowledge of other matters of fact, because it depends "on the easiest and least deceitful appearances". 

This SEP article contains a review of contemporary positions and arguments, regarding fictional (imaginary) objects. Four main positions are discussed: Possibilism: fictional objects are possible entities, Meinungianism: fictional objects are actual entities, Creationism: fictional objects are author dependent entities, Anti Realism: fictional objects are not entities (they do not exist). Fictional locations are not discussed separately. It is remarked that with locations it is common that a real location is contained in a fiction. For example, Sherlock Holmes lived in London. There is some controversy whether Holmes's London is the real London, or a fictional counterpart of the real London. 

Similarly, Descartes used the term "subject" quite as we do, for a topic. But he did not use the term "subject" to designate the "I", just as he did not use the term "subjective" for "private, personal" as we do. 

As to the objection, that this "collapses Kant's impenetrable wall between appearances and things in themselves", well, it doesn't seem to me to do so over and above Kant's picture of mere sensation. The sensory manifold is located in time and space, which are, according to Kant, a priori (and therefore, subjective) forms. The specific ways in which the sensory manifold is distributed in space and time are however a posteriori, and therefore prima facie correspond to something in the things-in-themselves. Kant apparently thought that you could not really get any further than that, so that the things-in-themselves still remain unknowable. It may be of interest to note that Schopenhauer, in his version of Kantianism, indeed held that empirical concepts can teach us a great deal about the thing-in-itself. 

When a theory T is falsification-oriented, as Popper demands from scientific theories, most possible outcomes will falsify the theory. Therefore n will be small, and the probability p(T) will also be small. Hence, the theory will be improbable. The above account of probability is implied by the following sentence in the SEP article: 

Hume argued, however, that such a statement would be an invalid way to describe what we know and experience. One reason is that, according to Hume, we cannot justifiably assert anything about the future. So an improvement would be: 

In Frege's classical example, the two descriptions "the evening star" and "the morning star" were once held to apply to two different planets. In time, it turned out that the two descriptions applied to the same planet, Venus. One reference, two senses. 

Plato did not seem to think that the philosopher kings will come to power from the ruins of a tyranny. Rather, they will rise in a still- functioning tyranny. His idea seem to be this: Among the multitude of tyrannies that humanity is bound to suffer, there will sometimes be the happy occasion that the ruling tyrant himself will be truly enlightened - a philosopher - a philosopher king. Such a ruler will have both the knowledge and the means to build a meritocratic-philosophical state. The first step is the most drastic: the ruler will have to send away all the citizens, except for all the children whose age is ten or less.. Those children will hence be the clay, that the first philosopher king will mold into a meritocratic-philosophical state. This recipe is presented near the end of book VII of the Republic: 

One key that can help unlocking Frege's argument is to realize that he is talking about two different viewpoints. The first viewpoint is of the thinker (T), the one who makes judgements like "the morning star is the brightest". The second viewpoint is of the attributor (A), the one who observes thinkers like T, and attributes propositional attitudes to them, like "T believes that the morning star is the brightest". Sense and reference are also attributed by the attributor A to the thinker T. A attributes senses to T according to what A judges to be T's viewpoint. But A attributes references to T according to her own (A's) viewpoint, not from T's viewpoint. Because for A, T may think (=senses) whatever T likes, but T can refer only to what is real, that is to what A believes to be real. Why do the sentences "the morning star is the brightest" and "the evening star is the brightest" have different senses for T? Because A may observe that T believes e.g. that "the morning star is the brightest" is true, but that "the evening star is the brightest" is false. On the other hand, whatever T believes does not matter to what A judges to be the references of these sentences. Because A judges references from her own (A's) viewpoint, regardless of T's viewpoint. I think that this answers the main question, as to why Frege's consideration about the senses cannot be repeated about the references. As to the additional question 

Any auxiliary process or faculty which is not conscious, even if related to cognition and thinking, is delegated by Descartes to res extensa, and in particular to the brain. So for example memory, as a capacity to store "ideas" until they are recollected by the mind, is a feature of the brain (!). 

The term ontology was apparently coined only in the 17th century. Yet it seems to reflect well Aristotle's original intent in the Metaphysics: 

Totally independent? It's just the opposite. UniverseMinus was explicitly defined in terms of ModelGod_One. How can they be independent? 

The Early Wittgenstein and Fodor do share the general view that language is representing ("mirroing") its meaning. But otherwise their projects are very different. Fodor's LOTH is a high-order theory in cognitive psychology. It pertains to how the mind works, in accordance with current psychological theories and models. Wittgenstein's Tractatus contains a philosophical theory concerning how meaning and world must be structured from the standpoint of a logically perfect language. Wittgenstein did not deal with psychology or mind. Here is how Bertrand Russell put it, in his Introduction to Wittgenstein's Tractatus : 

Poincaré wrote this paragraph in chapter 2 of Science and Hypothesis (1905). It was in the context of discussing geometry. Geometry, not in the classical Euclidean sense, but in the modern sense of mathematical analysis, which starts by defining the real numbers - the real continuum. Anyway this distinction between geometries does not seem important for the example that Poincaré had in mind. The example was about lines and points. In a sense a geometrical line is made of points. But not as if the points were self standing objects, antecedent to the lines. The points depend upon the lines, just as the lines depend upon the points. It is the relations between them that define space, and geometry. 

Motion must be conserved, because it is "simple". And simple things are destructible only by an external cause. 

Formal adequacy is about the choice of terms in the definition of truth. By this Tarski meant aspects of the concept of truth other than Schema T. Tarski himself deferred to the "ordinary" concept of truth, which he identified with viewing truth as a kind of "correspondence" between words and world. Tarski's "semantic" concept of truth, which ties together the concepts truth, reference and satisfaction, is Tarski's formal interpretation of the informal idea of word - world correspondence. 

Frege's thesis was not that mathematics as a whole was analytic, just that arithmetic (the theory of whole numbers) was so. Frege criticized Kant about arithmetic, but he agreed with Kant that geometry was synthetic. As to that Pythagoras' theorem cannot be deduced from the definition of a triangle alone, there is surely no dispute. 

In addition, Descartes's use of the Ontological Argument concerning God's existence implies the following "non standard" views about existence: 

This model has been used in modern philosophy, although quite rarely. It is similar to Aristotle's distinctions between genus-differentia-species, which are now used mainly in biology. It is more common in philosophy to regard properties and attributes as already determinate. In logic, this corresponds to predicates, or equivalently to boolean functions: 

By "mind" Anaxagoras meant a cosmic element, not merely the human mind. This can be seen in Socrates' account of his expectations from Anaxagoras, a bit after the passage that you quoted: 

An interesting question. Kant's definition of philosophy as "the science of the relation of all knowledge to the essential ends of human reason" raises some questions. For one, it would be natural to think that knowledge is the end (that is, the goal) of human reason, or at least one of its primary ends. But here Kant speaks as if the ends of human reason are beyond knowledge itself. What can they be? I think that Kant's definition relates to his unique distinction between the cognitive faculties which he calls reason and understanding, a distinction which is one of the founding principles of the Critique of Pure Reason (CPR). Structurally, the understanding is discussed in the "analytic" part of CPR, which deals with what we can know. And reason is discussed in the "dialectic" part, which deals primarily with what we cannot know, but that we have an almost irresistible urge to believe that we can know. So what are the ends of reason? Kant attributes to reason two interrelated ends. First, reason demands the completeness of knowledge, and cannot rest with merely partial accounts. Second, reason demands to know the unconditioned, the first principles and causes, and cannot rest with knowledge of principles and causes which need further explanation, further justification, etc.