There's some disagreement among professional philosophers about the relationship of the terms "sentences" and "propositions." I would say the most important distinction is captured pretty well in the other answer but that it might be considered misleading to say that "a proposition is a form of a sentence." The key distinction is that sentences are the things people say and that occur in normal languages whereas propositions are things that are either true or false. On first glance, this seems like an unnecessary distinction. But there's several reasons it does prove helpful. 

There's an important piece missing here (or at least obscured). The phrase "innately chosen in autonomy" strikes me as problematic. For Kant, reason dictates the content of morality in the form of the categorical imperative (which Kant defines in multiple ways that work out to clusters around universalizability, treating rational beings as ends-in-themselves, and the idea of a community of such beings). But the basic idea is that Kant doesn't take this to differ by subject. Part of the problem is that the word autonomy has taken on a different meaning than what Kant meant. For Kant, what makes something autonomous is that the subject used their reason (a necessary and objective form of reason) to draw the conclusions reason dictates and then used their free will to follow the conclusions of this reason. (Contemporary autonomy literature has to balance the question of free choice against the sort of "innate" or "culturally-received" ideas of what to do). 

There's many more features to be put on both the metaphysics and the ethics sides, but the simplest idea is that Kant is a realist about ethics (thinks that ethics picks out something real in the world much in the same way there are stars, flowers, winds, dogs, cats, ands squirrels). Obviously not everyone today is a moral realist (i.e. believes there is a metaphysics of morals to be had) and not every moral realist agrees with Kant about the metaphysics (for instance, Aristotle is a type of moral realist but not a Kantian; Mill too; Hegel too; quite a few others as well). 

As you can see, we can add anything with v in this way -- both A and not A work. (The same is not true of other operators). The only error I see is that you're referencing the wrong premise. You should reference line 4 (4. B) rather than 2 (2. ~D -> B) 

It might just be a fault of wording, but the second claim is incorrect. Validity is a concept that applies to arguments -- not conclusions. It's possible you're getting the answer wrong because of this somewhat nit-picking problem. 

To get things out of the way, I wouldn't describe Hegel as an obscurantist (i.e., a philosopher or thinker committed to making his position obscure), but I would say he's very difficult to read. At the same time, I would say that Hegel is often obscure to 21st century readers. I would also say that he's a poor "author" -- where we need to understand that he's not exactly an "author" in the sense of someone who sat down to write a book. While knowledge of German definitely helps even when reading in English, I would say this matters more for technical vocabulary than for grammar. To put it another way, it's confusing when you're gliding through in English and see words like "existence", "real" , "actual", "sublimation", "thing", "matter", "concept" -- when these are actually technical terms (real and actual have different meanings at most points in Hegel). Getting a grasp on what's a technical term and not is helpful. Thus, what I would say is that it's important to read Hegel along with the right sort of secondary supports to make sense of what he's doing. Sometimes, the secondary reader will agree that a section makes no sense. At other times, they can provide insight into discussions that are obscure to us now but that make sense of the terms and elements in the debate that might have made sense to late 18th / early 19th century Germans but do make any sense to us now. 

Whether the argument as you present it works seems to depend on two assumptions. First, this depends on a certain claim about what it would mean for God to interact with the universe. Specifically, it seems to require that God not be able both simultaneously know what will happen and be involved in what will happen. This assumption does not make much sense to me. Maybe there are some missing premises that will shore it up? Best I can guess would be one of two routes. Either we need premises about God creating to the effect that God would need to create perfectly. In other words, God's intervention would demonstrate incompetence in creation. (I think this route of argument against God's existence is one of the more common ones -- but it only could prove that God is not good on a regular definition if it works). Alternately, this seems to depend on some sort of claim that God's action would lead to contradiction or problems related to God's knowledge. In other words, if God acts to stop X, it changes the content of his knowledge of the future problematically. But I would need to hear it fleshed out some more to know if this is the route of the objection. The main response would be to look at counterfactual knowledge. In which case, God knows everything about every possible set of events that occur, so God intervening doesn't undermine his knowledge but merely specifies the path of possible events. This can be joined or not joined to God having a timeless view of history whereby God experiences them as all past. The second assumption seems to be that God must be interactive. One could posit a God -- perhaps like Aristotle's [thought thinking itself] -- that doesn't interact with the world. In which case, there's no contradiction, because God doesn't care what people do to themselves or what happens to them. (This is one of the more Platonic moments in Aristotle's thought because the perfection of Aristotle's God depends precisely on God thinking only the essence of absolute actuality and thus being fully actualized). But maybe I'm missing something since I'm depending on your summary? 

I'm not really grasping where the question you is. You state that for Spinoza, we can know either God's infinity or God's attributes. Spinoza calls what is grasped under the former "God" and under the latter "nature". It's not so much that nature is God or God is nature, but that the terms nature and God refer to the same thing comprehended differently... 

Yes, this would be an example of heteronomy for Kant. But it's important to realize that heteronomy is not per se immorality. For Kant, heteronomy happens whenever we commit ourselves to an action apart from what our own reason dictates we should do. Here, it's important to qualify that by "our own reason", Kant does not mean "by using our own reasoning" if that is at all to mean that we would come to different conclusions than what he takes to be the one true form of reason dictates.