(Magnetic cooling is used in cryotechnology. Not useable here, even theoretically imo.) No, impossible. The edge of the photosphere has a density similar to where meteors appear in earth's atmosphere. Atmospheric friction alone will burn up your spacecraft. Flying into the cromosphere is similarly impossible, simply because the shadow behind your sunscreen is too small to place enough radiators in it. Enough power for a heat pump would be available, but the sun has an angular diameter of nearly 180°. You can't hide from it. In the corona, three solar radii away from the surface, it might perhaps work. Theoretically, with a lot of technology that is totally undeveloped today. It's over a million degrees hot, but the density is very low. Don't get caught in an eruption. 

You seem to think those people would have an unfair advantage over, and would use it to the detriment of others. First let me say (and I'm an atheist) that jealousy is a sin. Don't be jealous. Secondly, many people have advantages over others (money, health, education, bodily strenght, intelligence, beauty, whatever), and most people agree that the same law should apply to everyone. Thirdly, most societies have laws in place to keep people from exploiting their advantages in an unfair manner, and expect wealthy people to provide to the public welfare overproportionally. Now what should happen? Some of your nonsleepers could become very rich, so they should pay higher taxes. Same applies to other rich people. Some could become politically powerful. So are some groups of people today, and most of them haven't "earned" it. Or some of them could form a syndicate to enslave the rest of mankind, which is the moment to arrest them, and put them on trial, like you do with every other group of criminals. And yes, perhaps they should have their own sports competitions in some cases, like men and women and people with disabilites do. Nothing that the legislative should be concerned with. 

Over time, cultural shifts could reduce the number of followers of the original religion to the point that the original religion no longer exists. This will likely involve appropriation of practices of the original religion. 

One possible solution to data decay would be a mirrored array of data storage devices (possibly hard drives or flash memory). You would probably need an array of four or eight drives (possibly with some mirrored parity drives) to maintain data for centuries if not millennia. Flash memory would probably be best, since it's non-magnetic and the main limitation on its lifespan is read / write cycles. Even if there is significant data corruption on all the drives, you should be able to restore most if not all the data. At that point, you're dealing with physical breakdown of the device, not decay of the data itself. An optimal climate controlled environment would probably protect the data storage devices themselves for 400 years. If you're looking for longer-term storage and not concerned about cost or capacity, you can use gold leaf punchcards - which will last pretty much indefinitely. The computer itself probably wouldn't be in great shape after 400 years. Modern electronics simply aren't designed to last that long - a few decades at most. With careful consideration and design - as well as an ideal environment - would probably let you work around those problems. A sealed inert gas environment might do the trick there. 

I'd say you could easily scale the large sailing ships of 1900 by a factor two (-> 220m long or so), giving a factor eight in tonnage (-> 40 000 tons). Modern materials and technology keep the crew size in the same region, 40-50 people. Going away from full-rigged to schooner rigs or multi-mast sloop is possible with modern fabric and keeps crewsize further down. Speed of practically any kind of ship scales with the square root of lenght, so you'll get around 14 knots average, unless you have a route with just very little wind. Modern weather forcasts will help here, too. Port maneuvers are helped by an electric bow thruster powered from a towboat (pusher) that runs on batteries charged on land. Towage was a huge problem at the time, when slighly adverse wind conditions at the port could allow tugboat owners to extort the profit of the whole voyage. Definitely something you want to organise. 

Easily, but not for long. The water in a desert lake fed from the sea would be supersaturated with salt, and the inflowing salt would precipitate all the time, slowly filling up the depression. Unless the channel from the sea widens too quickly, in which case you get something like the mediterranean sea. 

Subsumation. Rather than a schism, a new religion may come along that absorbs the followers of the original religion. As a substantial number of followers convert to the new religion, the original religion is eventually reduced to nothing. 

The big problem with using flatulence for power instead of petroleum is that food has a lot less energy than petroleum products. A gallon of gasoline contains roughly 30,000 calories worth of energy, which is roughly comparable to the number of calories a person could consume daily under the most extreme circumstances. Even then, consumption of this many calories would be unsustainable for human physiology. A gallon of gasoline per day isn't particularly useful, especially if it can't be produced and stockpiled. After all, storing it means you're wasting energy compressing or otherwise bottling the methane, and you have extra weight to cart around. You've also got to spend a lot of energy growing the food and getting it to people. Modern food production and distribution is energy intensive, and you're talking about a ~10 fold increase in the amount of food that needs to be distributed to the consumer. On top of that, without petroleum you can't (efficiently) produce modern fertilizers that give us our current crop yields. You would probably be better off just giving everyone bicycles and keeping them on their current diets. Or even burning the food itself for energy instead of reprocessing it into methane. If you insist on going the methane route instead of creating bio-diesel or alcohol (which are arguably easier to handle and use), you're better off doing it on an industrial scale located where the crops are grown instead of in the human body then distributing it from there. 

Whenever you want money from your account, you have to bring in the receipt with the current balance from the last time you accessed it, in exchange for a new receipt. To commit a fraud, you'll have to forge the receipt, which is heavily punished in any (pre-)modern state. If you loose it, you have to wait until messages have been requested and come in from all dependencies about your last transaction. 

Orbits of large objects always seem to be nearly circular. It's just the way they form. So this scenario is unrealistic. Different size and orbit of a moon gives tides of different height and frequency, and tides influence the oceanic currents, strongly. If the tide heighs vary more strongly over a month than they do on earth, then, yes, that obviously also influences the oceanic currents. It could surely be predicted by simulations. 

No, impossible. Firstly, the internal friction would let it collapse, because the parts at different altitude have to rotate at different speeds. Secondly, the surface tension would disintegrate the ring into droplets, which would coalesce into a smaller number of (liquid) moons. Those moons can't grow very much, however, because of the Roche limit. So they would probably split again from time to time, until they have lost so much angular momentum due to the tidal forces that they crash into the planet atmosphere. (And yes, ionic liquids have a vanishingly low gas pressure, and would be liquid in space, as long as they stay in the sun and warm enough. See my answer on How to flood the entire lunar surfaces? Also ionic liquids are totally unnatural.) 

The first manned spacecraft that humans launched was Vostok 1 in 1961, which orbited the earth for 108 minutes (roughly two hours). Using this as the baseline of a 'spaceship', a human could likely have survived in space as early as the 4th century BC. Air A person inhales and exhales roughly 15 cubic feet of air per hour. To survive two hours, a person would need 30 cubic feet of air. With a typical adult male human body occupying a volume of ~3 cubic feet, a sphere of four foot diameter would easily hold a person and enough air to survive two hours in space. Diving bells were used as early as the 4th century BC, which means that technology of the time could produce a shell that was air tight. Since the spacecraft wouldn't need to resist the water pressure a diving bell would need to resist, it's possible that some type of airtight(ish) bladder / balloon could be large enough to hold both a person and two hours of air at a much earlier time. Even if the bell / bladder wasn't completely airtight, coating the bell / bladder with pitch would have provided enough of a seal to prevent too much air loss. After two hours CO2 buildup in a craft of this volume would start to pose a danger, but the occupant could certainly survive such a flight. An arbitrarily larger bell / bladder could extend the time of this flight almost indefinitely. Heat Since vacuum is an excellent insulator, an additional heat source wouldn't be necessary. Furs or other heavy clothing would be sufficient to keep the occupant of the craft warm. As the craft becomes larger and the outside surface area increases, the body heat of the occupant could not extend the flight indefinitely. Without an additional heat source, the body heat of the occupant could not extend the flight indefinitely. Still, with careful heat management, good insulation, and perhaps preheated objects to supplement the occupant's body heat, the occupant could perhaps survive a full day before the craft radiated too much heat and the occupant froze to death. Radiation Who cares? Worrying about an increased risk of cancer in old age is a thoroughly modern concept. Reentry This is a tough one with traditional power sources, but we don't have the same limitation here. A limitless power source would allow the craft to re-enter the atmosphere at an arbitrary speed, so re-entry heating issues don't need to be considered. Additionally, if care were used the heat problem above could be mitigated (using atmospheric friction to warm the craft) making the volume of the craft (and air contained within) the primary limiting factor of flight time. Other needs For a two hour round trip, a person would be able to survive with nothing more than air and warmth. Additional comforts like light, food / water, or hygiene would be secondary and could be addressed in one way or another. The occupant wouldn't have to be happy or comfortable, but people can survive a significant amount of discomfort. Other thoughts This certainly wouldn't be the safest or most comfortable way to travel into space, but historically the value of life hasn't been particularly high. An ancient general / civilization would probably think little of sending dozens or hundreds of men to their deaths in a such a manner, and in all likelihood many would survive their trips into space. Time to and from orbit might be a concern as well, as such craft wouldn't be able to travel at high rates of speed in the lower atmosphere, but it probably wouldn't change this considerably. The actual mechanics of this craft would, of course, be dictated by the nature of the magical propulsion system. 

Impossible, unless you change the physics of your alternate world so transistors or nuclear power don't work. In a world with millions of scientists, everything gets discovered when the time is ripe. And without transistors, spaceflight is so terribly expensive that nobody would start a large-scale operation such as Project Olympus. 

No, or at least unlikely. There is no evolutionary advantage in having blue, green or grey eyes. Pale skin, yes, in the north, but eye and hair colour are only a secondary effect of that. If your islanders are really human, it's improbable. No melanin production in the eye would be the result of a genetic defect. That would usually only proliferate thoughout a whole population if it had some secondary advantage, for example resistance to an endemic infection, even if it was otherwise completely harmless. A dominant genetic variation occuring spontaneously is something rather rare, i believe. 

If temperature, radiation levels and water are OK, and you find a high oxygen level, then it is safe to assume some sort of life. Oxygen can be present without life, but not to >10%, and not on a planet that has an average of 25°C, water, and is not radiation hell due to an unstable mother star. Don't be to excited: Could be the only thing you finde are rocks coated with a thin, slimy cover of alien cyanobacteria. ;-) There is a readymade plan for a space-based coronagraph that could easily take the necessary spectra. NASA didn't (yet) like the plan, because it requires an extra satellite which is flown at a distance of kilometres from the telescope in the direction of the target. So it eats a lot of fuel and doesn't last very long. ;-) Bit more sci-fi? Google for the "exo earth imager". 

War. While this would technically fall under genocide, a particularly bloody war - like a modern nuclear war - could effectively destroy a religion if the followers of that religion were sufficiently localized. 

The base of the Burj Khalifa covers an area of roughly 3.5 acres. There are roughly 7 billion acres of usable land on earth by the given requirements, which means you could cover the earth with approximately 2 billion Burj Khalifas. The Burj Khalifa has 300,000 square meters of space, so if each person has 10,000 square meters of space you could fit 30 people in the space of a single Burj Khalifa. That establishes a maximum population of roughly 60 billion people in an earth whose surface is entirely covered in Burj Khalifas. I will note that 10,000 square meters of space is a lot of space, and the infrastructure of the Burj Khalifa that doesn't figure into the 300,000 square meter calculation could easily (with the benefits of economies of scale) house the infrastructure to support this population. Especially when you consider how advanced a civilization that could build this megastructure would be. I was going with arable land...the total land area of earth is roughly 40 billion acres, so (40 / 7) * 60 billion = ~340 billion people. A trillion if you assume the structure is uniform with no gaps or taper. 

Definitely YES, for two reasons: Firstly because all their genetic parents will be rather on the clever side, as was already noted in the other answers. Not clear if the effect will be large. Secondly because those kids will grow up in a world without war, hunger, and poverty, much less drugs, and well educated parents, good own education, and proper health care. All kids have a good chance to live up to their potentials. 

Simple: One bar magnet on the cargo, fixed, one in the floor, that can rotate freely. Without power, the two align north to south, south to north, and hold the cargo in place. There is a motor connected to the floor magnet with a clutch that is closed by a small electromagnet. The motor can turn the floor magnet until the net force is zero. There is still a large torque on the magnet then, so in a power failure it will snap back immediately. During loading, the floor magnets are monitored by a feedback loop that always turns them into the "neutral" position with respect to any passing cargo magnet fixture. The magnet on the cargo can move vertically slightly and is kept fixed in the "away" position by a small spring. That way a power failure during loading is less dangerous for the workers feet, and you don't get large torques on the cargo. 

Any gun that propels a projectile with air or a spring should meet the criteria above. Some of these that are available today fire a pellet or slug with a higher kinetic energy than a .22 bullet. A rail or gauss style gun could meet the criteria to fire some form of projectile. A gyrojet-style gun that fires self-propelled mini-rockets could meet this criteria and use either a compressed propellant or some form of chemical reaction to propel the rockets. Some form of air vortex cannon could possibly meet the criteria, although it would probably be bulkier than a modern firearm and wouldn't fire a consumable projectile. There are tazer-style weapons that fire a self-contained slug instead of keeping the battery in the tazer itself. There are some knives that can fire a spring-loaded blade (Spetsnaz knives) but they are generally single-use. A modern compound bow certainly isn't something primitive or basic - they can be fairly compact, accurate, and powerful. Same thing goes for modern crossbows. A speargun (air propelled or spring / elastic fired) isn't primitive either - although it fires a spear / dart it's more than a pointy stick. Um, I guess a slingshot (wrist rocket) would probably qualify as well. Maybe a blowgun that fires some sort of round containing poison / tranquilizers?