I can give this a shot. Anyone smarter than me is welcome to offer corrections. The first issue, based on your question is how much closer you move the Moon. (I'm assuming that you're not playing with other variations like the Earth's rotation speed or the Moon's mass). If you want Tides to be 100 times greater, you have to move the Moon 10 times closer. The tidal force is equal to the square of the distance (Radius to Radius, not surface to surface). Putting the Moon 10 times closer would make it enormous in the sky and full moons would be bright enough to read by and the Tidal force would be 100 times greater. The Tidal Force is basically a bulge in the Earth that stays pointed at the Moon. The land bulges too, not just the oceans. Optimally, tides require about 1/4 of the circumference of the Earth to have full effect. That's why lakes basically don't have tides. Anything smaller than an ocean doesn't have tides to speak of. Now if you make the tieds 10 times greater, the ratio ocean to large lake would still be the same, but large lake and sea tides (like the Mediterranean) would become much more apparent. Think of tides as raising the sea level of the entire ocean. Of-course, it's not really like that, but locally, that's essentially what happens. If the current tide is 50 CM (above average sea level), then imagine, in that area, what it would be like if sea level rose 50 meters. In-land it wouldn't be an issue, but most coastal cities couldn't survive that. 100 times the tides would be the end of virtually all coastal living. See chart. 

So, 1.6 watts per square meter from Co2 (2.5 watts total) and (up to) 1.4 watts per square meter low to peak solar irradiance, but there's a problem with that 1.4 number. It's low to high, meaning low to average is 0.7 watts per square meter and that's how we should measure assuming the sun enters a grand minimum, we should measure against the average, so the real number is 0.7 watts per square meter drop - assuming the study is right and the sun does enter a new Maunder Minimum. Skeptical Science posts a similar number: 

This is generally true. Reflectivity is an important aspect of Earth's energy budget and Albedo of a solar panel is one aspect of solarpanel design. That said, Solar panels cover such a small percentage of the Earth's surface, that their effect on reflection is negligible. Also, reflected rays are less likely to get trapped in the atmosphere than infrared rays. The Atmosphere is largely transparent to visible light and reflected rays of light are mostly in the visible spectrum. An interesting and related question to ask is, instead of installing solar panels, what if we paint things white (well, you might not want a white roof in winter, so that might not be a perfect solution) but in someplace where it's always warm/hot all year round and white roofs are common. White paint would reflect more sunlight back into space than a typical solarpanel would. The math gets tricky where you have to weigh the fossil fuel use reduced against the increase in light reflected. Here's an article that touches on that in some detail. I also want to add that the dark color of solar panels is designed to absorb sunlight and turn it into electricity. A reflective solar-panel kind of defeats the purpose, unless you're talking concentrated solar power which works based on reflection, but those aren't typical solar panels, though they are solar energy. 

This line is fine. It indicates that during the 400,000 year cold period (presumably 33.9 to 33.5 mya), ice formed and sea levels fell, a total of 55 meters compared to 2.2 million years earlier, when, presumably, there was little or no glacial ice. Comparing sea level to a seemingly random date 2.2 million years before is fine. There's nothing wrong with picking an earlier date for comparison. (so long as it's not cherry-picked). 

It's always good to explore possibilities. Pretty interesting, short article on Mars' loss of it's Magnetic field here that suggests it's the inner workings of the planets that drive magnetic fields. When there's enough temperature variation and a liquid medium, spirals (or swirles) can form because circulation is more efficient than convection at heat transfer. Like the atmosphere, you also have the hotter material wanting to expand and rise and the cooler more condensed material wanting to fall, but you also have increasing pressure as you go down, and, perhaps, not uniform molecular density, so it's a pretty tricky subject requiring lots of math behind when spirals form and when they don't. The solidifying of the other core into the inner core and heat released from that phase change may play a role too. (I read that, will post a source if I can find one). 

This bit is confusing, because just above they mentioned 7 million year "stepwise climate change" and 33.5 mya in the same sentence. Here they define the 7 million years as beginning at 32.5 mya. They skipped over a million years without explanation and specifically identify 32.5 to 25.5 mya as the 7 million years of stepwise climate change. 

Often with an item that they want tested, a specific date isn't available so calibration isn't possible, but calibration can be done when dates are known. Tree rings are most common and (though I've not read of this being done), samples from dead bodies from a specific battle or disease outbreak where a date of death is known. Article here and here. The calibration curve represents changes in the amount of C-14 present in the atmosphere which is also a factor. There wouldn't be a charted curve if calibration hadn't been done quite extensively (see 2nd article above). There's some room for bacterial or other contamination, especially with older objects, and contamination has lead some inconsistent results but that's not because the theory isn't sound but because of miss-handling. 

I'm not an expert in lapse rate, so my answer is a little bit of a cheat, but I'll take the thought experiment as best I can. Fictional gas - same density as CO2 (at standard temperature & Pressure "STP"). Both atmospheres are on planets of identical surface area, with identical gravity and both atmospheres have identical mass and (just to clarify) Identical density at STP. The atmosphere that traps heat will expand, so it will have a higher troposphere. Hot gas expands. Cold gas contracts. So the planet without the greenhouse gas will have a troposphere that's 6 miles high, the one with the greenhouse gas and a higher surface temperature will have a troposphere 10 miles high. The rate of temperature drop can remain consistent at (-g/c) but the hotter planet will have a higher troposphere and a more expanded atmosphere. That's for the theoretical model anyway. I don't do real world models. Those are much harder. 

You have to consider the source of water for each location. Groundwater, for example, is a fairly abundant but non-renewable water source in some locations. It can take a centuries to replenish. River water fed by mountain glaciers depends on the size of the glacier, as the glaciers shrink, meltwater decreases. Regions that depend on rainwater or snowmelt can experience water shortages when there's a low-snow winter or drought. Water shortage depends a lot the location and the source of that regions water. NYCity for example depends on reservoirs upstate that are fed by rain and snow-melt, and when they started to have some shortages, which weren't uncommon during low snow years in the 80s and 90s, they began (temporarily and only during drought years) drawing water from the Hudson river, which required more filtration but it's abundant. NYC is proud of it's tap water and the Hudson water, even if just 10% of the tap water supply for a summer here or there, wasn't very popular. Could be worse, Los Angeles they drink filtered and purified sewage water. Yum. Now that the catskill aqueduct is finished, NYC doesn't have to draw from the Hudson during low-snow years. Much of California also depends on enormous aqueducts, which are some of the largest construction projects in the US and perhaps somewhat obvious, they experience water shortages a lot. With proper infrastructure, water shortages could be largely eliminated, but that's expensive and there's also border issues. It's also problematic to draw water from lakes because lakes don't necessarily fill up that fast. Lakes are reservoirs, but can be slow to refill. Drawing water from the great lakes, the largest fresh water source in the world outside of the large glaciers isn't a long term solution because the Great lakes don't refill very fast. Also, if you were to draw enough water from the great lakes, that would reduce Niagara Falls' electrical generation. (which might be secondary to water needs but just throwing that out there.) Fresh water demand has largely emptied the Aral sea. The water that kept it full has been diverted for soviet irrigation projects and the sea, since it's no longer refilling, is now nearly gone. Bottom line is that there's a finite amount of rain water and snow runoff which is the vast majority of the renewable water supply and there's a lot of demand for it, when you consider all it's used for both naturally and by man, including filling rivers and lakes, supplying the forests and natural areas, farming demands and tap water needs. There's a huge demand. The entire picture is complicated, but because ocean water is difficult and costly to purify and because lakes and underground sources can be depleted, there is a finite amount of readily usable water which varies year to year and that hits some regions harder than others. 

In addition to the answer by @Kaberett lapse rate explains the height variation of the tropopause quite well. Lapse rate is a property of gravity and the ideal gas law and it has to be adjusted for circulation and condensation and the top-down heating from the sun, which is a small effect given a mostly transparent atmosphere. Lapse rate isn't perfect, but it's still good for an approximation. Wikipedia summary Shorter, Britanica summary From the Britanica summary: 

The answer can be explained very simply. The Oxygen and Nitrogen (the non trace gases) are mostly transparent to thermal wavelength of light that leave Earth's surface. CO2 in the air, can be compared to colored dye in water. It's not too difficult to imagine that water with 280 ppm red dye might be visibly lighter than water with 400 ppm of the same dye. The real answer is somewhat more complex as you need to look at different bands in the IR spectrum that get reflected by different trace gases, but that's the gist. 55 words under. :-) 

While Knobscratcher's answer is technically correct that there may be some correlation between the Moon, Earthquakes and Ocean currents and Weather that lead to Hurricanes, that correlation is not confirmed, it's only been determined to be possible and to make a direct correlation is pretty thin. What's more, a Solar Eclipse is not only fairly common but it's not a peak tidal tugging event. There's no reason for a solar eclipse to be any different than any other period in the Moon's orbit. Certainly throughout history it was quite common to believe that eclipses or comets could forecast destructive events. This belief, for obvious reasons, waned when better understanding of the orbits of the Earth and Moon explained why eclipses happened and made them predictable but it's natural, if somewhat unscientific, to try to make a correlation. There's about 70 per century and if we include partial and annular, over 200 per century. See: 20th Century and 21st Century. Eclipses are common enough that natural disasters following eclipses shouldn't surprise anyone. It's statistically curious that an Eclipse, 3 major hurricanes (4 if you count Max that hit Mexico, but I don't think that was major), and two major Earthquakes all hit North America over a few weeks. That's curious, but there's basically zero good science that ties all those events together in an armegedonish kind of way. Hurricanes are often be very seasonal, where optimal conditions can lead to greater hurricane formation. Hurricane formation is complicated, and I'm not an expert, but this article touches on some of the basics - scroll down to "Why is this season so active" Factors like a strong west African monsoon and consistent wind speeds surface to 10 miles up and warm oceans (that much is partially due to climate change), and a neutral El Nino. These are factors that can make a hurricane season more or less active and a strong hurricane season was predicted months ago. Earthquakes operate differently, usually building up gradually for years - and like a very slow game of Jenga, when the pressure surpasses the resistance holding the ground in place, you get rapid movement. It may be theorized that hurricanes and weather may occasionally trigger Earthquakes, but the potential for an Earthquake still needs to be there in the first place and to say the "wind and rain did it" is still pretty tenuous. The two Mexico quakes happened along the Ring of Fire where Earthquakes are fairly common and one following another a few weeks later is also not uncommon. To say there's no relation is perhaps not the scientific thing to say, but it's very likely that there's almost no relation between the active hurricane season which was anticipated before it happened, due to the right combination of ocean and weather pasterns, and two Earthquakes in an Earthquake prone region, where Earthquakes are expected to happen every several years to couple of decades. And these two events are over 1,000 miles away from each other. (unless you count Hurricane Max which was closer to the Earthquakes but just a category one). Coincidence is the most logical answer and tying the eclipse to these events as well, any correlation there is to thin to contemplate. 

The Northern Hemisphere varies about 13 degrees C and the Southern about 5.5 C. Those numbers might seem low, but remember that near the equator, seasonal variation is small and there's more land near 0 latitude than up near 90 or -90. How accurate this chart is, isn't really relevant. It doesn't need to be perfect. What's relevant is that seasonal variation is much smaller in the Southern Hemisphere because so much of it is ocean, even with the Sun being closest in January which should make the Southern Hemisphere season variation more extreme. The ocean is the key factor. With that in mind we can ignore the smaller variation in the Southern Hemisphere and just look at the Northern Hemisphere variation for any orbataly driven climate effects. Before we get into eccentricity, it's important to understand Axial Precession. The Earth, as you noted, is closest to the Sun in early January, January 4th this year. that 3.4% closer That means Earth gets nearly 7% more sunlight in the first week of January than it gets in the first week of June. That 7% is too small to move the seasons, but it's enough to affect them a bit. Earth overall gets more solar energy January (Northern Hemisphere Winter) and less solar energy in June. The Northern Hemisphere's more exteme seasonal variaiton comes into play when the Earth is closest to the Sun in May-June-July-August - that should happen in about 8,000 years, give or take. The cycle averages about every 23,000 years, so roughly 11,500 years between highs and lows for each hemisphere. The most relevant factor is the Northern Hemisphere Summer. This is what is thought to drive ice ages back and forth. Snow can last on land a long time in higher Northern latitudes and when the summers are less hot, the snow can last well into May, June, even all year around. The warmer winters are less of a factor cause you still get snow in warm winters, sometimes, it snows more heavily when the winter is warmer. It's the cooler Northern Hemisphere Summers that allow snow build-up and make ice ages possible. Eccentricity (combined with precession) plays a key role on the periodic, colder Northern Hemisphere summer. Don't worry, we're not entering an ice age in a few thousand years. We're actually in a cool Northern Hemisphere summer period now, but, It's not quite that automatic. The eccentricity in effect, determines how significant the axial precession is. When the orbit is nearly circular, the difference in energy perihelion to aphelion is virtually zero. Orbital eccentricity is currently dropping, moving towards circular, so we're not in a period of expected significant changes. (The increased CO2 would prevent an ice age now anyway, but that's another story). Earth's orbital cycles are in more of a holding pattern than moving towards an ice age. When eccentricity peaks, the variation in solar energy hitting the Earth, perihelion to aphelion is significant. It's loosely speaking, about 4 times the eccentricity. The current eccentricity is 0.017, the current variation, Early January to Early June is about 4 times that or 0.068 or 6.8%. At peak eccentricity of about .0679 would work out to roughly 27% variation in solar energy hitting the Earth, Perihelion to Aphelion. (Perhaps nearly 30% with the working out the square). This 30% variation in solar energy, depending on the perihelion and aphelion fall on the calendar, is sufficient to make ice ages come and go. ((For very high eccentricity this 4 times rule doesn't work, but it applies pretty close to eccentricity pretty close to 0.)) In laymans terms, think of the eccentricity as turning up or down the effect of axial precession and those two combined, when properly lined up with the hemispheres, have a significant effect. The 3 cycles together, make a kind of ugly chart of ups and downs. The orbital effect is rather uneven but Ice ages are often periodic because of feedback mechanisms on Earth. Once formed, Glaciers are hard to melt and once melted, it takes peak conditions to get them forming again, so many of the smaller ups and downs in the chart don't drive ice ages, only the extremes. Wikipedia has a nice graph on the Northern Hemisphere solar energy at summer solstice. When the chart is high, that tends to be a period of glacial melt. When it's low, that's a period of ice age formation. Because the eccentricity is currently kind of low and shrinking, we're probably not due for an ice-age for about 50,000 years, at least according to current orbital models, per Wikipedia (same link as just above).