To get better, you need to put a training load on your system. As you get more fit, this becomes harder to do. After a certain point, an 80% effort will not put enough stress on your system, and you will stop improving. To keep improving, you need short efforts at higher exertion. In other word, intervals. There are tons of resources out there that can give you programs for intervals. 

You are really asking two questions. Your first question is "what kind of training plan should I be using to improve my 5K running times?" There are a lot of different plans online; they will prescribe heart rate ranges, typically based on your age. Those aren't particularly accurate, but they are a decent place to start. It is also possible to set training ranges using a field test - where you go out, run a prescribed stress test, and measure your heart rate - but it's not something that I would recommend for somebody who has just started running. I recommend finding a good running-specific forum, and asking them your question. 

There isnothing about your age weight or ex-smoking status that is related to how much you should be benching. The only thing that matters is how strong are you, that is, what is the most weight you can bench for 1 rep. You don't know the answer to that question. But you have to know it before you can choose a weight to work out with. Everything is based off your approxiamte 1 rep max. The thing is, finding that out on your own is dangerous. What if you try too heavy a weight, what are you going to do once you realize you can't get it off your chest? For this reason you really should go to a real gym and have a either yoru friends or an employee stand over you ready to lift the weight off you while you try successively heavier weights. Once you know what your 1 rep max is, then the susual advice is to take 75-80% of that and try to do 6-8 reps with it. That is your workout weight. If you can't manage that many reps, then lower the weight until you can. When you can do more than 12 reps, up the weight by a very small amount such that the resultant weight is one you can barely get 6-8 reps with again. This is called "progressive resistance" execise. Each time you work out you should be a tiny bit stronger and should should try to do more reps, or more weight or both. You don't need to do a lot of sets; there's even an entire weighlifting philosophy which says you should only do one set, if that set is hard enough, you will grow from it -after you've rested for 3-5 days. Workout philosophies are like religions and I don't want to sparka religious war in a beginner's question, so the advice I gave you 75-80% of your max for 6-12 reps with days off in between is very mainstream advice. Good for you for changing uyour life in this huge way! 

As JohnP mentioned in a comment, what you need is interval training. The simplest is all-out interals, which, if you haven't done them before, are fairly The first is pure interval training. Basically, you warm up for 10-15 minutes, and then do a series of all out efforts. Typically, something like 2 minutes as hard as you can go, rest for 5-10 minutes, and then go all out again. Repeat 5 times (actually, you repeat until you are no longer able to sustain the same effort). You need to be well-rested for this to work. You also work at the aerobic threshold, and there are lots of different ways of doing that. To do it properly, you need to figure out what your aerobic threshold is, which is done using a field test; a short (about 10-20 minutes depending on which approach you use) all-out effort in which you record your heart rate. After some calculation, you set training ranges and base it on that. This obviously requires a heart-rate monitor to perform. There are several good books that give the necessary approach. Friel has a good one, and I've recently used Carmichael's "the time-crunched cyclist" to good effect. If I were you, I would spend 3 weeks on one of the plans from the Carmichael book, taper/recover for a week, and go from there. Good luck. 

OK I am going to get basted for this perhaps because weightlifting beliefs are form of religion , but since I am also a sw dev. I feel for some reason you need to be told what you're doing wrong. You are training way way way too often. I am going to guess you are doing multiple sets and multiple sets of different exercises for your arms back chest legs etc. Here's what's going on with your body. Either you are training hard enough during the course of at least one of your multiple sets to induce growth, or your not. If you are training hard enough for one of your sets then all the other ones are a waste of energy and just causing you to release yet more stress hormones and depleting you of energy you need to recover from your growth-inducing set. You only need one set for each muscle group to trigger off the maximum hypertrophy (muscle growth) you're going to get. Your muscles are looking for a "signal" that they need to grow. Once they get that from you, they will grow as much as they can in response to that signal. This is also known as 'training to failure". Doing set number 2 is just sending the same signal again. But your muscles understood you the first time. Yet you do it again. And again. And again. Then you go to another exercise for the same muscle group. You are beating your body down operating under the false premise that more is better . More is not better in weight lifting. Specifically, doing a second and third and fourth set is NOT going to get you more results. The other mistake you're making is related to the first. Since you're doing multiple sets, and it takes time to do those sets, you can't work your entire body in one session. So you go back the next day (and abuse those other muscles). The problem is, all of your body's subsystems which deal with stress are getting worked out again, along with the "new" muscles. You are releasing the same stress hormones, the same exercise-related waste products into the same bloodstream yet again. Those systems are being stressed every single day according to your schedule. But the way hypertrophy works is, your body has to RECOVER from exercise or it won't grow as much as it could have, or at all. If you never let it recover, you're interfering with its growth. You never let it recover. You just keep re-stressing it. By continually doing this, you're driving yourself into a state of over-training. Soon, all progress just stops and you're tired all the time. Do this. Pick one exercise for each muscle for at most a total of 8 or 10 (or even less, 5 or 6). So that's like leg presses, leg curls, pullover machine, bench or flies, bicep curls, tricep pushdowns, and lateral raises for your shoulders. Do ONE set of each of those choosing a weight you can only do for 8-12 reps despite your greatest effort. When you can't do another rep during a set, try like your life depended on it to do another one anyway, and keep trying like that for 30 seconds. This should be a real tribulation for you. It's no fun to work until you truly and really can't do another rep then continue to try to do one as hard as you possibly can, with no movement of the bar, every second for 30 full seconds. That's why you never see anyone do it. That is called "high intensity exercise". That is the unique and specific signal your muscles evolved to understand. That and nothing else will kick off maximum hypertrophy. Then, after you're done with all your sets, get out of the weightlifting gym for FIVE full days. FIVE. If you want to swim after TWO full days of doing absolutely nothing except using your thumb to push the buttons on your remote, then go ahead but don't exhaust yourself. On the SIXTH day go do it again, with a very slightly heavier weight, or strive for more reps, or both. Keep accurate records to insure yourself that you are in fact getting stronger each time. You'll see. Every time you go back to the gym, you'll be significantly stronger. You won't be tired. If you want to also get a cardio workout, then move from one exercise to the other as fast as you can bear. Notice how hard your heart and lungs are working. Much harder than they do when you're swimming. Moving fast between sets and going again to failure is murder. You're probably find you're disinclined to keep doing it. If you do, however, you are getting 3 days of cardio every six days and you're getting really fit without grinding yourself into nothing by overtraining. The reason it's so hard is because your heart and lungs cannot supply you with enough O2 during anaerobic exercise, by definition. Weightlifting in a high intensity fashion is anaerobic. Moving from one anaerobic exercise to the next is going to drive your heart and lungs into despair. Moving quickly from one to the next to the next for 6 or 10 sets is going be so stressful it will be the thing that stops you from completing your set and not the weight. So in this way, it can actually interfere with maximizing the muscle-building potential of your workout- you quit not because the individual muscle was exhausted, like you wanted, but because your heart and lungs were! It will never get any better, because you can't keep that level of heart and lung stress up for 10 minutes. This is the same as saying no one will ever sprint a mile, no matter how fit they become. Your body is not made to work that hard for that long and it will force you desist. So what I am saying is- you can get a good heart/lung workout in lifting weights, but gate the rapidity with which you move from set to set, if you want to maximize muscular hypertrophy in the gym and not heart lung fitness. You should always fail at an exercise because the muscle you were working failed, not because you were about to collapse from heart / lung exhaustion. You're there to lift weights and increase strength after all. HTH. Give this a try and see if you don't have more energy and better results and more time in your life for non-gym things too ! 

You are doing intervals to put an intense load on your system. It's important to keep that load relatively constant to get the best benefit from them. You can also use this to tell if you need to stop early; when an interval gets lots slower than the previous one, you are done for the set (and perhaps for the day if you're doing multiple sets). I don't do running intervals, but when I do intervals on my bike, I see a 5% variance in power often. I wouldn't worry too much about small variances. 

BMI does not work well for people with significant muscle mass. Go out and get your body fat measured (DEXA or hydrostatic weighing are the best methods). That will give you another bit of data. 

This is a question which often comes up and should be directed to a medical doctor. The doctors with whom I interact give this advice- 1) Do NOT hold your breath while exercising; do not restrain your breath at all 2) Do NOT grip unnecessarily- i.e. during leg machine exercises. Gripping hard directly raises your blood pressure. 3) As much as practically possible relax the unused muscles of your body. These are learned skills. Most people will grip a machine HARD, contort their face, hold their breath and otherwise strain even untargeted muscles when they are working hard. All of these things raise blood pressure. 

What you're referring to is possibly a muscle cramp, that is, an involuntary and forceful contraction of the muscle. 

We are training to produce adaptations, and through those adaptations we become more capable. There are a lot of different adaptations that happen as a result of training; for example, in aerobic training the heart's stroke volume increases and Haemoglobin levels in blood rise. In muscular training, muscle fibers get stronger. In the case of muscles, working them hard breaks down muscles - that is why we get sore - and we need rest so that there is time for them to rebuild. For aerobic training it's more complex. The response of our bodies - how much we improve - is related to how hard we work out (often known as "training stress"). But how hard we work out depends upon how well-rested we are. If we run every day, we will become good at running every day - our bodies will adapt quite well - but we will never be fully rested, so we will be limited on the amount of stress we put on our bodies. On the other hand, if we run every other day, we will be more rested and therefore be able to put more training stress on our system, leading to more improvement during our next rest day. Another way to look at it is that your body adapts to the peak effort that you using during training, not the total amount of effort. This is the whole principle behind High-Intensity training, or interval training. It works very well, but only if you have enough time between interval sessions so that you can recover enough. If you don't recover enough, you won't be able to increase your peak effort in future workouts. If you want more information on specific adaptations, a search of "physiological adaptations to exercise" should find you good info. A search on "science of interval training" (or hit training) should find good info there. The key to recovery days is that you aren't putting additional training stress on your system, as that will compromise your recovery. In general, active recovery - working out lightly - is superior to pure rest, as long as you work out very lightly. 

The implied mental model you have of T in your body is in error and leading you to incorrect conclusions and suppositions. It is not a substance that gets used up, like gasoline in a car's engine. It is a hormone that circulates in your bloodstream and when it is taken up by a receptor, kicks off other processes in organs and your brain. You always have plenty of this stuff circulating. There are feedback mechanisms for this and all hormones in your body which causes the hormone quantity to increase when it is low and decrease when there is enough. You cannot meaningfully effect that feedback mechanism through diet or exercise, at least, not enough to make a difference to you in anything you'd notice. Specifically, you cannot do anything to "use it up" so that you're somehow short of it. Some weightlifters take anabolic steroids which are a synthetic, exogenic ( that is, external to your body, specifically, your testes which make testosterone) source of testosterone. When they do this their testes STOP making testosterone because of that feedback mechanism I mentioned. Essentially, by injecting themselves with an external source of testosterone, they are telling their body's feedback sensors that the body has enough and doesn't need to make any more. So it doesn't. The quantity they inject is actually greater than their bodies would naturally make. The problem is, the testes shrink (since they are not making testosterone anymore) and as soon as they stop injecting themselves, they have very very low testosterone for a long while because they aren't getting any from their bodies and they aren't injecting it either. Then their strength goes down and they lose muscle mass. I should also say that as your muscles get bigger, the muscles cells and receptors do NOT multiply. A bigger muscle just has bigger and thicker muscle cells, but not more. Hyperplasia is the term used to describe a muscle cell which HAS split. This is a disease or injured state of muscle, not something you're after. You do not "injure" your muscles when you lift weights , or at least you don't want to! Inducing hyperplasia in a muscle cell more or less ruins it because individual muscle cells are multi-nucleated (they have multiple nuclei) and they can't function any longer if they are torn in half such that each "half" only has one nucleus. "Hypertrophy" is the name of the natural, non-disease process by which you get bigger and stronger as a result of lifting weights. It's not a result of injury and healing, as people often think. It's a thing unto itself- a natural process specific to your muscles which your muscle undergoes in response to the signal it gets from you that it's not strong enough to manage in your environment. The way you send that signal is by lifting weights. Your muscles understand your strenuous activity as a specific signal that they need to grow stronger. It's like tanning. Tanning is a natural built-in response on the part of your skin in response to the signal it gets that it needs to make more melanin to protect you from UV rays. Sunburn is the injured state of your skin from too much UV. Tanning is the non-injured response by your skin to a little UV radiation. You want to tan. You don't ever want to burn. Burning interferes with tanning. Burning gives you diseases later on in life. Burning is bad. The exact same thing holds for lifting weights. You don't want to induce hyperlasia, you want to invoke the hypertrophy response. Too much exercise will induce hyperplasia. The right amount of high intensity will invoke hypertrophy. Here's the thing with testosterone. You naturally ALWAYS have MORE than enough to get bigger and stronger from each bout of exercise. If you are not getting bigger and stronger, then you are probably either training too much, or not hard enough, or both. Don't fret about your hormones; if there was anything wrong in that department, you'd already know about it for other reasons. Your body knows how much you need and supplies the right amount. You cannot interfere with this process (thankfully) unless you engage in some very extreme behaviors for a long long time (starvation, chronic exhaustion) , but then you've got bigger issues than being low on T. Hope this helped. Best of luck to you! 

You've only been biking for about a month; it takes time to build up cycling-specific muscles. How fast you spin your legs is known as "cadence". You should aim for a cadence of approximately 90 RPM; you can get cyclecomputers that measure it directly or estimate it using a watch. Novices generally ride at a cadence that is too slow; that requires much more strength and can easily burn your legs out. Shift down so that you ride at a reasonable cadence and don't have to push very hard. 

If your instructor is a cyclist, I have a possible explanation: In cycling, "tempo" is a pace where you are working hard but not so hard that you will be forced to stop soon. It's roughly correlated to zone 3 and pretty close to your lactate threshold. 

In a word, anabolic steroids. Sprinters engage in anaerobic work to increase raw leg strength because this is what sprinting partly is- a measure of anaerobic leg strength- raw power. That leads to them to the weightlifting gym. For serious professional athletes (and others), that leads to steroids and steroids don't differentiate between your arm muscles and your thigh muscles. Just giving someone steroids increases muscle mass irrespective of whether they work out or not. This is a large part of the reason why boys are boys and girls are girls in terms of strength (the rest is strictly genetic). Steroids were introduced to the public immediately after WWII as a way for concentration camp survivors to regain loss body mass. If you look at athletes from BEFORE that era, the 1900's or 1920's say you'll notice their upper bodies while defined and muscular look nothing like today's sprinter's upper bodies. That's not because they didn't train hard; that is an across the board gross morphological change in the musculature and size of the athletes. That's steroids. Anyone telling you anything different is either naive, lying or in denial. 

The ratios do not change based on duration, the ratios change based on the intensity of the exercise. At low intensities, you can get nearly all of your energy from fat, but the amount of power that can be generated by fat is limited, so as you increase your intensity, you will need to start burning more carbohydrate, and therefore the ratio of carbohydrate to fat will increase. It might help to think of fat metabolism as a furnace that is very efficient but can't put out much heat; if you need to get the house warmer you might need to turn on the electric heater (carb metabolism) to produce extra heat. This is somewhat related to duration because long-duration events are generally at a lower intensity than short-duration events, and therefore will depend more on fat as an energy source.