Sign languages and spoken languages are both real, natural languages, learnable and normally learned automatically by children -- without any special training -- if they are used in the speech community the children grow up in. Written languages, however, are always representations of some spoken language; one has to be specially trained in the technology of literacy. An analogy is horses vs cars -- horses are natural, cars are technological. Horses have drawbacks and limitations compared with cars as a means of transportation, but one big advantage of horses is that they can make more horses without a factory, or even any education. The fact that most people in a community are literate does not automatically result in the children of that community becoming literate, the way a common language generates new speakers (or signers). They have to go to school -- no school, no literacy. But they all speak or sign, whether they're literate or not. 

feel, felt, felt; have, had, had; admit, admitted, admitted; ask, asked, asked. These three verb forms are called, in order, the Infinitive, the Past, and the Past Participle. 

would be parsable as [ [ Quite ... thousand ] [N people N] NP]. Whether is actually the same constituent type as depends entirely on one's preferred nomenclatural presuppositions. It doesn't bear on descriptions of phenomena, except to counsel one to avoid confusing modes of expression; after all, the idea is to be clear. 

And I agree with Jim. There's no reason to believe that humans consistently distinguish one kind of information from another, and in fact plenty of reasons to believe they differ greatly in what they take for granted; so the null hypothesis has to be that there is no clear, definitive difference, though certainly there are exemplary cases of one or the other. 

It seems to me that the fundamental difference between nouns and verbs is that verbs form sentences. You can't create a sentence without a verb, and nouns in a sentence are always parameters assigned to something else, unlike verbs which can be freestanding (although they may require nouns or other verbs to be supplied as parameters, as "He" is a parameter of "He rests".) I don't know a lot about language universals, but another striking feature of verbs in many languages is that they have a variety of syntactic formats, such that many verbs accept multiple formats, but no verb accepts all formats: 

It sounds like a matter that needs more study. It is plausible that most natural languages have nearly the same objective complexity (which could be defined variously, e.g. lexicon size + amount of morphological/inflectional rules), so that children earn proficiency at similar rates for most natural languages. But what if a child's L1 were an objectively simple language such as Ido (or Esperanto)? Has acquisition rate ever been studied for such a scenario? And note that it is difficult to tell how well a child is acquiring language, because the ability to speak comes more slowly than the ability to understand, and perhaps more slowly than the mental ability to form sentences. It strikes me as difficult to tell how much a pre-speech child comprehends what has been spoken. Pre-speech toddlers can be taught baby sign, which you might use to tell how well they understand speech, but I wonder if having learned a sign language might speed up speech acquisition (thus biasing your study). 

This is in addition to "standard" parameters and complexities that most/all verbs in a language support, such as auxiliary verbs, negatives, and conjugations. Nouns have several optional parts that can hang off them, but almost any noun (other than verbal nouns, i.e. gerunds) uses the same syntax: (note that "pen" could be virtually any noun). 

So which one is "transitive"? Or are all verbs "ambitransitive"? For some other varieties of transitivity: 

I'm afraid this is a rather poor question. However, instead of voting to close it because it's off-topic, I'll attempt to explain in an answer what's wrong with it. The question uses the terms Prescriptivist and Descriptivist without qualification, presupposing that they are well-known and well-defined terms, that they actually refer to two different real groups of real people, and that there are in opposition. None of this is true. That means that, whatever you're asking about, there's no answer to this question. There may be people who wish to define themselves as P or D, for all I know -- there are people who will do anything. But there are certainly no coherent groups of P or D people, and there is absolutely no coherent viewpoint represented by the terms. There are people who believe that there is only one correct way to speak or write a particular language (oddly enough, that always turns out to be the way they speak or write it). Some may call them prescriptive, since they prescribe behavior for others, like a doctor prescribing medicine; others use different terms, from different metaphors. Almost none of these people are linguists. Some of them may consider themselves P; others may not. Then there are people who believe that language is what people speak and write and that no bit of language is inherently "better" than any other. Some of these people are linguists. And some linguists do describe language and languages, so some might call them descriptive, like a biologist describing natural phenomena; but there are very few linguists in total, so real descriptivists are a very small part of this group, and very few of them besides linguists would consider themselves to be D. Then there are lots of other people, with lots of other opinions about language and correct behavior. They aren't either P or D. The result is that it's impossible to identify the two groups you mentioned, or to identify members of either group, so anybody can say anything they like about them. And they do. But there's no information in it. 

As I was commenting above, English has a possessive "case" marker that can apply to phrases and it exhibits an "allergy" to recursion. On the other hand, if "cases" just refer to context-sensitive form variations like "be is am are was were", I see no clash with recursion there (likewise in Spanish, which has plenty of recursion but vastly more verb forms than English.) Esperanto has a simple two-noun-case system and a very productive system of affixes, but when you're used to it, it feels very natural even though the affixes can't mark phrases. If we're simply talking about morphology that changes word meaning, I don't see a real issue there either. For example, in Esperanto I can say manĝaĵujo, a food container, with the "container" suffix -ujo, but ruĝa fruktujo "red fruit container" should mean "a fruit container that is red", not "a container of red fruit"... basically what I'm getting at is that affixes ordinarily apply only to words, not phrases, and this is no different from English affixes. Yet this doesn't feel like an incompatibility between recursion and morphology, merely a limitation on the complexity of morphological changes. If I want to say "container of red fruit" then I simply give up on affixes and say "ujo de ruĝa frukto", "container of red fruit". Now I can only talk about the languages I know about (English, Spanish and Esperanto, all in the same family I'm afraid) but it seems to me that word-level variations such as case markers and affixes can be thought of as providing shortcuts for standalone words like "of", "that", "female" (stewardess) etc. Yes, word-level changes don't play well with recursion but that doesn't necessarily encourage them to disappear. As long as they provide some utility that the stand-alone alternatives don't, they will tend to stay. For example, English will keep "'s" for the foreseeable future because it is more concise than "of" (and because "of" is more ambiguous, having more meanings than just the possessive); and this would probably be true even if "'s" were strictly applicable onto to words and not phrases. If Esperanto ever became really popular, the accusative case "-n" might disappear for most sentences, yet would probably remain whereever it provides information concisely, e.g. "hejmen" = homeward, to home. Anyway, I'm a linguistic 'newb' myself. I suspect there are lots of forces acting on languages that neither of us appreciate very well, forces that probably outweigh the hypothesis of this question. 

has, besides the meanings mentioned by @bytebuster in a comment, two quite different senses. That's because why asks for a reason, and in this sentence that reason can be either 

In speech, of course, rhythm and intonation would probably make it clear what the speaker meant. In print, it's flat-out ambiguous, and I don't see any US/UK differences from the US side. I tend to doubt claims about Pondal and other dialect differences that aren't made by sociolinguists with data in hand. Many people assume that any difference from what they expect in speech or writing must be a dialectal difference, though most such are simply individual preferences and habits. 

Oh, yes. But not in English; English barely has any morphology, let alone real reduplication. You have to look at the right language. In Lushootseed, a polysynthetic Coast Salishan language on Puget Sound, there are seven or eight kinds of reduplication. Several of them can be used together. For instance, Augmentative/Plural is initial full root reduplication, 1) čʼƛʼačʼƛʼa ‘rocks’ < čʼƛʼa ‘rock’ while Diminutive/Attenuative is initial CV- root reduplication (occasionally with vowel change, as here). 2) čʼičʼƛʼa 'pebble' And these can be used together. 3) čʼičʼƛʼačʼƛʼa 'pebbles' 

On the basis of Ockham's Razor, why not try out McCawley 1999, specifically, Ch 12 (The Structure of Noun Phrases) part c. (Genitives) pp 399-406. He lays out all the possible structures, and the arguments for and against them, very clearly. Mind you, he does expect that you understand how syntax works, as explained in the 11 previous chapters. 

So it was sensible to use a special stop for that common combination. When the Greek alphabet was later adapted for Latin, Ψ (psi) didn't make it into Latin at all, but Ξ (ks) did, and was used for the /ks/ cluster. However, they changed the shape of the letter. Having no need for a letter for aspirated /kʰ/ in Latin, they used Χ instead of Ξ, possibly because it was easier to write. So it's an accident. You can find out all about the history of each letter in any good encyclopedia, btw. Especially David Crystal's Cambridge Encyclopedias, of Language and of the English Language.