If it's really such a question you should definitely use a combination of circumstances to validate a business. Having a valid phone number and physical address is a good indicator but not the whole picture. If they have a website, you can try to find out who registered the domain and see if it looks reputable enough. At the same time, the website itself should look professional enough. Company reviews like BBB, Google, Yelp or what have you should have some indication that regardless if they're a good corporation or not, they're at least legitimate. If they're registered as a corporation, LLC, etc. the office of the secretary of state should also be able to tell you if they are a properly registered company. If they're publicly traded and file an SEC form 10-K, you can broadly find a tax ID called an EIN, but you should also be able to speak to payroll and obtain this number with a good reason (I don't think a company would want to go ahead and say "we're shady," but they also have to worry about identity theft so this is a long shot!) In some cases just like with taxes, web domain or corp/llc registrations, some businesses will also have to be registered to specific federal bodies based on the type of work they do, and a phone call to said agency may shed some light on the legitimacy of the suspect business (so think FDA, finCEN, etc.). All else fails, you can also go to the physical address for the business and scope them out yourself if it's possible. 

I am not a doctor, but I was taught that once you have been on antibiotics for 24 hours, or without a fever for the same length of time, you are no longer contagious. Short of debating the accuracy of these statements, as long as you follow these guidelines you are being completely responsible and professional, and should return to work as soon as you feel able to do so. As for the comment by your co-worker--you can also look at it as a positive social interaction. He noticed that you were out, and went out of his way to acknowledge that you are back again. I would assume that he meant it as a humorous way to connect with you, unless and until he proves otherwise by some sort of rude or inappropriate behavior. 

As @Dukeling mentioned in his comment, if the recruiter asked you to send a text message, that is what you should do. There are a number of possible reasons that he might have suggested this: 

This is something you will likely need to get used to if you aren't in the business of ranking higher or worry about offending colleagues. If the latter doesn't apply, then in my experience people should be very responsive to an honest sit down, like: "Hey, can I talk to you privately?", and then later: "I appreciate your input, but...", and you generally just let the person know how you feel. I'd then hope that he respects you enough that he will try to tone it down. This doesn't mean that the micro-managing will go away completely. You don't just erase a personality trait overnight! Next time he comes to micro-manage you: pause in your task, smile and explain to him that you're 100% certain what you're doing. If he doesn't buy it, explain your protocol to a level of detail that makes him go away. You'll only need to do this a few times probably before you're left to yourself completely. There are other ways, but the key is to build other peoples' confidence in you. IMO some good tips: Don't get frustrated. Understand the motivation behind the micro-managing: maybe he realistically just always has to baby other coworkers. Keep it professional, and the coworker should too. 

Many people have their telephones with them at all times, but may not have immediate access to their email accounts. I rarely check my email on the weekends, for example, but since I have my phone with me all the time, I always know when I have received a text message. Many younger people I know are much less attentive to their email accounts. Both of my children are currently in college, and neither of them checks their email accounts regularly. If I want to be sure they see a message I send them, I will send them a text message, not an email. Cell phone data plans (at least here in the US) are more expensive than text messaging. It may be that he has a limited data plan, but unlimited text messaging, and so prefers to receive a text. Many employers in the US have a policy against using employer-provided equipment (such as a computer) for personal reasons. And, many companies regularly monitor email sent via their internet connection (whether the email is sent from an professional or personal email account). At best, it can be ethically challenging to use a current employers equipment to seek a new job--and at worst, it could lead to being fired. Sending or receiving a text message, particularly if you are using a personal cell phone, not one provided by your employer, bypasses any of these ethical/legal issues. 

I interviewed for a small company in San Francisco for a web development position. When I was asked what I was doing prior to the interview, I said I was "working as a freelance web developer." His response was: "but you would be willing to give that up if you got this job, right?" Do you think this is him indicating that he doesn't want me freelancing on the side? Now that I have the job, I find that I still have time to freelance beyond my normal daily tasks. Should I start freelancing? Do you think this would upset him? I would rather not speak to him about it considering I just started working here and I certainly don't want him to think my priorities are anywhere other than my full time job. 

I'm keeping track of my own hours for the position I'm currently working at a small company. I have never had to keep track of my hours before, so I'm unsure about whether or not I should be exact in my report. For example, if I finished at 6:08 would it make sense to round it to 6:10? I'm afraid that if all of my numbers are rounded off, my employer may think I'm "cheating." A friend told me that it's actually how you are "supposed to do it," though. 

This feels somewhat specific for this site, but since I can answer, I will. Plus, I think this is a good way to think about creating a resume anyway. As you already know, the skill set of an electrical engineer vs a civil engineer is very different, so basically the only thing you can really sell are those skills that are less engineering-related. Think about what issues a civil engineer on a wastewater treatment project is likely to be dealing with--project siting, environmental factors, grading, etc. They will need to know land use codes, etc. so the best things for you to highlight are previous projects where, for example, you needed to take site elements into consideration as you were working on the electrical plans. In other words, try to think about the concerns you made get face as a civil engineer, and pull out elements of your previous work that touched on these same concerns. Also, try to think through whether your knowledge of electrical engineering might impact on civil considerations; maybe you have done work on complex electrical systems and have learned things that could impact whether they should be placed underground or not--heat buildup vs limited vault spacing, etc. Then more generally, there are issues that all engineers face, regardless of their specialty--working on a collaborative team with other design professionals, project management, budget management, etc. Whenever you can, highlight your accomplishments related to skills that are consistent across various disciplines. As for moving to a different country, the best way to overcome that issue is to make sure to define things that people may not know. For example, if I said that I had worked on the new terminal at LAX, people in Los Angeles know that this is a big, complex project, and likely so do many people who know about airport construction around the US, would also know the relative scale of the project. But, to someone in a foreign country, the project name alone might be relatively meaningless, so you want to be sure and include quantifiers, like "provided engineering services for low-voltage system for a 300,000 sf facility" so that people can understand the scope of your prior experience more readily. TL;DR. In order to optimize the value of unrelated experience, try to anticipate the issues you will face in this new position, and see what elements of your previous work addresses similar situations, or has provided you with insights you might bring to bear on your new role. Hope this is helpful... 

I think that courses can be useful for entries such as credits offered for continuing education. For example: 

US Businesses: Executives in small companies can say whatever they want to investors with caveats. Smart companies know what to say and what not to say, however, and utilize legal teams and industry professionals to doctor releases. Now, the investors know the technology pipeline, what the company is developing, it's why they invested in the company. The executive committee are making what are called forward-looking statements. I'm just going to glance this off Wikipedia because it's accurate: 

Worst case scenario you change something behind you manager's back, and he doesn't know what's going on suddenly. Makes him look bad, makes you look bad. Draft your methods going forward and present your plan to your manager, and ask that you take charge under his supervision. This is an opportunity as a junior to take on a project you're interested in. But, your manager may also have valuable input, mentoring or advisory to complement whatever it is you draft. Granted, it doesn't guarantee you'll lead those changes. I think it goes without saying, however, that in most cases you shouldn't subvert your manager. 

Well it sounds like he is not going to take a hint (I think ignoring several messages and blocking him on other sites should have been enough, but...), so I would be blunt. Write back to him and say "based on my previous experience working with you, I do not feel that I can provide a positive referral for you. Good luck in your job search". 

You can also set a timer and keep track of the time you are spending here. If you are on the site to search for information, and then you find yourself getting "caught" by the site after you have found the information you are looking for, set a timer for 10 minutes (on your phone or computer), and when the timer goes off, leave the site. If you are in the middle of an answer, copy the text you have written so far into a word processing document and save it there. That way the next time you have time to spend on the site, you can paste it back into an answer field and keep going. 

I applied for a position with a local company and on the day I applied I spoke with the employer twice. He seemed extremely excited about bringing me on board as soon as possible but explained that he would be busy and probably wouldn't contact me until Friday (July 26th) or that weekend. On Thursday I decided to send an email to the employer with some of my updated work (that I wasn't initially able to provide when we first spoke). Friday comes, no contact. The weekend comes, no contact. I'm finding it hard to believe that he wouldn't of at least replied to my email, let alone called me when he said he would if he was still interested in hiring. The job posting is still up (which I'm guessing means the position hasn't been filled) and I still have yet to receive any contact. Should I cross this job off my list or should I try and reach out to the employer? I feel like if I even need to reach out to the employer (after they explained thoroughly that they would be contacting ME) that this job will be a nightmare from the get-go. 

I faced a similar situation--one of the men in my office took a trip to Thailand and brought back a calendar that featured beautiful topless women, which he then posted on his office wall. I wasn't really all that bothered by it, the office was mostly men, and it was extremely unlikely anyone from outside the company would ever see it. Regardless, I felt it was an inappropriate thing to have in a professional environment, and so I let our HR department know that it bothered me. That would be my suggestion--if you feel like something has the potential to be offensive, which you clearly do--even if you don't personally feel offended, then follow the appropriate procedures to report it. When you do so, it takes the onus off of the manager to take care of it, and pushes it over to the HR folks, who should have some sort of official process for informing the employee. Hopefully informing him in this way will not cause him to lose face in the same manner as he might have by being confronted in the moment, but regardless, it is very important that he understand that this was an inappropriate choice for a workplace environment, so that he won't make the same mistake again.