The first column being the 'inclination of the will.' It's also of note to say that, according to Aquinas, in case , the agent is responsible for his actions, whereas in case , he is not. Lets go back to your original question; if you agree with Aquinas, you don't really 'influence' anything, anyway. It's as if you make the coercee your puppet (you control them but 100% of the responsibility falls on you). "But how far can we go without coercing?" you may ask. Aquinas makes a very interesting distinction. He argues that anything non-violent cannot be construed as coercive. So you could technically threaten, terrorize, or otherwise non-violently 'influence' someone to do your bidding and Aquinas would say two things: a) it's not coercion (yay!), and b) the agent is, in fact, 100% responsible for the actions they may take. 

To answer (A), I will point you to Planck time, which is a theoretical lower bound on the smallest possible time duration if one should exist. (B) is obviously much more difficult to answer. As a primer, I would direct you to Nick Bostrom's seminal Oxford paper in which he discusses the Simulation Argument. You'll notice that his discussion is underpinned by various stochastic arguments, and not so much on the hypothetical simulation having particular kinds of features (e.g. discreteness). In fact, having these kinds of constraints on the simulation is probably counterproductive. 

You ask if it's "absurd" for sets to have two features: (a) a capability to be empty and (b) a capability to contain other sets. With that said, I'm not really sure what you mean by absurd, but you could mean two distinct things: logically incoherent (or inconsistent) OR non-intuitive. If your question is about logical coherence or consistency, the answer is simple: all well-thought-out set theories (like ZFC) are logically coherent. There are many proofs that take care of this. So, as far as we know, there are no logical inconsistencies as far as empty sets or sets of sets are concerned. If your question is about intuition, then it becomes semantically-loaded -- and NOT a question about logic (but maybe about meta-logic). I would argue that the number zero has about as much intuitive force as an empty set: that is, almost none. Negative numbers have even less intuitive force behind them and let's not even bring up imaginary numbers. I'm not familiar with Geldsetzer, but there is a lot of extra work that needs to be done if one wants to show that empty sets and sets-of-sets are not helpful. One couldn't simply say "well it doesn't make sense!". If that were the case, Mary could, just the same, claim that "imaginary numbers make no sense" and there would go an entire field of mathematics (namely, complex analysis). 

As far as critical interpretations, note that Slavoj Zizek talks about this movie a bit here and there. More generally, the theme of virtual reality is covered fairly deeply by Baudrillard and to some extent Paul Virilio (note that a hollowed-out copy of Baudrillard's Simulacra and Simulation appears in one of the earliest scenes of the film.) For a somewhat different take on the problem of simulation in general you may wish to compare de Landa's Philosophy and Simulation. Finally, there is this popular collection of essays on the film (including one by Zizek) which may be worth looking at if you haven't already. 

Metaphysics might feasibly be presented as incorporating a formal study of essence and accident. However, metaphysics is much broader than just asking about essences. I guess what I'm trying to express is that arguments and theories involving essences should probably be classified within the category of metaphysics (though of course these questions do not exhaust its range of inquiry.) In passing, a good starting point on the question of essence, at least in ancient philosophy, might be to look at Aristotle's Metaphysics; in particular, note that what in the standard translation is rendered as essence is in fact the curious phrase "what it was to be". 

Some quick references and points of possible interest. Speaking broadly there is a long tradition of the critique of voluntarism (and perhaps relatedly nominalism). Modern exponents to consider might include Bergson (Matter and Memory) and Deleuze (especially the study on Hume, Empiricism and Subjectivity.) Today it strikes me that Badiou is the "clearest" thinker of decision (as the practice of fidelity to the Event). But Laruelle deserves serious investigation as probably the closest thing to a rigorous critique of "decisional" disciplinary modalities. His work is particularly concerned with escaping decisional modes of thought incarnated by the history of philosophy in particular, but also those decisional apparatus that have arisen in technology, theology, Marxism, etc. 

Are all not non-coercive according to Aquinas. and are threats and Aquinas doesn't believe threats can possibly be coercive. is not a threat (your company is losing money as we speak!) but it's non-violent so, again, it's not coercive. If you run a government and subscribe to this kind of philosophy, you're in luck. You can do just about anything. Violent torture, punching someone in the face, or otherwise being violent while attempting to undermine someone's 'inclination of the will' is the only way of being coercive. Raising gas prices is the least of your worries. Primary source reading: Summa Theologica. Hobbes, Locke, Kant, Mill - Justice and the role of the state Hobbes, Locke, and Kant mainly thought of coercion as a tool of the state that ought to be conducive to justice. Even Aquinas thought that a governor needed certain coercive powers to ensure order. Hobbes, in particular, thought it to be an essential part of government: 

In other cases, magnetism was regarded as "divine attraction" -- in other words, magic. It's also noteworthy to say that even though materialists believed that all things are made up of material stuff -- be it water, earth, fire, etc -- this did not mean that souls could not exist (see Epicurus, for example). Empedocles, another materialist, actually believed in the transmigration of souls. Here's a great paper that discusses magnetism and electricity in ancient Greece. Awesome question, +1. 

E1 has a 0% probability of someone randomly selecting the correct answer. E2 has a 50% probability of someone selecting the correct answer. E3 has a 100% probability of someone selecting the correct answer. Unless it's posited that one (or two, or three, etc.) of the answers is/are correct, your assumption that: 

Sometimes, primes are used (you can also mix and match, but staying consistent is always a good idea). Here's the set of all blue pens possible: 

What, if any, are the major philosophical consequences of the uncertainty principle? Wikipedia describes the principle this way: 

In this context it's really more of a trope than anything else; but the philosophical reference might be to Nietzsche (battle not with monsters, lest ye become a monster, from Beyond Good and Evil). 

One direct way of stating the heart of the question might be: is there sufficient textual evidence and support for the assertion that Plato's Republic contains meritocratic elements? A second and larger concern here would be if so, because of this meritocracy, and not to mention the absence of slavery, the Republic could be considered in some sense democratic, at least perhaps moreso than the ostensible democracy of Greece, limited of course to land-owning males -- and perhaps in this context it might make sense to ask whether this "real" democratic element is present in our contemporary democracies. In a way this question comes down to the following one: does the Republic include a meritocratic analysis of the population at every stage of psychic development? A possible equivalent today might be global universal education, which every child could gain entry to -- although higher levels would involve passing increasingly rigorous tests. In other words, could the ostensible aristocratism betrayed by Plato's advocacy of the "noble lie" of the myth of the metals -- that certain people are gold, others silver, yet others bronze, etc. -- be read on the contrary as reflecting not a base classism (or worse a vulgar racism) but rather and perhaps counter-intuitively the very heart of the radically progressive or democratizing-meritocratic impulse that is the engine of the Republic? Is there in the Republic a global selection over the population for traits that could be optimally deployed in various roles or functions within the society? What about the very negative authoritarian dimension of the Republic, the expulsion of poets and artists; as well as the de jure caste system which would seem to strongly favor an aristocratic interpretation rather than a democratic one? I guess I want to graft the "democratic" onto a different chain of signification, and point to the inner radically democratic (because meritocratic) moment in the Republic where, at least from the perspective of a child, everything is possible: all possible paths are potentially open to everyone. What makes it "just" and "fair" is precisely this lack of socio-economic barriers to individual growth and development. I don't want to paper over the negative dimensions and palpable distaste for the "masses" that is present in Plato's text here; but does it seem at all justified to make this case for a possible democratic recuperation of the Republic? Apologies for the length here. Just to reiterate the basic question: is there textual evidence for meritocratic social advancement and organization in Plato's Republic? (And if so -- as a secondary concern, that is really the motivation for the first question -- is it then reasonable to further characterize this aspect or impulse of Plato's thought as effectively democratic in some ways; might it be reasonable to say this meritocracy relates to what it means to have democracy?) 

With that said, it's difficult to see who was or wasn't (exactly) a monist or dualist (in the Cartesian sense) in ancient philosophy. Thales and Empedocles are particularly tricky. They are both Physicalists (this is a very loose categorization), but Empedocles mentions the transmigration of souls. Aristotle is also difficult to place. He writes (in De Anima): 

So there's a soul which is a property of the body, but we're not sure how this relates to the nature of the particular thing or whether or not humans as well as dogs have a soul. The soul is matter and it seems to die with the body (just how it happens in Epicurus). I think Epicurus' argument is pretty airtight. If you believe that there is no existence after death, fearing what happens during the state of death is irrational. Even stranger is the fact that Socrates actually embraced death (as death would bring one's soul closer to the forms). So we can actually have a position where the soul is immortal and death is actually welcomed. 

The concept of a WFF (well formed formula) is a formal one and deals with syntactic validity. Any logic you pick will have a concept of WFF (just how any written language you pick has a concept of spelling). If, in that logic, you provide a deduction that contains lines that are not WFFs, then it's easy to see that it would be weaker than using WFFs. Not only would it be weaker, but it would be nonsense. (I'm not sure how Godel's Incompleteness Theorem fits here.) 

...is logically unsound. So lets go back to your original question; if you amend your question and posit that 50% of the time you'll hit a correct answer, the answer to the question is simply 50%. The fact that it's not part of the answer set simply makes the question unanswerable (see E1). If you don't posit that 50% is the magic number, then there is no answer. The problem with the question is that it's is not specific enough, allowing for up to three solutions (0%, 50%, 100%) - therefore, being mathematically indeterminate. The problem with your reasoning is that you start out on the 50% path, but end up on the 0% when you should, instead, say "my brain tells me 50% should be the correct answer, but I don't see it in the answer set therefore the question has no answer." Note that there is no paradox here (as many people seem to think on the linked G+ thread). Either way, interesting question :)