The general advice for weight training is to rest your muscles at least 48 hours before working them again. With a beginning strength training program like Starting Strength or StrongLifts 5x5, you work out no more than three days per week. Now, doing cardio on the same days that you are lifting is perfectly fine. However, you can overdo it. Your muscles need to rest to rebuild and get stronger. If you overwork them, it takes longer to rebuild. In the beginning you won't notice much of a difference because you are still building up the foundational strength. The place where you'll see the effects of over training the cardio will be when you start stalling sooner and hitting plateaus for longer periods of time. I lift three days a week with one day off in between. After lifting I run for about 20 minutes of intervals (1 min run, 1 min jog). I'll also go through my katas in Martial Arts. The other days I don't go to the gym at all. Every day I keep track of what I eat so that I don't regain what I worked so hard to get rid of. Bottom line: exercise is important, but you get rid of fat quickest and most thoroughly by making adjustments to your diet. 

This article from the New York Times cites a consumerlabs.com report (can't link directly to report because you have to sign up) which says that large chains like Walmart/Costco store brands are typically high quality: 

Note that even though the study was for multi-vitamins, I'm assuming that the same standards for manufacturing the pills are carried over into different vitamins/supplements. The only way to not have to make this assumption would be to point to an equivalent study for fish oil and I don't know of one (feel free to upvote/accept someone else if they happen to find one). This does make sense though because whoever produces the highest volume will likely discover the most problems and be more apt to roll out fixes to the manufacturing process. Pills aren't like food/beer/whiskey/wine where quality tends to go up when made in smaller batches. So I'm sure if you just picked up the walmart store brand you'll be fine. Keep in mind that "quality vitamin" just means that the contents of the bottle match what the nutrition facts say they do. In terms of amounts and how much you should be taking you should look into research on amounts used in fish oil studies and I know from experience that fish oil pills do vary in amount of oil per pill, so you should definetly pay attention to this. 

I've been doing Crossfit full-time (5-6 days/week) for a year now, and I have a really, stubbornly weak squat. It's so weak that it's always my limiting factor on compound movements like thrusters, cleans & jerks (not my upper body). I have very long limbs in general and especially long femurs, but it would surprise me if that's the only problem. My stats and 1RMs 

Rippetoe's Starting Strength recommends that when you fail to get all 3 X 5 reps for 3 workouts in a row on a given exercise, you do a "minor reset" in which you drop the weight of the work set to 90% of the stalled amount and then work back up to the stalled weight. It's tempting to instead continue doing the stalled weight but make up for any missed reps by doing them at a lower (doable) weight, since dropping 10% feels like a step backward. Obviously I won't do this because I'm sure Rippetoe has a good reason for using the resets, but I'm curious what this reason is. 

I recently started powerlifting (Starting Strength), and I have a rather frivolous concern. What if I drop a weight plate on my feet? Between warming up and work sets, there is a lot of loading/unloading and carrying weight plates around. I've been lifting barefoot and am willing to invest in shoes, but in a battle between a 25-lb plate and a pair of Chuck Taylors, I'm sure the plate would still win hands-down. Am I being a total wuss? Do people actually drop plates on their feet? Would weightlifting shoes provide any real protection? 

Based on the information provided and your name, I'm going to make some assumptions (required to provide a wild guess at maintenance Calories). My assumptions used to fill in the blanks for a calorie calculator are: 

The volume day will be the toughest to recover from, but it's where you really build a foundation of strength. The speed work is an active recovery day, so you'll do as many sets of 2-3 reps as you can while keeping the bar speed the same. As soon as the bar speed slows down you stop. The heavy day is where you get to to test out your strength a bit, and get used to heavier weights. This general approach helps you recover better from your exercise over time and really helps you progress in strength at a steady pace. If you stagger the work so that you have three main exercises, in any one week your volume, speed, and heavy days are on the different main exercises. 

Putting it all together: The more lean you get, the easier it is to get leaner. The most effective way to get about getting thinner is to do things in this order: 

I doubt if isometric exercises could improve punching speed – maybe you meant bodyweight exercises? Isometric exercises are ones where the muscle that's working is being held in a constant state of contraction, as in a plank. Here are some exercises to improve punching speed and power that we use in my boxing class: 

I'm a beginner lifter (female) doing Starting Strength. I'm having a problem with my deadlift form that I think might be partly related to individual morphometry. So, what happens is this: I set up as described in Rippetoe's SS with the bar at midfoot. I take my grip. I bend my knees until my shins touch the bar. Because I have (very) disproportionately long thighbones compared to the length of my torso and shin bones, this puts my hips quite low, my back at about a 45-degree angle to the floor, and my knees jutting pretty far out over the bar. It's a very awkward arrangement. When I start to pull, inevitably my knee angle "wants" to open first to the point that my back is horizontal before the bar actually leaves the ground (just like in Fig 4-35 in Rippetoe's SS). With this kind of form, I was deadlifting 1.28X my bodyweight. If I force myself to maintain the same back angle through the pull, I could probably deadlift more like 1X my bodyweight, if that. Even if I deload to just 65 lbs, it stills feels really awkward that my knees are in the way of the bar as I start to pull. I noticed that Rippetoe does allow for substantial differences in deadlift back angle due to individual morphometry – e.g., in Fig 4-31, the leftmost stick figure's back is almost horizontal. However, like I said, when I set up according to his instructions, my back angle is actually more like 45 degrees. So my questions are: what kind of form, especially back angle, is correct for someone with my morphometry (long thighbones)? An additional complication is that my squat is embarrassingly weak, so is it a problem of weak quads? And what should I do about it? EDIT: Indeed, my hips are rising to near-horizontal before the bar leaves the ground. 

There are several programs that help you get started. Starting Strength is an excellent book and beginner program. It will provide you with a lot of the foundational knowledge you kneed. However, as an athlete, you might want to seriously consider The Juggernaut Method 2.0. The Juggernaut Method is built for athletes, building explosive strength, etc. I have the book, and it allows you to adjust your training maxes based on your current performance. That means you'll take advantage of your beginner gains. You may want to get the Starting Strength book and the Juggernaut Method book at the same time. Starting Strength provides probably one of the best breakdowns of the main lifts you'll see. It also provides some really good basic knowledge that will help you understand the other book. Don't Forget Nutrition A big part of performing your best as an athlete is eating like an athlete. That doesn't mean eat everything under the sun. It means you need to eat good foods in the right amounts. One area where I think Starting Strength does a disservice is it's emphasis on eating your way out of a plateau. It's really easy to eat a bunch of crap and get really fat if you follow that advice. As you mentioned, that's not going to help you. You will find a lot of conflicting advice about nutrition, and it conflicts because the eating protocols work better for some people than others. The basics are as follows: 

I really think this would have to do more with diet than exercise. I've heard that the best way to slow the muscle loss while cutting calories (don't believe there is a way to stop it) is to eat lean protein/or protein shake both right before and right after your workout. (NOTE: While you see a lot of people on the forums who drink protein shakes for no particular reasons, I believe this is one of the cases where supplementing with protein shakes makes sense). The logic is simple; basically, by giving your body surplus protein when you're most likely to lose it you're going to decrease the amount of muscle mass you burn. I'm not aware of any studies which confirm/contradict this though. The only other thing I would say is keep in mind there is a physiological limit on how much protein your body can absorb and if you go over that limit your basically using up your kidneys for little to no benefit. May not matter now but dialysis doesn't look fun so you might as well do what you can to avoid it in your golden years. 

You can do static holds on the last rep of deadlifts. If you aren't doing deadlifts, it might be a good time to start. 

Unfortunately, the symptoms of hyponatremia are similar to severe dehydration. The safest way to address both of those problems after you have been doing a high intensity workout is to use a sports drink that replenishes your electrolytes (see the article). Essentially, adding more water in this state will dilute your already low supply of electrolytes. The sports drink will help in either case. Assuming you haven't just been doing a high intensity workout, and you are simply sipping water throughout the day, you are probably going to be just fine. Keep in mind that 8 glasses a day is a minimum recommended daily allowance. I personally drink roughly a gallon a day. According to the article linked to above I could go up to 1.6 gallons and still be OK. I don't know how I'd fit that in, but I could. My office has a water filter, so I re-use a water bottle and fill it with the filtered water throughout the work day. Some people just can't drink cold water, and they need it room temperature. Filling the water bottle lets you have the water convenient to you and sip on it throughout the day. I'll have 1.5L in the morning, and another 1.5L in the afternoon (after lunch). I have another refillable water bottle that is .5L and I sip on that throughout my workout. I tend to work through two of those between the weightlifting and cardio work. By that time, I am set for my daily requirements. Also keep in mind that when people recommend 8 glasses a day, they are talking about an 8oz glass (or .25L). That's only 2L a day. 

Here are some hypotheses I have considered and ultimately dismissed (but correct me if I should reconsider): Hypothesis #1: I should do Starting Strength. Counter-evidence: I did SS assiduously(*) for 9 months before starting Crossfit. It worked moderately well for most of my lifts except my squat, which plateaued extremely fast. Now that I'm doing Crossfit, my other lifts are again improving, while my squat rarely budges. Hypothesis #2: I should eat more. Counter-evidence: I eat around 2400 calories/day with a lot of protein, and my squat is the only lift that's so stubborn, so I assume this isn't the problem. Hypothesis #3: I have a mobility problem. Counter-evidence: If anything, the coaches at my gym comment that my mobility is unusually good. I can sit in an ass-to-grass squat with my knees touching my chest and my butt touching the ground, for example. Hypothesis #4: I have a squatting form problem. Counter-evidence: I'm lucky that my Crossfit gym has a strong emphasis on lifting technique, and the coaches think my squat form is reasonable. Their main comment is that I have a hard time keeping my torso upright (especially in back squats, but also front squats). I've tried to work on this, but it seems partly like a necessarily evil given the extreme length of my femurs compared to my upper body. So what should I do to suck less at squatting? Are there diagnostics I can use to figure out what the problem is? (*) Pun intended. Not going to lie. 

Negotiate with yourself and buy a barefoot shoe like Vibram FiveFingers Just keep running until you blister over. When I was in college, I knew a guy that walked all over campus in bare feet - even in the middle of winter with 8 in of snow on the ground. He was able to do this because - over time - the bottom of your feet build up a thick pad and they become less sensitive. Apparently he had been doing that since he was a kid though, so it was a gradual progression; so if you go this route, I'd increase the frequency you're running barefoot slowly over time, giving your feet enough time to heal in between barefoot runs but not so long that you lose your gains. 

I've been working on squatting recently, after going through a realization that it is really important to get your hips below your knees when you squat I've been trying to attain a full range of motion, ass to grass squat. That being said, as part of my workouts, I've been squatting with no weight, stretching all of the muscles I need to get deeper (hip flexors, quads, calfs, etc). I've been doing box squats and lowering it as I get small gains in flexibility. I'm to the point where the box is ~6 in below my knee while standing upright but I'm realizing that it is going to take a while - maybe years - for me to gain that flexibility. I've been going at this for a few months and even though I have small gains I'm to the point where progress is in centimeters/millimeters. I'm pretty sure that this is a flexibility issue and not just bad form. For example, if I lay on my side with my legs in line with my torso and try to pull one foot straight back, I can't get my heel to touch my glutes. Also, many years ago, I did give myself a knee injury (damaged left meniscus) by trying to go deeper so now I'm very familiar with what a bad squat feels like and have a good sense of how my knees should feel when I'm going down. So - with all of that being said - should I continue developing range of motion with no weight, or am I at a point where I can/should begin adding weight to my squats?