Secondly, I'm not sure what "learned helplessness" is. I suppose it might be a type of self-view, e.g. the view that "I am helpless" or "I am a failure" etc. I think there's Buddhist doctrine that any "view of self" is "wrong" and a cause of suffering. If that's so then Buddhism wouldn't be teaching "learned helplessness". And in fact I see Buddhism as the opposite, as empowering -- it's doctrine you can use to escape or avoid or minimise failure, to succeed -- a map of what's what and of which paths lead where, to help you know and decide. 

I don't know about (and cannot talk about) kamma from any previous life. I believe though that people's intentions and actions have consequences during this life, at least. For example if one is greedy or angry then that causes suffering; and if one can renounce greed and anger then that's conducive towards the ending of suffering. I suspect that Hinduism (not to mention Buddhism) sees a link between Karma and caste. For example, this article Karma in Hinduism claims that: 

I read your question, and I think my opinion is that the Buddhist belief system is not exactly "awareness that we are living in illusion", and it is not like a "similar belief in Hinduism" ... but Buddhism actually has wisdom and practices to help with sorrow and anger (in fact, "to help with sorrow and anger" is virtually the main purpose of Buddhism, i.e. the reason why the Buddha invented it) and so to answer your question I want to write a summary to introduce or explain Buddhism. 

On the other hand that doesn't mean that people want to listen to "wrong speech". I guess a reason why some people ordain (or seek the company of other Buddhists) might be to enjoy the company of a like-minded community. The same Dhammapada (e.g. chapter 23 and chapter 5) says that it's good to have wise friends, but also that "there is no fellowship with the fool". 

Here's a description of Bodhicitta (the motive or intention or state of mind). I think this does imply (accepting or aspiring to) rebirths, but doesn't imply a desire (nor need) to remain unenlightened: 

I'm not sure, I'm not going to look them up now, maybe that emphasis at the end (about refuge, training rules, goodwill, and the perception of inconstancy) makes this unlike other suttas on giving, which maybe put even more emphasis than this one on the importance of giving to worthy, giving to the worthiest, recipients. 

What are the three phases and twelve aspects of Dhamma? Copying extracts from this text and putting them into a numbered list: 1st truth: 

For what it's worth I learned that a preschool teacher isn't supposed to think or say, "That is a good child" and "That is a bad child." Instead if a child behaves well, "That is good behaviour" and if the child behaves badly, "That is bad behaviour". Having an attitude like that, i.e. that it's behaviour ("misconduct is foolish"), instead of the person ("that person is or is not a fool"), means you don't have to try to discern some artificial distinction between "misconduct of a fool" versus "misconduct of a non-fool". 

How do I integrate the Buddhist view into my life and take responsibility for what is occurring at the same time without kind of denying stuff by saying "it's not self"? Obviously a teacher might help. I find it extremely helpful to interact with (to see and converse with, learn from) people who set a good example. Without my being a teacher though, to try to begin to answer your question here and now, I think that Buddhist doctrine can be summarised as: 

Here's a personal opinion (it's not an expert or referenced or Theravada answer). In swimming lessons they try to teach you how to rescue drowning people. An important consideration in the lesson is how to rescue someone, without the person desperately grabbing and drowning you. It sounds selfish but it's not just selfish: if you were drowned or drowning then you couldn't rescue them. There's a maybe-analogous situation (and lesson) if you want to help someone who, for example, is an addict: if their life is chaotic and so on, you can't help them to escape (e.g. with good advice, a good example, maybe some selflessness to spare) if your life is deep in chaos too. 

This sutta contains the simile of the elephant. The phrase is also in the next two suttas (Ud 6.5 and 6.6). 

It is possible to make an oath (some people do), and for some people it (making an oath) even actually works, but other people find they break the promises which they make to themselves. A possible variation is to make the oath to someone else (a teacher, your family, a friend, the Buddha) -- that (social standing, commitment) may provide a powerful extra incentive. I think the suttas say that the right way is to clearly understand the disadvantage of something -- it's that that would cause you (or that would give you cause to) refrain from it. You mentioned "I decided to not do anything for fun"; it's also said that people need a reason for doing something, that you can't force yourself to do it unless you want to. Maybe you're supposed to find or experience some benefit in meditation. Maybe too you have to be discerning about what is and isn't fun -- some people (perhaps mistakenly) find drinking alcohol to be fun, for example. 

I think there's a 4th meaning of "self", which may have roots in the Pali text but which is explained as a more detailed doctrine in the Second Turning: which says that not only "Nothing is me" or "I don't have self", but also "Nothing else has a 'self' either" or "everything has no self of its own". I think the 2nd meaning above is related to the 1st -- i.e. self view is wrong view because: 

Is this article reliable, i.e. is true as far as you know, or does it say some things that would contradict or add to? The account of the Buddha's own death is of his having mastered jhanas, and making use of that ability at the time of his death: 

Another (less likely) possibility is that "thinking" might be a translation of the whole "mind" branch of the threefold training, so perhaps including right mindfulness and right concentration. "Thinking" isn't a very precise term in English. So anyway, the distinction might be clearer if you stopped relying on the term "right thinking" as the correct translation of whatever it is you're thinking of (or referring to), and instead use the original term (e.g. samma sankappo) or a different translation (e.g. "right intention"). 

IMO the doctrine is something like, "All conditioned things are impermanent. There is no Soul (permanent essence) in any conditioned thing." My explanation / understanding of this doctrine is non-standard because it's coloured by someone having tried to teach me Platonic Idealism, but my understanding is something like: 

You wrote, " It's always been completely mysterious to me." Perhaps that's because it's so Christian-influenced. 

Can you give any citations for this explanation of 'rebirth'? Which tradition[s] of Buddhism is this from? Is it described in any canonical suttas, and/or does this idea have any specific names/nouns (e.g. in Pali, Tibetan, and/or Chinese) associated with it? Is consciousness inevitably always a sequence of moments, not a continuum of awareness? Is this also true during meditation? 

two different Bone,Muscle,Brain,etc structures Saying "two" is arbitrary (maybe conventional and maybe wrong). You could easily say "one" (i.e. men and women are similar), or "more than two" (i.e. different men are different from each other). spontaneous birth - Ambapali Wikipedia says, 

So instead of saying "saṅkhārās and nibanna are anattā", summarize that as "all dhammās are anattā" (where "all dhammās" is meant to include all saṅkhārās and nibanna too). 

The phrase appears verbatim in Handbook for the Spirit, in the first essay (the opening chapter) which is titled "Love, Compassion, and Tolerance". The author of that essay is given as (and copyright is attributed to) His Holiness the Dalai Lama, without any translator. A copy of that essay can be found here: $URL$ 

So I started to answer: what the Buddha taught might be summarized as "the four noble truths" or as "causes of suffering, and his path or way to end suffering". And I started this answer by saying it's expressed as a negative ("end of suffering"). But there's more to the teaching than that: joy; serenity; loving-kindness. Removing causes for suffering allows room for other, better experiences, more like the "getting what he wants" which you asked about. For example the Kimattha Sutta mentions words like 'reward', 'joy', 'serenity', etc. I think that the Buddha also decided that a cause of dissatisfaction (which, he freed himself from) was views about 'self': views like "me" and "mine" etc. According to the biography, once he became enlightened he felt compassion for other people who were still suffering, and decided to try to teach to them (in case, with the help of his teaching, some of them too could free themselves from suffering). And so he began to teach. I guess we can say that that (i.e. helping to enlighten other people, other people becoming free and safe) was what he 'wanted'. 

You say that "Buddhism doesn't promise relief from suffering in the current lifetime", which I think is wrong, so let's take that from the top. Suffering or "Dukka" can (and should) be analyzed: The First Noble Truth says, 

The introduction to the dharmafarer translation of the Sabbāsava Sutta (MN 2) describes asavas in even more detail, including,