The management team is interested in dollars and cents, so give that to them. Show them the dollars and sense of a new set up (sorry, couldn't help myself). Pair up with someone who can create a cost-benefit analysis regarding your needs. 

Speaking as a former server, this isn't bad. Restaurants operate in a much different fashion than other businesses. When you go home is relative to the amount of business. My schedule only listed in-times and not out-times. I never knew exactly when I'd be off. Sometimes I would be out early if we were slow, sometimes I stayed as late as the closing servers (along with two or three others). The trial shift could be likened to a technical interview or a programming exercise. Think of it as a technical screening. They are looking for new wait-staff that either have experience or raw talent that can be honed into the type of employee they are looking for. Take what they said at face value. I would say wait until Thursday before you call them and see where they stand in the interview process. Also, ask for the manager that was on duty during your trial shift if they are available. If not, ask for the store manager. When you do call them, make sure it is on their down time. Down time depends on the type of restaurant, but for a dinner-heavy service, I would say 2:00 - 3:00 PM is a good time frame. That makes sure that they are fully out of any lunch rush and well ahead of any dinner rush. 

I think you need to engage them more like project's manager with their idea. As such I would engage them more seriously into each idea(s) with question like; "How we will do it ?" "How much time it will take ?" "Who will do it ?" "Can it fit in our process ?", etc.. To give an example: In one enterprise I was in, when someone used to bring an idea the one giving it needed two bring two positive points to back the idea. That way to do was to make them think outside the box, thus if their ideas would really bring plus value, then it could be integrated into existing process easily, else the idea will not survive anyway. On another note, good sign if the enthusiasm is there, it's sign of a healthly's team in my own opinion. 

Start at the beginning. Is there a version control system that you use to maintain your source code? If there is, does everyone follow the same procedure to access a file? If not, why not? Is there documentation regarding the code you're writing? Is it a bug fix, feature request, in-house tool? Who generates those documents? Is there a process flow of information regarding the code? Instead of just taking an assignment and completing it, find out where your assignment fits in with the bigger picture of the project or application being developed. What processes did/do you use to complete your tasks? Is there a more effective/efficient way to complete them? 

That is in no way cheating. Most companies encourage it. You don't have to identify him as your friend. Just tell the manager of the department that is hiring that you have someone you would like to refer for the position, and ask who you should speak with in HR. 

Offer your boss to do overtime job, it would be a lot more ethical. In the comment you tell they want to outsource it to go a little faster. I have difficulty to think that they didn't offered you overtime at first, are you sure you can actually make that project faster ? as for me your management think not. 

By your tone in your question I sense that its not a lack of technical experience you miss, but a lack of experience to be in a managed role in an enterprise. As first if they ask to complete a technical test, they mean it. Refusing it make you look you will not follow a manager directive. Secondly the fact you passed the first interview show me your technical experience and skill look good, be proud of it, and show them. The best advice I can tell is to try to get more confidence into you, and be ready to accept their way to hire, as you can't change that. 

It really isn't your place to say anything. What do you hope to gain by saying something to your boss? If your co-worker is already on the path to a new position with a different company it doesn't seem like there's much you can do to stop them. And if you aren't that close anyway, why would you want to? Regardless of how close you are, I'd start with talking to him. Let him know how uncomfortable this makes you and how you feel now that he has entrusted you with a "secret" so to speak. If you say anything to your boss, even the round-about method, it's going to raise red flags. I would keep this one close personally. 

I think I have an idea as to what you're looking for. Don't just do your work, analyze your work. Be a student of the game as they say. Look at the whole picture not just the task at hand. Your boss said: 

I would play it lightly. Answer the offer email first to them only. After you send another email to the recruiter alone to tell him thanks for the contact, as you have accepted their offer, for a great place it look like, etc.. (and that you didn't needed to contact him afterhand, because they offered you what you wanted). In any case if the recruiter forward your email to the HR to negotiate something, you will not look bad at all. 

Try to go there openminded. I never heard the term PIP in a negative way where I work, but we got at each year performance meeting called like that. The goal is to see where Iam and what can be done to be more on track versus my job reports/metric in place that I got to follow. Its a place to discuss what I want as training and such. It get bad at my job when we got recovery plan meeting. I tell you my answer as every business got their own way to manage HR, but never forget that usually they could fired you rightaway to prevent you to sabotage your workspace. I see a planned meeting as less negative than getting fired, but I might be wrong. 

If your self-criticism is constructive, then I don't see how your managers could frown upon it. If you're up for the task, maybe even do a self evaluation in the style of a performance review. Try and stage it at a mid-way point between when your organization does them. 

In your question you seem to separate self-criticism and constructive criticism. These two things are not mutually exclusive. Self-criticism is the source. Constructive criticism is only one type of criticism. I would think, like Edwin mentioned, 

Our company was recently acquired by a large MNC. We recently started the same practice. They are called "Employee Engagement Surveys" or something of the like. The survey should be anonymous since the company just wants to get a feel for how engaged the employees are while they're at work. The idea is that the more enthusiastic the employees are, the better work they do. The intention behind the surveys is for honesty from the employees. If they truly want honesty, the survey will be anonymous. If they give the front of being anonymous and come to you later and say "I noticed you said 'bad place to work, payment bad.' Would you care to go into further detail?" then I would say to brush up your CV. I know I wouldn't want to work somewhere that put that kind of practice in place. Find out if the survey is anonymous. Just bring it up politely with your manager. Say something like "I was wondering if you could give me some more general information about the surveys. I don't need to know the questions, just how you plan on using them." Be honest, but keep it professional. Even if the survey is truly anonymous, a rant will set off red flags for the management team and they will start looking for the trouble-maker in the office.