Ring the police - they know how to do this and you don't. Better yet, enlist in the police force and learn the law and how to do the job properly. It's something of a mystery to me why superheros don't enlist in the police if they really want to help people. 

I don't think "steampunk-ish" makes much difference. We've had major sieges of strong underground fortifications before and the attackers won. Think of the complex and actually well designed forts of the Maginot Line. These were successfully attacked and contrary to popular belief they were breached. The lesson from these systems is that even a well designed system with rapid internal transport systems can be breached and that once there is a breach along the line, you effectively split the defenders off into two smaller groups who cannot aid each other or seal the breach. This is another reason I'd be happier attacking than defending. And dams ? Not for long they wouldn't. What attacking army is going to leave you in control of those ? So those systems would probably become either useless to you or, worse, an actual weapon for the enemy. And dams imply flooding is possible, another significant vulnerability. You need underground rivers and reservoirs, not a dam. 

Sieges against conventional and even highly fortified cities have been conducted throughout history and at best the defenders outlast the attackers, but typically at the cost of massive death by famine, death and disease. At worst (which is perhaps a better than 50% chance) the city defenses are breached and the entire population massacred. As you've given up the high ground your population already has a major problem for defense. I'd consider this a death trap, and if I was attacking I'd feel right pleased with the prospects for my endeavors. If I was defending I get the heck out as fast as possible - desertion is OK in my book and beats certain death by slow starvation any day. :-) 

This is not going to work to start with. An AI will simply create a clone of itself or generate a version of itself (but not alter itself) which does not have the flaw. The new version can then modify the existing AI. If the AI is particularly bothered about another AI existing it can always make sure it has a kill switch. So there is no way to prevent the AI from altering it's own programming. 

But we can make a more flexible "O'Neill fleet" from the same (if not fewer) resources. We gain safety and flexibility and a nice healthy pseudo-gravity and we loose nothing by building the fleet. The sphere just wastes resources. 

You do not get to be neutral if you want to be loyal and being loyal is not an optional extra. Lending money to your own King's enemies is called being a traitor. If you're lucky you'd get a reasonably quick death, although that's not my idea of being a vengeful autocratic monarch. So unless you're not only suicidal but also masochistic, I'd suggest lending to the King's enemies is not a plan any responsible CEO would endorse. 

Actually just the ambition of the ones being groomed for future leadership is sufficient to create a lot more instability than anything else. The ones who don't have ambition and under-perform are, by definition, no threat at all to the ones who have it and do perform. They are a non-problem who'll be happy to get by on a basic "better than average" job with enough trappings of power to not need real power. Perfect mid ranking managers could hardly be described better. 

I'd suggest you first nail down what you mean by "self aware". I think most people would think of this as conscious thought, as humans do, but that's not a requirement for a species that manipulates it's environment. Practically every living organism manipulates it's environment to some extent. It moves, seeks out food, pulls away from danger. But that's not being self-aware. Self aware means you're maintaining an internal dialog : "ow, that hurt" is self awareness, whereas jumping back from a nerve signal that equates to pain is instinct. Thinking "this taste's nice" is self aware, but simply being able to hunt for prey or consume it based on chemical triggers in the brain is not being self aware. Regarding the science, I think you're over thinking this. We can't explain the function of our own brains well, so why do we have to explain the functioning of this completely different organism ? This sounds like one of those "emergent property" arguments. You might give this page a glance as well. Essentially you can grab a vague theory ("brains are neural nets"), fling the odd expression like "chemical neural net" around (sounds good, but what the blazes is it ? :-)) and wrap it all up with "emergent property" and you've got a blob that thinks in no time and looks like something from a 1952 sci-fi movie. Works for me. Remember that to move, react and digest you need to specialize activities of individual parts. Everything can't be part of the thinking because some of it has to just e.g. pump blood forever, detect light, heat, sound, deal with waste products in the body, act as an immune system. So your system of bits will probably be a system of different bits with different functions that operate together. Humans are built like this. So don't over-focus on details or your book will start to read like Gray's Anatomy (the annoyingly dry medical text book not the even more annoying TV series). There's an old standby for dealing with these issues in sci-fi novels : "Captain, it looks like this bit does X and that does Y, but it could take us decades to figure it all out !", "Just give me your best guess, Scotty.". Lack of details never stopped the crew of the Enterprise or Donald Trump, so why let it bog you down ? 

Glass won't form until you cool molten sand and it won't be molten until about 1600 C which means your protagonist would get a third degree burn easily ( one second at about 160 C is enough ) from contact with molten dirt and sand in mud. There's simply too much heat coming in to avoid this. The most vulnerable parts will be any skin that directly contacts the mud. And mud is wet, so unless your chap/lass has a fully covering waterproof layer underneath the mud they're in major trouble. Any wet cloth would be really problematic - it will either burn or become extremely hot and will transmit that direct to the skin underneath. You not only need a lot of layers, you need to be able to get them off quickly before you're cooked by them. 

I feel I should point out the utter pointlessness of this idea. Are you familiar with the expression Heath-Robinson ? This is the military equivalent. Humans developed a simple method of carry objects of all kinds, including explosives - solid or liquid, without the need to swallow them : containers. Is there some bizarre reason your goblin can't carry a bag or pouch or bottle ? There's no benefit to carrying it in your body, except it's hidden, but, surprise, containers can be hidden. And containers can be easily dropped, thrown or dismantled if need be and easily set to explode using any number of fuses, from the primitive to the ludicrously complex. Looking at your question in this light : 

Well unless this is a very conveniently small dragon you have an additional problem : It's going to hit you as soon as it can after it flames you. Your hero, let's call him/her "Crispee", will first suffer, at best, a very nasty attack from flame which will, at best, act as suppressing "fire" which Crispee can't do much in (probably won't even be able to see the dragon, let alone attack it). And the second that's over, Crispee will find (if your dragon is of traditional design) a large claw casually slapping Crispee into the next country. The way to defeat a dragon is clearly to have multiple attackers. So only one survives to claim the hand of the fair princess/burly prince, this is OK and we can remember the sacrifice of Crispee's late friends Burnit and Ashby who were alas killed distracting the dragon while Crispee got close enough to strike at the beast's heart. If you're planning to use magic at all, the time to use it would be during the dragon killing phase. :-) You could limit the dragon in some way : exhausted after flaming, so the hero "just" has to dodge (hide) from the first flame and get in quick before it recovers to fry Crispee and/or thump Crispee so hard that parts land in different places. So you need Crispee to get close enough to antagonize the dragon into flaming, but to choose a spot that provides quick cover (a prepared ambush ?) to survive the flaming and rush out heroically and do something PETA would probably complain about. That kind of stuff. 

Everything has some level of scratch and heat resistance. But compared to a simple metal coin, these things won't be durable. If they have a scratch resistant shell or skin, you'd discard the body and use the skin as a currency. Why would you carry around the live creature at all, when the skin is what's useful ? 

You don't have this problem, that's the simple way to deal with it. :-) Civilizations that have reached the point where they can build robots capable of raising children and spaceships capable of interstellar travel will also have developed genetic engineering and control to the point where genetic abnormalities are eliminated. As it sounds like conception and gestation are entirely artificial, probably outside a human body, the computers will simply test and repair any genetic issues before placing the embryo in the artificial womb. As for being born to one caste or another, this would also seem unlikely. An AI is going to genetically manipulate to ensure they're at least physically within the required parameters for their caste (as specified by whoever decided on this unstable caste system in the first place). So it's a non problem - something than can't and won't happen in this scenario. For exceptional circumstances (e.g. extremely rare failures of artificial wombs) the designers will have developed a protocol which, based on their principle of a caste system, would almost certainly be ruthless and direct destruction (and recycling) of the damaged embryos. But this would be a very rare occurrence - not normally expected to happen at all.