If the Martians have the equivalent of modern anti-aircraft missiles they very well might not work--the slow-moving early aircraft would look an awful lot like decoys because they're not moving fast enough to be a real target. However, the Martians don't need them. If they have stuff like modern missiles they also should have stuff like modern point defenses. A Phalanx cannon would eat any WWI aircraft and spit out kindling before it closed to attack range. 

If the human race survives I expect it will eventually happen. Look at growth curves. There are two basic possibilities for the shape of a growth curve: A stretched S (pull the SW corner W, the NE corner E enough that the curve always goes at least somewhat forward) or something like an inverted U. The latter is catastrophe so I will disregard it and look only at the S. Specifically, I am looking at the growth of technology. The length of a patent should be related to the slope of the curve. When we were in the flat part at the start of the S this didn't happen because we didn't have patents in the first place. We are now on the part of the S where it's heading up--until the curve starts to inflect we have no way of knowing where we are on it. There isn't an infinite amount of practical knowledge to learn (I won't say there isn't an infinite amount of knowledge. Some theories of cosmology have universes which are infinite or have an infinite number of universes. In either case a planet listing is obviously infinite.) Eventually that curve will inflect and bend back down. Picture the very top of that curve as we close in on knowing everything. Improvements will become harder and harder to find and return a smaller and smaller benefit. Patent durations should increase to compensate. Unfortunately, I rather expect this answer won't work very well for your world. You might be able to have a society in which corporate power has grown unchecked resulting in increasing patent durations without economic justification. Progress all but grinds to a halt in such a society, if there is any possibility of an outside group it's going to fall behind and end up dominated/destroyed. (Look at China to see what I mean. They turned inward and froze innovation to keep it from upsetting the social order--and found themselves behind the 8-ball when the British showed up.) Edit: For the commenter who doesn't understand the S-curve I am describing: 

There's a big problem here: The whole point of a circulatory fluid is to transport things around the body. Mercury isn't a very good solvent to use to do such transporting, nor is it exactly friendly to hauling around cells. Now, if you want circulating mercury in a creature how about a different purpose? Lets look at some sort of space-based life. Spacecraft use reaction wheels to orient themselves, that (the wheel) is a gap that evolution has shown little ability to cross. Instead, lets have three (or perhaps more) vessels in the creature filled with mercury and with a simple pump mechanism. Slow and wasteful compared to a proper reaction wheel but it would get the job done and give a reasonable biological purpose for a mercury-filled tube in the creature. 

The only way it can happen is with immortality plus a major jump in the available living space (space colonization in a major way, or else interstellar colonization if we already have major space colonization before immortality is developed.) Your question requires the answer to two unknowns in order to answer and thus there is no way to answer it. 

While HDE 226868 has a bunch of reasons against them I don't think they add up to a total showstopper. As he says, they can't form near each other--but that doesn't preclude a binary pair from a capture event. Now suppose the capture ended up with a retrograde--they'll spiral in due to tidal forces. At some point you'll end up with a contact binary. Soon after that they go splat. 

Sure. Take the planet apart layer by layer. Eventually you'll get to the core. You'll have to be well on the way to being a K2 civilization to meet the energy requirements. I'm finding conflicting values for the Earth's gravitational binding energy and the solar output, I'm finding values from 4 hours to 6 days of the sun's total output. 

Related to the launch loop there's the space fountain. You build a tower to space. Of course there's nothing strong enough to build it out of so you have to take off a whole bunch of weight. You do this by building a base station that throws magnets up (in an evacuated tube) very, very fast. Each platform of the tower has generators that produce a bunch of power from the magnets flying by--in doing so energy is transferred from the magnets to the platform. That energy goes next door to the motors that are grabbing the pieces coming down (think maglev train, you can't have physical contact!) and accelerates them, likewise producing lift. You have a very large magnet at the top that turns the pieces around and sends them back down. You have a humongous magnet at the bottom that does the same thing. So long as the paths is evacuated and everything is superconducting this costs no power once you have it set up. Regarding the hard science gripe: $URL$ 

Global cooling. Look at what happened in the New World after Columbus. The Old World diseases devastated the New World, the population crashed, forests reclaimed previously cleared land. This took carbon out of the atmosphere and you can see the effect on the world temperature. You're going to get the same effect except worldwide, thus more cooling. 

There's a limited case in which it could be done: Sand. You use much of the power of your reactor to blow air down into the sand. Do it right and you can fluidize it--and now your ship can move through it much like it would with water. (Albeit slower and I would hate to think of the erosion on your screws!) I can't think of any situation where it would make sense to do in these days of guided weapons, though. In times past think of how potent a battleship would be in the Sahara, though. 

Both sides possess a weapon that destabilizes explosives. It's an energy projector that can't be shielded against. (I forget the story but some major Sci-Fi author has a book (novella?) based around such a device, although used for peaceful purposes.) Get too close to such a generator and any warheads detonate, any rockets take off, any bullets fire. In such a battlefield you're not going to carry anything of the sort, thus you are limited to melee weapons, lasers, railguns and coilguns. Lasers have severe power density problems. The sort of laser you could mount on a mech would be hard pressed to do much to enemy armor but would cause you severe heat problems. Both railguns and coilguns won't be able to do much given the short barrel length possible on a mech and if you manage to put enough punch into them you run into the recoil problem mentioned in another post. 

Disease. There's a chain of islands across the ocean, they are inhabited by seagoing birds. (The birds only live there because of their nesting habits, they can't survive where ground predators are a threat.) The birds harbor a disease that's extremely lethal to humans. Rather than be scared of moving things (predators) the birds are scared of large land masses where predators live. Thus the birds have no problem with landing on a passing ship. While it's probably not 100% lethal the survivors can't operate the ship and the ship very well might founder while people are sick even if they would later recover. 

Zero--you don't need to take out a city to take out the world economy. You'll need three bombs, each very large, each mounted on a rocket that can deliver them high in the stratosphere. (If you want to pull this totally by surprise you put them in orbit.) Detonate one over the US, one over Europe and one over the Hong Kong/China/Japan area. Each will kill basically all electronics to the horizon--and from that sort of altitude the horizon is very far indeed. 

Another factor here: The digestive system has loads of bacteria in it. IIRC something like 25% of your feces is such bacteria. There are also medical foods meant to be extremely easily digested--look over the ingredients list almost all of it is obviously going to be absorbed very quickly (it's basically pre-digested, ready to be absorbed.) I would be surprised if a gram per day wasn't absorbed--but you still defecate a lot more than that when eating such stuff. 

Mark Ripley got half of it. Yes, you go underground. However, by choosing your location properly you don't need air conditioning. The poles of Mercury are actually cold, there is a line around them (I forget the exact latitude) where the average temperature is comfortable for humans. If you dig deep enough at that point you have a place that will stay comfortable all the time. In practice you will want to be located a bit closer to the poles as you will no doubt be putting heat-producing equipment in your habitat. Balance your latitude against the heat load of your equipment (and bodies) and you still need no climate control. Put solar panels up on supports so they're pointed directly at the sun, use the power to run lights for your farming that provides food and oxygen. 

No, it's not possible. You can have something like Tim B's answer regarding the Theia impact but that is not a case of a planet shattering into two pieces, but rather a grazing impact where the impactor broke up but went into orbit rather than merging with the planet. (Yes, there was substantial mass exchange, but the moon is mostly impactor, the Earth is mostly Earth.) To actually split a planet is another matter--the basic problem here is that the heat of vaporization of the planet is less than the gravitational binding energy of the planet. A simple application of brute force can't break it without destroying it. Even if you have some sort of gravity generator to pull it apart without smashing it in the process you'll have the problem that the pulled-apart pieces are massive enough that they're going to turn into spheres. That will be cataclysmic for anyone on them. Not to mention that the atmosphere is more mobile than the rock, it's going to fall off the edge of the world. Everyone suffocates. 

How is everyone missing the big picture? I don't care if you can jump off the moon or not, a successful jump gets you into orbit but you have no way to get from orbit to the planet. If the moon were so far out that it's orbital velocity was within what someone could produce by jumping it would be far outside the hill sphere of the parent body and would have wandered off long ago. Thus to actually accomplish this maneuver you need a tiny, tiny moon in a very distant orbit about a rogue planet deep in interstellar space. Now you have two problems: 1) The fall time is going to be considerable--you'll likely run out of life support. 2) A planet deep in interstellar space is going to be cold. Incredibly cold. You won't have any atmosphere to speak of and thus no aerobraking and no parachutes. If you have enough delta-v in your armor to land on the planet the whole point became moot as it was far more than you needed to get off an ordinary sized moon. Not to mention that once you jump you're a sitting duck if they have any sort of ranged weapon. 

I disagree on the impossibility of life. There are areas on Mercury that experience a milder climate (other than the lack of an atmosphere) than the Earth itself. I have even seen a proposal to colonize them. The closer you get to the poles the cooler it gets, there's a ring around each pole that averages what we consider comfortable and once you go deep enough underground it stays this way all the time. While it's not likely that live managed to evolve in such an environment we can't rule it out. 

Airship. Everyone is looking at it wrong. An airship or two is not going to be enough to be militarily effective given the size of the forces. While it could do nasty things to ground troops it can't be in enough places to win the war. What it can do is fly high and bombard enemy cities. Fly over their capital, toss out a big load of stones, along with a note (many copies to be sure they actually get one) "If you do not immediately cease your attack upon my nation your cities will be put to the torch one by one. You have no weapon that can reach high enough to harm this airship and we have supply caches sufficient to burn your empire to the ground even if our lands should fall." 

What we commonly refer to as "salt" is actually a particular salt, sodium chloride. This is simply a matter of abundance, though. Everything (except the stuff that isn't found in nature at all) is found there, though: Concentration of elements in the ocean. 

Current day Earth tech is enough: Dig in. You don't have to go very deep down to shield against everything the pulsar will throw at you so long as you are far enough out. If the planet is too close in (you referred to the atmosphere as thin and toxic, you didn't specify bitterly cold) the tides become a serious problem. (If you're close enough in not to freeze the tides become very nasty. We're not talking just water movement, but the ground itself going up and down as we see on some moons of Jupiter.) A tidally locked world avoids the problems with the tide but means a permanent night side that will freeze out the atmosphere and thus is incompatible with your description. Also, oxygen is reactive. The presence of free oxygen means there's something (almost certainly life) around generating it. You described the atmosphere as toxic, not as anoxic. Where is that oxygen coming from? 

A lot of people have been ignoring the energy-efficient aspect of the request. There's a lot of things that would work but use a huge amount of energy. The most efficient way to destroy civilization would be from the Kupier belt. Take something say 20 miles across and deorbit it. Gravity does most of the work. It's slow, though. 

You've got a big problem here: Evolution will have an opposite effect! Adventurers generally kill monsters because those monsters are a threat to civilization. (Yeah, they want loot but that loot came from civilization in the first place.) If adventurers become a serious threat to monsters the logical evolutionary result is monsters avoid civilization. Any low-intelligence monster will evolve to run away from humans. High-intelligence monsters may choose to raid civilization but they will live in locations very well concealed (probably quite remote) from anyone they are raiding. 

While no such organism exist I could imagine one. There are species where the male takes over all food gathering during the reproductive period. Lets take that to an extreme: Ejaculate is actually pretty good food, albeit in far too small a quantity to be worthwhile. Suppose a species developed a way to absorb the energy. The males that produce the most have the advantage because the absorption ability is limited, some sperm survive. More absorption, more production, the cycle continues until the female lives on sex. 

Depending on exactly what you're trying to do another approach comes to mind: Fill your apparatus with mercury. The drain pipe extends down more than 1 meter. Chill the whole apparatus in ice. Open the drain valve, you'll have less than 1 pascal of mercury vapor in there. Close the drain valve, now you can warm it up to the desired temperature. You could also construct a pump based on this: Open a valve between the apparatus and a chamber. Close the valve. Open a valve to the atmosphere, flood with mercury. Close the atmosphere valve, open the drain valve. Close the drain valve, repeat. Your pump cycle is very slow but you'll get a pretty good vacuum eventually. Note that this doesn't require the apparatus to be chilled, only the mercury side of things needs chilling. I rather suspect this will produce a better vacuum than they can actually maintain anyway. 

Two alien races have been duking it out between the stars. The difficulty of moving things between the stars has caused this war to strongly favor the defense, hence it has become a war of stealth rather than battle fleets. Race #1 paid a visit to the solar system. They were detected by the enemy who mistakenly thought it meant they lived here rather than just passing through. Missiles with a nanotech warhead are dispatched, when they enter the solar system they find only two targets emitting electromagnetic energy: Earth and Mars. They're very stealthy, we don't even detect them, let alone try to shoot them down. One missile goes for Mars, the others go for Earth. The missiles release a huge number of pellets designed to deliver their weapon through the atmosphere while minimizing reaction time and the ability of point defenses to destroy them, a classic time-on-target attack. The nanomachines are not all that sophisticated (there's a limit of how much computing you can put in something that small), human beings are a sufficient match for their target parameters. While it isn't a grey goo attack the machines do replicate and spread, quickly killing off everyone they can reach. Their target species does not use aircraft so there is no provision to attack targets in the stratosphere. The whole point of using a nanotech attack is to take the planet intact rather than simply destroying the biosphere, thus the machines soon deactivate. By the time the planes land it's all over.