In Vajrayana the Refuge Tree is used in the first part of the preliminary practices (Ngöndro) - prostrations. One is visualizing the tree in front of them and is performing the actual physical prostrations in front of it while repeating the Refuge texts. 

Interestingly, here you can see the response of another scientist who researches mindfulness meditation who, in short, does not agree with the drawbacks mentioned above. In general, the research on meditation started only recently and it is too early to state any definite answers. There are also signals that the methodology of most of the studies is flawed and much more funds and trials are needed to obtain more reliable results. 

Understanding emptiness and thus the absolute truth is difficult and that is why the relative truth is employed to learn about the nature of mind. On the absolute level, there is exactly the same Buddhahood in a sacred temple as in a bathroom, but because of our habitual likes and dislikes, our meditation is deeper in a temple. A highly realised Lama has the same Buddha Nature as a criminal but on a relative level there is much more benefit to trust the Lama. Once the emptiness is understood, the veils of ignorance disappear and a great joy is being discharged. Understanding the nature of the mind is indeed the lasting happiness and there is no greater joy than that. The following short poem nicely captures that: 

Buddha says that common sense and logical thinking is not enough to determine the truth. Only through his/her own experience or the experience of the wise ones one can be sure what to follow. 

On the other hand, there are also claims that there are serious drawbacks of mindfulness meditation. Mind focusing is seen as an opposite of mind wandering which tends to stimulate one's creativity. Thus, it is claimed that too focused mind can lead to decreased creativity. Another drawback is related to decreased ability to perform implicit learning: 

I would recommend to take a look at the website of Meditation and Mindfulness Research Group at Liverpool John Moores University. They not only present the results of various studies but also explain those in simpler, not-too-scientific terms. In their research blog they discuss neuroplasticity and meditation, neural mechanisms of attentional control in mindfulness meditation or Cognition and Emotion in Meditation, to name a few. This article also seems to nicely sum up the effects of meditation with links to the peer-reviewed articles. The author groups the effects of meditation in the following categories: 

My answer refers to Tibetan Buddhism, I am not sure whether the same applies to other traditions. Eye opening ritual is the final stage of a statue filling ritual. A newly bought statue is hollow inside and its base can be opened with a tool. If one sells an already filled statue, it is a good practice to ask in what circumstances it has been filled. During the statue filling ritual the face of the Buddha is covered. Traditionally, the face wasn't even painted before the statue has been filled. In this case the eye-opening ceremony involved adding the actual eyes to complete the statue. Nowadays it is difficult since many statues are acquired in Asian countries to be sold in the West. To fill the statue one needs a special transmission to do so. In the West various local Buddhist centres organize statue filling events so that people can bring their own statues and have them traditionally filled. You can see a photo relation from one of such events. I have never heard of anyone filling the statue without receiving special instructions. Personally I own a two statues. One has been bought and filled in Germany and the second one was bought in Kathmandu and filled in a local monastery. I uncovered the eyes only when it safely arrived to my home and I placed it on my altar. I've been told it is a good practice to cover the eyes of the Buddha during the travel and open it only when you can place the statue at it's final destination. 

My answer is based on the teachings I got from Vajrayana teachers. It is useful to use a metaphor of a mirror or a screen. Our mind is a perfect mirror and all our experiences are the reflections on that mirror. In our everyday life we habitually focus on and identify with those reflections - when something nice is appearing, we are happy, when something disturbing pops up - we are sad. With the help of Buddhism we want to understand the mirror itself - our perfect mind that is aware and able to experience everything. Enlightened Buddha is not disturbed by negativity around him because he has a full understanding of the nature of things around him - everything is empty in its essence and has nothing to do with good or bad. He is also not disturbed when something beautiful disappears - impermanence is all-pervading, whatever has a beginning will eventually has an end as well. The only lasting thing is the perfect, indestructible mind. So now let's look at drugs. They indeed can change our perception and allow us to experience extraordinary states of mind. But do they help us to recognize the mirror? Not really, they only change the reflections on the mirror. We don't like our grey everyday life so we take some drugs to add some colours to the movies reflected on our mirror. As soon as the drugs stop working, the colours bleach out and we suffer because we get attached to those more vibrant images and handling grey everyday reality becomes harder. So in a way drugs can make us attached to fascinating experiences which, sadly, are not permanent. Think of a movie theatre - there is a modern screen and advanced sound system. Spectators can enjoy watching various movies and if they pay extra (drugs taking), the advanced technology is turned on so they can have breathtaking experiences while watching the latest 3D HD sci-fi movies. But the screen is also capable of screening dramas, thrillers and really violent and disturbing images. Spectators have their likes and dislikes so they will be demanding only nice and fascinating movies, but sometimes they would buy a ticket and will be disappointed that the movie they've just seen wasn't as great as they expected. Buddhism invites you to become the owner of the cinema - to learn how the screen works and understand that the pictures are just reflections on your awesome screen and the technologies you have in your theatre are fantastic. You won't be bothered by the type of the movie or the ugly/annoying actors. Rather, you would say - wow, this theatre is capable of this, how fascinating! 

Amitābha Buddha has two attendant bodhisattvas: Avalokiteśvara and Mahāsthāmaprāpta and they all are present in meditations based on visualisation used in the Pure Land Buddhism (as well as in Vajrayana). 

I practise Vajrayana, I have Buddha statues in my flat and I did plenty of prostrations in my life. We take refuge in Buddha, Dharma and Sangha. And Buddha is not a person, it is the enlightened state of mind. It is the Buddha Nature which we all have inside us. So when I see a Buddha statue, I don't see a god, I see perfect qualities which I want to discover within me. So imagine, you have a Buddha Nature, you are already enlightened but you haven't realised that yet. The simplest way to make you realise that is to put a mirror in front of you so you can see it yourself. But of course, if you look at the mirror now, you see your physical, not quite perfect, body. In fact, you don't see yourself at all, you just focus on some impermanent body through your habitual thinking fuelled by your disturbing emotions like jealousy ('I wish I looked like Brad Pitt') or pride ('Oh, I'm so sexy'). So the trick is to put various Buddha forms in front of you which will shout at you - hey you, look at me, I am your mirror, I am perfect, joyful and strong. Hey, melt with me, there is absolutely no difference between you and me! If you ask me, I would rather expose in my room a depiction of my perfect qualities (Buddha statue) than a picture from my sister's wedding or some souvenir from Peru. I also happily donate money to my local Buddhist Centre because this is where I might get closer to my goal and, admittedly, I use their facilities there - hot water, electricity and toilet paper! Tibetans prostrate in front of the statues and their teachers, I prostrated as a part of Ngondro. It is a fantastic practice to purify your body and to work with pride. Plus, it strengthens your back muscles so later you can seat in meditation for hours. In principle, if you perceive Buddha as your perfect qualities, what's wrong with bowing in front of your perfect self? Through prostrating you also pay respect to those who gave you methods to realise your Buddha Nature. If somebody gave you the best gift you can ever imagine how do you show your gratitude? Is 'Cheers, mate' all you can do? In general, our Buddha Nature is represented in a human form because we are humans and it is easier for us to relate to other humans rather than to some abstract ideas. It is a method which apparently works. If you like the method, you follow it, if you don't like the method, you go somewhere else. This is the theory. In practice it may seem that some individuals or cultures got carried away and think that paying respect to Buddha alone will solve their problems. But it is a mistake to judge them as we don't know what exactly is their motivation and capabilities. Also, you judge them according to your definition of 'god' and most Asians probably wouldn't agree with your definition. Buddha gave different teachings to various people with different capabilities and problems. There is no universal method that would fit all. Having that in mind, it is a bit childish to be irritated by someone else's practice. Maybe they are doing the right thing, maybe they are making some mistakes. So what? Let's wish them happiness and let's focus on our own practice and let's pay attention so that we don't make any mistakes on our own spiritual path. 

When meeting other practitioners or teachers, always ask yourself - do I want to become like them? Do I want to look and behave like them in 5 years' time? If they represent qualities you would like to master, stay with them. If you think you can trust them and learn something useful from them, stay with them until you feel you can't learn anything else. If they seem too stiff or wild to you, keep searching. 

Before talking about Buddhist refuge, it is useful to recognize that all people everyday are taking refuge in various things. Let me explain. Everyone wants to be happy and avoid suffering. People engage in various activities because they hope it will give them some sort of happiness and security. They go to universities to gain knowledge, they work in companies to earn a lot of money, they find partners and set up families or they spend most of their time pursuing some hobby. They do it because they believe this is what will give them happiness and this is something they can rely on. So in other words they take refuge in it. All those things are great and can give lots of happiness indeed but the problem is that they are not permanent. One can easily lose a job or a partner and even if one has a seemingly perfect life, illness and death will inevitably come one day. Gautama Buddha deeply understood impermanence - that everything conditioned would eventually fall apart so he persistently searched for something unconditioned, permanent and unbreakable, something that can give lasting happiness. And this unconditioned thing is Buddhahood - enlightened state of mind or one can say - true nature of our mind. Taking refuge in Buddha means opening up to impermanent and perfect qualities of our mind. Buddhahood is our goal. The methods which will bring us there is the Dharma and friends, our helpers on the way, is the Sangha. Taking refuge in Buddha is actually a great responsibility - we stop hoping that others will make us happy or thinking that the source of our suffering is current political situation or neighbours. We admit that the only lasting happiness is to understand the nature of our mind and it will depend only on us whether we succeed in it or not. Dharma and Sangha are there to assist us but it is entirely up to us whether we use it or not. After all, we are the bosses and everyday we are free to decide what we want to take refuge in. 

Overall, the view and motivation is the key. We need to accept that we have a conditioned body and it is actually very wise to sometimes walk into the kitchen to eat or use the bathroom from time to time! In Mahayana tradition, practitioners take the Bodhisattva Vow and they promise they will not reach enlightenment until they help to liberate all other sentient beings. With that motivation, they will view their actions as means to benefit others. They will nurture their bodies so they can have good health and long lives and will engage in various activities to bring people happiness. There is an infinite number of acts of kindness we can do to our relatives, friends, neighbours, colleagues or even strangers. 

The Law of Attraction seems to take certain Buddhist teachings out of context in order to make worldly life more comfortable. In Buddhism, especially in Mahayana and Vajrayana, there are teachings on illusory or dream-like nature of our everyday experiences. Everything that happens to us takes place essentially in our mind as outside of the mind there are no appearances. The idea is that if we master our mind, we master everything. But it doesn't mean that once we master the mind we can create our reality as we wish. Rather, we will understand the emptiness of all phenomena and thus will get rid of our attachments and aversions towards things around us. The Law of Attraction seems to advocate that by the power of your mind (thoughts) one can attract things what will make you happy. And this statement already goes against what Buddhism teaches. Instead of learning that all things are essentially empty, one uses thoughts to attract one thing and repulse the other. So in essence one creates even more desires, attachments and aversions which sadly, are seeds for future sufferings.