I think the hate of people is more concentrated on getting unnecessary emails that take time away from what they ought to be doing instead. So no, don't add that line. And please reconsider if you have to send that E-Mail at all. 

Its actually more common then you might think. Part of why the rates are so expensive for these companies and part of why they're willing to pay them is because they need someone at a moment's notice. Some people just need to get a job done. Consider following scenario: 

Ps: If he keeps making mean comments, especially if he does so in writing, and if you dont mind a dent on your career, you can lawyer up for a hostile environment lawsuit. The possibility of that is by the way why HR will probably tear the guy a new one upon hearing this. 

Start applying to new places a week ago. Not beeing paid for work you have done is unacceptable. Your company not doing that is not only illegal, but also a clear sign that they cannot be trusted. Get out now. a 4 months versus 6 month employment on your CV has no negative effect big enough to stomach not beeing paid properly. 

Avoid taking a figurative dump on your current company. Recruiters really don't like that. Say anything thats formulated positively while still beeing truthful, such as the "Im looking for new challenges" line. Its tired, yes. But the "Why are you leaving your current company" line isn't there for you to stand out positively. Its there to serve as a red flag of unprofessional behavior if people decide to wail on their current company first chance they get. 

Sounds like you're dealing with institutional overhead. Sounds also like your manager knows this and chucks it up to the cost of doing business. So just keep on going. Keep on doing your work on time, even though you know it's a little redundant. These other departments probably want one of their guys to give them the report, because they have had bad experiences with outside program managers (like the one you replaced when the project was critical, remember?) and want to be extra sure. Make sure your paperwork and products of your work are in order, and make sure you still have a copy of your boss telling you to do this. It's probably not worth fighting this, and you'd end up coming off as annoying or they might decide to eliminate the redundancy and you with it. 

From what it sounds like in your description, the first thing he needs before anything else is an intensive english language course, followed by alot of work on his programming. There is only so much you can do to help him if he is not interested in putting effort in, but you can try anyways. I recommend beeing honest to him. Tell him that he is currently far behind, and failing. Recommend him to take an intensive language course first. 

I find it a little bit strange that a government agency would do something like this, but from all accounts it looks like a common bait and switch tactic. It works the following way: 

We don't have your contract, and we're not employment lawyers. What you need is an employment lawyer. But if you're in the US, chances are what they're doing is legal and your only recourse is to demand they change it and quit if they don't. 

This is usually the kind of language used when they're either already preparing an offer for you or you're on a very short shortlist (like 2 or 3 people left). Its not a guarantee you'll get an offer, but that is very promising. Companies usually do this to reassure the candidate that an offer is soon forthcoming, but its currently still stuck in bureaucratic limbo (Approval stamps missing, worker council approval pending, union approval pending, stuff like that) 

Why do you want them to get rid of it? Are they not hitting performance goals? Or is it just because you percieve it to be more "fair" that way? I'd advise against antagonizing your employees (thats what changing their lunch habits for no real reason will do) for no reason other then your personal sense of fairness. Also, if they're working and eating, they're still working, right? Do you want to prohibit them from eating at their desk? If so, why? 

Its called job hopping, and viewed as very negative. Depending on circumstances they might give you a shot at explaining it, but you will have to expect that many corporations will now throw your resume straight into the bin upon seeing this. Consider staying longer with your next job. 

Its important to note that Arbeitszeugnisse in German must be positive by case law. In order to avoid getting sued, companies will never put directly negative statements on there. To still convey information, they use lots of nuances, for instance: 

Well, they made their offer. They probably made that kind of offer specifically to avoid paying you benefits, to avoid holiday and sick pay, and to avoid any notice periods. They want you cheap and flexible, and thats what they're proposing. You say you don't want that. So you can try to negotiate. If they won't budge, you can either take it or leave it. 

This may be a big part of it. If you're both already communicating in unformatted one liners previously, there is no need to expect the formality to suddenly increase just because you have something now. It's not important, and the general tone of conversation has already been set. 

It may, but thats not really relevant there. The incident happened and now there is a loss of trust between you and your manager. You can try to amend this by working with her and adressing concerns directly, which may work if she is the kind of person to accept that. You could also complain to HR, and they may even do something, but realize that in a whole lot of companies, doing that will not only net you nothing but put you on the list to be sacked at the earliest next convenience. It sucks and its unfair, but thats what it is. About anonymous surveys: They're rarely effective, mainly because most people will (rightly or wrongly) assume that they're not really anonymous, and often thats true. As for your case, if you plan on answering anonymous surveys in the future, make sure you're alone and make sure to formulate any complaints you may have in such a way that its not obvious who wrote them. Ultimately, if your manager is not receptive to mending the bridge you inadvertenly burned with her, it may be best to cut your losses and start looking for a new job. 

Its always better to have a new offer lined up when its tenable, and you should strive for that. But sometimes that just isn't possible. Your question sounds like one of these situations. So make the best of it and get out quickly, and then find a new gig quickly. Be sure to polish up and check your resume and CV with a friend, and practice for interviews. Sometimes the otherwist best option is untenable, and then you just have no choice and you'll have to make the best of it. 

You can't really change your coworkers. Your only sensible option is to keep your head down, avoid making direct statements, deflect and search for a new job with the utmost priority. It may be uncomfortable for you, but you yourself acknowledge that direct pushback could get you fired. This job isn't going to work for you, clearly. 

Thats highly unprofessional from her. Talk with her one on one. Make very clear that you are not at work to small talk about your private life, and make it additionally clear that you do not want unsolicited "advice". If the behavior fails to stop after sometime, remind her. If it still fails to stop, talk to your manager about it. Mention how you have brought this up with her in the past before going to your manager. 

Absolutely not. There are at least 10 reasons that I can imagine for why you would apply late at night, and none of them would be of any interest whatsoever to me as an employer. I'd hazard a guess that the majority of the employers doesn't even look beyond the date portion of the timestamp, at all. 

Do you have any reason for this assumption besides an abrasive management style or percieved incompetence? It's worth remembering Hanlon's Razor (the principle that it is much more likely that someone is incompetent / bungled something then a malice of intent conspiracy going on). Maybe the managers have been brought in by new senior management to shake things up and upend some staff practices that they want to see change. It sounds like you're getting a second hand account of some very disgruntled long time workers. It's worth noting that if your entire company culture shifts, like the hospital's culture is shifting right now, many long term employees may resist against that because they prefer or are used to the old way things are done. Again, that manager may have the expressed mission from senior management to shake things up and make people shape up or ship out. But for now, lets assume that you're correct and that this is really a deliberate tactic to get long term staff to quit so they can be replaced by lower paid outsourcing staff. Then... 

Basicly the company is unwilling to pay what you want now but definately open to see if something works out sometime later. 

Make sure scope changes are thoroughly discussed and make sure to insist that the bonus still be tied to the original scope when informed of them. 

Most of the time, this is a (really cheap) negotiating tactic. But you don't have to fall for it. Understand that the leverage you have in such a negotiation is to either take the final offer or not. And if you don't, just don't take the job. There is really no reason to justify yourself, you need to know what you want and be prepared to walk away if they don't offer it. If the company really wants you suddenly all these excuses will disappear and they'll offer a decent salary. 

First of all no, it may be common to inquire if you're all on good terms, but you are not obligated to answer. You mentioned that she has tried to sabotage future employment of yours before, so thats most likely what she is doing now. In no country I know of would you be obligated to share this either. So in short, no. Don't tell. 

Talk to your manager, and let him know how bad it is. A good manager will handle it from there Failing that, talk to your Company's HR. HR people are very sensible to this and a good HR person will not sit still for long at such a report. Further failing that, talk to the highest Management you can have a talk to. Make clear that you're ready to quit should this continue. 

Again, thats unfortunate, but thats something you have to negotiate (If there is no laws setting minimums for this) 

Only when strictly necessary. You're not doing yourself any favors by disclosing. I know it sucks, and it's by law outright illegal to discriminate for disability status, but that's the world we're living in, and more often then not, you should choose to keep it to yourself unless it's patently obvious or you need to request strictly necessary accomodation. Shady employers will often, even though it's illegal, retaliate against anyone who requests accomodation, so doing that is always a risk. (Not everyone can afford to / wants to sue their employer. In certain industries that can be career suicide). So in closing, unless you are very sure that your employer will be accomodating and won't harbor ill will, you should disclose any disabilities only when strictly necessary, and only to the extent strictly necessary. It's sad that it has to be that way, but unless you want to risk being on the wrong end of an retaliating employer, don't. 

Email tracking is largely useless. Besides the risk that someone could see that you're doing it and see it as a red flag against you (or merely that you're impatient), several email access systems also don't work well with it. Some people even mark all emails as read and then have their own priority system using folders. Some people might open a mail but don't get to read it because they're getting called away for a meeting or anything. Its not very useful information, and you shouldn't waste your time doing it. This is all without going into if you're even allowed to have that information legally, which is off topic here but certainly not clear cut for all over the world. 

Both, but to the recruiter first. It's entirely possible that the recruiter will drop you from consideration for the position(s) upon hearing this, however. Ideally, they'd both be understanding and willing to wait a little for you. If that actually happens depends on how valueable your skills are, and if the company can wait. If it's a low level position or one that isn't overly in demand, don't be surprised if they just drop you and go with another candidate instead. 

Not generally, but you'll have to be aware of what you want. A large team vs a small team are very different working experiences, and you have to decide for yourself which one you want. 

Does your company have an IT department? If so, your manager should definately talk to your System Administrator to see if this is all in the green. Otherwise, if your company doesn't, who generally set up these computers? If its not an external contractor, your manager should talk to that person instead. Its not your place to modify network and account configurations behind the back of your IT people. This could only end badly. As to why he wants this, there are several possibilities: 

There are several possibilities for this: 1. The claim was provably false and filed with malice. In this case the response is usually dismissal and criminal charges where applicable 2. The claim was correct but not found to be harassment. There is usually no disciplinary action for this unless its repeated 3. The claim was not supported by enough evidence either way Same as #2 Do keep in mind though that this varies greatly by local laws, labour laws and company. 

That is entirely and positively off the rocker. Your private life is not a matter of discussion at your work place, and it is unprofessional for a manager to either tell his life stories or ask employees about theirs. You're there to work, not to share stories. 

Im going to take a different tone to the existing answers. Go for it. Seriously, you stated that your company policy doesn't explicitly forbid it, so there is no real company-side risk for this. Be sensible about it too, don't get stalker-ish, but expressing interest is worth it. Jobs change and percieved unprofessional behavior is forgotten, your life however is important. Other answers state that office romances seldomly end well, and that may very well be the case. But ask yourself this: Are you willing to take the risk that it might not go so well? If yes, you should definately go for it. Especially since your company policy explicitly does not forbid this.