Hit the sack lightly on your feet for a minute. Stay distant, move all the time. after 50 sec drop to floor and go all in for push ups. Do them for 20 seconds. jump up and while skipping in place as fast as you can hit the sack as fast as you can (very short range, and almost no power, just speed). Do this for 10 seconds. Last 30 seconds of the second minute punch the sack as hard as you can. Plant your feet and beat the sand out of it. repeat at will 

There is the possibility of injecting cortisone directly into the affected muscles, which makes them lazy as a couple of drunk cats. Increasing load slowly after the treatment, I should be able to rehabilitate the muscles. Does anyone have experience with this cortisone injection (or similar)? I have quite an uneasy feeling about it, not sure why. Does anyone have alternative methods, procedures, exercises that could help me? 

I wouldn't worry too much. Hang in there and always be careful with extremely heavy weights. The price we pay for bad form or for exaggerating always comes many years later (no complaints now does not imply what we are doing is good for our joints, ligaments and skeleton). 

The higher intensity of 'push' in each stride manifests itself in acceleration. That is the variable your are considering, not speed itself. What you call 'running power' simply implies reaching a specific speed faster. The 'end' force you have to constantly apply to maintain that effective speed is the same, no matter how fast you reached it earlier. In synthesis; football players do almost all of their running in constant acceleration, where as running athletes on medium or long distances reach their pace and keep it for several minutes to hours. The speed the football player has reached before a tackle however must not necessarily be higher than the speed of a track and field athlete running the mile. 

Physical withdrawal for the sense of well being that comes with natural endorphines. The intense craving for an activity simply because you enjoy it (this point is not to be underrated). 

Situation Due to a one sided sport I intensely practiced for a good portion of my teenage years(rowing in a team with only one oar per person), I have ever since experienced an awkward tight feeling in my hip when I stand up in the morning. After intense exercises I regularly feel a burn radiating down my leg on the outside of my thighs. I extreme cases and when it's very cold, I have a tingling sensation in my toes that makes me want to kick and stomp everything - the pain is really not a big deal, it is just so annoying! My very competent sports doctor diagnosed a piriformis syndrome. The radiating pain is caused by the muscle pressing on the Sciatic nerve. Unfortunately for me in addition to that, my entire gluteus is also extremely cramped up. My physiotherapist suggested puncturing the muscles with a needle that will causes the muscle to twitch and eventually relax. In my case the needles just bent.. this gives you and idea of how severely these muscles are cramped. The therapist said it is very unusual for these needles to bend, as they are quite thick. I searched all over the place for ways to help my muscles relax: massages, needle therapy, ultra wave therapy, stretches, no running, more running, more bicycle, Eventually I decided to take to extreme measures: at the local gym I used a machine to train external hip rotation with weights. I tried less weight and many reps until muscle failure/exhaustion, and I tried big weights with less reps, both slow and fast. I did this together with stretches and massages over 6 months now. It has become slightly better, but gluteus is still severely cramped, and in the meantime I have peaked on the weights (machine cannot do more than 110kg). I forgot to mention that I have no complaints whatsoever during activity, even under maximum loads. My questions: 

Possibly your feet are not landing directly under your center of mass as you run. Scott Jurek and Greg McMillan both say that failing to do this is inefficient and can cause injuries. When landing in front of your center mass you are constantly breaking and putting stress on your muscular skeletal system. When landing behind you are not using the spring motion of your feet and legs and require more power to remain upright. 

I want to know what is the phenomenon, or if it exists, that makes you stay at the same pace after about 2 hours of running. Changing speeds whether its to slow down or speed up feels slightly painful at first. Several times in marathons I get stuck in problem and end up running very slow to try to get rid of the pain with no success. A few times I've run at speeds that are faster than normal or slower than normal where that pace became the only comfortable pace after a few hours. Today even trying to walk up an incline my legs almost automatically continue to move at a similar cadence and slowing down didnt feel good. 

Marathon recovery for me is generally very very easy jogs, riding a bike, walks, stretching 2-3 times a day, drinking water, and massages. Specifically stretching, massages, and light 30 min workouts of the affected muscles simply to get blood flowing in them are the keys in my opinion. Its kinda funny that the best way to recover from this is to do more of it at an easy effort for 30 minutes. I still have doubts about this method before doing it while Im sore but it works pretty well everytime so far. Id say reverse taper but if your friends weren't well prepared then telling them this likely wont be helpful to them. 

After running, descending, long miles on a steep trail I'm finding that the worst pain/soreness in my legs are due to loose earth like gravel. Its hard to tell which muscles are hurting and Ive only experienced the pain two times, and ran this type of long run on steep trails only twice. Im a flatlander... I feel it the most after the run while walking on loose gravel, but also while running I feel it enough to change the way I descend down a trail which slows me down. More specifically, any side-wards motion due to slips or bumping against roots. This has only happened twice but the pain was definitely below the knee and maybe mostly on the front outer side of leg. Instead of trying to say what muscles are hurting me can someone tell me what muscles are responsible for stabilizing your feet and some suggestion for strengthen them in general or for running. What muscles are these and how do you strengthen them? 

Build up to at least 20 miles 1-2 months before a marathon race. Run all long runs ( +16 miles) at an easy pace. Do one long run every week but run your longest long runs every other weekend at the most. Aside from running for distance for the longer runs; run to time. Running more than 3 hours during training is treading a fine line between fitness and injury so most people advise against it. Run 30-60 minutes 2-5 times every week. One day every week should be devoted to speed work like sprinting. 3-4 months before marathon race focus starts on speed (and 180 spm cadence). Taper 2-3 weeks before race by cutting down distance but keep pace and intensity the same (until the last 4-5 days?). Listen to your body dont push too hard by taking a day off and take advantage of itches to go further or faster. 

Your chest will feel like it explodes during step number 3 especially. Number 1 is a bit of rest, to catch your breath. After you get better reduce time of step number 1 and increase step 2 and 3. If you do it right you should stand in a pool of sweat after 45 minutes. When you find yourself wiping the floor where you did the push ups just to get some grip again you know the following things: 

Get a heavy boxing sack, some bandages and gloves. Then I suggest to do following exercise. -> warmup, then: 

My father used to run marathons in under 3 hours, so he can be considered a successful amateur runner. I remember the weeks before his races very well. He would eat a lot of carbohydrates and drink water all the time. Especially 2-3 days before the race he walked around the house with 1.5L bottles of water, taking a couple of sips every 15-20 minutes. Take care not to drink shortly before and after meals, and never too much in one go. Water absorption is physiologically limited and drinking more just flushes valuable nutrients from your system. He often mixed alcohol-free beer with the water, or added some broth. I personally suggest eating several bananas a day to stock up magnesium and stretching your legs frequently. Proper hydration, salt, magnesium, and stretching are the best preventive measures against cramps during prolonged physical activities. GL 

It's actually a very normal feeling. It's not even comparable to other purely psychological addictions(like internet), because physical activity induces a secretion of endorphines. If the activity is intense, and lifting heavy weights falls under that category, the amount released is proportionally higher. I have experienced the same feeling you described. I remember a few years ago I twisted my right ankle 2 times in one year - I had to quit sports for 6 weeks, and then build up gradually. I actually turned to alcohol to stop that nauseating and depressing feeling. I drank regularly much like an alcoholic, at least a liter of beer a day, often more than three (starting at lunch). When I recovered I stopped drinking as quick as I began. This of course add's up with the normal 'pull' to do the things we enjoy doing. It's a craving feeling, that can get so strong as to provoke debilitating symptoms during withdrawal. The entire concept of addiction is very complicated and equally interesting, the dilemma about when an activity or a substance (not just drugs but also chocolate, ice cream, sparkling water) is to be considered a negative addiction will probably never be solved. You have to evaluate if the activity has any negative impacts on your life. Sports doesn't really fall into that category, so I wouldn't worry too much about it. However you may have noticed that it's more difficult to maintain a social life outside work and the gym, because you spend so much time there. Also having a relationship might not be so easy. Fortunately in my experience the more sports I do, the less I feel the need to sleep. That really compensates for the time spent cycling or lifting weights. Of course, everything depends on you perspective on life. I am sure you'll even find doctors that can diagnose some psychological disorder just because you love working out to the extent where you feel bad without it. 

First of all, you should switch to referring to different pace units. Try min/km or min/mile. In the running world speed in km/h is nearly meaningless, as you'll hardly encounter these units. Now, if you want to meet your goal, you should look for a training plan that will take you to your end goal over several weeks. Such training plan should have a combination of speed work, long slow distance (LSD), easy (recovery) runs, tempo runs, etc. If you want to run faster, you need to push the threshold of your lactic acid and your cardio. If you want to run further, you need endurance. By running the same speed and same distance all the time, you might improve up to a degree, but you'll most likely stagnate without further gains. You need to try to push your heart rate by mixing your exercise. Personally, if I go on a run I try to run negative split tempo. That means that you set off slower in the first half and return at a faster pace in the second half. This practise will teach you not to "over-cook it", by going too fast when you feel full of energy. In fact my last mile is always the fastest. If you are keen on racing, you'll find this practice useful, when you want to "kick" (speed up) towards the finish. Often this technique makes the difference between beating your PR or your opponent... or not. Having said, what I did, the best advice for novice runners is to run by feel. Sometimes over-analysing or focusing on a certain pace, only makes your head hurt and at a worse case can lead to demotivation or an injury. So for now, forget GPS, Heart rate monitors, cadence monitors, etc. I'd recommend you cut down to about 5k and run that for 2-3 weeks, till you can run it comfortably at a easy 6:30 min/km pace. After that you might want to try and add a stride(s) to your run. That means speeding up for say 100-200 metres. Not sprinting just let's say to 5:30 min/km. Start with one stride and increase them on weekly basis up to 4-5. To add miles (kilometers) to your runs, should be done gradually too. You try to quickly and you'll most likely injure yourself, as your body hasn't build the supporting structure. It is recommended to increase by 10% per week. If you stick to 3 runs per week with plenty of rest in between, perhaps some cross training (bike or swim), you'll improve dramatically over 9 weeks. I'd recommend you set a goal of 10km in an hour and with a good training plan you'll achieve that. Hope it helps. Good places to go for more info: Mcmillan Running Runners World 

As @Jimsan said compression calf sleeves are great way to help to ease the pain quicker than leaving it to settle on its own. I often have pain in my right calf muscle and both techniques as Jimsan points out help. My calf muscle pain comes from my stride technique and only if I fore-foot strike during my stride. I have tried to change my technique to attenuate the problem and land more mid-foot and it works. For me it's easier to land mid-foot on long runs, but with speed workouts and tempo runs, I'm usually on my toes... and the pain is back.