Note that I’ve found the brompton in a bag is very close to the 64 linear inches and with case can be close to the overweight limit. In those cases, it’s helpful to remove the saddle and pedals and put them in your other luggage. This will reduce both the weight and the overall dimensions as well as making it harder to break. You also want to remove all of the hinge locking bolts as those tend to snap. 

2) High-end Specialized MTB (around US$3000; Bosch mid-drive). The Bosch bottom bracket motor means that a front derailleur is impossible to fit as the motor/bottom bracket has internal gearing. 

Great question! I think the market drives this -- not necessarily just the folding bike market, but the component market. Mountain bikes have been the predominant type of bicycle for the past thirty years. This has meant that every manufacturer has a line for very, very inexpensive mountain bike componentry. If you want to build up a bike on the cheap, you use mtb hardware. Finally, related is that most adolescent-size BSOs are also mountainbikes - which further drives down price on those components with the added benefit that they fit folding bikes better. tldr: Most folding bikes are not sold by virtue of their component line (unlike road bikes) but on the basis of their folding mechanism. Most buyers will see "Shimano" gears and be happy -- not knowing it's the bottom end plastic Shimano for a BSO mtb. 

tl;dr: The 38-40mm Little Big Ben tires will fit your bicycle but (maybe) not your fenders The webpage for $URL$ clearly indicates that your thickest tire is a 700c x 42. 

I had a look against my BB5s and the problem is your pads are retracted way too far into the rotor body. I would loosen the adjustment bolts, make sure the pads are at least 2mm closer to the rotor by using your barrel adjuster (on the BB5, this is your only point of adjustment for the outer rotor) and then recenter the calipers and then tighten the adjustment bolts. 

Class III: These bikes have a throttle (combined usually with a pedal sensor) so the motor can turn on without pedaling. These are limited to 28mph for electric assist but it's often possible to bypass that control with a firmware upgrade or setting in the control panel. For example, some are sold with an "off-road only" switch. All of these are limited to 750 watts of electric assist power as well. For more info: $URL$ 

None of the other answers deal with the OPs desire to keep the bike inside the car, i.e. not on a rack. To put the bike in the car, you have to take off at least one of the wheels. Pedro sells a "chain keeper" which is designed to keep the chain on or near the derailleur when the rear wheel is off: 

Another option though much more expensive is to get a rear disk brake conversion kit. They attach to your rear triangle. They’re more expensive as you need the conversion kit, the disk brakes, maybe new brake levers, and most likely a new wheel that is disc compatible. It’s your rear wheel so you lose traction before anything else so you won’t brake faster but you’ll at least look cooler. 

Because of their larger surface area and because they are in the rear, drum brakes tend to have a longer life compared to front brakes. Example From Wikimedia commons is this image of a panasonic drum brake (front and rear). This brake has an adjustment nut/ferrule where the brake cable housing meets the brake. Note that the brake lever arm is pointing slightly backwards (towards the rear of the bike). You should check for wear if you're at the point that you've back the adjustment out so much that the brake arm lever is pointing forward even when the brakes aren't applied. 

I had to stretch the frame a bit to fit the 9-speed hub. Our Peugeot's are steel so that's not a problem. My derailleur won't reach to the lowest cog because of frame interference from the seat stay. So instead of a 11-34, it's effectively a 14-34. That's ok. If I really wanted the 11-cog, I'd dremel down the rear seatstay but this is just a commuter bike so I don't really feel the loss. 

If you can unlock it, it's very easy as the mounting bolts are uncovered when it's unlocked. If it is locked, then it's a bit more difficult but not much more. The lock housing you can see in the image below is just stamped metal riveted together. Some ring locks are so weak that a good whack on the locking lever will spring it open. Otherwise, the easiest way to remove it is the same way thieves would do it: use an angle grinder or bolt cutters. It takes about 10-20 seconds with the right tools. 

Unicycle racks, of course. You would hang the unicycle by its seat on the rear hooks. This way both unicycle and bicycle users could coexist. Every university bike stand should have these. 

You're using the wrong inflator valve on your compressor. You're likely using this type of inflator valve (aka chuck). It requires the inner pin of the schrader valve of the tire to depress the inner pin of the chuck for the chuck to release air: 

So they tend to be very sturdy and the fat, thick tires are very lush to ride on. Certainly something to consider. 

Vegetable oils such as "olive oil, castor oil, or peach kernel oil" are entirely inappropriate for lubricating anything except your salad and steak (or in the case of castor oil, your digestive system). The problem is that vegetable oils quickly oxidize and get gummy. Think about the residue that accumulates on the bottom and around the cap of a salad oil dispenser. That gummy stuff accumulates dirt and grime and accelerates wear. The best thing to do is to go to your local auto parts store or hardware store and ask for a good teflon based dry (chain) lube (for the chain), motor oil, or regular auto grease (for the axle). Some people also swear by chainsaw bar oil for bike chains (I find it's kinda sticky and prefer dry lubes, but you might be a rainy area). Here are some lubes that a regular auto/hardware store would have that would suffice: 

Dahon is an American bicycle company founded in 1982 by David T. Hon (Da Hon). They are famous for their folding bikes, which are manufactured overseas. Dahon officially markets under its own brand name as well as through affiliated brand names such as Yeah, Biceco, and Novara. But in the years after the Dahon came out, people noticed that very similar-to-identical folding bikes were being sold under other (often unknown or house) labels. These were often not the newest models, but a generation older and with some changes such as different grips, locking mechanisms, or gearing. It's unclear whether Dahon officially licenses their older designs to other companies to market under their own names; whether these are "excess" but official frames that have been repurposed or made during a "ghost shift"; total rip-off designs using the original plans; or, simply "inspired" by the Dahon design. Given the variety from perfect-clones to off-copies, most probably all of the above. Because of the family connection and resemblance to Dahons, these folding bicycles that appear to use the original Dahon designs are called Dahonesque. Note 1: some people also use the term Dahon-clone to refer to exact copies. Note 2: The Tern Company was founded by the wife and son of David Hon (the Dahon founder). The first Terns were definitely Dahonesque, but recent models show considerable genetic drift, perhaps enough to make them their own species.