As long as you keep close to the back of the truck the draft literally sucks you along. Once in the draft you really don't need a ton of power, just the ability to spin fast so you can keep nudging yourself back up into the sweet spot of the draft. I tried to minimize my risk exposure by drafting to the side of the truck, so I had a shot of getting over to the shoulder quickly if the truck suddenly braked. This meant I lost a bit of the draft, but given the insanity of the situation I felt it was a reasonable compromise. Others seem a bit more brave drafting in the dead centre (pun intended). WARNING: All this is of course incredibly foolish and could quickly descend into disaster. At the time I was young and clueless. 

While you are spooked you may want to avoid crits as you you will either be pushed around and kicked out the back in no time (further deflating your confidence) or you will be a danger to yourself and others (depending on the level of competition). What you are going through is normal. If you didn't have concerns, then that would be concerning! Focus and risk are tricky subjects for many. Some I suspect perform well because the simply don't have a full cognitive understand the risks they are taking. 

Maybe it was bad luck, maybe you are older and don't bounce as well. Maybe its both. Its hard to know exactly what happened in an accident. Often we unknowingly fill in missing information. I wouldn't dwell on all the details too much, you may never get a complete answer. The only thing I would take away, is that if you get blown off the road to try and stop off road, get off and walk back on to the road. You have already had one serious crash trying to jump back on over the lip. Unless this handling skill is something you explicitly start to train and develop I would avoid it! 

I use an ABUS everyday. Keep the lock orientated on its side, the friction in the joints will help it keep its form. The friction is essentially the dampening units you interested in. If you maintain this orientation you can set a shape and carefully pass it around something. The moment you change the orientation, to something more vertical, the friction in the joints will lessen and the lock will take the lowest energy form (typically straight down, hitting you in the shin or chipping the paint on your frame - hrrmm...). I am sure ABUS could add nylon washers to act as explicit dampers, furthering this friction effect, but this would likely increase the cost (for an already expensive lock) and could wear overtime adding slop to the joints. Slop could be bad as it could make it easier for theives to insert wedges to try and attack the joints (arguably the weakest point of the lock). 

Wool, wool, and wool. Wool undergarments. Wool over garments. (Maybe tweed as well.) Wool is a amazing material. It tends to perform better than synthetics (although the gap is closing) for keeping you warm when it is wet and cold outside. On descents people also used to just either tough it out or did life hacks such as putting newspaper down the front of the jersey rather than rely on fancy rain shells. Now here is the caveat about wool and the old world approach. Real wool garments are often much more expensive than equivalent synthetic garments. So from this perspective synthetics are a much better choice than killer cotton if you cannot afford wool. Synthetics also tend to wear a bit harder and typically don't need to be hand washed, so wool is more care. You typically only had a few garments which you washed by hand at night before the next day of riding. You also had to learn how to darn wool, so you could fix damage that can happen to wool over time. Synthetics dominate today because of the cost, reduced care and good enough performance. 

Most when they go on endurance rides they laugh at (1), then ride somewhere between (2) and (3); doing what we commonly refer to as junk miles. You will need to specifically train these three components individually to get the biggest improvements your sustained speed. A coach can be highly beneficial here. Improving 1 minute efforts Here we want to train our type 2a fibers and perhaps "recuit" some type 2b to be like, or function more like, like type 2a (this is a bit of a disputed topic as to the mechanism). They gym may help a bit but something like interval training (repeated hard efforts, e.g., 2 min on 1 minute off, repeated 8 times) will do wonders. Interval training is generally hard to do and hard to get right, a coach is recommended. 

For example, a Time Trial bike will generally have steeper seat tube angle which will by default position you further forwards on the bike towards the bottom bracket (what the pedals and cranks spin around). That is because these bikes are intended for high power output associated with short duration competitions and moving forward relative is often better for power (as you noted). In this example you can compromise component (3)(comfort) in favour of component (1)(performance). (There is also an important interplay between (1)(performance) and (2)(aerodynamics) which I won't get into here). However, while a forward position may be good for time trials, it may only be a sustainable for a short period of time. While useful for shorter time trial competitions, such a position could leave you debilitated in a ultra endurance event such as the 1200km Paris-Breast-Paris randonneuring event, which will likely need a completely different riding position. Components Selection & Striking a balance Continuing with the time trial bike example. While by default the bike may position you farther forward, but your final position relative to the bottom bracket (BB) and pedals will also be influenced by how you position the saddle on the seat post and the seat post itself. This is the fit component. (Note that, many seat posts have differing amounts of set back - typically backwards offset, which shifts the saddle backwards - and a few crazy ones even have a forward offset). Here you are using the seat post and the seat post / saddle interface to change your final position even though the frame geometry has not changed. To confuse things even further crank length (cranks connect the pedals to the BB), will also affect your final pedal position relative to your body for a given frame geometry. Unless you go custom, a given bike geometry tries to strike a balance for a variety of riders for the intended task (e.g., short power rides, longer rides, road, off-road, etc). The expectation is that a geometry will get you into your fit window for a given task and component selection is used to finalize the fit. So even though you are interested in geometry, fit still plays an important role. Individual Variability The optimal position for a given geometry will also vary greatly by rider, even for riders of the same height. For example, I have proportionately longer femurs than the general population, as a result I tend position my saddle farther back than most riders. Because of my physical structure, I also prefer frames with slacker seat tube angles as this makes it easier for me to get into my fit window using standard components (although I still have a bugger of a time getting enough rearward offset with a Brooks saddle under most standard geometries). In the end there are a lot of factors (some redundant) that affect your final position. If you would like to read up more on the influence of different geometry considerations I would suggest Cycling Tips: The Geometry of Bike Handling Your Observations