A few days. Without supporting infrastructure, the city is immediately without electricity and -- more importantly -- water. Food will last for days, maybe even weeks. Being without electricity isn't a problem for survival, but being without water is. There aren't many sources of water in a city. Even if the city has a river, getting water to the households will be difficult. Compared to the number of inhabitants and the area a metropolis typically covers, having access to a big river does almost nothing. Having more, but smaller rivers would be more ebneficial. The ancient Rome had the river Tiber flowing through it. In modern standards, it wasn't a metropolis. But they still needed an intricte system of aqueducts (who got the water from the "nearby" mountains), springs and public beths to get water to everyone. It is considered one of the major achievements of the time. Modern systems all work with electricity. Without pumps running, the water pressure in the pipes will drop immediately. People will start riots immediately. Stores will be raided for supplies. Those won't last long. After a few days, people either start dying from lack of water or leave the city. Since there isn't anything left in the wilderness, there will be plenty of sources of fresh, uncontaminated water. So, a mass exodus paired with a lot of deaths will leave the city almost empty. There will be only a handfull of people who can gather enough water from roofs etc. left. But it will be a ghost town, nothing coming even close to 50%. Metroplis are the most densely populated areas on the world and at the same time the most hostile in terms of survival. Lots of concrete, and not much opportunities to get fresh water or grow food, except for filtering rainfall from rooftops and using public parks. 

Does the axis of rotation change with it? Because if the axis of rotation stays fixed wrt. to the sun, then you'd have one half of the planet bathed in sunlight for half a year, and the other half in complete darkness for half a year. Pretty hostile. If the axis of rotation also changes, not much would be different. The sun is almost completely a perfect sphere (one of the most perfect spheres we have yet found in nature), so I suspect that radiation emitted is quite uniform. many features of the sun are equally found at the poles and at the equator (e.g. coronal holes). But our ability to reach other planets would be drastically dimished, because plane changes are very, very expensive. You have to spend $\Delta v = v_0 \cdot sin \left( \frac \theta 2 \right)$ m/s just to change the plane. In case of the earth, the mean orbital speed is ~30km/s, so you would need another 21km/s delta-v for the plane change. This is pretty prohibitive (say goodbye to space travel to anything else then the moon). And you'd have to explain how that came to be, since conservation of angular momentum dictates that all bodies should (roughly) orbit in the same plane. So such a solar system could only evolve if the planet got pulled there by another big source of gravity, e.g. a big rogue planet passing through. I sadly don't have good information on the suns radiation from the poles. But the suns magnetosphere does not seem to be much of a concern for your planet. A much greater concern would be the stability of the orbit. Jupiter and the other bodies perturb the earths orbit, but since we are in the same plane, the system is quite stable for the forseeable (million of years) future. but with Earth being heavily inclined, I could imagine the system to be a lot less stable. Maybe you plug it into Universe Sandbox or similar see the results. 

You'd need your society to be implausibly stable, while at the same time allowing great flexibility in social roles. Lasting evolutionary change generally takes around a million years. Let's say for the sake of argument that with the rate of mutation artificially accelerated, we'd need 100,000 years to complete the process. What does that mean? It means that for around twenty times longer than the entirety of recorded history, your society has to: 

Put your humans in a stable environment, without weather effects. This could be an extensive cave system, especially one near geothermal vents to provide a bit of extra warmth, or it could be an artificial environment like a space station or colony. You'll probably also want to make them fairly sedentary, since moving around a lot would require some kind of foot wear. As a bonus, living in dark caves would also remove a lot of the decorative aspects of clothing as well, since nobody would be able to see your swanky new threads. 

Plenty of options for us to play with here. Perhaps the aliens' methods of bioengineering require elaborate infrastructure to be employed. Sure, now we know how to build synthetic DNA, but it requires quantum supercomputers that we don't know how to build to get the most out of it. Perhaps it needs a compound that's extremely difficult for us to produce. Knowing that you need metallic hydrogen to modify an existing species into a new form isn't much help if you don't have any metallic hydrogen lying around the place. The aliens database isn't fully decoded and/or was corrupted by long storage. Parts of the data are readable and can be acted upon, but it'll take a lot more work to dig out the rest. We may know how to build an oven, but we've only got two recipes to cook in it. The knowledge could be suppressed by dark and shadowy entities. A corporation that funded the expedition to Callisto could claim copyright over all the knowledge in the database, and only release the information in a steady trickle that suits their bottom line. Just a few thoughts. Make of them what you will. 

It's a lot easier to hide things in a medieval setting than a modern one. With no reliable instant communication, an entire town could drop off the map and nobody would even realise until travelers stopped arriving from there. You've got a lot of leeway to divert resources with noone the wiser. The simplest course of action would be to have a dedicated labour force building your ships and bringing supplies, and keep them on the job until it is finished. These men would travel to and from resource sites (farms, mines, forests) and bring the resources back to the construction site. The people at the resource sites would neither know nor care where their supplies were ending up; they'd only care that they got paid. Your construction site needs to be somewhere remote and uninviting - a windswept moor, for example - to keep curious farmers from wandering nearby. You've probably pulled most people who live around the area into your labour force anyway. Refugees are going to follow the easiest path towards perceived safety - if you provide transportation "for the public good" further downstream, they'll be heading for there, not for your construction yard. Edited to Add: I realised that I hadn't made this part explicit (thanks, @Bellerophon), but an important safeguard will be to spread your resource gathering out. Don't raze an entire forest and bring all the lumber to one place, that would be difficult (though again, not impossible) to hide. Instead of cutting five hundred trees in one place, you'd have five hundred woodsmen all over the country cut three trees instead of two. Don't dig out an entire mountain for copper nails, have a dozen mines increase their output by twenty percent. You don't raise suspicion by focusing your attention in any one location. 

There is a possibility of survival after incredible suffering Contrary to other opinion the Swiss are in a precarious position if the rest of the world goes away. Here are several major issues. 

Yes, the landscape is scattered with nuclear debris. Most nuclear power plant designs will fail spectacularly with long lasting effect on the surrounding area. The notion that nuclear reactors can run for extended periods of time without human intervention is simply not founded in reality. Keeping a nuclear reaction from becoming critical is a feat within itself. It's balancing act of maintaining a state that is less than critical. It will fail within a few months to a few years working under the assumption that it is not getting it's cooling water replenished which is entirely plausible. Most nuclear power plants in the United States require are light water reactors or pressurized water reactors and require the circulation of water in order to stay within a 'steady state' of operational limits. The two failure scenarios that come into play under an unattended state both involve overheating and a change of state to critical. Other incidents occur on the timeline to critical such as hydrogen explosions but these events are essentially ancillary and aren't central to root cause. Background There are two types of nuclear reactors that can suffer from water related failure. 

Eventually a portion of the population will survive Under extreme duress and lack of commodity consumables like medicine, food and water the society will begin to break down and governance will be an afterthought. Communication with the populace from the government will become more and more difficult. As the population seeks out other industrialized nations infrastructure they will encounter the same issues abroad in neighboring countries, a lack of petroleum products to restart manufacturing, lack of potable water, food crisis and all assortment of survival issues associated with a dystopian world crisis. The 8 million people that will require basic staples such as rice and wheat will begin to seek food for survival from their neighbors. Government control will break down and the military will be unable to prevent looting and other fear driven group behavior. Neighbors will die as groups seek to build power to control limited resources. The Swiss do not have a lot working in their favor. Other countries have a more favorable outlook especially if they have a method of mass protein creation as with cattle, poultry and pork. Wheat or rice production in a country is very favorable. France is much more well suited for this sort of situation but most of the above would still apply to them. Where the Swiss will fail 

Failure Scenario - Lack of Water Both water cooled reactor types suffer cataclysmic failure due to a lack of water. Some reactors can be more robust than others depending on the design. Many reactors derive their cooling water directly from their environment using ocean, lake or river water. These reactors are prone to having their water intake ducts clogged with debris thereby restricting the flow of cooling water to their segregated cooling systems. A lack of human intervention in these reactor types can lead to failure. Cooling towers are used with reactors that are not in close proximity to ocean, river and lake water. Palo Verde Nuclear Power Plant in Arizona is one such example as was Three Mile Island. In the event of an overheating reactor in the United States the Federal Government only requires a 30 day supply of cooling water. This cooling water, called a UHS (Ultimate Heat Sink) is a finite source and dissipates over time due to a number of reasons including evaporation, steam release and lack of re-circulation of primary cooling circuits due to radiation (the water for cooling is used one time only, in some cases, due to the amount of radiation contamination of the water) As the water supply for cooling dwindles and water pressure decreases enough for flow rates to diminish beyond preset thresholds, the reactor undergoes an automatic shutdown called a SCRAM. A SCRAM event does not require electricity. Neutron absorbing control rods are held in place by electromagnets above the fissile pile and upon loss of electricity the electromagnets lose their magnetism and the rods are dropped into place bringing fission to a near halt in the core. These systems are automated and do not require human intervention, however, the continued decay heat of the fissile material continues to create issues with cooling and with a finite water supply, eventually, the reaction pile becomes exposed to air which cannot cool the fissile rods due to simple lack of density. At this point water changes it's state to a gas and becomes steam. The heat increases further and more steam and pressure buildup in the chamber. Water becomes superheated and takes on properties and attributes more akin to an organic solvent. The pressure is so high within the chamber that it eventually prevents the water from boiling. This superheated water's hydrogen bonds are eventually broken and the chamber becomes filled with superheated highly pressurized hydrogen which eventually explodes due to combustion or the failure of the reactor pressure vessel to contain the extremely high pressures. This failure has been made famous by the hydrogen explosion at the Fukushima Daiichi reactor containment vessels in Japan due to the tsunami which did not damage the reactors, it damaged generators that prevented the circulation of water for the cooling systems. The loss of integrity to the reaction chamber is the penultimate step to the catastrophe, all systems are essentially destroyed and now the fissile material can become molten and eventually melt through any concrete casements that require cooling features in order to prevent the molten nuclear pile from actually melting through it. Once this molten pile of nuclear material hit's moisture an explosion can occur sending nuclear debris into the atmosphere and contaminating the surround landscape with fallout. Mind you, this isn't a nuclear explosion it's just an explosion....but you see what the problem is here, it's called a meltdown. Conclusion Water inlets that use water from the environment (rivers, lakes, oceans) for secondary cooling systems require regular maintenance to prevent debris from clogging their inlets. US located closed loop cooling reactors require only 30 days of backup cooling water. Manual events such as steam or pressure release to prevent containment vessel explosions won't be occurring. There are disaster prevention events that require human intervention. See this IAEA root cause analysis document and salivate over it's plethora of manual events and whether staff followed procedure and a logical decision tree before, during and after a disaster. I will close this scenario with, there's nuclear waste all over the place. Other Failure Scenarios There are hundreds of nuclear reactors across the world. Educational and research reactors are sprinkled across the topography of nations. Some are mercury and graphite cooled. Others use molten salts and even molten sodium. Fast reactors requires considerable human intervention and are used primarily in naval ship propulsion and in some cases the production of electricity in Russia. There are a plethora of scenarios where these reactor types can go bad in their own unique and beautiful ways. All in all in this scenario that I put forth is feared. There are many other failure points that I have failed to mention. The list is too long and nuanced. With the framework you have presented. Here is the official US Government Nuclear Reactor Regulation Response Plan to Pandemic Notice the emphasis on staff and staff skills and manning the facility to prevent failure. With all the dead engineers it will be difficult to staff these facilities, chaos will ensue attempting to man the reactors as they slowly begin to fail one by one. So to answer your question again. Yes, the landscape is scattered with nuclear debris. 

Sustainability If we're still going to be breathing and civilised in 500 years, but not make any great breakthroughs in power generation or similar, then we're going to have to make much better use of the resources we have. That means we'll have switched our power generation technology to renewable sources - extensive use of solar, geothermal, wind, etc. We probably would still have some nuclear fission plants too, as a backup to the renewables. That said, our current generating technologies are definitely not perfect, and are not particularly efficient (especially in transmission of power). So we'll see a LOT of power plants. Every roof will have solar panels, every hill will have wind turbines. We'll probably also be making much more extensive use of hydrogen fuel cells for mobile power. Cars running on fuel cells already exist, it's really just a matter of refining the technology and getting the infrastructure in place. Population Control Food production is getting troublesome already. Even with genetically modified crops we won't be able to sustain our explosive growth forever - that's going to mean controlling the population somehow. This could be as simple as a cultural taboo on large families, or as strict as forced sterilisation after a second birth - your call, really. Asteroid mining...maybe It's debatable whether this is really within our reach technologically at present or not. Certainly we are currently in a position to start planning space missions to capture and exploit asteroids - this is really a matter of refining our technology rather than requiring huge breakthroughs. Whether it would be economical or not depends largely on what you're mining for, and whether we can reduce the cost of spaceflight. If programs like Skylon are successful - which, again, is more about refining the tech that exists rather than needing a huge breakthrough - then spaceflight could become much cheaper in the near future. Environment Sooner or later, we're going to have to get a handle on climate change. Without new technologies to help us survive its effects, we may be forced to spend a lot of energy actively removing carbon from the atmosphere. That isn't too difficult to do - there are already proposals for technologies to do it - but it's inefficient and expensive. A good sized portion of our economy might be eaten up in trying to repair the environment. Social ...honestly, anything's possible. We could see a dawning new age of secular humanism and liberal democracy. We could all descend into religious barbarism. What looks likely at the moment in the US is the rise of an aristocratic elite to rule over poverty-stricken serfs; there's really no way to tell which forces are going to win this battle. 

Crop Failures Our food supply is shockingly vulnerable. $URL$ Something like 50% of the world's caloric intake is based on just three crops - wheat, rice, and maize (corn). Something that destroyed those crops - a disease or fungus, say - would shatter industrial civilisation, and would certainly result in widespread famine. A few rogue biologists might find (or even create!) the pathogen or whatever that destroyed the crops, and thus might see this coming well in advance, but it would be exceptionally difficult to shift production to other crops fast enough or in sufficient quantity to avoid the disaster. Ecological Collapse The ecosystem depends to a surprising degree on a few keystone species. These are species that affect their environment to a great degree, like a top predator that controls the numbers of large herbivores (wolves in Yellowstone), or a creature that modifies its environment to create niches for others (beavers). Some of these species are vital to human society. Bees are a favourite recent topical example. Again, a pathogen that severely reduced the population of a keystone species could well lead to a social collapse.