No, we do not. The origin itself is disputed. The 100 senator story is a quote from Livy, but there are alternative theories, both religious and/or hereditary in nature. There are no contemporary sources to confirm and in my opinion there have been multiple sources for what later became the dominant political class. Fact is that the patrician class originated very early and became strictly hereditary for a long period of time. There are some 55 gens known to be patrician and this list is known to be incomplete. Prominant examples are Julia, Fabia and Claudia. Consular status is only one place to look for evidence of patrician status. King Servius Tullius' census is an earlier source. Priesthood was originally a patrician monopoly which declined as plebeian influence grew. Still for a long time only patricians could hold important posts like the office of interrex or interim head of state. Eventually at the time of the late republic being a patrician became a political liability rather than an advantage. During the empire the emperor was required to be a patrician and was the only person that could instate new patricians. These appointments should be well documented but I cannot find at this time a good source. References: $URL$ $URL$ A Companion to Livy edited by Bernard Mineo The Oxford Companion to Classical Civilization edited by Simon Hornblower, Antony Spawforth, Esther Eidinow Patricians and Plebeians: The Origin of the Roman State by Richard E. Mitchell 

Do Chinese people now refer to, or have they ever (other than during the Qin Dynasty or the rule of a state named Qin) referred to their nation as some derivative of the Chinese character "Qin" (秦) of the Qin Dynasty? No (except for one possible round-about exception, "Zhina," which is today viewed as an offensive slur). Let's leave aside who exactly "Chinese" refers to unless significant confusion in the comments arises. That's a whole 'nother can of worms. Are the names that China has been referred to through different times and different regions etymologically related to the English word "China?" Many are, but far from all. Is there some etymological connection between the English word "China" and the Chinese character "Qin?" There seems to be a general academic trend towards a weak "Yes" tempered by significant dissent. If the answer to 3. is yes, what political entity are we talking about? Probably the first dynasty or the state preceding it in the Warring States period. If the answer to 3. is yes, is there any particular reason that name was chosen? These kinds of "why?" questions are almost impossible to really answer well and/or rigorously, but the answer is probably because that just so happened to be the name of the state in power when contact was made. 

The Netherlands mainly has so-called 'waterburchten' or castles surrounded by water on all sides. Best-known example is Muiden Castle, founded around 1280. Today it is accessible as museum and mainly features the middle ages and the 17th century. It was almost demolished in the 19th century after a century of neglect but today is regarded as probably the best restored medieval Dutch castle. References: $URL$ $URL$ 

The main reason for avoiding the sling is that it is a difficult weapon to use. Requires training to do right EVERY time. So your slinger could expect a short career indeed which would abruptly end the very first time a live grenade slips the string and falls at his feet. Very bad trade-off for more range at questionable accuracy. What you had instead for more range with accuracy was this weapon: The stick grenade. It was widely used during both WWI and WWII. 

The Chinese people have called their nation and themselves many names through time, many of which come from dynastic names. Qin does not figure among them however (except during times and places of rule by the Qin). The first dynasty of China had a rather bad rap among later generations, mainly due to massacring scholars who didn't follow the Legalist school of thought. As the early 20th century Sinologist Berthold Laufer put it: 

At the end of the day it seems like all the academic sources just settle on Occam's Razor. Like I said, hard to answer well or rigorously. 

While I doubt there was much debt involving monthly payments as compared to today, it is known that (any) calender reform caused a lot of confusion that even today confounds historians. All legal documents were impacted and there even were protests where people reclaimed the days lost as they were believed to shorten their lives. Theoretically if your debt was due between September 3 and 14 in the Britain of 1752 you'd be off for free as these days never existed. In practice I think that did not happen at all as failure to repay your debts made you a felon and punishment was harsh, the law being very much on the side of the creditor. In the end I expect people just muddled through with the courts having a field day. References: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

To give a flavor of the various exonyms China has had, here's a selection of ones both etymologically related and not related to "China." I'll start off by noting that "Qin people" (秦人) is an exonym recorded in usage by northern civilizations in contact with the Chinese, although it's not quite settled whether that it made its way over to Indo-Europoean languages. 

This mainly matches with the timelines established for most of the Indo-European cognates claimed to have descended from Qin. In particular, Laufer and Pelliot both mention a 300 B.C. dating of the Sanskrit word Cina given by Hermann Jacobi, which Laufer initially takes as evidence against the Qin origin and which Pelliot seems to hand-wave away as a potential hedge that perhaps "China" comes from the pre-unification Qin state, but still believes 

Social mobility during that time was low. So an individual would have to be pretty special to be noticed. For something like teaching one would need references to be accepted by the upper class. Or acquire the endorsement of a pillar of society, preferable someone of nobility. An example may be boxing. It started out as a rough lower class amusement but after the Queensberry rules in 1867 is was adopted by the upper class. So conceivably a good lower class boxer might build a reputation, be noticed, sponsored, and end up as a teacher of some upper class hobbyist. Nice link: $URL$ 

Early 20th century Sinologists such as Paul Pelliot and Berthold Laufer expounded at length about the likelihood that the Indo-European cognates of "China" all come from Qin (Laufer in particular changes his opinion later in life from initially opposing the idea to coming around to it). This is far from unanimous though. Endymion Wilkinson instead seems to attribute the origin to "silk": 

The original question is a bit vague as to who exactly is calling China, well, "China." This also means that it's a bit tricky to pin down what exactly the word "China" refers to (e.g. is it the same word as "Cathay," "Sina," etc.? Is it even referring to a nation?), especially because it's not at all a certainty that "China" is derived from "Ch'in/Qin" (I'll refer to it by its Pinyin romanization "Qin" for the rest of this answer). It's also not exactly clear what "Qin" refers to as there are many political entities in China's history that shared that name. The first dynasty to unify China? The state that preceded the dynasty? One of quite a few states in later periods of disunity? So let's address each part of that.