Various factors are discussed in the William H James paper which affect the ratio of men’s X-bearing and Y-bearing sperm. However, historical records and current studies confirm that more males than females are conceived (primary sex ratio) and born (secondary sex ratio). This suggests that under certain conditions, natural selection favors a deviation from the 50/50 ESS sex ratio at conception and birth per research by Curt A Sandman et.al. in 2013. 

On its first official combat flight on August 31, 1940, intercepted a flight of 60 enemy aircraft and downed four confirmed Messerschmitt 109s and two unconfirmed enemy planes per Polish Air Force Association in its book 'Destiny Can Wait, p58-59'. On their next flight on September 2, 1940, downed four more German aircraft. There were seven confirmed kills on both September 5 and 6, 1940. Six planes of the 303rd were shot down during the two-day span, but only one pilot was injured which was the British flight leader per Zamoyski in the book 'The Forgotten Few, p82'. On September 7, the 303rd was scrambled to intercept a flight of 40 Dornier DO 17 bombers. That day the 303rd scored 14 confirmed and four unconfirmed kills, and lost only two planes. 

This got me thinking: does this 24-48 hour period really exist, or is it just so they can cover themselves in case unforeseen problems occur? 

I'm somewhat sceptical of the claims of fuel companies, especially given the price of premium fuel. Have independent tests been performed? 

Let's see (US perspective on this issue): A hand dryer probably uses around 3000W to run the motor and the heater. It might be on for about 30 seconds. During that time, it consumes 1.5 kWm (kilowatt-minutes) or about 25 watt-hours. According to this source, about 45% of the US energy supply (the largest proportion) comes from coal as of 2010. (185 GWh / 412 GWh = 44.9%), so I'll pretend that the energy comes from coal. Of course, if it comes from wind turbines, then CO2 production will be almost nil. This source tells us how much using 1 kWh of energy contributes to production of CO2 from coal (this is the latest data I can get, but it shouldn't drift too much): 

However, the above reason provided by Dr. John Ristau is not backed up by research evidence as the distance to which the increased pressures can migrate and cause earthquakes and the timing is still uncertain. 

Brett Palmer a student of biblical inerrancy issues states in Skeptical review online that Kenyon’s original findings place the date for Jericho’s destruction at c. 1550 BCE which is too early for Joshua’s conquest as described in the Bible. 

The University of Nebraska also suggests cool water as the best fluid replacement during sports events. 

When one compares the name list of MH 370 passengers and the names of the patent holders, one could find that claim is false referring to Snopes. Analysis shows that the names Peidong Wang from Suzhou, Zhijun Chen from Suzhou, Zhihong Cheng from Suzhou and Li Ying, from Suzhou on the Patent do not match the name list on the MH 370 passenger manifest which disappeared on 8 March, 2014. The patent filed on May 15, 2014 covers a system for optimizing the number of circuits on a piece of semi-conductor material rather than being military in nature. If an inventor is deceased or under legal incapacity, the legal representative of the inventor may make an application for patent on behalf of the inventor. If an inventor dies during the time intervening between the filing of the application and the granting of a patent thereon, the letters patent may be issued to the legal representative upon proper intervention. If the application is filed by the legal representative (executor, administrator, etc.) of a deceased inventor, the legal representative must make the oath or declaration. No such declaration is present for patent #8,987,786. The Blackstone Group, at which Jacob Rothschild serves as a member of the company's International Advisory Board, is one of the largest of institutional holders along with the Carlyle Group and TPG Group Holdings. 

My friend told me that he doesn't bother voting any more in elections, because "it's not like one vote ever made a difference." I will vote when I can and I think it is important, and although I share his sentiment about politicians... it got me thinking. Has there ever been any major election (around 1 million votes or more) where a single vote has decided the result? e.g. Candidate A got 1,000,000 votes and Candidate B got 1,000,001 votes. If the voter for candidate B did not vote it would be a tie and there might be a run-off election or some other system used to determine the winner and thus B may have lost if that one vote was not cast. 

Very simply, it could but with modern electrical safety systems, it's unlikely. A modern television is not earthed, as the casing is usually plastic, although some bigger sets have grounds. The reason for this is because the class Y capacitors used to filter EMI require an earth conductor. Bigger sets emit more EMI because they use more power, thus can require an earth connector. In which case, earth must be connected to exposed metal parts, if any. If they have a direct ground, water is likely to short live to the earthed case and trip the RCD/GFCI within 30 ms, with a current as low as 30mA. A general rule is that you can feel 1mA, 10mA is painful and 100mA can stop the heart. As you can't get out, this leads to death... and it's not nice. If not, then it could be fatal if the bathtub is not correctly earthed which according to regulations it must be. If the bathtub is earthed, the water will allow enough current to flow from live to earth to trip the RCD/GFCI. It would hurt, but you'd be able to get out usually. Modern household RCD/GFCI devices will trip on the current required to cause fibrilation - often much lower to make it safer. Note that RCD/GFCI devices don't measure earth current but instead the imbalance between live and neutral so even without a proper mains earth for the bath they will work. All that is important is that the current has some way to avoid going from live to neutral. If that is through the plumbing, it could save your life, though any assailant throwing TVs at you is likely to have more devious plans in mind. 

Evidence: Several studies mentioned here and here do not confirm the link between crumb rubber turf and cancer. 

Yes, Digital infrared thermal imaging (DITI) can be used as an adjunct to mammography and ultrasound to detect breast cancer in women. The role of DITI has been evaluated in the study 'Effectiveness of a noninvasive digital infrared thermal imaging system in the detection of breast cancer' by Arora N et. al. 2008 for detection of dense breast parenchyma in women. Per results of the study, 

Research from Mexico also shows that price decrease of sugary foods increases abdominal obesity and type II diabetes. 

However, the condition of the text is fragmentary and scholars feel many of the readings as unclear or disputable. 2. Thomas The Presbyter (c. 640 CE / 19 AH) 

Some brands such as Corona retain the skunky flavor and others use a stabilized hop extract which does not lead to the MBT production and thus can be stored in clear bottles. 

improves performance; and/or improves engine longevity; and/or improves mileage so that money is saved on fuel, even when taking into account the extra cost of it 

That means producing 25 Wh of electricity produces 0.034 lb of CO2 (about 15.4 grams.) An average tree absorbs from 22 pounds (1 tonne / 100 years) to 48 pounds of CO2 per year (depending on who you ask - these are quite pro-tree planting, so I'd like to see if there is a source of raw data); there does not seem to be any definite figure given. That means one tree could support from 647 to 1,411 hand drying sessions. But you can get far more paper from the average tree. This paper suggests that from just one cord of wood (8ft x 4ft x 4ft), smaller than a whole tree, you could produce 942,000 sheets of paper (A5 size, normal density.) Even if you used 10 sheets per session, it's still 66x better (in the best case for hand dryers!) And, you can recycle the paper used. So no, hand dryers are not better. 

Another source here attributes dermorphins to the skin of waxy monkey tree frog (Phyllomedusa sauvagei). However, pharmacological studies of the excretions of Phyllomedusa bicolor shows that the central effects might be due to the potently active peptides, easily absorbed through the inflamed areas in the skin. 

A 2006 study showed that there is a small but statistically significant difference in reduction of volatile sulfur compound levels when tongue cleaners are used which is interpreted by ADA as short term efficacy. 

Polyphenol-rich olive oil is noted to improve endothelial function in young women with high-normal BP or stage 1 essential hypertension 

Hard water is defined as water containing a high concentration of calcium and magnesium ions. However, hardness can be caused by several other dissolved metals including aluminum, barium, strontium, iron, zinc, and manganese. WHO in 2003 reported that hard water has no known adverse health effects. 

Also the forced perspective in the picture taken is explained by Hiroshi Hirasaka himself in the twitter message quoted below. 

There seems to be little doubt in public opinion that second hand smoke is dangerous, and I can see why. But many smokers have claimed to me that it is not dangerous at all and it is all media hype. What is the scientific consensus? I have heard that second hand smoking is almost equivalent to smoking a cigarette directly. 

Often when anchors in the studio are talking to reporters or people from a long distance, there is a small delay in the response, maybe one or two seconds. This got me thinking, why is there such a delay? I've observed the delay seems mostly independent of distance, from as little as half a second to as much as five seconds. Also, the transmission delays don't add up: you could send a broadcast around the Earth in about 500ms by pinging e.g. Japan from where I am, over the internet, and a video link is far simpler (with fixed latencies mostly.) Perhaps it is a deliberate delay created by the reporter, so they have time to think about the answer to a question; or perhaps it is added by the studio so that in case a man-in-the-street interview goes a bit bad they can cut it off? 

Referring to D Samuel Schwarzkopf's 2015 critical analysis of predictive anticipatory activity/presentiment which was researched in the metanalysis conducted by Mossbridge and colleagues in 2012, effects to occur before its cause in biology are extremely improbable and time symmetry is physically implausible. 

Foods if stored frozen constantly at 0 °F will stay safe over longer duration of time (i.e. until the defined time it stays frozen) but quality of the food may reduce over time due to the slow deterioration of the food components. The storage time mentioned by the US Department of Agriculture is not viewed by the food industry as "indefinite" since the quality of food will also be considered when determining the storage duration. 

The strongest predictor of vocabulary attainment for the learners was time on the mission and out of the affective variables among motivation, attitude and faith, motivation was the strongest predictor. The more time that passed and the less exposure to the target languages in the person's native land, the more vocabulary that was lost. The larger the vocabulary of the language (lexicon), the greater the apparent savings benefit in relearning old words, and the better able one is to learn new words. Researchers found during the measurement of oral fluency in mission languages that the pause variables have a stronger relationship to second language attainment, and the silent pauses, both in frequency and length, correlate most strongly with measures of language proficiency. 

There is an interesting trend in test scores in exams (GCSE and A-level) in the UK: they are increasing, or so the trend in the grades would tend to show. This is known as grade inflation and affects other countries, too. Why is this? I have heard several reasons. The first is that students are just generally getting smarter. The second reason I have heard is that exams are getting easier. To me (as a student), it personally seems like the exams are getting easier, although it is hard to judge. What independent research has been performed to determine if it is exams or students? 

This video (2:10 onwards) shows Van Eck phreaking working with a CRT monitor, although it claims that the process works through the cable, not the monitor itself; if that is true, then it would work regardless of the display technology. It also claims that keyboard data can be captured too. I find that difficult to believe.