The first half is clear I think. They all mean different things, and there doesn't have to be any shared meaning between them. But I don't know what the second half is trying to say. Real world objects don't have meaning in and of themselves. 

As the others have said, Tense Aspect and Mood are tricky. Their morphemes often combine meanings, and they imply even more. A language may not formally mark a category so it becomes convention to use another category to communicate the one that isn't marked. The Prominence of Tense, Aspect and Mood by Bhat is a good book on the topic. Check your library because it's way overpriced! To precisely determine what the suffix marks will be hard, but there is one easy test: can it be used to communicate past continuous/imperfective? If so then I think it's straightforward to call it an imperfective rather than future. If not, then unfortunately the test won't help you know either way. 

No, there's no reason to analyse them as noun phrases. We can test it by considering whether they can occur in the types of phrases that noun phrases can occur in, such as: With an adjective modifier: 

No, because we have no evidence of pre-speech language. We have lots of evidence for non verbal communication, but language is narrower than communication - it must have the capacity for abstract propositional idea exchange. The human brain is capable of using true signed languages, but the oldest sign languages we know of are only a few centuries old. It's possible the first human language was signed rather than spoken, but there's no evidence either way. 

Yes. Several frameworks consider words such as go/went or I/me to be two representations of a single lexical item. Suppletion is the term for when the inflected forms are etymilogically unrelated, while the term allolex can be used for the individual forms. (I think allolex originated in the Natural Semantic Metalanguage framework, originally only for semantic primes, but I can't see any reason why it can't be applied to any other words.) 

Are those the only tenses/conjugations that exist?!? Definitely not! Look up any intro level textbook at verb morphology and you'll see these categories: 

The 'singular' or indefinite they has been a part of the English language since at least Chacuer (writing in 1395). In some dialects other neutral pronouns such as ou and a were used. The neutral use of he was prescribed by eighteenth and nineteenth century grammarians. As is often the case, I think these prescriptivists were wrong and unhelpful. By teaching people to shun the indefinite they and use he this way they created an artificial gender non-neutrality, which the political correctness movement of the 20th century then fought against. My guess would be that because political correctness is not limited to English, if this conflict is not a part of other languages it is because they did not have prescriptivists perverting their languages. 

Morphology: the study of the structure of words Etymology: the study of the history of words Syntax: the study of the structure of sentences Discourse analysis: the study of conversations and texts 

If you also want to include doublets, words in one language which share an etymological source but may not seem connected any more, such as, apparently, grammar and glamour, then I'm not sure if word family would be an appropriate term. All derived words, cognates and doublets are related and in a sense part of a family, but people might not think they would all be included when they think of a word family. To be safe I'd recommend specifying if you are including cognates or doublets. 

A normal word is actually very hard to define. Do we write "dog house" or "doghouse"? (Or use a hyphen?) And of relevance to other languages more than English, do particles or clitics get written as separate words, or do they get joined together? Sometimes even affixes can be written as separate words. A phonological word has a clear and relatively uncontroversial definition. (Though edge cases in many languages will of course be debated.) None of these orthographic conventions, derived over the centuries when the words in question may not even have been pronounced the same, are relevant. (And I think, though I'm not certain, that clitics, though they fit in between words and affixes from a morphosynactic perspective are just simple parts of phonological words.) 

Yep, these are called circumlocutions. Someone who is frequently unable to remember the right words could be diagnosed with anomic aphasia. 

Two locative adjuncts: at the bus stop and in bed Two temporal adjuncts: Last night and when they next went to grandma's house Two subject arguments: the son and the father And the infinitive verb has its own set of object arguments which are not arguments of wish: a story and him Strip all that back and you get 

The normal term is speech community. This has the advantage over "language community" in that it can be used for communities which don't speak a distinct language, but only a dialect, or some minor variant of the language. The term is used to focus on identifiable communities of people with shared behaviours. In a context where two languages are in context, many speakers will be L1 speakers of one language and L2 speakers of another. Categorising people by the languages the know and speak is not likely to be very productive because of the overlaps. Instead distinct speech communities can be identified based on the languages they speak at home, in school, in the workplace, the languages they watch on TV etc. 

American Sign Language, like all sign languages, is a fully fledged natural human language. It is not some form of American English. Manually Coded English uses the signs from ASL to communicate the English language. It could be considered a kind of relexification, as well as a pidgin. In practice it has as much similarity to ASL as if someone replaced every English word with one from Chinese. 

You should look at the Natural Semantic Metalanguage. This is a (controversial) theory of human language which argues that all human languages are built on about 65 'primes' - basic blocks of meaning which cannot themselves be divided into other blocks. After 40 years of research the list has been refined through the study of languages from many unrelated families. You can access the list of primes here and a page examining their syntax here. 

No, you can't capitalise IPA characters, because there are enough IPA characters that look like upper case letters that it would be very confusing: ʙ, ɢ, ʜ, ɪ, ʟ, ɴ, and ʀ are all distinct IPA characters and are not the same sounds as b, g, h, i, l, n, and r. 

They would normally be called case markers. They could be affixes or clitics, depending on how they would be used for multi-word noun phrases. That they would be written as separate words is irrelevant to their syntactic status. 

One of the most significant recent discoveries in historical linguistics is the first link between Eurasian and American language families: the Dené–Yeniseian languages. A link between the Na-Dené and the Yeniseian families was first proposed in 1923, but the first peer reviewed publication proposing the Dené–Yeniseian language family was published in 1998. Research continued by multiple people. A 369 page collection of articles was published in 2010, and in 2012 a workshop was held on the proposed family. The current leading researcher Edward Vajda showed the results of his research, and since then the proposed family has been met with wide (though not total) acceptance. The evidence includes cognate lexemes and morphology, proposed phonological changes, and genetic evidence. 

I don't think you've said the correct distinguishing factors between derivational and inflectional affixes. The primary factor I think is that derivational affixes often change the part of speech of a lexical item, and inflectional affixes don't. What this means is that the concept of the lexical item changes substantially. There is a huge difference between the concept of running, a physical action, and the concept of a runner, a person who regularly runs because of it being their habit or job. These conceptual differences mean that derived words are often listed separately in dictionaries. Additionally, semantic change will affect the related parts of speech separately. Consider the difference between a lecture, to lecture and a lecturer. To lecture has changed it's meaning so that it now almost always means to tell someone off with a long speech. A lecturer retains the original meaning of someone who teaches through speeches. A lecture has both meanings. But note that not all derivational affixes do change the part of speech: the suffix -ship turns the noun friend into another noun, friendship. Inflectional affixes generally don't communicate real-world or dictionary information. They instead communicate semantic categories. There's no hard and fast rule about whether something will be a semantic category or not, but we all know the really common ones: plurality, tense, agreement markers etc. No English dictionary would have separate entries for dog and dogs because the concepts are too similar, which is a good indicator that the plural marker is inflectional. No English dictionary will have separate entries for jumped and jumping, so those tense/aspect markers are inflectional. Sometimes it's a little bit hard to decide whether an affix is derivational or inflectional. Which one is dis- in disclose? 

Now can be analysed as a pro-preposition, a word standing in for a prepositional phrase. It isn't verbal, so the category of tense doesn't apply to it. Now and yesterday are not parallel terms. Yesterday can refer to a whole day, but now doesn't even refer to a moment just before now. There's no reason to think that they're the same lexeme. 

Some people would consider the words to actually be two related but separate words, just as we have actor and actress in English. In that case you don't actually have any words which are both genders. Maybe that's a cop-out as it's just pushing the problem down to the level of word roots, but there are some theories which say that all roots could theoretically receive any kind of morphology, and so having a root with two genders isn't anything atypical at all. Grammatical gender is often called noun classes (especially when there are more than just masculine, feminine and possible neuter.) There is good evidence for many, perhaps most, languages that the masculine class is the default unmarked class, with the other classes being used for marked words. In some languages you can freely use the less marked classes with words. To make up an example (because I don't remember the specifics, it was from an Australian language) if a yam is in the vegetable class, which is a subset of the neuter class, which is a subset of the masculine class, then yams could be inflected freely with any of the masculine, neuter or vegetable inflections. If you were in such a language, then it could be natural to use which ever class matches the biological gender of the referent.