Can sea currents be dangerous for surfers? How common would this be? Should I ask locals about currents before surfing at a new spot? 

I have some experience in windsurfing, meaning that I can perform the basic moves and handle the board and sail under normal to slightly difficult conditions. I have always been interested in Kitesurfing but had never had the opportunity to do it so far. I would like to try it out, but I would really be disappointed if I had to start from scratch and climb the whole learning curve again. Will my windsurfing experience give me any advantage over complete beginners when starting kitesurfing? Are there other sports that could be helpful? 

In windsurfing there exist many different moves. Apart from the very basic techniques (like uphauling the sail), which moves are considered essential for windsurfing? Which order is good for learning them? 

About your original question, how (often) to clean it: I clean my bottle every couple of days to prevent them from smelling. I wash them by hand with normal dishwashing-soap, but you could also put them in the dishwasher, if you have one. If you really want to desinfect them thoroughly (which seems like a little bit of overkill for me, since I never had any problems), don´t use boiling water, since this could destroy the coating of the bottle and make bad substances solve in your water (this is true for any plastic bottle!). I would use vinegar for desinfecting. 

You MUST NOT buy hiking boots without trying them on. Period. You want to hike in them - yet there are thousands of different foot forms and accordingly a lot of different boot cuts, differing in a lot more than only the length (which the size describes). There are wide and narrow boots, some with a high bumb under your instep and some with little and so on. There is no way of telling, if they fit for you or not if you don´t TRY THEM ON! That said, the first link I found on google has a review that says them to be smaller and suggest ordering half a size bigger. Of course, you have to take into account how your old boots were - if you already bought them half a size bigger than normal (not unlikely if from the same company) then you probably don´t need to add to the size. However, only way telling is to TRY THEM ON! 

I am wondering if there is a best time to buy used surfing equipment. Is there any time when the offered variety will be greatest or when the prices will be lowest? Would that be just after season or at the start? Will this differ for windsurfing, kitesurfing and waveriding? 

Somebody told me that Gore-Tex products would be hazardous waste. Is this true? If I want to dispose of them, what should I do? What are the dangerous substances? Is this true for other breathable membranes as well? Are there membranes that are free from toxic substances? 

In sport and trad climbing, a sit harness is widely used (except for children). However, I wondered if there is the possibility to fall out of it? One situation where I could see this happen is in climbing a roof, when the hands lose grip on the holds first and you fall head first. 

On some occasions you don´t have anything to desinfect wounds, for example during a (short) walk along the beach. If you cut yourself or have a an small wound that needs cleaning, would it be wise to clean it in the sea or better to leave it the way it is? 

I love the idea of ski touring. However, I wonder what would be the best way to learn it. Should I focus on learning alpine and cross-country skiing and then combine the two, or should I rather just start with easy routes? Should I take lessons? I am an intermediate alpine skier, but lack any experience in cross-country and off-piste skiing. To clarify on what terrain I am aimed at: Currently a single mountain daytour seems most appealing to me. So ski up in the morning, and then down afterwards. This would probably take place in the Alps. 

I understand your question such that you are asking about fences for livestock and alike, not high-security fences. It is your responsibility to check if you could get in danger. If the fence looks like it was made to withstand humans and/or aggressive animals, I suggest not to touch it with anything. Apart from that (I have actually never seen a fence like this), you will probably deal with the standard pasture fence. I has a couple thousands volts, which sounds like a lot, but a really low current. It cannot injure you if you do not have a special preposition (like a pacemaker). So there are different ways of dealing with that kind of fence: 

Many 4-season tents cannot be ventilated as well as tents made for summer conditions. Also, they tend to be larger. this means, you can use them, but it won´t be ideal. This differs a lot with the actual models you are comparing, some might be well suited for all conditions. Note that the temperature difference between summer and winter trips normally has to be taken care of with the sleeping bag you choose - tent insulation is (normally) not that much better in 4-season-tents. The main difference is sturdiness, as its needed with wind and snow loads. For the scenario you described, where storm and snow are not really important concerns, you could just bring the 2-seasons tent and a good sleeping bag inlay, which allows you to adjust to the different temperatures. 

How can I prevent (re-)infecting myself from my barefoot shoes? The obvious answer would be not to wear them while I am infected, but taken that aside, are there possibilities to clean/disinfect the shoes so I can wear them again? Is there a possibility to reinfect myself again at all? My shoes - as probably most barefoot shoes - are washable with 30 - 40° C. 

When I was younger I used to sleep in yurts as a scout. Things I would consider important: Staying dry can be difficult Depending strongly on the actual yurt (and the weather of course) sometimes it can be struggling to stay dry inside it. If it is made of cotton you have to pay attention nothing touches walls or roof because water would enter there. Seams and joints can let in water to. Most yurts don´t bring a flooring with them, so after extensive rain streams could go through your tent. Paying attention to your tent Why with most camping tents you only have to set them up and then are done for the next week, a yurt needs regular "service". Lines get loose, the plane gets bulges (great places for rainwater to gather and drop through to the inside), the pegs would get loose. While it isn´t much work, you should not neglect it. Bugs visiting A yurt will give only marginal protection against bugs. You can use mosquito-nets for sleeping, but the rest of the tent can be crowded with gnats. Temperature A yurt is not as technical as many modern tents. It depends strongly on the color and if there is a hole for (smoke) ventilation in the middle, but our black tents got warmed up by the sun really fast. While in spring and fall this was a nice feature, in summer it was certainly not. Anyhow, considering the size of the yurt, you only beeing two persons and that air ventilation in yurt is a lot better than in normal tents, I would rather think about beeing too cold. Even if you don´t use it through winter you should think about heating, because there is no chance to warm up a tent of that size just by yourselves. Setting it up by two persons Depending a little bit on the actual design you will use, setting it up by only two persons could be challenging. Bring your stuff Probably its not necessary to mention it: You need a lot of poles of different sizes. While we would get them from the woulds, this is probably no good idea at camping sites. Also it takes quite some time - you should bring them yourself. And they can be very long. The central poles we used (two or three) were at least 4-5m high, and I think our yurts were smaller. Try it out I don´t want to discourage you, but I think there are some reason one can find a yurt challenging. I would suggest you try it before you decide - best would be on rough conditions (e. g. cold and rainy). I hope you find that it suits you, because a yurt really is a great place to sleep (and to call home, I imagine)! 

I´ve heard and read quite some facts and myths about the Scandinavian concept of Allemansrätten, the right for everybody to use nature, e.g. for hiking and camping. However, I couldn´t find a reliable source, so it´s hard for me to decide wether it´s fact or myth. Where and under what circumstances and limitations is the Allemansrätten valid? What differences are there between different countries? 

Additional to the two great answers already given I want to share my own experience, repeating some things and adding some: Choose your Cheese carefully As already mentioned, harder cheese will last longer. Good sorts (I don´t know if available outside Europe): Parmesan, Manchego, "Bergkäse". The cheese will start to mold on the surface. Take this into account, bring large pieces instead of many small (or even slices). Don´t take cheese with holes with you. As already mentioned by others cheese with a peeling of wax or of other kind will be a better choice since this part of the surface is covered. I haven´t tried it yet, but I would refrain from bringing mold cheese (like Roquefort)in warm to hot climates/seasons since their taste will get stronger very fast and its hardly to predict how their (non-harming) mold will grow and affect spoiling. Vegan "cheese" may be an alternative for you, since it is less prone to molding, especially if you want cheese stretch for pizza or pasta. However, conventional hard cheese should still be better. Keep your cheese cold Heat will make your cheese sweat and mold. This makes it easy to carry cheese in winter, but challenging in hot climates. Some tips for keeping it cold: 

Keep your Cheese dry Moisture is as bad as heat. While you don´t want to put it in a plastic bag (see also next point), you definitely don´t want it to get wet, as it makes it mold a lot faster. You could put it in a permeable bag and then, together with other stuff (food or clothes, while the latter will probably start to smell) in a bigger, water-proof bag. This will prevent it from sweating as well as from getting wet. Put it in a prepared cloth I read about this technique for storing it and have tried it out with great success: Take a clean cloth (e.g. a towel) big enough to wrap your piece of cheese. Soak it in vinegar and let it dry off. If you want to make sure its soaked, you can repeat this. Now (after drying it thoroughfully!) wrap your cheese and carry it always in this towel. It's the best way to store it, the cloth is now kind of antiseptic and will repel mold and is, on the other hand, very permeable. You still want to make sure it doesn´t get wet. 

In Germany, cheaper pop-up tents like this are quite popular for festivals. I would never buy one, though, for the following reasons: 

More important than the cleaning is, in my opinion the choice of the bootle. I switched to a bottle explicitly designed for a use like yours, in my case a Nalgene drinking bottle. My reasons for doing so: 

In the case you don´t have an experienced friend who can help you get a start and you don´t have the luck a company will pay you for learning it, you can try the following: Look out for a canyoning association or club. Since these are non-profit organisations they often offer low-cost workshops, sometimes with equipment-rent included. Also, they are likely to have a strong community which can help with further steps. A useful link for Germany: German Canyoning Club