I've been working on creating a (digital) diary application for Buddhist laypeople and would like to ask this community for ideas about what can be written about in a journal like this which would be valuable for improving well-being and spiritual growth Here some ideas that I've gathered so far (not written in stone, including here just to show the general idea that i have): 

I'm right now working on an application for increasing happiness in everyday life, inspired by practical teachings in Buddhism about happiness for laypeople. My question is: What did the Buddha say about happiness for laypeople? I have found these Sutras helpful: 

It's the anniversary of Buddha delivering the Anapanasati Sutta (Sutra on the Mindfulness of Breathing), an important Sutra about meditation Reference: $URL$ (Sorry but I don't know enough to answer the other questions you asked, but I hope this answer and reference helps to some extent) 

The entire population of humans could all die and be reborn as insects today and it wouldn't appreciably increase their overall number: adding six billion to 10 quintillion doesn't even amount to a tenth of a percent. So removing the human path as a rebirth target does nothing in the way of removing suffering. 

Let's say you're studying pottery and throwing a vase on the potter's wheel. Your teacher comes over and says "Too thin. This will collapse in the kiln." The teacher has not predetermined the destruction of your pot, merely used his accrued experience and skill to predict an outcome. Presumably the Buddha knew enough to predict who would be a future Buddha, how many future lifetimes they would have, how many centuries the dhamma would last after his death, etc. 

I'm wondering what the Buddha said about spiritual friendship with the Buddha himself. From SN 45.2: 

I've done some research by reading books about early Buddhism and practices for laypeople (for example "The Buddha's Teachings on Prosperity" and "The Buddha's Teachings on Social and Communal Harmony") but am having a hard time "translating" the information that I've gathered into something that would fit well inside a diary application Grateful for help with this! Kind Regards, Tord 

What Internet-based Sangha groups are out there? For the Plum Village tradition there is a list on plumline.org Are there any other lists of online Sanghas you can share? Grateful for help and with kind regards, Tord 

I read this question at the beginning of my day and have been thinking about it for some time. I've been in a similar situation myself, having many negative thoughts about people, being angry etc. In my case things changed when: 

Then there are other various holidays and festivals. I'm not sure if any of the other holidays involve increased practice or not. Some seem like they would just involve paying respect to the Buddha (Vesak) or monks (Kathina Ceremony). 

Take a look at Ajahn Lee's autobiography, page 16 and onward. His practice slackens, he grows disillusioned with being a monk, and he begins an obsessive debate within himself about whether to disrobe or not: 

But what I found was that after considering this table of past lives, I would see an insect landing on my face (trying to collect water, I guess) and I would instantly think "this is what I may be born into" rather than "what an annoyance this is." So I think this kind of experience has to do with the Buddha wanting you to view every kind of sentient being the same as any every other kind of sentient being. This is contrary to what we tend to do, which is separate beings into various kinds of classes of beings, some of which are acceptable to kill with a fly-swatter and others, which aren't. 

You can find more practice poems here and in the book "Present Moment, Wonderful Moment - Mindfulness Verses for Daily Living" by Thich Nhat Hanh 

I'm looking for more friends on the Buddhist path and would there for like to ask: Are there any social networking sites for Buddhists? Some features that I'm looking for: 

This way of thinking about them splits each of the first (metta, karuna, mudita) three into two parts, one for one-self and one for everyone else In Buddhism we don't want to make a harsh distinction between self and others but from a practical point of view this can (for example) help us to remember to have self-compassion. One downside is that there is a larger risk of not seeing our suffering as the suffering of others and the suffering of others as our own The last (upeksha) i have divided into two parts where the first is inner peace for oneself and the other is non-discrimination Question Is this (above) a practical way to think about the four immeasurables? (Practical in the sense of getting closer to living in line with them). Are there other ways to think about them that you can recommend and that can help us achieve living with them on a daily basis? (Please provide references to books or other materials if you can) Grateful for help and with kind regards, Tord 

I gather from reading around that the rising/falling pitches that appear in Pali chanting by Thais is due to the tones in the Thai language. But when I see English-language chanting by monks from a Thai tradition, they still have rising/falling tones. See excerpt from the Abhayagiri Chanting Book, with the tones marked: 

All good points and things worth thinking about, but these are going beyond the five precepts. The precepts are intended to take you to a point where you can examine all of your behavior to see what is skillful, what leads to affliction, etc. But the precepts shouldn't be redefined to also include these new things. This would only lead to divisiveness between people as one person preaches getting rid of coffee and others disagree. Remember the Buddha refused to make vegetarianism mandatory for the sangha, even though the killing involved in eating meat can easily be seen to pertain to the first precept. In the case of coffee, I could see a person getting riled up by it and possibly being less able to control their mind, being quicker to anger, etc. If this is the case, then it should certainly be examined, and perhaps that behavior should be abandoned, but this is not covered by the fifth precept. 

I am curious about how to think about the four immeasurable minds in a practical way, please help me make sense of them (see detailed question below) Background In the book Teachings on Love by Thich Nhat Hanh he translates Mudita as Joy rather than Sympathetic Joy and explains that while other commentators have translated as Sympathetic Joy he prefers Joy because "Joy is for everyone" This got me thinking that it may be practical to see two sides of the immeasurables (another example would be self-compassion) My thinking so far Below is how i like to think of the four immeasurables Metta: 

Are there any websites that have an English translation of the Chinese Buddhist canon, similar to what is available for the Pali canon at accesstoinsight.org and suttacentral.net? Grateful for help and with kind regards, Tord 

I feel it's probably true that only some portion of the people throwing around the term Hinayana actually intend it to cause damage, the rest use it because what other term could you use? You can't just use "Theravada" for everything non-Mahayana and non-Vajrayana. I find myself coming around to the view expressed at the end, of viewing the term without the derogatory baggage. Because people often translate Hinayana as "inferior" vehicle, and of course that was the original intent, but I believe it literally means "smaller", which doesn't have to be an insult. The Buddha's concern in the Pali Canon does seem to be individuals, personal action and personal liberation from suffering, not the grand salvation of the universe, extraterrestrial Buddha fields, cosmic Buddhas, etc. It is indeed a smaller vehicle by comparison.