It's a case of not putting all your eggs in one basket. When faced by a nigh on invincible god monster/s, small ships are the answer. Each family would have it's own boat that is fast and maneuverable and as such would just try and avoid the creature. You'd also have the added bonus of being able to pull the smaller ship up onto land to avoid the monster should they trap you in a harbor. If someone gets caught, all you lose is a couple of small boats and crew instead of a huge boat and hundreds or more people. To actually fight such a monster, poison is the only real answer. Just dump it in the water between you and the creature and flee like crazy. 

In a very advanced world, quite likely people would no longer bother with the nuts and bolts as AI systems would handle it. As the level of complexity increase, it would become harder and harder to understand it all and as such people would develop systems to help to automate development. Programming using an AI development tool would be talking to the computer describing what you want to do and guiding the AI's solution. In all likelihood would be done using natural language. Software programming is already one of the jobs slated to be replaced by AI Sure people could dig into the nuts and bolts of it all but it will be highly unlikely and more than likely a hobby or personal interest. People will be unlikely to do so professionally because an AI will be able to the job better and faster. 

Details Year Divisions Well, the number of days per solar year is not a whole number. So as much as we don't like it, leap years, leap centuries, and the like are still going to have to be around. So whatever divisions we make here need to recognize that. The basic year will need to be 365 days long, with adjustments made as needed for leap years and the like. That number does not divide evenly by very many numbers. Basically, just 5. So if we need a "week" division, the least painful would be 5, which leaves us with 73 weeks in a year. Well, 73 is prime, so that poses a division problem. We need larger subdivisions of a year. And ideally, 4 such subdivisions would be reasonable (which matches with the useful, physically observable concept of "seasons"). So consider this. There would be 5 days in a week, with 18 weeks per season. That covers only 72 weeks per-year. We take the extra 5 days and put them between the seasons as special days, which are not considered part of any particular week. You'd have to double-up on one of them. So you get 18 weeks, followed by a special day, followed by another 18 weeks, then two special days, and so forth. When it comes time for a leap year, you just add another special day. Presumably opposite the double special day that already exists on the calendar. Such quarter year divisions are large enough that we can do things like build commerce around them (much as we do at present). And special days would be useful for arbitrary holidays and such. However, 18 weeks, 90 days, is a long period of time to talk about. So it would be useful to divide them into shorter stretches of time. Perhaps 6-week periods (30 days) within a quarter. So you would have "first-quarter, second period." What would a date look like? Using US dating schemes, "3.1-27-2016" would be the 3rd quarter, first-period, 27th day of the year 2016. Special days would be numbered as a fourth period of the quarter preceding them: "3.4-1-2016". That's the first special day after the 3rd quarter. Note that this is not too dissimilar to what we have now. It's more regular, in that each period has a fixed number of days. But the division of a year into 12 sections makes the groupings of days reasonably bite-sized for human consumption. You're not required to count past 30 or anything. Day Divisions Say what you will about hours, 24 is a very impressive number. It can be evenly divided by 2, 3, 4, and 6. And that's very important for many human uses of sub-day divisions. If you went to a 25 hour day, you can't even talk about half of a day without having to use fractions, let along 1/3rd of a day. Consider medicine that you take 3 times a day. How many hours is it between the times you take the medicine? With a 24-hour day, it's 8. With 25? Or 20? It's a fraction, and people generally don't want to deal with fractions in those cases. And however much decimalization has happened, people generally do not want to deal in fractions. 100 is useful in decimalization because you can divide it by 2, 4, and 5, and can even get a decent approximation of 3. However, having 100 divisions in a day leads to "hours" that are just too short to be meaningful. So you have several points of tension in this choice. You need a number that can be evenly divided by quite a few numbers. It needs to be big enough that an hour is not a large quantity of time. But it also needs to be small enough that an hour is not too short of a quantity of time. I would say that such tension will inevitably lead you back to 24. It turns out that people in the past weren't stupid. Beneath the 24-hour daily cycle however, things can get more arbitrary. As such, subdividing an hour via the metric system makes sense. Centi-hours, milli-hours, and the like. However, technology becomes an issue. Why? Because lots of technology already currently works on the order of milli-seconds, micro-seconds, and nano-seconds. And there are already 3600 seconds in an hour. So now you'd be required to talk about pico-hours and femto-hours. That's rather cumbersome. So it wouldn't be unreasonable to have a specific name for milli-hours. 

The most likely type of unguided orbital strike would be a Thor type railgun strike from an orbiting weapons platform. A sensitive magnetic sensor could, in theory, pickup the charging of the weapon in space using triangulation and give a warning that it's about to be fired. It won't tell you what the target is but would make a useful warning to scatter and spread out. By detecting the charge up, you might have a couple of minutes warning as opposed to seconds if you wait for the weapon to fire. 

It doesn't need to orbit in and out. It can face it or face away from it. When on the side of the sun away from the nebula you see the stars and the nebula would be behind the sun. On the side closest to the nebula you see the nebula and the stars would be behind the sun. 

Actually there won't be glass or acrylic screens at all. In planes, the windows are actually a weak point. You can use screens and cameras to emulate windows without the structural weakness of a window See Windowless planes Over the next twenty or so years, windows will disappear from aircraft Shields will make a good backup and emergency repair but you can't really use shields as structural strength. 

This is something a King could actually help kickstart. Kings have money, so the King could fund various people. Indeed, a lot of the scientists/alchemists/etc of that era were wealthy noblemen. Find some of these people and fund them. But the most important thing the King can do with regard to this is bring forth future knowledge. While most 30-year-olds probably aren't conversant enough with the history of science to know the best place to jump-start a scientific revolution, even a basic education can help them move certain things forward. The medical profession would probably be a good place to start. The King could start training medical professionals in germ theory (firing those who don't want to give up their leeches). The King may not know much about antibiotics, but the concept of sterilization could work wonders for relatively primitive surgeries. If these techniques are effective, then those medical professionals trained in them will likely be hired by other nobles (who else can pay for a physician?), which can help the King build up support among them. The King's ability to improve matters of science would be very contingent on how much the person knew. If he learned calculus, being able to teach the mathematicians about the Fundamental Theorem could work wonders long-term. Someone knowledgeable about the Theory of Evolution might be able to assemble a cabal of biologists to accept it and gather evidence to help sustain it. But even so, there are many scientific fields that even a trained modern scientist couldn't help with, simply because they don't know how to use the tools that would exist in that day. 

You might be able to prevent yourself from dying of natural causes but there will come a point where you no longer want to live. Boredom and repetitiveness will eventually drain your will to live. Humanity will eventually become extinct due to a lack of breeding because sexbots will stop humans from forming relationships with other humans. AI will inherit the Earth......... 

A FTL drive could bend space to allow the ship to bypass the speed of light limit without having to break it. Being able to bend space without ripping yourself to pieces could reply on remaining away from large gravitational fields such as planets and stars. Any ship would fly out using conventional drives well away from large gravitational fields before engaging the FTL drive and would stop well away from the destination star and fly in normally. 

They need the power of money. Hop off at the next station and buy a ticket for the other train and hop on when it pulls back up Anything other than that is going to end badly. You have a difference in speed of 1000 km per hour which is almost mach 1. The person would be better off getting off the first train completely and then getting the second train so they change is only 500km per hour The G-forces, friction and timing would kill anyone that tried, not to mention trying to avoid power lines, overhead bridges, tunnels etc. Fighter pilots can take up to 9G wearing special suits which means it would take around two and a seconds at 9G to get from 500kph to 500kph the other way in which the distance needed to be traveled is almost 700 metres. Now considered you don't want to be doing 9G when you reach the second train, you're going to want to slow down which means that distance is going to be much longer. There really isn't a way to just jump from train to train and not splatter yourself. 

Being King does not make you God, despite what Kings try to say. The King's word is not law because it's the King's word. It only becomes law because other people with power like it and/or are willing to go along with it. So whatever the King does, it has to be something which will not upset the existing noble structure. I'll group your priorities based on the ease with which a King could actually accomplish them: 

Oh, that's easy. Every simulation has bugs in it. For example, it is possible for a machine using an actual SNES pad to reprogram Super Mario World to become Pong. Or even transform it into a Mario level editor. How do they pull that off? Because the simulation is imperfect. And the makers of those robots figured out how to use those imperfections to basically start overwriting memory with new code. From the outside world, we see the simulation as what it appears to be: a fat man running and jumping around. But it's all just numbers and memory in reality. For a machine with free will living in such a simulation, who can think and act faster and more precisely than any human, it's only a matter of time before they start finding the holes in that imperfect simulation. Exactly how those holes manifest themselves, we can't say. It could crash the simulation, killing them all. One of them could become Neo, gifted with the power to hack the world and seemingly defy "known physics". Or whatever. An AI within the system could only be able to manipulate the system's code directly via some sort of glitch that allowed it to start directly manipulating executable code. The main problem such an AI would have is that most simulations are not very fault-tolerant with regard to having arbitrary data fed into their executable memory, so the first time an AI encounters this glitch, the whole thing crashes. But if the AIs/simulation can survive such things, then yes, they will eventually work out the meta-physics of their reality. 

I would imagine people set the laws and the AI follows them and enforces them. One advantage of AI is that it could simulate the effects of laws before the law is passed to see if it will work. When it comes to enforcement, replacing the whole judicial system with AI would be perfect. AI can't be threatened, bribed or show bias. It can rule impartially and not take years. No lawyers would be required and the enforcement droids can be judge, jury and executioner with all the evidence and verdict plus reasoning logged. If new evidence comes to light, a new verdict can be immediately made. AI run prisons can focus on rehabilitation and training plus an extra level of judgement to judge whether a person is suitable for release. All in all, an AI judicial/enforcement system would be more effective than a human run one. 

The most obvious way to disable a ship is to target the crew. If you have artificial gravity, it might be possible to apply a gravitational field on the target ship. Depending on the level, you could pin the crew to the ground, make them black out or even kill them without any significant damage to the ship. 

If this guy is trying to make significant reformations in his kingdom, that's going to be expensive. Whether it's funding research, large public-works projects, buying the loyalty of nobles so that he can set up independent tribunals to investigate matters, whatever. Doing all of that as well as funding a war is insanity. It should also be noted that random 30-year-olds probably don't know the land well enough to know who would be a good idea to even attack, let alone the ramifications of declaring war. 

OK, let's say that you have an interstellar human population. You've got people who live on different planets in various systems, but you also have people living in space stations in different systems. Now, given such a society, the ultimate weapon would be a long-range kinetic impactor: something that accelerates a reasonably-sized mass to a substantial percentage of the speed of light, so that it can hit planets and take them out. Eventually. The obvious problem with such a weapon is that there's basically no "aiming" mechanism possible which is accurate enough across interstellar distances. Even if you knew the locations of all celestial bodies in the target system when you left and could predict their locations by the time the projectile arrives, you still cannot guarantee that you can aim with sufficient accuracy to hit the target location. No problem; you just install a guidance system in the projectile. It should have some kind of camera that can see stuff, and it should have some minimal reaction mass so that it can perform course corrections based on what it sees. Which brings me to the question. If you've got a projectile going 0.99c (relative to the target system), would relativistic effects make it difficult to perform the course-corrections needed to strike the target planet (assume it's Earth-sized)? 

It's not a question of what will do it but a question of how it does it. What can be anything from a disease, parasite, drug, fungus, mad doctor, nanobots, voodoo witchdoctor. Firstly it needs to restrict the higher brain functions (Cerebrum) effectually reducing the person to an animal level. There is no logic, reason or compassion, just survival. Next it needs to affect the Hypothalamus which controls hunger and thirst so effectually you end up with a starving animal no matter how much it eats. It could also affect the amygdala to increase aggression and perhaps stimulate the adrenal gland for increased speed and strength Finally what would be cool is if the infected could recognize other infected (via smell most likely) and the brain releases oxytocin creating a pack mentality. What you end up with is super fast and strong zombies that hunt in packs If you want slow shamblers, you'd decrease adrenal activity, increase hunger more and reduce overall brain function 

Back in the day (over twenty years ago now) I ran a MUD (Multi User Dungeon) text based game while at university. I created something called "The Curse of the Gods". The curse was interesting in so far as players couldn't see the curse, only gods could detect it so players had no way of knowing they were cursed unless a god told them. What the curse did was make them unlucky. The chance of a monster dodging or blocking their attack was doubled and their chance was halved. The chance of a special attack was doubled and the player's chance halved. Suddenly a normal fight became that bit harder. Players needed to drink more healing potions etc etc etc. The great thing is players didn't know if they were actually unlucky or cursed thus troublemakers were paranoid about upsetting the gods. The best punishment is when people are not sure they are actually being punished. People will do stuff if they think you're not watching and can get away with it but when they can't see you and can't tell if they've been caught, they will behave much better. Think of it as artificial karma.