evasion is hard because missiles are way faster than ships (or there are laser weapons), so guiding/aiming is actually easy reaction time of a simple AI is quicker than of a complicated one. A simple control circuit may do the job better than a complete brain simulation if evasion is possible, then it may be simple: a little random, unpredictable jitter, and the missile doesn't hit. 

Electronics are very available already, and will be even more available in future. I just got rid of two old laptops and one desktop PC, which were all still functioning. In my little 2-person family we are still left with 3 laptops, 1 desktop, a smartphone, a "non-smart" cell phone, and an additional cell phone that still works, but is not used. Oh, and two game consoles and a gameboy. All this builds up over time, we are not exactly prone to regularly buy such things. This is very different from my childhood. While I had a gameboy and a PC by the time I turned ten, electronics was still rather sparse at my family. I think I didn't have a cell phone at all until I was something like 15. My nephew is 2 now, and just starts speaking. However, he has been playing with phones basically since he was able to hold one. That means playing to talk to someone on the phone. He wants to watch lullabies and cars on Youtube (Yes his parents show him lullabies from Youtube, you read right. He wants it, and it works in putting him to sleep). He knows how to operate a tablet, and plays simple puzzle games (put the car into the right hole) on it. He likes to play with remote controls of the tv. While things like Lego and chalk don't grow old, I would expect the shear amount of old smart phones, tablets and other electronics by the time our great-grandchildren live means that kids will have a personal electronic device as soon as they can make use of one. You will, like today, have children that play more with such things, and others who are more interested in other things. But electronics will be widely available, powerful, and it will be used. And sometimes kids will just hold the phone to their ear and pretend to talk with Batman. 

They should be colder than air before they born, which implies some energy (same or much energy than absorbed). Where did that energy come from? Eventually they reach air temperature, and can not exchange temperature anymore. 

The living form is hotter than the air, and both end up closer to an intermediate temperature. Let's say the living form is 38 ºC (and producing heat) and the air is -10 ºC. At some time they may be at 35 ºC and the air at 0ºC, and if they continue to exchange heat to 32 ºC and 10 ºC, and so until both have the same temperature (the numbers are not necessarily realistic). This is not your scenario, because the air get hotter, not colder. The living form is colder than the air. Is the same thing, but the bodies are reverted. This looks more like your scenario, because the air get colder. But, the living form should be colder than the air previously, and end up hotter than before (but usually not hotter than the air). 

Don't confuse the goods with currency. Goods are the things the people want to trade. The currency is only the mediator. It doesn't have to be a valuable thing. In fact, it shouldn't be a valuable thing, especially in intergalactic trade. Why that? Consider our situation now. For some time, there was the gold standard, which was the promise by the US bank system to trade in gold for money. This keeps currencies rather stable, i'd say. However, there is a problem: Once the money that's around surpasses the available gold, you can't hold to the promise. That's why we the gold standard was dropped (as far as I understand, and without the historical context). So, the value of the generated goods far outpass the gold value available to back up the money. If we kept to the gold standard, there would be shortage of money. You can't trade, although you have valuable stuff to sell and want to buy other valuable stuff. This problem becomes even bigger the more you scale your system up. What do you think how much value is produced in an intergalactic society? I can't imagine, but it is certainly too much to make one specific valuable thing the currency. Not even the spice is THAT valuable. 

Edit: There is no useful energy in high temperature, instead it is in temperature difference (see thermoelectric effect, as example). And you can use it when through heat exchange leveling temperatures. So, in order to absorb energy, the two bodies should tend to a intermediate temperature: 

As I understand, technically there is not inside, but practically what is in reality the sorounds of the wormhole. The wormholes are, theoretically, created when a portion of space-time us curved enough to touch any other portion (maybe in same time another coords, same cords and another time, all different, etc.). How do you bend space-time? With gigantic amounts of energy/mass. It is speculated that too make it stable you need exotic matter (and I think it is necessary to create a wormhole with a diameter that allows you to cross without crush). 

In reality, we don't automate weapon systems to the point where we have autonomous soldiers, because there are ethics issues: How should the machine decide who it should kill, and who not? Generally, people feel that people should stay in control of such things. Ethics is a valid reason for technology ban. 

Since it seems that these grasstatos are EVERYWHERE, this means that food is incredibly cheap - even more so if harvesting can be brought to industrial scale. This means the kingdom will export cheap grasstato products, especially food. This will lead other countries to focus on other goods, maybe even becoming dependant on grasstatos themselves, or even suffering economic collapse. An easy remedy is charging customs for import from the grasstato kingdom, which means trade with other kingdoms is expensive and limited. 

So, in a strict definition, the wormhole is the point where ever two portions touch. And there is no meaning of "inside" if you talk about a point. But, in a practical way, you'll perceive anomalies in the proximity of the worm hole. Because the space-time around it would be so much bended. But that space-time is the same that was before the wormhole exists. And it is filled originally with the same things that were before, and later with that plus what enters, minus what exists, cross what to mate in the proximity (that depends on the theory and the characteristics is the wormhole). See this simulation for a possibility: $URL$ 

Peoples skills are already not the most important part of a modern weapon system. Humans, for ethical reasons, still are in control and decide when and who to shoot, but where are human skills in guided missiles / other guided weapons? Mind you, those are likely also the ones that will be used in space combat. You probably don't even need very complicated AI for a reasonably good weapons system. However, what about maneuvering? AIs would be really good at predicting the opponents moves, thus there would be an arms race between guiding AIs and evasion AIs (supposing that evasion is actually possible, which is not so clear, even less with energy weapons / laser). Maybe humans are less predictable? (Note that I wouldn't bet on this IRL...) 

I don't think that what you are proposing is thermodynamically possible. If they are cooler than the air, yes, they can even absorb energy from the difference, and both end close to an intermediate temperature. But, if they are at the same temperature (or even worst, a higher one), they should spend energy in order to make the air cooler. They are fighting against the equilibrium tendency. So, if they are expelling the air cooler than before, they should spend another source of energy (like, chemical), and then get even hotter. That's why your air conditioning system spends electricity, instead of gaining it. 

Suddenly computer networks and computers in general can be made a lot faster (or at least networks can have less latency). 

But this is fiction, you could just say: We found these things, they don't allow for time travel, so all this Relativity stuff wasn't 100% right after all. What's the problem with that? 

If Eragon taught us one thing about magic, it is that killing by magic is laughably easy. No fireballs, no big effects. Just a rupture of a blood vessel in the brain, or cutting a few nerves -> instant death. Combine this with the magic power that is normally portrayed by the big spellcasters in such scenarios, and you get a dead army, and your mage hasn't even broken a sweat. If you don't like this answer because the area of effect of such magic is too big (although the required energy is kinda low), then some kind of magic-induced disease that is highly contageous, deadly, and takes a few days for incubation would at least seriously diminuish the army. Take out the rest while they bury their fellow soldiers. 

Similar to what @si42 said, it depends on how you define organism. You can take as example the model of abiogenesis (origin of life from non-living matter) proposed by the Nobel biologist Jack Szostak. The model was CONFIRMED to be possible and capable of originate life. That it actually did it on Earth or some other place is another question. The model works with replicating micelles and vesicles, one of the papers says: 

First, you should think about the evolution of the species along with technology. They probably don't make fire as a primitive technology. Do they have hands? Tentacles? Which materials and tools they have? Then, they could be manufactured using living beings or their parts, as I propose in this answer. 

Disclaimer: I'm not a physicist. That begin said: Short Version: From what I understand from the various expeditions in the world of Physics.SE FTL-questions, I'd say any kind of FTL travel or communication will allow causality violation. Longer version: There are a few potential problems I see with your description: First of all, how can points belonging to the same network share the same inertial reference frame, and still move relative to their respective stars? Check with your trusted physicist, but as far as I understand, inertial reference frame means no relative motion between each other. Also, I don't know what being in the same inertial reference frame, but far apart, would do, and if it matches your expectations of having a well-defined "now"/"simultaneous"/"instantaneous". Typically, violating causality goes like this(crude explanation, look at the many answers on Physics.SE for a better one): Move from point A to point B at superluminar speed. Now move back. You end up in a reference frame at position A but before you left. Remember that "simultaneous" is something very unintuitive in Relativity (not sure whether that's General or Special Relativity), and depends on the observer (=is relative).