There are logical dilemmas. If there is no free will, you can not do any accepting. You have no choice. Acceptance would be an illusion, and you would be simply watching, observing, recording all that is happening. You couldn't even have thoughts about what you were observing because that would require decisions. A solution would be to show people they do have free will. 

I see a lot of comments and debates related to things other philosophers said. I see value in reading and learning what others have written and think. I am not suggesting that such an exercise does not help. However, it seems that constantly turning to others for the answer is a crutch, and that too much of such behavior causes one to be more of a historian memorizing who said what. As I think about this I start to wonder if history could be categorized as a philosophy. I also believe in giving credit where credit is due, and so it makes sense to provide references at times. Is it necessary to study history to be a philosopher? Or, can we deduce things ourselves and let philosophy be an activity? 

A: All bachelors are unmarried B: Water is liquid We all agree that A is analytic. To prove its truth, we only need to replace "bachelor" with its definition. The proposition B can be controversial, depending on whether we include liquidity of water in its definition or not. Now here we encounter a problem: How much knowledge should we include in definitions? Some extremist may attach any new knowledge about water to its definition. They will come up with a very long definition of water, but any statement about water will be analytic to them. 

S is subjective and C is vague. S is objective and C is definite. S is subjective and C is definitie. S is objective and C is vague. 

One can visualize abstract ideas. So, at the very least they exist inside the mind. It does not require language to visualize a perfect circle. I don't have to have a language to describe it. If I never met another being, I would still have an image in my mind of circles. There are things which are circular. The image in my mind might be an average of all circular objects I have seen. The image might be a symbol, to myself for myself, and thus a language of symbols which I use to categorize objects in my mind. However, the perfect circle now exists as a symbol in my mind. 

If one believes they have no free will then the solutions are unreasonable. Without free will, there can be no deciding how to solve problems. Without free will, no one can do anything about anything. For someone who wants to solve problems caused by people believing they do not have free will, there are some good solutions proposed, but they would be difficult to apply on a large scale. Also, excessive law and punishment becomes an infringement on free will, which historically has magnified issues. 

Drunkenness has both subjective and objective aspects. The subjective aspect is the altered state of consciousness. On the other hand, the presence of certain amount of alcohol in blood plasma, or being unable to walk on a straight line are the objective aspects. Now is the statement "I'm drunk" subjective or objective? Drunkenness is a simple example. However, if we accept physicalism, or more specifically the idea that every conscious experience is related to a unique pattern in the brain, can we conclude that all statements are somehow objective? 

If I'm an idealist and I'm right, it means that the reality I know is entirely in my mind, right? Now how is there any room for other minds? 

I believe the following three examples are equally self-contradictory: A: Nothingness is blue B: Objects don't exist when we are not looking at them C: There exists a parallel universe that never has any interaction with our universe You may have a different criteria for existence from mine, which you can discuss here, but even if we assume B and C are not self-contradictory, do they convey any meaning? Can we somehow deduce that unverifiable statements don't provide any knowledge? Two additional examples: D: The universe froze for a trillion years between now and then. E: We are living in a simulation without any intervention from above 

Different schools of philosophy tackle the 'problem' of pleasure differently. Some would argue that pursuing pleasure burdens you with connections to your body and the material world which can distract or prevent you from pursuing some supernatural goal. Most anti-pleasure viewpoints, however, stem from material consequences of pleasure-seeking. It is important to keep in mind that while our modern society often considers pleasure to be inherently destructive or implicitly laced with negative consequences, this is often not true. I believe the real consternation comes from the fact that a simple intuitive approach to life would lead to the belief that pleasure is a reliable signal of a thing providing benefit. As this is not true, the intuition is revealed to be deceptive. Rather than blame intuition and burden themselves with the task of reasoning about the world, many take the route of blaming pleasure. Denigration of pleasure has a long history, and much has been written about it. Michel Foucault wrote about it a great deal. At the end, pleasure itself is never the problem. Relying upon pleasure as an indicator of assured consequences of either a positive or negative nature is incorrect. It is simply a meaningless indicator with no reliability. It would be as sensible as relying upon color to determine which berries are safe to eat. We have in the past, and do still presently, pay the price for our aversion to pleasure and our striving to destroy pleasure-seeking behavior. In the early 20th century, a notion became popular that the pleasure-seeking behavior of an infant to cling to their mother was destructive and led to 'weak' children and immoral adults. In order to combat this, adults began actively avoiding affectionate touching of children. This became very popular. A hospital adopted a hands-off policy in their maternity ward and made a discovery. Babies die without affectionate touch. Even if all other survival needs are met, infants die if denied the pleasure of affectionate touch. Once knowledge of this came out, most people abandoned at least this deprivation, though I'm not aware of it causing many to doubt the mindset that led them to embracing the concept originally. More modern research has shown that lack of affectionate touch with children significantly increases later aggression and destructive behaviors in the children as adolescents. Intuition (by that I mean the automatic functioning of the brain absent intentional thought - hunches, guesses, 'gut feelings', etc) is a dangerously unreliable guide to human life, particularly modern human life. Perhaps if we lived in a nomadic tribe on the African savannah (the environment it evolved to handle) it might fare better. Rather than blindly seeking OR avoiding pleasure, rational consideration of the consequences of an action and whether it might cause suffering is the only moral path in my opinion. 

What are the criteria for existence, i.e. the answer to "what exists and what doesn't exist?" in modern schools of philosophy? My trial: Something exists if and only if it can affect our senses, either directly or indirectly. For example, magnetic fields or electrons exist, because they affect our measuring devices, which we can see. Update 1: There are at least two challenges for this criterion: 

There are many obvious examples for 1 and 2. It seems to me that 3 is impossible. My question: Is 4 possible? If so, please provide an example. Update: I have edited the question. In the previous version, I asked about two examples: A. Bob is prettier than Charlie B. Alice believes that Bob is prettier than Charlie 

Some people claim we never die; that we have eternal souls. Some people claim that we can be born again and/or live multiple lives. Usually these claims involve some catch of living correctly. From a scientific standpoint at this time it would seem the human body lives, once for a finite period of time. Before, and after this, would presumably be an infinite amount of non-life. So I would say choosing to live is rational. 

I tend to agree with you. Science is never truly proven. All it takes is one disproof for a scientific theorem to be false. Atheism is a belief system. A "philosophy", if you will. 

I do this often. I use the word "philosophy" to indicate I am talking about the way I think. I use it to indicate my own personal beliefs and conclusions about the world. It is in a sense a disclaimer at times as, "In my philosophy...", or, "My philosophy is...". In a way I am warning people to take what I am about to say as "something to think about", rather than fact. It might be true and I think it is. I can't prove it to you, maybe it can't be proven, there is evidence though. Another phrase I like to use is, "Philosophically speaking...". Does anyone else do this sort of thing? Is there a better way to start such a statement, in particular with someone who does not study philosophy? What tags should I include for this question? 

Omnipotence implies the ability to manifest paradoxes in reality. This critically includes the ability for a thing to be true and false simultaneously. Showing that an argument leads to a paradox is the root source of all knowledge of falsehood. Claiming the existence of an omnipotent being would either require (to maintain consistency) rejecting the sum total of all logic, especially the most fundamental, or accepting that no logic is possible. edit: I should also mention that various religions have definitely and clearly addressed this. The Christian religion addressed it during the Council of Nicea and developed the Nicene Creed which modern churches still accept as central dogma and which most Christians recite on a regular basis in their churches. It absolutely rejects logic, and accepts that real paradoxes are and have been manifested by their god. The Council of Nicea defined attempts to defend the Christian belief system as logical or rational to be heresy and this is a position still held by modern Christian churches - although seemingly unbeknownst to most active Christians who actively engage in exactly the heresies the Council was formed to combat. 

Does a nation exist? What about a city, a corporation or a family? Do dragons exist? Their existence is not logically impossible. Additionally, if they exist, they can affect our senses. 

Consider this statement: There exist black swans. It is (practically) not falsifiable, since we can't search the whole world to conclude there are no black swans. However, it is provable, and I guess we can all agree that it's a scientific fact. Can we conclude that falsifiablity is not necessary for being scientific? 

Update 2: Another approach: We need to accept the existence of at least one object as a reference (let's say our hands), which is followed by two rules: A: Anything observed to have interactions with existent objects is also existent. B: Anything whose existence is consistent with our knowledge probably exists. I think the circularity of this definition is resolvable, but I admit it's vague. 

I don't see a common fallacy here, but it is simply incorrect. The speaker is making the claim that the acts he named are the only acts which qualify as helping solve the problem of homelessness. He could mean this either in a practical sense, that all other acts do not have practical effect, or in a social sense, that all other acts are not seen by society as being helpful. Both of those claims are incorrect. Providing homes to the homeless has solved the problem of homelessness in several places. And society sees many acts outside of the short list he provided as helpful. 

He is supposing that inequality is a precondition in his hypothetical. If inequality existed (the means by which it came about is not addressed), it would only be acceptable if the gains of the rich also improve the gains of the poor. Under all other conditions, the inequality would not be justifiable. That is my reading of it at least.