They are a carb-heavy option, so that's a huge plus if you're in the earlier stages of bulking, but likely a minus if you're in the latter chiselling stages. 

Perhaps just the max height for a single box jump/vertical jump (if you don't want technique to be a factor for improvement). I'm hoping/expecting that your setup allows you to increase height. I have a friend who was box jump training for a bit, he gained a few inches over maybe 2-3 months of intensive training. But I think doubling your box jump height is a lot harder than doubling your squat weight! 

One factor to consider is that if you've set yourself a high calorie & protein intake, one which challenges your normal appetite, a recovery shake immediately plus a meal some hours afterwards may be easier for hitting your intake goal than just one larger meal hours afterwards. 

If you are eating in a caloric deficit you will lose weight.period Given your stats, there is definite reason to assume you will lose weight on 1800 calories certainly if you are eating less whether it's all carbs or all fats, it makes no difference(obviously for other reasons you want to get proper amounts of macronutrients) Are you truly eating that amount? The foods you listed don't really make it clear how many calories you are taking in a day. Chicken salad or curry for example could be 1000 calories for all we know Are you weighing (not volume measuring) and tracking every ingredient? Also it's important to weigh yourself the same time (preferably in morning after going to the bathroom)once a week on the same day to accurately measure progress, as your weight will vary from day to day 

No meal timing does not matter , only concern would be if you have energy at the gym. You may find you have more energy consuming carbs a few hours before. Other than that there is no difference. For protein other than whey, I use Greek yogurt , sometimes i make protein pancakes . you can Google for recipes 

Though I'm keeping my legs straight, maybe I should bend them slightly? My goal is to get past 90 degrees, but I don't want to compromise strength or explosive power, particularly for jumps and sprints. Given this, my reading says to do an exercise that reaches peak extension of the hamstring whilst subjecting the muscle to a substantial force. I'm home-gymming with a very basic setup at the moment, so the less equipment required, the better. What exercise(s) should I do? I've tried the exercise shown above with rubber cords and some gradual movement, though my arms don't provide enough resistive force for my hamstrings. 

Backstroke covers certain muscles a lot better than freestyle, and Gym can't perfectly replicate backstroke swim time. If you're going to swim as much as you do, you may as well get comfortable with a second stroke. 

High intensity interval training and weight lifting are both very good protocols for insulin resistant people. Studies that point to weight lifting increasing insulin sensitivity $URL$ $URL$ HIIT effect on insulin resistance study $URL$ You can search around as there are a lot more, i just quoted a few As with all studies the only way to know if they are really true is to try them out (where there is no risk) and see for yourself 

I would go to either a person certified in sports medicine or someone who coaches physique athletes as they would both have a pretty good idea ability how to properly analyze your situation and provide good treating 

The premise for this notion is based upon glycogen depletion. Replenishing glycogen allows the body to recover better and start working on muscle repair, however, You would need to work out for a few hours to consider that your glycogen might have been depleted. Assuming your friend is an athlete like you claim he probably trains for hours at a time and therefore does benefit from refueling. For most people there is no need to eat right away. Supplement companies will try to convince you otherwise the same way cereal companies will try to convince you breakfast is the most important meal of the day 

Seems like too many comments and not enough answers! You need to do backstroke along with freestyle, because: 

I found huge improvements from taking on gyming while swimming - specifically muscular strength and endurance. That is, until I overtrained and heavily damaged my back. Be wise and know your limits! How often? I think two to three swim sessions to one gym session is a good ratio. If you're a sprinter, maybe more towards two to one swim sessions to one gym session. How many sessions a week that ends up being depends on how into the sport you are! A competitive swimmer may be doing 7-10 swim sessions a week, coupled with 3-4 gym sessions would be a nice mix. Make sure you give enough time for your muscles to recover. Throwing gym into the mix puts a much higher demand on your muscles. Sets and Reps I did freestyle mid-distance events, 200 m up to 800 m, so my focus was more on endurance reps. For standard workouts, I would do 3 sets of 20, and gradually increased weights accordingly. I did them at a similar speed to swimming stroke rate, except for legs of course. I frequently did circuit training - 30 seconds on, 30 seconds off, go to the next exercise, around 70% of my max or greater. This was the money, I loved these workouts! One stupid set I frequently did was pyramid sets on quads until muscle strain. 20 reps, climb weight until you injure your muscles, then climb back down. I actually didn't realise that I was straining my muscles, the 5+ days for my quads to recover despite my well conditioned muscles should have been an obvious clue! Routines Think through what muscles hold you back the most, and focus on them. 

Obviously you will be limited to bodyweight exercises. I would try to get in some basics bodyweight resistance training and some plyometric style cardio as it will help with the explosive power of your muscles. There are plenty of portable equipment options too for relatively cheap should you choose to invest such as bands which generally come with a door catch so you can work both push and pull muscles 

To answer which one burns more calories, that's pretty straightforward math. Steady state cardio burns calories based upon intensity level x amount of calories per minute . In order to get that number you would need to know your heart rate during exercise and either have the hr monitor calculate the calories burnt totals for you or plug it in to a online calculator. Either way it's pretty simple. Sounds like the treadmill option is more intense and is burning more per minute however if you are doing it for less time you might be burning more with walking outside. My advice,Collect the data and run the numbers. Once you have clear which one is burning more, that still doesn't answer the question of which one is the better deal. The best exercise for you is the one you will stick to , only you can answer that question 

If it must be at home, then it really depends on the architecture and furnishings of your house. My friend's place has a floating beam in the living room, which is not bad for doing pull ups on. I don't have such a beam - not everyone is going to have something at home that's satisfactory for pull ups. So that's when you need to check out places outside of home. Playgrounds, alleyways, forests - get creative and you'll figure something out. Though be prepared to look a little silly! Edit/update: I've just bought myself a pull up/dip tower, and it's been a brilliant investment. I've done more pull ups in the past few weeks than I have in years. As nice as it is to not spend money, you ought to invest if you're serious about exercise. 

At pools where I swim, there's usually an clock somewhere in sight. If I know my starting time and my pace, a quick head glance during a breath when needed keeps me on track. 

This has nothing to do with the formula based upon heart rate , it's the way it works even when you are not exercising. Every single part of your body from your organs to your muscles requires energy to survive. That is what your basal metabolic rate is based upon. The more of you there is, the more energy is necessary to keep you a float. When you are exerting yourself more than just existing like walking or standing even sitting you need to expend more energy to support that. The amount of energy necessary once again goes up if there is more of you. The formula of calculating calories based upon heart rate is simply a way of correlating hr to energy output (FYI it's not a highly accurate formula). So naturally the same principles will apply to the formula that it will assume your output is more if you weigh more 

Rows, where you bring your arms out back and wide thereby extending pectoral muscles - this is a nice opposite to the heavy pectoral work that freestyle does, should help build a good range of motion. Rotator cuffs in the direction opposite to freestyle. Free weights would probably be best, basically just keeping your upper arm steady and rotating as your forearm lifts up. 

I know some people like to throw squats in the mix for more off the wall push power, but I'd say that it's lesser importance unless you're in some serious competitions. In which case, you would have asked this question to your team physio/gym trainer! 

Honestly I think that's the bulk of it, it's really about the reversed shoulder motion and the back-focused rather than chest-focused work. If your freestyle stroke is good, both your biceps and triceps would be getting worked hard. Kick is fairly equal on both hamstring and quads. Align the reps and sets to how you swim freestyle - if you mainly sprint, build power, if you mainly do long distance, build endurance.