So 'existential ontology' is not applicable to his thought, as he focuses on the question of Being itself, which supposedly precedes ontology and our concept of existence. 

The original German reads: "Du solltest Gewalt über dein Für und Wider bekommen". The capitalization in German is required, so in English it is an interpretation of the translator. 'das Für und Wider abwägen' is German idiom for weighing the pros and cons. Basically the text says: you should master your pros and cons; meaning, you should not stick to just one position (pro/for), but learn that each position is just a perspective. You should try out different perspectives (pro and con, for and against). His argument is: every perspective is necessarily limited and therefore unjust. So if you stick to just one perspective (for or against something), it will cost you an intellectual loss, as you're missing out on what the other perspectives have to offer. Also note that the text is between quotes. Nietzsche is staging an internal discussion by a free spirit, so it may not be necessarily represent his opinion (perspective), although it this case it seems to be. 

I think @jobermark has summarized it best. In addition, I retrieved this quote where he spells it out explictly: from Ecce Homo, Warum ich so klug bin. 1: 

To pursue this further, you can check this by comparing your definition of efficiency with Heidegger's 'definitions' of (Un)eigentlichket ([in]authenticity) in Being and Time like the one above. 

The mad man's focus in this aphorism, the atheists, think that the death of God is 'good riddance' and not much else has to change: they can hold on to the other values of rationality, liberalism, equality/democracy, etc. The mad man tries to make the atheists realize a reevaluation of values is necessary, because our whole set of values is dependent on the idea of God (e.g. humans bestowed with reason by God, equality before God, ethics of pity). Atheism (disbelief in God) thought through results in nihilism (disbelief in all [current] values). The Übermensch is a possible result of this process of reevaluation: he does not dogmatically believe in a set of values, but plays and experiments with them to find those that make him affirm/love life. 

Basically there is no 'strong man of ressentiment', that would be a contradiction. (Christian) Morality for Nietzsche is a way of the weak to take revenge on the strong by reversing the strong's values. It is not Nietzsche, but rather morality (= of the weak) that cherishes the belief that the strong are free to choose to be weak. This means: the strong can choose to become Christian, to restrain from their will to power and to be meek, kind, submissive (turn the other cheek), neighbour-loving. According to morality, the strong can be weak and, more importantly, should be, because morality paints the weak as superior to the strong. This is what Nietzsche means with the last part of the sentence: morality blames the strong ('bird of prey') of being strong. Strong means overpowering, struggling, dominating and is therefore in the eyes of morality 'bad', weak by contrast is submission, peace, love and therefore 'good'. There is however some ambiguity. This reversal of values by the weak is a way of saving themselves: they are weak but still want to live and take revenge on the strong. This is a weak form of will power, but a will to power nonetheless. This creates a form of nobility, but a 'sick' one: dominance of the priest caste. They rule, they keep the weak from self-destruction but by way of ressentiment and other weak values (peace, love), rather than the values of the strong (strength, struggle, domination). 

Indeed, this is difficult and a matter of interpretation. The 'weak' interpretation is: when Nietzsche talks about truth, he means objective, platonic truth. And that truth is a perspective of a (weak, christian) will to power. But as you say, Nietzsche seems to mean something stronger. The 'strong' interpretation is: Nietzsche means truth in general is a perspective of will to power. I.e. everything is a perspective, there is no truth. But, maybe this is too strong. In the somewhat less strict sense of scientific truth (best theory vis-a-vis the empirical facts) or regarding simple, everyday propositions as 'It rains outside', this position seems unmaintainable. An intermediairy interpretation would be that not the truth of a perspective, but its life stimulating force, its strenghtening of will to power, is what really matters (or matters more). 

Dutch analytical philosopher Herman Philipse publishes mostly on epistemology and has a very clear, argumentative style of writing. He wrote a critical interpretation of Heidegger. Herman Philipse, Heidegger's philosophy of being: a critical interpretation 

'Deliberate obfuscation' suggests that, privately, these philosophers have a clear formulation of their thoughts, but in writing they try to obscure them. I can't think of any reason to believe this would be true for any great philosopher. Kierkegaard's difficulty is for me mainly that, besides being long-winded, he speaks in 'hegelese', in the language of Hegel. Hegel's language is difficult because a lot of his terms differ (strongly) in meaning from (current) everyday usage. This, however, has been a feature of philosophy from the start. Plato used 'idea' (image) in an idiosyncratic way. The same goes for Aristotle's 'morphe', Descartes' 'cogito', Kant's 'Vorstellung', Carnap's 'framework', etc. Ernst Tugendhat (in Selbstbewußtsein und Selbstbestimmung, English: Self-consciousness and self-determination) described Heidegger's use of language as 'evocative'. Inspired on that I would differentiate between two forms of language in philosophy: 

In his inaugural speech 'What is Metaphysics?', in the first section[1], Heidegger characterizes science as being about 'being itself - and nothing more' ('das Seiende selbst - und weiter nichts'). In a footnote he claims this characterization is by French positivist Hippolyte Taine, but he does not give a reference. Where does Taine say anything like this? [1] English: $URL$ p.34 

Since you're interested in God, The Antichrist is probably the best start. It is not about God directly, but about Christ/Christianity, but is usual for Nietzsche. As a later work, it is quite hyperbolic which may or may not be off putting to you. My next choice would be The Birth of Tragedy, famous for his discussion of the apollonian and dionysian, i.e. Greek Gods. This is his first work, in a more balanced style. Some foreknowledge of Greek Tragedy is however helpful. I would stick to the first paragraphs 1-15, the rest is less interesting/more specifically on Wagner. Then On the Genealogy of Morals, also a running text and quite readible, altough difficult in the details. In English probably the most widely read text. 

The commonplace view of Nietzsche is, in this case, based on his later works, so it is kind of a moot point Abbey makes, if this is all she says. 

This is quite a broad question, of course. To give you one interpretation: The concept of will to power is mainly to designate the 'essence' of life, rather than a physics concept. It is an adaptation of Schopenhauer's 'will to life'. According to Nietzsche, life wants to expand, grow, overpower, multiply. He differentiates between a strong will to power and a weak will to power. The strong will affirms life, the weak will is the will to power turned against life itself, for example by preferring an other, ideal world or by ascetic practices. Due to the spread of christianity, the weak will to power has become prevalent. Now that science has discovered the imagined other world is false, this weak will to power is no longer legimatized. This is nihilism. (See for example the famous 'Lenzer Heide'-fragment, German: $URL$ The Übermensch is a new purpose to fill this void, but it is to promote the strong rather than weak will to power. Here the eternal recurrence comes in. Although Nietzsche also considers this a cosmological concept, he primarily uses it as a 'ethical' touchstone. How do you know if you will to power is strong? If you affirm the idea that your life may occur again in the exactly the same way for all enternity, than you affirm life as it is, including its suffering. If you don't affirm it, your will to power is not strong enough. 

A lot of Nietzsche's works are in an aphoristic style. This usually makes them somewhat less accessible for first time readers, because you're will miss context. 

Simply put, it is Heidegger's formal name for the human being. Zen on the other hand is the name of a form of Buddhism, or the meditation this form practises. Paralells between Zen and Heidegger However, there have been quite many studies and essays on the parallels between Heidegger and Zen. And Heidegger had some Japanese students who where Zen practitioners/scholars (e.g. Nishitani, Tanabe). For example, the present time for authentic Dasein is called 'Augenblick' (moment, instant), which some have interpreted as meaning 'being in the moment'. Difference between Zen and Heidegger The overall approach of Heidegger and Zen is nevertheless quite different. Heidegger wants to renew and (re)ask the question of Being. The essence of a human being is for him thinking. He focuses on philosophy and poetry. Zen, so it seems to me (but I'm no expert), is about realizing the buddha nature, the emptiness of all, satori, etc. This realization is by letting go of thinking and it is usually not in/via language, but by meditation practice, koans. So, both the goal and method of Heidegger and of Zen seem quite different to me. 

The question 'why is there something rather than nothing?' is a question from Leibniz (Warum ist überhaupt etwas/Seiendes und nicht vielmehr Nichts?), but in Heidegger's reading it can be considered the root of philosophy. This means two things. Chronologically, the Greek philosophers were struck by an experience (Plato: Greek 'thaumazein', usually translated as 'wonder') that is expressed in this question: why is there something rather than nothing? This is the defining philosophical question, rather than a empirical/scientific question. An empirical question asks about a certain character of a certain being, e.g. why does an apple fall to the ground. The philosophical asks about being in general. Secondly, in Heidegger's reading, this experience based philosophical question of Being/beings is the basis of the entire philosophy until himself. This question was elaborated and formalized by Plato and especially Aristotle. There this question takes a narrowed turn. Aristotle focuses not on Being as such, but the Being (Sein) in general of a being (Seiendes). He asks what a being is qua being, what the essence (ousia) of a being is. For example, his 10 categories are about this essence, and so are the 4 causes. Heidegger assesses this critically: this essence is again assumed to be a certain being (the form, and finally God). So rather than asking after Being as such, the philosopher asks what being is fundamentally the essence of beings. This, according to Heidegger, determines the rest of philosophical history, where these basic assumptions are not questioned, but merely go through certain variations. E.g. essence of being becomes representation (Vorstellung) in Descartes and Kant, becomes will to power in Nietzsche. For Heidegger, Leibniz' question is therefore a formulation of the root question of philosophy, especially formulated somewhat sharper as 'why there are there beings rather than nothing?' rather than 'why there is something rather than nothing?'. In the essay (Introduction to metaphysics), Heidegger himself stresses this question differently: rather than beings, he stresses the nothing. For him, one should not ask about the essence of beings, but about the (apparent) opposite of Nothing, Being as such. 

I cannot comment on Jonas either. But what does Heidegger say in the comment? As far as I can tell, the quote is a translation of this original German text: 

analytical: trying to break up and separate unknown notions into understandable, known notions. The goal is description, clarification. Its style is therefore critical, clear, argumentative. evocative: trying to conceive a change in meaning, a semantic shift, a mutation in terminology. The goal is a modified or new perspective. Its style is more obscure or, positively, more poetic, because the philosopher has to convey the new meaning using the 'old' words. 

Agnostics. Agnostics assert certain claims cannot be know to be true or false. Nietzsche interprets this as admiring the unknown, the unintelligible. The unintelligible is not a person, not a who. They admire the fact (i.e. it is a fact for them) that certain claims are unknowable. The point about agnostics is a sidenote, I think. These final sentences seems to me to be the conclusion of the entire section III.25, which questions the claim that science is the opposite of the ascetic ideal. As usual with Nietzsche, it is not quite clear. Here is my stab at it: Human beings blame the lack of 'knowledge' (I guess: knowledge of the metaphysical, which is, of course, not really knowledge, therefore Nietzsche put quotes around it as 'knowledge') rather than their wishes, and from this lack of metaphysical knowledge they invent God. This is not against the ascetic ideal, on the contrary, it is a triumph of it. The suggestion is: they (we) should not blame the lack of metaphysical knowledge and invent God (or think science is the solution), but rather we should question our wishes. These wishes may well be "an impoverishment of life" (as he says above), a weak will to power. We should seek to overcome the weak wishes for the metaphysical knowledge, rather than think it is issue of knowledge or the lack thereof. 

It depends who you ask. Nietzsche meant nihilism not as a philosophical position one affirms or not, but rather as a diagnosis of contemporary culture. Nihilism means that the highest values have become worthless (value-less), because of the rise of science and the subsequent death of God. E.g. the christian values like feeling pity or turning the other cheek seem, in a darwinist way of thinking (which Nietzsche in his own way adopted), like strategies of a weak animal with a low position in the herd. Nietzsche reasons that the highest values give meaning to our life and because our highest values have lost their value, life itself has lost its meaning. Our existence appears worth- and meaningless (cf. the Lenzer Heide note). So, nihilism for Nietzsche means that our existence is without value or meaning. Meaning in the sense of 'meaning of life' and not in the sense of 'meaning of a word'. One can still mean and value other things. For example, Nietzsche values nihilism as 'a process of purification': 'The value of such a crisis is that it purifies' ('Der Werth einer solchen Crisis ist, daß sie reinigt', loc. cit. 14). So there is no contradiction.