Giving a definition means finding a necessary and sufficient condition. For example, the definition for "Brother" is "A male sibling." A necessary condition for some state of affairs S is a condition that must be satisfied in order for S to obtain. For example, being male is necessary to be a brother. A sufficient condition for some state of affairs S is a condition that, if satisfied, guarantees that S obtains. For example, being a dog is sufficient to be an animal. 

Kant's deontic morality will say "No duty to finish early." To Kant, if we must, then we can: not we can, thus we must. Mills' maximization of happiness will say "Yes you have the duty, if your finishing early makes everyone involved happy." Aristotle's virtue ethics will say "Neither too fast (overworking), nor too slow (lazy). Finish just a few days before the due date." And, Moral Particularist will say "Do what feels right for you. 

Your intuition that the core of democracy is an unspoken, unwritten, un-examined social contract is mostly right. While there are non social contract theories, e.g., instrumental (or utilitarian) arguments for democracy, many scholarly arguments for democracy are guided by the social contract intuition. But there are many written, examined works. Rousseau, for one, argued for democracy from the social contract perspective. To Rousseau, a legitimate sovereignty must represent the general will, and people would sign on only democracy since democracy is the most likely to be able to do so. The general will theory of democracy became out of favor among scholars due to the findings from the social choice theories (specifically, Arrow's Impossibility Theorem). Political scientists and political philosophers were deeply shaken by the implication of the Theorem on the interpretations of democratic decisions. A famous political scientist William Riker asserted the meaninglessness of democratic decisions and advanced, unsuccessfully, a liberalism direction for democracy. After Riker, the new fad among political scientists and political philosophers had been deliberative democracy, popularized by Rawls and Joshua Cohen in the US and Habermas in Europe. Deliberative democracy tries to rescue meaning (epistemicity) in democratic decisions by focusing on deliberation and public discourse. They all believe that the deliberative nature will allow people to consent to democratic decisions. Most recently David Estlund combined the epistemic element and consent element together to propose a normative consent theory of democracy. To Estlund, democracy is the only legitimate authority as it satisfies two necessary requirements for political authority (the moral right to obeisance): decision is wise, and people are treated as equals. 

Pluralism on the good Establishing himself as the political philosopher of 20th century, Rawls next goal is to save the liberal society. Rawls believes that a liberal society is inherently unstable since people can form and live by whatever idea of good life they have. I am a Buddhist and you are a Christian. I think your idea of good life is wrong and that the world would be better if there is no Christian view of good life. I, with other Buddhists, could wage a war of religion if winning is a sure thing, but it is not. So i might as well tolerate your religion and go on with my Buddhist life style. Rawls maintains that a liberal society is stable as modus vivendi, never stable for the right (moral) reason. Epistemic modesty Rawls preaches epistemic modesty that citizens should realize that they could be wrong on their conceptions of the good life. I could be wrong to think that Nirvana is better than the heaven. Naturally, citizens should not talk about their idea of good life in public, political discourse. To Rawls, not exercising epistemic modesty in the public sphere amounts to treating others like being inferior people. When talking in the political arena, one should focus only on the topics that other people with different ideas of good life can reasonably agree. Epistemic modesty thus entails the separation of the public sphere from the private sphere. One can preach the Buddhist life at home, but not at a city hall. Overlapping consensus When we exercise epistemic modesty, and become reasonable in public discourse by way of seeking out the consensus of others, according to Rawls, we will have to appeal to our idea of justice (or fairness) to each other: the good divides us; justice unites us! By means of justice obtained is overlapping consensus. The society with overlapping consensus is characterized by its shared core in justice (public sphere) and liberalism in the good (private sphere). The society is stable for the right reason. Rawls calls this way of saving a liberal society political liberalism. Comment 1 Regarding the relationship between the two books, Rawls thinks (hopes, expects) that the content of the overlapping consensus is his two principles of justice Comment 2 Why then didn't he say so explicitly? If Rawls did say explicitly that his principles of justice is the content of overlapping consensus, then he will be criticized for not exercising epistemic modesty. Rawls began Political Liberalism with the proclamation that all theories of the good life is a comprehensive doctrine, even his own theory of justice, since it is based on the Kantian conception of good life. That is, by his own admission, his is as a comprehensive doctrine as a utilitarian one. 

Hawking said that he gave up on toe due to Godel's incompleteness thm. Godel showed that there will always be a sentence whose truth is undecidable within its own system. so your approach to the proof of impossibility of toe cannot be in the right direction in the first place. 

Sean Cobb's challenge to Aristotle is whether Anton Chigurh is morally responsible for his evil actions, given that his set of morality is qualitatively different from our common sense morality, due to his uncommon socialization. According to Aristotle, virtue or excellence is the outcome of conscientious habituation. A virtuous man not only tries to aim for the mark, but also is successful in hitting the mark. In a strange way, Chigurh does fit the descriptions of the virtuous man of Aristotle. Chigurh is excellent in what he is doing. He is determined, persistent, principled and restrained. Their only difference is the mark. The mark for Aristotle is the good; the mark for Chigurh is the outcome of a coin toss. To Aristotle, ethics is an inductive science, built from given human nature and human society. He urges us to choose the good as the mark due to the human condition. For this reason, Aristotle maintains that, to be a moral agent, a person must have acquired correct moral upbringing. This can be why Aristotle called his book Nichomachian Ethics: his son is named Nicomachus. Based on this interpretation of Aristotle's ethics, it seems that Aristotle must concede that Anton Chigurh is not morally responsible for his evil doing. Aristotle built his moral theory based on the old Western country, where the distinction between the good and the evil is self-evident. Our understanding of moral responsibility gets murky as the old country becomes no country for old men. CLARIFICATION OF MY POSITION: I am interested not in defending Aristotle, but in what Aristotle's reaction to the Sean Cobb challenge (his forth paragraph) might be. Aristotle's virtue ethics is based on two items: excellence (perfection) and essence. To Aristotle, things exist for reason (or purpose). What is the purpose of knife? To cut things. Ergo an excellent knife is a sharp knife. Aristotle employs the same reasoning to human beings. What is the purpose of human existence? To live a good life (or happiness). How to live a good life? When a person is excellent in perfecting human essence. What is the essence for humans? The rational capacity. To Aristotle, when we use rational capacity we can realize that our actions must aim for the good. Aristotle admits that the realization is rather through experience (ergo, inductively). From here, Aristotle can move on to say that a person is morally responsible if he is not in the causal chain of movements (i.e., when he has freedom to act differently) and when he knows what is the good and what is the evil. Now, Anton Chigurh is a guy of excellence but ignorant of (Aristotelian) human essence, and subsequently the good. His ignorance is assumed to be not his fault. Since Chigurh is epistemically incapable, it seems to me that Aristotle must say that Chigurh cannot be morally responsible for his actions. 

"...the disruptive social effects that such practices may cause due to mass spread of "it could happen to me" and "slippery slope" sentiments, and the uncontrollable consequences they might entail." 

The scheme of the progressive tax (and the consumption tax on luxury goods) indeed is used as a means to redistribute wealth, as it takes money away from the rich and gives it to the poor (in terms of welfare programs). In philosophy, three reactions are available towards the wealth-tax scheme. The Entitlement Principle One is the libertarian response by Robert Nozick who argues that the wealth-tax scheme is immoral. The assumption for Nozick is that, insofar as the market satisfies the conditions of just acquisition and exchange, the outcomes of the voluntary exchange of the goods by individuals are just. If I voluntarily paid $100 to watch LeBron James' game, which resulted in him being $100 richer and me being $100 poorer, no injustice is done. To Nozick, it is immoral for the government to try to impose the wealth tax on LeBron James. LeBron James owns his body and hence his talents. He is fully entitled to own the fruits of his labor and talents. For this reason, to Nozick, the wealth tax on LeBron James is like stealing his fruits of labor, which further implies that his body is owned by the government, and thus by those untalented and unsuccessful. Nozick asserts that the wealth-tax scheme amounts to treating talented people as a mere means, and thus violates Kant's maxim. The Difference Principle The second response is an egalitarian response, suggested by John Rawls. Rawls worries that a system of absolute equality would lead to stagnancy in economic growth and breeds inefficiency, and thus needed is the Adam Smithian market, where self-interested, talented indiviiduals freely carry out their personal projects and their entrepreneur ambitions, and are handsomely rewarded for their efforts. This incentive structure of the market, however has the effect of widening economic inequality among people. Rawls aims to strike a balance between equality and efficiency with his difference principle: the difference in wealth among people are morally justified as long as the poor benefit when the talented make money (when a rising tide lifts especially the poor boats). The wealth tax allows the govt to realize the just goal of egalitarianism, and thus the tax is moral. The Equality Principle The third response is suggested by G.A.Cohen, by way of his criticism of Rawls' difference principle. To Cohen, the market incentive system where the talented get to be paid more than the untalented is unfair. It is already lucky enough to get to be LeBron James: people admire him for his talent. He would play even without monetary compensation for his love of basketball and for his zeal to perfect his talent. Given this, rewarding him with money for his talent is not called for. Cohen believes that Rawls is wrong to think that justice and egalitarian principles apply only to the social structure, and not to individuals. To Cohen, a society is just when its people as well as its institutions are guided by egalitarian principles. Cohen's just society will not display incentive-generated inequality. LeBron James will work hard in his game without demanding or receiving the incentive pay.