The web-site promises to help with a range of problems, including lower back pain, knee pain, neck pain, bursitis, headaches, RSI, sciatica, scoliosis, etc. It is apparently based on the observation that indigenous people do not suffer back pain, but carry themselves in a posture with a "j-shaped spine". Is there any evidence that the Gokhale Method improves any of the listed problems? 

The question "Do only the guilty sleep in jail?" is easier to answer than "Does innocence/guilt affect psychological state?" which is presumably true, but harder to define. I couldn't find anything about sleep the first night in jail. Insomnia is a serious issue in prisons. [Ref] It correlated with many factors (not merely a sense of feeling wronged), [Ref] including: 

Note: The original paper in the question was dated from 1975 and published in a German journal. This was a period in which the tobacco industry had an undue influence on scientific research in Germany. I looked for citations, to see how people reacted to the paper and only found one cite that mentioned it in passing, so it doesn't seem to have been taken very seriously. 

While each sheet includes the standard worry-inducing list of every known, suspected and barely plausible potential side-effect and counter-indication for use, none mention alcohol. 

So, we can ignore statement 4. There is no reference for Statement 1 (or 4). I'm not going to argue Statement 2. The critical statement is statement number 3, and three references are provided. (Ref numbers #13, #14, and #15 in the article.) Let's look at those to see if they support the claim. 

There was no poll. This was intended to be satirical, but appears to have missed its mark in many places. It was originally posted on a Facebook page for the The Atheist Advocate. In response to complaints, the poster writes: 

That's not a complete theory of evolution (e.g. there is no inheritance with mutation mentioned) but it is a rather surprisingly detailed version of a modern theory - particularly the choice of words ("intelligent design", "evolution", "principle of natural selection"). (Of course, the translation may be modern, allowing the translator the option of picking modern terminology.) In the interview, Greenblatt makes no such claim (transcript). A very quick search revealed no sources that don't also come via Krulwich. Did Lucretius have a passage that can be translated to the above in his works, with provenance prior to Charles Darwin's publication? p.s. Lucretius also describes atoms, but that is less apparently anachronistic, so it isn't part of this question. 

A company called Lytro claim to be producing a light-field camera that has a key feature that the focus point can be moved after the image has been taken. Their claims have been questioned by jwz, a well-known blogger who says he can't understand how their diagram/explanation makes any sense. He points out that it includes lenses, which are about discarding the very information about light fields the company claims to capture. The web-site includes some demonstrations which would be moderately easy to fake (Take the original shot with a Frazier lens, and then blur selective parts afterwards, or lots of photos of each layer photoshopped together.) The web-site notably does not include any photographs of a prototype product. The CEO, Dr Ren Ng won the 2006 ACM Doctoral Dissertation Award for his research in the area. (Note: It was awarded in 2007, which explains some discrepancies about the award date.) Is this a real product being developed? A fake? Or is there another option? 

The idea that people are getting smarter in recent years is known as the Flynn Effect after James R. Flynn who promoted the idea. It is more prominent on IQ tests which are standardised against the population average. Wikipedia explains: 

It shows that, indeed, there is a saving of almost $140 million in Nursing homes, but the this is outweighed by hospital costs alone, let alone pharmaceuticals, medical and ambulance costs. In total, smoking adds $249.3 million to the costs to the government alone (and this pales compared to the overall tangibles costs, of over $19 billion.) If you want to take taxes (both gained on tobacco products, and lost in productivity) into account, check out Tables 17.2.5 and 17.2.6. It is pretty dire. Intangible costs to society are estimated to be about 150% of the tangible costs (Table 17.2.1), so you can see even this isn't the whole story. Summary Despite the complexity, Miranda Devine's comment is incorrect: 

No, it isn't true that all the cells in our body are replaced every 3/7/10 years. Some cells are never replaced. In this article about the eye: R.G.A. Faragher, B. Mulholland, S.J. Tuft, S. Sandeman, P.T. Khaw, Brief review on aspects of aging and the eye: Aging and the cornea Br J Ophthalmol 1997;81:814-817 doi:10.1136/bjo.81.10.814 they explain: 

In the preface to the book 1000 Doctors Against Vivisection, Hans Ruesch cites the Lancet and Parade Magazine: 

By 2009, the science was in to make some more clear statements about the effects of diet on acne, contradicting some earlier reviews: 

Conclusion Given sunscreens prevent Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) and sunburn (although this study claims it is inconclusive in preventing melanomas and and basal cell carcinoma (BCC)), their use seems justified despite the fears. 

There is a common pro-vaccination argument that attempts to equate the amount of formaldehyde injected into the body when receiving a vaccine, with the amount of formaldehyde ingested into the GI tract when eating a pear. Here is a classic example: 

However, canola was bred in the 1970s by Richard Keith Downey and his team for the nutritional value of its oil (i.e. it was edible, unlike the original rapeseed oil!). Ref: Profile of Richard Keith Downey, Science.ca, which has references to this, now extinct, Agriculture and Agrifood Canada page (via the Wayback machine). 

The Food Safety & Health department of the University of Wisconsin took one manufacturer's claims to task: FIT Fruit and Vegetable Wash: Do the Ads and Research Match? They showed that the claims made by the company were based on experiments that did not match realistic situations, and that the cleanliness it implied might not translate to real-world benefits. e.g. they claim that some experiments were done on glass containers rather than fruit, and that pesticides were applied immediately before harvest, which is not how fruit is normally consumed. 

In this paper, they look at the fatality rates for both firefighters and police officers. They conclude that the relative risk of dying for both professions is around 3 times the size of the general population. 

While the overall evidence that I found suggested that, yes, intelligence and humor are related, there have been some conflicting reports, which makes the situation not crystal clear. 

As I will explain, this isn't an ideal answer, but provides empirical evidence that The Netherlands is not necessarily the least racist country, and that the very question isn't precise enough to answer meaningfully. 

This one was easy to answer, because the Good Magazine article you linked to, links directly to a report (PDF) from Demographics Pro - a company trying to show off their Twitter analytics software. The report is not peer-reviewed and is self-published, so should be taken with a grain of salt. They include their methodology, but not the raw data. 

The ORs (Odds Ratios) aren't huge. You aren't condemning your child to certain asthma (or protecting them outright) based on your feeding choices. Other factors may be stronger. 

This systematic review and meta-analysis demonstrates there are many factors involved in the risk of the transmission of HIV in heterosexual acts. 

I'm torn whether this addresses the question. That's because I'm not sure if the question, as it stands, is answerable. There has been a very recent set of experiments published exploring this area: More Than a Body: Mind Perception and the Nature of Objectification. Kurt Gray, Joshua Knobe, Mark Sheskin, Paul Bloom, Lisa Feldman Barrett. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, Nov 2011. DOI: 10.1037/a0025883. The experiments looked a number of aspects of how people (both men and women) perceived others differently based on their state of dress, sexualised pose, attractiveness, or emphasis on their bodies, etc. It is a complex paper, and difficult to summarise all the experiments here. (Actually, I take that back: their own abstract does a reasonable job, which I have cribbed from.) They concluded people (men and women) did perceive the minds of others differently based on these factors. However, they found that it didn't fall into a simple definition of "objectifying" (in their words "viewing someone as a body induces de-mentalization, stripping away their psychological traits".) They found that people changed their perceptions to reduce inferences of "agency (self-control and action)", but increase inferences of "experience (emotion and sensation)" 

Note In a comment, @called2voyage asked about the control for the 50% ethanol extract in experiment with the sneezing rats. That was a good question, and I wondered what the answer was so I explore it more here. The McKay paper cites two papers: 

In conclusion: Despite the concerns about surveys, they can be used to explain how the original claimants shared a statistic that was plausible in accuracy, but was presented in a manner that was misleading, in that it over-emphasized the level of women's viewing of pornography. 

Eden Tosch of The Ayurveda Experience argues against eating seedless fruit (such as seedless watermelon, grapes, lemons, tangerines and oranges). 

The documents that Blackheath cites are examples of forged documents being used in a scam known to the US Federal Reserve Bank. 

No, it can't be assumed. You should continue with prophylaxis methods to prevent the spread. I have found two secondary sources that point to primary sources that, alas, I don't have access to. This puts me in the dangerous position of summarising someone else's summary. Sorry. First up we have Donald A Goldmann, Transmission of viral respiratory infections in the home, Pediatric Infectious Disease Journal: October 2000 - Volume 19 - Issue 10 - pp S97-S102. Goldmann claimed: 

So, if you are coughing due to asthma, might be time to ask your doctor where he or she gets her information. 

Source: "Was Marilyn Monroe a Size 16?" The [London] Times, 11 April 2009, via Snopes Conclusion Marilyn Monroe was smaller than a modern size 12. Asking what size she actually was makes too many assumptions to answer: i.e. that dress sizes are well-standardized, human dimensions can be fit into a single scale, and they are stable. 

Third, it is published in Med Hypotheses, which is a great place to get ideas for future experiments, but not a great place to link to to show that the evidence supports your argument. [More info] 

I would like a cite for that. I note that it has been approved for food by the EU. If there is such a restriction, is it just to avoid unnecessary mining? (5 Billion kg mined annually [Holleman, A. F.; Wiberg, E. "Inorganic Chemistry" Academic Press: San Diego, 2001. ISBN 0-12-352651-5., via Wikipedia]) Or concerns that there is a cost of extracting the Flouride with concentrated Sulphuric Acid (Wikipedia) before adding it to the water, thus defeating the purpose of using a "natural" source. 

Annoyingly, I can see that they do have a cite for this, but Google Books won't show it to me. :-( Amongst 15-16 year old girls, a statistically significant association was found between "crushing ice and muscle sensitivity to palpation". (Of course, correlation does not imply causation, and ice chewing was determined by survey.) The researchers were looking for "temporomandibular disorders", so tooth fractures were probably outside their remit. Nonetheless, this may be enough to encourage people to avoid chewing ice. [Ref: Oral habits and their association with signs and symptoms of temporomandibular disorders in adolescent girls, A Gavish, M Halachmi, E Winocur, E Gazit, Journal of Oral Rehabilitation (2000), Volume: 27, Issue: 1, Pages: 22-32, ISSN: 0305182X, PubMed: 10632840] A somewhat negative result was found by one report: [Ref: Risk indicators for posterior tooth fracture, James D Bader, Daniel A Shugars and Jean A Martin. The Journal of the American Dental Association July 1, 2004 vol. 135 no. 7 883-892] 

If the PETA depiction is correct, this requirement is not being met. AVMA warn it is not suitable for all animals: 

An recent article from Wait But Why titled Why Generation Y Yuppies are Unhappy blames young professionals for being unhappy because their expectations are too high; they believe themselves special. 

Essentially, they showed evolution (not merely natural selection) occurring right there in the lab. A series of mutations occurred that gave the bacteria abilities its ancestors did not have. And because they had frozen specimens of previous generations, they could repeat it, and prove the original strain did not have these mutations. This paper was greatly publicised when it was clumsily attacked by a creationist in what is now known as the Lenski Affair.