Your simple answer is that no one has got round to checking that star yet. There are perhaps 2 million stars within 500 light years, of which about 150,000 are G-class like our sun. Corot and Kepler looked for transits on a lot of stars at once, but had fixed fields of view and couldn't scan the whole sky (and Corot couldn't have detected a planet that small). TESS will only be looking at a small number of bright stars in detail. PLATO would probably spot your planet, but isn't even scheduled to launch until 2026, and will then take several years to establish the periodicity of the transits (which will be about once a year, since it's an Earth-like planet around a G-class star). 

Banning the use of all artificial fertilisers, herbicides, pesticides and antibiotics seems like the obvious measure. Won't affect organic farms at all, but will prevent industrial farms from operating in anything like they way they do at present. 

The best bet is to spend the century working on a really good way to falsify the records of everyone's date of birth, so that it turns out only our ten top athletes are aged between 15 and 65, and they are picked by default. We know the aliens come back in 2120, so starting in 2055 we just keep recording all new births as taking place in 2054. In 2119 we pick the best athletes (better make it 20 in case of accidents), and update their records to have their real date of birth. 

First, your ship is unlikely to be denser than an asteroid, because asteroids are solid while ships are mostly hollow. It may be made of denser materials, but will still be much less dense overall. Let's assume it is a cylinder 10km long, with a diameter of 1km, and the density of water. Then its mass is about 8 quadrillion grammes. At a speed of 5,000 m/s, the angle of approach and any gain in speed as it approaches are irrelevant. Its kinetic energy is 1E23 joules. That's about 24 million megatons of TNT. It's pretty much the same as the estimated energy of the Chicxulub impact that is believed to have killed off the dinosaurs, so it's going to wreck the global climate for a while and possibly cause a mass extinction. 

With 200 trains and a 5km/hr speed difference between them, the fastest train is only going at 1,000 km/hr. That's barely faster than a passenger jet, which goes at about 870 km/hr, which doesn't seem to be worth the considerable effort and inconvenience. 

The limit on their sophistication is not caused by their lack of a written language, but rather vice versa. They have to be sufficiently unsophisticated that they don't just invent a written language, which doesn't need a high degree of sophistication. It may well be that they could get much more sophisticated without a written language, but there's no way they would actually do that. 

If the situation is truly as bad as you've described then you need to make some hard choices. You can continue to act like you're the apex predator and world super power or you can cede Earth to the apes and go in hiding in some remote area. If you continue to act like a world super power you will eventually die a violent death at the hands of these apes. After all you will need to successfully counter all of their attempts, whereas they only need to get lucky once. Due to their great capacity for innovation and superior numbers the odds are greatly in their favor over time. If you go in hiding the apes will either civilize themselves to the point where it is possible to peacefully coexist or kill each other off without your help. This is the pathway taken by several other species in my world ranging from Bigfoot, to the Loch Ness monster, or even the powerful Megalodon. During your self-imposed exile these apes will no doubt develop more and more efficient ways to kill each other. As they increase their population density and become more militarily advanced they will either develop more and more advanced diplomatic skills in order to ensure their survival or they'll kill each other off. Regardless you will be in a better position to negotiate a peaceful resolution. As an aside it should be noted that once their military might reaches a point where it can overwhelm you easily your safety is greatly increased. This is especially true if you learn to communicate with the apes. Their ability to dominate you will make them feel more at ease with your existence. In this way you use their strength of arms to bolster your survivability. 

The first thing to understand is your scientists have to face is that advanced tool building ants doesn't necessarily mean that these ants are superior on that grounds alone to displace all other ants. Just because Homo Sapiens displaced Neaderthals, doesn't mean the scientists' super tool building ants are going to do the same in the ant world. So I think it is important that they have two goals: 

Naturally my understanding of building nuclear weapons is minute but I seem to recall reading that one of the harder parts is enriching the fissile materials. Since the fissile materials in a field in North Carolina are present that hurdle is overcome. It seems to me that a determined party could purchase land near the site and tunnel to the fissile materials. After all people were able to tunnel to a depth of over 200 feet on Oak Island so the flooding here should be manageable with enough determination. Assuming: 

With this robot's abilities it seems to me the easiest way to rack up tons of cash quickly is to become a bounty hunter. He could probably quickly locate, capture, and deliver Ayman Al-Zawahiri who has a $25 million bounty in his head alone. Alternatively he could work for insurance companies recovering high priced insured stolen goods. Regardless if he is hunting people, treasure, or a mix of both the robot could capture several high value targets around the globe quickly. The bounty hunting proceeds would then become his seed money for the real wealth generators. Next he leverages this cash to bootstrap big real estate deals, tech startups, or whatever else his superior intellect deems to be the best investment vehicle. Once these investments take off he launches a SpaceX competitor to cover the creation of his launch vehicle. 

Without quantum physics, everything in the universe is the same temperature, as anything that gets hotter than the background instantly radiates away all the excess heat as black-body radiation. It's only the quantisation of the energy spectrum that keeps the rate of radiation finite. 

The easiest way to detect such a civilisation after 65 million years is to look at its effects on other life. You'd be looking for geological evidence of a mass extinction 65 million years ago, like the one that's in progress at present, as the dinosaur civilisation expanded and used up the available biological resources for itself. 

Forget the recommended stars, there's no way to go interstellar in the time available. You're looking for the most inhabitable bit of the solar system that's more than 5 AU from the sun, and will remain habitable with no sun. So to start with, it depends exactly where Jupiter is in its orbit. Jupiter is an average of 5.2 AU from the sun, so should be safe, but its perihelion is 4.95 AU and so it would be destroyed if it happened to be near perihelion. Luckily, Jupiter will be at perihelion in 2023 and then not until 2033, so it should be safe. In which case, I'd recommend Europa. Look to dig beneath the ice and establish underwater habitats. There's enough insulation above you that you will hardly notice the loss of the sun. Raw materials for future development will be a problem, so you should try to maintain a capability to travel around the Jovian system and mine smaller moons. 

Iridium satellite phones should keep working for as long as the satellites remain on station without communication from ground control. The Wikipedia article says “Station-to-station calls from one satellite phone to another can be routed directly through space without going through an earth station.” 

It was added as a rider to non-llama-related legislation by a legislator who was trying to kill the legislation by adding the most ridiculous thing he could think of. But it passed anyway, so now the government is stuck with implementing it. 

One night in February 1287 there was a particularly bad winter storm along the south coast of England, and by the time the night was over the third-busiest port city in England (Winchelsea) was under water and two miles out to sea (and the coastline had been reshaped in other ways as well). So it's a matter of a few hours. 

The main drawback if we have wings is that we have to trail around everywhere with useless appendages. There’s no kind of wings that can let humans actually fly — we’re much too heavy. 

The world is a sphere of rock and metal, and nothing that humanity can do or is ever likely to be able to do will have any significant effect on its continued existence. There's a thin film of volatiles on the surface, and some interesting emergent systems of complex chemicals mixed in with those volatiles, and we could probably have a significant effect on those, but it's only a tiny tiny part of the world. Adding to this answer to cover the edited question, the answer is still no. Bacteria are incredibly tough, diverse and versatile, and it's not within our capacity to kill them all. Even if we did, sub-surface bacteria would very quickly recolonise the surface. 

Universe boundaries aren't static Perviously I was assuming that the boundary was static. Gravitational force still can't cross the boundary but what if the location of the boundary moves steadily in one direction? Everyone knows that gas giant XYZ doesn't have any moons which is quite odd since the inner gas giants all have moons. Then one year someone notices a strange anomaly where a puff of its atmosphere retains its momentum, converts its angular velocity into a straight vector velocity, and drifts off into space. People dismiss this as experimental error. However next time the gas giant is in the same position a satellite retains its momentum, converts its angular velocity into a straight vector velocity, and drifts off into space. As it is flying away it sends proof back to the home world that a large portion of the gas giant's atmosphere is leaving too. Your heroes go to investigate, discover the boundary. Experiments over time show it is creeping toward their home world, and to their horror it seems to be accelerating.... 

If anyone can show you don't meet your minimum then they can seize your excess assets with the government retaining any assets that would exceed their limit. For the coup d'etat reward people who find loopholes in the law with proof that the loophole is being exploited the same grant of assets seized. This puts incentives in place to enforce the laws, as well as find loopholes, and forces people to have lots of kids if they want significant assets. Plus it makes "the new rich" from asset seizure adopt a bunch of kids just before seizure so they can hold onto the maximum amount of seized assets. Of course this is severe to the point of likely destroying economies, but it is a system where you get your desired result of rich people having lots of children plus checks and balances to make sure they adhere to the law. 

People keep on talking about inheritance. I don't think that is the best lever. Mega rich people like Bill Gates have already disinherited their children to a large degree voluntarily. If we're going to really go for this then we can be really draconian. In order to ensure the wealthy have more kids push something like the following into law: 

Generational Approach Clearly Joe is a government official in Puerto Rico who is a strong advocate for independence. He inspires a large amount of public support for succession from the United States and independence for the island through his impassioned and electrifying speeches. He becomes a thought leader and captures the zeitgeist of the population like the world hasn't seen since Lenin. Unfortunately for Joe, the United States prevents Joe from realizing his dream of an independent Puerto Rico during his lifetime. However a couple generations later when Mexico has recaptured the territory stolen from them through Manifest Destiny, and India is the undisputed world power that strategic marriage between Joe's son and a Brahmin woman with an infant son pays off big. That infant son becomes President of the of a greatly weaken United States, his last act before exiting office in disgrace due to birther revelations and being India's puppet is to endorse Puerto Rico's acceptance into the UN. After acceptance Joe gets a national holiday, and is credited with launching the independence movement in earnest.