I would say from late August to mid-September. However, the exact timing, the color intensity and duration varies greatly from year to year and is impossible to predict. If you want to maximize your possibilities of seeing autumn colors, I'd say take a 2-week trip on the first half of September while keeping in mind that hot and dry summer, if one should occur, will make the colors appear earlier. There are a lot of beliefs about autumn colors, even among locals. For example, temperatures below freezing point has nothing to do with autumn colors although you keep hearing such claims over and over again. One good option is to ask from people who actually life off of autumn colors and have some responsibility over having the timing right. There are quite a few companies organizing photography trips in Iceland, calling a few through and asking specifically about Kerlingarfjöll and this year, might give you a better idea on how to time your trip. 

Effect of gender on clinical and epidemiologic features of Lyme borreliosis Conclusion The difference between the amount of ticks found on one person over another is likely due to ticks simply preferring the smell of one over another. Other blood-feeding species -research support the odour-theory 

I don't see air temperature as playing any part in the equation. I just wrote some instructions for starting a camp fire and they should apply to pretty much every situation. 

Yes there is. First, without going into specific products I can say that I've ditched the idea of shell jackets. And by shell-jackets I'm talking about jackets made out of materials like Gore-Tex. No matter what the marketing department says, such a shell jacket will only get you wet from inside. Especially in rain when the material stops breathing completely. As my outer shell, I tend to use nowadays a jacket made out of polyester-cotton -mix that can be waxed to improve its water resistance. The same jacket should use a second, more breathable material in the areas that commonly sweat. For backpacking, these areas include the back and under the arms. While the breathable material can be sprayed to be more water repellent, I tend to leave it as it is. In addition to materials, I require the jacket to have good ventilation zippers on the side, no pockets in the hip belt area, large chest pockets and it also should be longer in the back so that it won't reveal my back and protects my buttocks when I lean forward. I also prefer jackets that have a good hood which extends forward enough to protect my face completely from side winds. This kind of jacket is great for pretty much any season and the warmth can be adjusted with other garments in the base- and mid-layer. It can take small rains while keeping the feeling dry and when it starts to rain even more, I just throw a poncho over my myself and my backpack and remove it as soon as it stops raining. The benefit of using a poncho is that it does protect my backpack from getting wet (and heavy) while it allows a good ventilation from underneath. For extended periods of rain, I use chaps to protect my legs. I might add here also that I've been diagnosed with hyperthyroidism which lowers my heat tolerance and makes me sweat very easily which makes me extremely picky when it comes to clothing under physical stress. Finally, here's a pretty good overview of my current jacket choice with aforementioned specs and some tips on its usage. The video doesn't go through the backside of the jacket but it's breathable 4-way stretch which is really nice with a backpack. 

Tick Feeding - Host Seeking When a tick has chosen its host, it often locates its feeding area by the smell. This also depends on the species. Attractive and repellent host odours guide ticks to their respective feeding sites Host gender and age 

Typha Learn to recognize them. The genus is largely distributed in the Northern Hemisphere, where it is found in a variety of wetland habitats. The rhizomes are edible. Evidence of preserved starch grains on grinding stones suggests they were already eaten in Europe 30,000 years ago. A small area of typha will produce you large amounts of rhizomes, food equivalent to potato. You can eat them raw but preferably boiled. 

For the night, open your boots completely (remove soles), have them upright and throw in iron oxide -based hand warmers. They'll heat up to some 70°C/160°F and your boots will be dry by the morning. 10 pairs of hand warmers should cost less than 10 bucks and they weight close to nothing. 

I found a paper from Cornell Lab of Ornithology. Providing Water for Birds While it does mention the usage of a pump or circulating water, it doesn't suggest it to attract birds. However, it says: 

Rub the plant on an area of your skin where the skin is thin and soft. Any itching or unpleasant feeling within an hour or two should lead to leaving the plant out of question. If the plant won't irritate your skin, follow the next steps only following to the next one if previous step won't lead to unpleasant feelings within 5 minutes of exposure Rub it a little to your lips Rub it a little to the side of your mouth Rub it a little to the tip of your tongue Rub it a little underneath your tongue Chew a small portion of it Swallow a small portion and wait for 5 hours If no unpleasant symptoms arise (pain, tickling, burps, nausea, stomach pain, cramps in abdomen or anythin else), consider the plant relatively safe to eat 

So, during the day, taking all your gear and insulation materials out of the tent and having the tent well ventilated will not only remove humidity from your gear and inside the tent but also allows the materials beneath the tent to warm up during the day. Before the night falls and air starts cooling, close your tent and bring in your warmed up and dried gear. It is also possible that since you've had your tent in place for so long time (several months) and well insulated, the ground beneath the tent is much cooler than in the surroundings. This would mean that any warm and humid air getting into close proximity of the ground you've insulated from any heat during the day, would hit 100% relative humidity immediately. In addition to that, it's possible that such a cool ground might never hit temperatures high enough for it to dry. Trapping all the moisture under your tent. 

Lapland in the spring We are going on a 2-week trek in Finnish Lapland 27th may. As it turns out, there's more snow this year than on average. If the snow won't melt before our trip, we're planning on traveling at night when the temperature freezes the surface of the snow which makes it possible to travel on snow. During daytime it melts and won't carry you. At those latitudes, the sun won't set even at night so there won't be any problems with visibility. Added bonus is that potential mosquitoes will be hibernating when the temperature drops. Lapland in the summer The sun won't set so visibility is not an issue. It's also cooler than during the daytime. Lapland in the fall You're better off by traveling during the day as it's getting really dark and cold in the night time. Lapland in the winter Wind tends to calm down as the sun sets. Even in northern latitudes when the sun won't rise in the middle of the winter it is possible to travel in full moon if the sky is clear. Added bonus is the potential auroras which are just frickin awesome!!! 

Condensation is about Relative Humidity of a given system. Relative humidity (RH) is the ratio of the partial pressure of water vapor to the equilibrium vapor pressure of water at a given temperature. Relative humidity depends on temperature and the pressure of the system of interest. When temperature decreases, both partial pressure and vapor pressure decreases. However vapor pressure decreases more rapidly. The result is that relative humidity increases when the air gets colder. When relative humidity hits 100%, condensation occurs. There are couple of things that can be done to avoid the relative humidity to hit 100%