The Greek graphemes Ψ ('psi', [ps]) and Ξ ('xi', [ks]) represent consonant clusters in some varieties of the Greek alphabet. These clusters are represented by the same graphemes even when they are spilt by a morpheme boundary. Some sources describe these clusters as phonemes but this is not correct, they are combinations of two phonemes in all varieties of Greek. It is not certain why the Greeks used single graphemes for these two clusters but it may be related to the fact that they are the only clusters that occur in coda) (ie. final) position in syllables. Earlier forms of the Attic alphabet lacked these graphemes and used ΦΣ and ΧΣ, respectively. While the majority of the Greek alphabet is believed to have been derived from either the Canaanite and/or Phoenician writing system, the graphemes Ψ and Ξ are have no obvious prototype in these traditions and may possibly have been derived from the South Arabian script. While the alphabetic tradition normally has the target of representing individual phonemes, this may not be possible when borrowing an alphabet for use with a different language. Other considerations such as prosodic phenomena, syllable structure, morphophonemics, may make single graphemes for multiple phonemes a better solution than a straight mapping of segmental phonemes. And of course there are many languages which have single graphmes for phonemes, such as affricates and double articulations, that combine phones found in other languages as distinct phonemes. 

In other Semitic languages the situation seems to be similar, including Maltese, which utilizes the Latin script. 

Duden and other sources state that -lich is a grammaticalized form of the Middle High German līch ["body"] (which also gave rise to Leiche). -ly, -lich, -lijk (and Scandinavian forms) are actually all of similar derivation and converge to a single Germanic ancestral suffix (see discussion on details here). The Turkic -lik appeared already in the Old Turkic times and probably was related to a similar in form and meaning Mongolian suffix (see e.g. here). So, a hypothesis about common ancestry of the Germanic and the Turkic suffixes via borrowing is at least non-parsimonious. (Not to mention, that there are no genetic links between these two groups of languages.) 

The Handbook of the IPA (1999, and online here) does not indicate any problem with this symbol (and it's hard to see how it could be in dispute, being a symbol with an arbitrarily-defined value). [ɧ] is clearly defined by the IPA as a pulmonic articulation comprising simultaneous [x] and [ʃ]. I think the dispute is as to whether or not this symbol is an accurate representation of the Swedish phoneme commonly written as /sj/. This phoneme varies greatly in its realisation, both across dialects of Swedish and between the allophones within each dialect. 

'Spectral properties' are, essentially, acoustic properties. The term 'spectrum' is usually used in reference to frequency, especially when looking at relative intensities across a range of frequencies (e.g. peaks in the spectral envelope or 'formants'). I guess 'spectral properties' is a subset of 'linguistic properties' but there are some spectral properties (e.g. the intensity of the 12th formant) that are most likely irrelevant to linguistics. Despite this I guess there's no reason why even such properties couldn't be studied as part of phonetics (NB I'm not meaning to suggest that phonetics is not part of linguistics). 

Not sure if that would fit in your requirement, but Yiddish is a very good example of how two different writing systems can coexist: Modern Yiddish is in general written more or less phonetically, at least with a full set of vowel symbols, much like other European languages. Nevertheless, somewhat between 5 and 15% of the Yiddish lexicon is of Hebrew or Aramaic (HA) origin (including Yiddish Semitic neologisms), and these words are written the "traditional" way, as written in the Torah or Rabbinical literature, i.e. consonantally with occasional use of matres lectionis. Besides that, although both systems utilize the same alphabet and are normally typed in the same font, some letters appear to have different phonetic roles in them: 

Regarding Australian languages, have a look at R.M.W. Dixon (2002) 'Australian Languages, their nature and development' (in the Cambridge Language Surveys series). Pp 602ff deal with stop contrasts and fricatives. It's well-known that Australian languages mostly lack phonemic fricatives, but an explanation for this has been proposed by Andy Butcher of Flinders University (as you might guess, it remains somewhat controversial). Fletcher & Butcher have an article titled 'Sound patterns of Australian languages' in an upcoming publication which covers these questions. WALS also discusses this issue, surveying the situation across the world and providing a map of the distribution of fricatives (along with some other consonants. A now dated but still useful reference on the distribution and prevalence of phonemes is Maddieson (1984) 'Patterns of Sounds', CUP. 

(In some orthographies some of the above distinctions are even specially marked with extra diacritical marks). Now, there are spheres in which both systems interdigitate: for example, the vast majority of affixes are written phonetically even when attached to words of HA origin. The systems are sometimes separated when they meet in the same written word, with the symbol ׳, e.g.: אונטער׳גנב׳ענען זיך Examples (HA-words in bold): 

I'd say, among the Slavic languages at least in Russian such adjectives are quite productive and don't always "intersect" with genitive semantically. Thus: 

It seems to be a terminological question, because the fact that ursus and arctos are cognates is beyond doubts I guess. The only sphere where these two words come together is taxonomic nomenclature, so: The correct name for scientific species names which have identical (or repeating) generic and specific names is tautonyms. They are allowed in zoological nomenclature and forbidden in botanical nomenclature. The case of Ursus arctos is not even tautonymy in the strict meaning, i.e. no tautonomy-related articles of the Zoological (or even Botanical) Code would be applicable here. This could be called a "semantic" tautonymy and it is not covered by the Codes, meaning that it is no better/worse than any other non-tautonymous name. 

It's called a 'cycle' because the output at the end of stage 4 is able to feed the input at stage 1 (a single negative marker), so a new cycle could easily begin at this point, with the whole process repeating. This is made explicit by Jespersen in the first paragraph of chapter one of the work cited in the question (Negation in English and Other Languages (1917)). Jespersen himself only referred to this as a 'curious fluctuation'; the term 'Jespersen cycle' was coined by Östen Dahl in 'Typology of Sentence Negation' in Linguistics, 17 pp. 79-106. So the pattern has the form of a cycle; but whether or not this cycle actually happens, repetitively, is another question that can be examined empirically, and has been in some depth: see e.g. Schwenter, Breitbarth & Haegeman, Dahl, Vossen, and many others accessible by web search. 

Although such adjectives seem to be less productive in Yiddish, it shows a similar system. In Yiddish the genitive is generally substituted by dative with the preposition פון fun (of), although it survives as possessive for animate nouns: 

You haven't mentioned, which Hebrew you mean and what format you expect. Presuming, you are interested in the Modern Israeli Hebrew and that the format is not so important, the best choice would be (Hebrew-Hebrew) Even-Shoshan Dictionary: it includes both words in vocalized form and in ktiv male; plural and smikhut forms are provided for nouns, and basic inflected forms - for verbs. There are scanned versions of the 1979-edition on the web and there is an electronic version from babylon, but it's for money. 

The kind of structure you ask about is known as an interlinear gloss. It consist minimally of three lines: the first line being the language being analysed, with segmentable morphemes separated out by hyphens; the second line is in the analysis language and has a gloss (usually a grammatical category label) for each morpheme in the first line and is spaced out so that each glow lines up vertically with the appropriate morpheme in the first line; finally, the third line is a free translation. This sounds complicated so here is an example to clarify: 

The invented languages of twins, sometimes called 'twinspeak' are also known as cryptophasia or idioglossia. Peter Bakker of Aarhus University (Denmark) has published on this topic (abstract available here). According to Bakker twin languages are very common, occurring in about 40% of all twins, but soon disappear. Regarding the structure of these languages, Bakker writes: