In prehistoric times, the Makgadikgadi pans were part of the largest lake Africa has ever seen. Covering 250,000 square kilometers (96,500 square miles), it was far larger than present-day Lake Victoria. For whatever reason, Google could not give me a clear, outlined map of the supposed shape, size, location and extent of this ancient megalake, let alone one to Magic Wand on Photoshop. Could any of you help me out on this one? 

Without a doubt, the most iconic mammals of Australia are the pouch-bearing marsupials. You can find less than 250 species in that one island-continent. 

In this alternate scenario, the Bering Land Bridge had been open for permanent business for 250 million years from the moment North America collided with Asia. This is set in the same alternate Earth in which the Atlantic is wider than ours by 1350 miles, turning the Russian urban locality of Egvekinot (66.3205 degrees North and 179.1184 degrees West) into the next-door neighbor of Teller, Alaska. Fast-forward to the 21st century AD, and the question is: Would the permanent presence of this bridge affect the climate of the North Pacific and Arctic coastlines? 

Marked in red is the extent in which the Köppen climate type Af, tropical rainforests, could have spread 144 million years ago. The MC Extinction Event 66 million years ago was merely a temporary disruption. 45 million years ago, the Antarctic Circumpolar Current had finally gotten Antarctica surrounded, icing it. This icing disrupted the global climate to the extent that the global grip of the rainforests was weakening. Marked in pink was the rainforests' extent before five million years ago, when the gradually descending global temperature suddenly spiked down at a faster pace, creating a mass extinction that resulted in the loss of half of all terrestrial species and two-thirds of all marine species. In this extinction event, the plants and animals of the tropics bore the brunt of it, thus resulting in the low diversity that now you see on the pie chart. Bamboo seems to have an advantage over regular trees in that the stem is uniformly narrow and the leaves are too sparse to create a canopy. So in a tropical rainforest that is predominately bamboo, would this have changed the character of the forest floor in any way? 

This image shows the very core of Yellowstone--a mantle plume high in energy but low in sulfur, which means when it erupts--and I do mean WHEN--it might not release enough aerosols to disrupt the global climate, despite popular opinions. (After all, no two volcanoes have the same personalities.) Because of its proximity to the Rocky Mountains and the Colorado Plateau, the plateau in which Yellowstone situates beneath stands an average of 8,000 feet above sea level. Our Yellowstone is located at coordinates 44.4280 degrees North and 110.5885 West. This alternate Yellowstone is located at coordinates 40.4977 degrees North and 121.4207 West, the location of Lassen Peak in California, the southernmost active volcano in the Cascades. 

This sort of size and building material isn't strictly defensive, but also symbolic of this particular culture's sense of superiority. In any point in history, from the fourth millennium BCE to the 15th century CE, would this kind of construction be realistic? 

43 million years of erosion obviously result in an altogether different erosion than the 252 of OTL, but to what extent? Using the specified details above, would we still see vast, singular bands of boreal forests and steppes, or would we expect to see Russia hosting a wider variety of habitats? 

It measured 56 feet long and weighed two-and-a-half tons. The trademark of this weapon that made it so frightening is a nozzle that shot out ignited fuel to a maximum reach of 100-130 feet. 

Where would the equator be in this map? Under an axial tilt shifting from 20 to 25 degrees every 61,500 years, would the arrangement of the continents result in an ice age? 

In the event one does not find the perspective clear, this is a travois. Unlike the sort of dog sleds you see in the Iditarod races, it splays out like a fan. For eight reindeer of the caliber of the proposals listed above, this might help even out the weight distribution and even give their wings more room to spread. Are any of my proposals listed above sound, or have I just brought too much weight for the reindeer to fly? 

Himalayas Now, in this alternate scenario, the history of mountainbuilding remains unaltered, but ice never formed in Antarctica as was the case late in the Eocene back home. No ice, no global cooling. No ice, no glacial erosion. No glacial erosion, no mountain features like these: 

Imagine that the entire basin has been flooded off into one megalake, Lake Agassiz, 1500 feet at the deepest. Are these differences the key I needed to bar off Tornado Alley, or have I created something as bad, if not worse? Will the Midwest still be prairie? 

From the ground to the torch, she stands 305'1" tall. From the base to the torch, she stands 151'1". Her skin is a series of copper plates as thick as two pennies. In this alternate New York, Lady Liberty is much, much bigger--from base to torch, she stands 420 feet tall, and her stone-and-concrete platform has to be taller to accommodate that. Her skin is a series of bronze plates half an inch thick. And the torch? It's an actual torch, doubling her into the role of lighthouse. At these dimensions, how far will anyone see the light from her torch? And with a larger size and thicker skin made from a more resistant metal, how long would she stand before she falls apart in a Life After People? 

One of the great icons of America is Lady Liberty, standing proudly atop Liberty Island in New York Harbor. Here she is, in all her glory: 

People around the world have been proposing building a "vertical city" as a means to deal with the growing issue of overpopulation. But let's say that the New York or Chicago or San Francisco or any other cities built--or rebuilt--after the Great Chicago Fire were vertical cities. If someplace like Manhattan became a vertical city between the 1880s and 1930s, would it still need industrial plants to process fossil fuels? Or would a vertical city make fossil fuel refineries irrelevant? 

13 spires resembling the original Thirteen Colonies, this giant destined for Chicago would have stood 1500 feet above the ground. Royal Mecca Clock Tower 

A spider silk's tensile strength is comparable to high-grade alloy steel (450-2000 MPa) and half as strong as kevlar (3000 MPa). Spider silk has one-sixth the density of steel, but if we enlarged a single strand to the weight of a steel bar seen in 1930s news reels and 1940s cartoons, it would have been five times as strong. Now like I said, most spiders are solitary hunters, which discourages the mass production of spider silk. But in this alternate scenario, there is a species of spider that might fit the bill--the Colonial Spider, an arachnid the size of a dime. What it lacks in size, it makes up for in numbers, behaving more like ants and termites than regular spiders. A single colony can release enough silk to smother a tree: 

Here is the scenario in question: There is a straightforward (as in radiating out in cardinal directions) network of bridges that connect city to city in the whole of Europe (can't think of a continent with a flatter enough terrain to start.) Each bridge is 200 feet wide and 200 above street level, enough for four railroads, 18 traffic lanes and four pedestrian walks. Per 6,000 feet stood a massive stone-and-concrete tower 1,125 feet tall. Above city grounds, the towers would double as apartment complexes. Using the detail listed above, which type would better suit this kind of challenge, suspension or cantilever? 

It'd seem, looking at this map, that all the streets of the Lower 48 States are already interconnected, so the alternate scenario is already off to a good start. But let's look deeper. In this alternate scenario, each red line in this map is a boulevard, spanning a width of 360 feet. Each red line is made of "glassphalt", a kind of asphalt in which 10-20% of its weight is shattered glass. Four meters beneath them, each sewage tunnel is 32 feet tall and 160 wide, and the amount of methane contained from raw sewage depends on where we are, varying wildly from one part per dozen in the downtown area to one part per hundred on the open road. In this alternate scenario, an ecoterrorist organization has planted a series of Livens Large Gallery Flame Projectors in San Francisco, Los Angeles, Seattle, New York, Chicago, Boston, Philadelphia, New Orleans, Phoenix, Dallas, Austin and Washington DC. On cue, the flamethrowers fire in the direction of the sewers. Within 77 hours, all of the Lower 48's sewers running parallel to all of the Lower 48's streets are lit in fire. Only the densest spots burst out, exposing the smelly holes to sunlight. Once the fires have eventually cleared, these newly established manmade canyons become inundated with water from nearby rivers, diverting the old routes to the new ones. Is this worst-case scenario in any way accurate, or do I need to rethink the effects?