I'd use a calculator online to get a fairly accurate idea of your recommended calories and daily macros (protein, fat, carbs). Glutamine has rather minor impacts, most notably affecting cell hydration, immunity, and minimizing DOMS. But those affects are really pretty small. Generally your body makes all the glutamine it can use, and I've heard arguments that orally ingested glutamine never really makes it to your muscles anyway. Creatine is recommended at 5g per day. Additionally, consider dumping your current plan and going with something like Starting Strength. You'll get better results faster and safer. 

I'd make it a little more straight forward and say that you should increase your weights according the program you're following. Effective training programs have already done the math on volume/strength increases set against sufficient recovery. Trying to eye-ball that is terribly inefficient and unless you nail it will end up with results that either: a) Have you increasing ahead of what you can safely handle (ie: overtrained or injured). b) Have you not increasing gains in material way (ie: going sideways). Good programs have built in safety valves for common situations like missing your weekly volume, getting sick, getting injured, taking a week off, etc. Look into programs like the Texas method, MadCow 5x5, Bill Starr 5x5, or 5/3/1. All of them have created really great results for thousands of people. They are intermediate programs and assume you have been doing the big compound lifts for ~6-9 months already. 

Interestingly enough, and this has been found in two different peer-reviewed studies (2006 and 2008), yoga decreases metabolic rate. 

The answer is no. From a purely functional perspective, I think the pistol squat really wins out. It requires much more balance and coordination, and forces you to really use both sides of your body. I'm sure you found weaknesses and weird little quirks resulting from various imbalances. But strength and muscle tissue is not to be disregarded. A properly performed barbell back squat strengthens the lower back, abdominals, and really everything from the bottom of your rib cage down to your feet. Further, progression is much easier and more manageable and you can train for substantially more power production than would be safe with a pistol squat. Additionally, the pistol squat is an advanced exercise. Like ab wheel rollouts, they're not an exercise anyone's introducing to a new trainee as where air squats or bare-bar squats are certainly on deck. Barbell squats also teach you a neutral spinal position for practical issues like moving a couch and for other training moves like the deadlift. I generally only do standing overhead press, usually avoiding the benchpress. One could correctly argue that I'm losing a bit by not benching, but I can press 5x at 135lbs which I think is plenty enough chest and shoulder strength for me. Weighted (and even unweighted) pistols easily clear the bar of "good fitness". If you have more specific goals, it might not. 

Vasovagal response, what you could be experiencing, basically means that the vagus nerve has messed up a bit in regulating blood pressure and supply to the brain. The causes of vasovagal response are wide: ranging from standing up too fast to dehydration to being exposed to strong magnetic fields. You should talk to a physician, to have them rule out anything serious. This isn't blanket advice: I personally know of an extremely fit athlete who had serious cardiac damage because he developed undiagnosed problems in life and attributed his symptoms to general fatigue. Talk to your normal doctor but consider talking to a sports medicine physician who probably has the equipment in his or her office to conduct the necessary stress test. 

There are strength standards out there that define the progression from untrained to novice to intermediate to advanced to elite. Just as an example, at your body weight your squat needs to go up to 113 kilos (1RM) to hit intermediate. You'll need to do the conversion to kilos, but these give pretty clear numbers on what you should be able to do. Even better, they keep you honest as far as favoring one type of lift and letting others fall. It can be pretty sobering to know that (strict) overhead pressing your bodyweight is actually realistic. The nice thing about being on the earlier side of the strength standards is that you'll have more rapid improvement and it's an easier program. You can do full body compound barbell work three days a week for an hour a day, have your diet in check, and increase load weekly if not more often. Dump the isolation work you're doing. Your body can handle handle way more load right now and big compound lifts fit the bill. Read up on Mark Rippetoe's Starting Strength program. 

There are pre-workout supplements that are non-stimulant (Magnum's Opus comes to mind). Most pre-workout formulations rely on trying to stave off CNS fatigue (which is not a thoroughly understood topic). CNS fatigue is prevented (in varying degrees) by: 

Muscle tremble is a sign of muscular weakness, or "system" weakness since even on isolation machines there are multiple muscles involved to perform anything. If you put your palms together directly in front of your chest, your arms don't shake. If you start pushing them together, you'll probably get some shakes. Your body was designed to work as a total unit, not as isolated parts. A big advantage to free weights is that all of the little unsung-hero muscles that assist in stabilizing get brought up to speed. 

Initial fitness (what you walk into the weight room with). Training (weakening your body through targeted stress). Recovery (your body is actively repairing you through active and passive rest). Supercompensation (your body is bigger/faster/stronger by a small margin). 

The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends strength training for children 8 and up. As a father myself, not all children grow up the same and some kids are quite frankly much more physically gifted than others. I don't think anyone's recommending throwing a child into a competitive power lifting program on their 8th birthday, and honestly some kids at 8 (or 10, or 12, or 18) simply don't have the attention or care-factor to learn serious strength training and execute it safely. What I've personally found is that kids tend to play sports much earlier than they can strength train. Those sports and basic calisthenics teach motor control, discipline, and physical prowess. As sports continue to evolve in the 4-10 year old range, you can slowly start introducing targeted body weight activities that aid in their sport development. From there, you have kids who are: 

The medical term is (BFS) benign fasciculation syndrome. Loosely translated, that means "probably not serious muscle tremor". Here's a video of a man's calf muscle with BFS. Like most benign conditions, it's not extensively studied. Research (fortunately) tends to go where's the greatest need and unraveling the mysteries of a harmless eye twitch doesn't get the attention those with twitching eyes probably would like. Anecdotally there are several suspected causes of fasciulations, but no smoking gun to demonstrate that some particular repeatable and testable pattern is present in a certain population (or all populations). The best I've been able to find is a 2010 study which loosely links exertion: 

Go with a program like Starting Strength or Strong Lifts 5x5. They are hybrids of Bill Starr's 5x5 which is a training program for football players and promotes overall strength and athleticism. In fact, you would be a good candidate for switching to the Bill Starr version later on (after maybe a year of the Starting Strength or Strong Lifts program), because Olympic lifts are terrific for explosive/accelerating speed. Regarding building muscle vs strength, these barbell programs will put you on a path to squatting twice your body weight. Show me anyone who can do that, or pull 500 pounds off the floor, or bench 250: they will be a strong, they will have muscles, and they will hit like train. 

There are several q&a's on here about abs, you should maybe check out this one. Abdominal muscles "get huge" when the fat around them is removed. The "hugeness" is the contrast, the muscles themselves don't really get much bigger. Abdominal muscles are primarily made up of type 1 "slow twitch" fibers: the human body has (rightly) designed these muscles to do the same boring job every day, all day, similar to your tongue and heart. It's not designed to exert power, push heavy rocks, or other strength goals: your abs are there to keep your erect, help you breathe (especially as a little kid and when in distress) and protect your organs. All of that is about slow twitch. You should follow a proper strength training program which will include compound lifts that will require your abdominal muscles to do their stabilizing job with increasing resistance. A proper strength training program will also include accessory exercises, like ab-wheels or incline sit ups. You will not outsmart a good training program. 

If you do those every other day, 3x10, you'll be doing pretty good for yourself. It's not a perfect program but it's better than most. The only other thing to consider is that the weight will be different through all of them, the overhead press being easily your weakest lift. At some point consider moving to a more dialed in training program but again if you can stick to the above, and avoid the temptation to focus on "mirror muscles" (the ones you can see in the mirror when you flex) you'll be looking and feeling great within a few months. 

I've seen gym trainers do some pretty terrible things to clients. There are good trainers, but the typical 23 year old "trainer" has no experience working with advanced trainees who are really interested in athletics. Post your video on here for some good feedback. 

It depends on what you want to achieve. Some lifts (like cleans, and snatches) can't be done slowly. Likewise, anything that's ballistic in nature or revolves around plyometrics will be fast. On the flip side, whenever you get near your maximum weight in strength activities, it will go slow. If you can go fast, you'll be able to do more weight slowly. All that being said, there are a few things in particular that can be a problem with moving weights quickly: 

When I was coached for the deadlift, I was advised that the first inch is the most important, followed by the distance up to the knee line. Past that you're generally in the clear. That's anecdotal, but it's been true for me and most people I've talked to. Answering your question showed me that at (or around) that point, the quads become less dominant and the load is transferred to the hamstrings and glutes. If you look at exrx's page on the deadlift, they list a pile of muscles that are involved, and rightly so. But the recruitment and involvement changes as the bar moves north. This is a borrowed graph from a 1999 study in the Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research showing the electromyograph results of a stiff-leg deadlift. The top box is the recruitment of the bicep femoris, the bottom is the semitendinosus (a.k.a. hamstrings). Each vertical line grid is half a second, so that's roughly a five second deadlift. 

Although "speed work" doesn't seem like it will help your endurance goals, it's actually anaerobic threshold training by another name. The ability to cross back and forth between aerobic and anaerobic activity isn't classically thought of as endurance but it's critical to increasing your anaerobic threshold and real-world stamina. 

I really don't think this is enough workout that you need to worry about either. Anecdotally, I would think "cardio" starts interfering with your strength training if you're pushing north of five hours a week or ~45 minutes a day. I walk about two hours a day, and I would never consider that "cardio"; it's just going for a walk. There's a lot of room between sedentary couch sitting and cardio training that can reduce muscle hypertrophy. Being an active person (riding a bike to work, running a few minutes, walking for a few hours every day) is completely healthy and should't be viewed as a detriment. 

And regarding mixed results, here's a dynamic warm up stretching study that saw pretty good results. This approach was using the now maligned concept of stretching before physical training. 

One of my more preferred nutritional writers is Lyle McDonald, who takes it a step further and makes the distinction between glucose and glycogen which can often be (incorrectly) used interchangeably: 

Granted, that study was with walkers, but I think it still holds weight. The net of it for me is that there's more than one coupling, and moving between them is where the best results are. Anecdotally, the better your base of fitness the easier it will be for you to change up your stride, increase your VO2 max, and overall have an easier time of shifting your couplings around. 

You'll do less; 5" diameter will be pretty hard to grip. Also, branches generally aren't totally flat so it will be a little off-balance. I'd consider picking up a set of gymnast rings to hang from the tree branch. With some rings, you get a few advantages: 

Muscle imbalances are normal, nearly every adult has them, usually all over their body. People get injuries and don't recover perfectly, favor one side of their body, or via their vocations end up with weird body stuff. There might be some more acute answer but if I were you I'd focus on regular strength training that promotes a balanced body. There are plenty of forearm strengthening exercises, notably anything that requires you to grab something and pull it up and down. Here's a good video that goes over bodyweight forearm exercises, showing: 1) Finger hangs. 2) Finger pullups / pushups. (Sounds harder than it is, just adjust your angle). 3) Wrist pushes. $URL$ 

For starters, I don't know how tall you are but if you're 160lbs you probably could stand to have a lot more muscle packed on before you start worrying about being shredded. It's terrific that you're tracking your food. You need to use a site like dailyburn.com or myfitnesspal.com to track the nutrients you're consuming. If you eat a lot of the same things day after day, you will quickly pick up on what macros come from what food. Your protein looks good; I imagine you're in north of 160 grams per day, which is a good rule of thumb (1 gram of protein per 1 pound of bodyweight). The veggies look great too. I'd ditch the cornflakes, and 4 slices of bread. Replacing them with something that doesn't have refined flour. But really you need to track everything and make sure that you're getting enough protein and fat, and carbs generally sneak in more than you need anyway. Lyle McDonald is a great resource out there for fitness nutrition, read up on some of his articles which are backed up by current research. The only other thing I'd add is that although I think a lot of people (including myself) find it helpful in the beginning to watch your diet like a hawk and measuring everything to the ounce, you may find that it gets a little old after a while. Look for "normal" food that you can eat that has terrific macros. The more you can make your normal diet resemble optimal nutrition the easier it will be to stick with (long term).