I'm trying to create an email address which I use for job applications. I'm using Gmail because I don't think I have enough money to buy my own domain (as I've seen suggested on other websites). I don't have a middle name. Assume my first name is William and my last name is Wilson. william.wilson@gmail.com and wilson.william@gmail.com are both already taken. will.wilson, william.wils, w.wilson, w.william, ww.wiliam, ww.wilson, william.ww.wilson are all taken as well (ww is for my initials). I feel like I'll have to use numbers for my work email address (w.wilson02@gmail.com is not taken yet). Do note though that I tried william_wilson@outlook.com and it is not taken yet either, but I've read articles saying that underscores are not professional and should not be used in a work email. 

You seem to have to deal with a real brat , and there's not a lot of things to do in this situation. You're not his manager , you can't chose to fire him because of his behaviour but you're actually too nice when you answer him , which lets him think he can keep doin doing it. (Which he does) You have to remind him who you are , prove him you are his superior due to your experience. Play his game , better than he does. Stop giving him the choice. He complains about your tasks being easier ? Give them to him , and take his tasks , without giving him choice. He shouts to the office earlier due to personal reasons ? Ask him about his overtime , and how you're doing much more than him. He speaks about statistics ? Nice , this one is an easy to deal with one. Asks for the statistics , and if he can't show them ask him to shut up until he has any proofs about what he's talking about. I cold give you many other ways to deal with him , but you have to understand that you don't have to be polite to him. Always be ready to challenge him , about everything. He'll soon prove to everybody how much of an arrogant jackass he is. There's a reason for ppl to respect seniors (even if that's just a work title). They have more experience and knowledge than we do. Make a use of this to remind him why he should respect you. 

My university offers a work-study program where full-time students can work jobs within the university which require around 12-15 hours weekly. The semesters are Fall (Sept - Dec), Winter (Jan - April) and Summer (May - August). The work-study program for Fall/Winter is till Feb 23rd as it says on the website and on my contract. I got really busy during Mid January to Feb 23rd so I didn't put in any shifts. My supervisor emailed me near Feb 23rd saying I should be picking up shifts. I apologized and picked up a shift and then it was Feb 23rd. I figured my work study was over (My course load is very high this semester and through the summer so I purposely looked for a job which ends this semester). I got an email on March 21st from supervisor saying that I need to pick up more shifts and that I went missing again. I'm loaded with school assignments and got too busy to reply and I thought my work study was over. I then got another email yesterday from another coworker asking if I can work this week and that I should be picking up as many shifts possible to make it easy for the rest of the workers and supervisors too. How do I tell them that I want to end my contract and no longer want to work without looking incompetent and burning bridges? I understand my employers point of view now (it's hard for them to train students to simply work part time just for a couple months, and all the other students who were employed with me are still working). Overall through fall and winter I didn't work many hours at all so I can see why the employer would be upset. 

You should ask your friends more details about what the job realy is, how's a day at work, details about the environement could also be great. You could dislike an intresting jobs because of a negative workplace. Basicly it's up to you to list what you like and what you lack at your current job, and compare with what your friend will describe his job like. 

A lot of things in that list are quite basics things when you're a developper but need practice to realy master. If you don't master OOP yet , and have never done some serious web developpement you will not be able to learn enough from this list until your interview. As suggested , work on what can be seen on your resume , and if you don't get the job keep that list and include what's on it to your tolearn list. 

I'm applying to jobs right now and some of my jobs require me to email my resume and cover letter to a specific email. I'm just wondering, would sending my job application at 2am or midnight matter (assuming it's still before the deadline)? I'm worried about the potential interviewer seeing it and asking themselves why I'm up so late (since people who wake up and do tasks early are seen as responsible I guess). I feel the night time is when I have the most time to sit down and apply. I'm a student applying for student or new grad positions. 

I think you should put the contracting agency on your resume because you don't know what kind of contract was signed between the companies , and the client might not want other people to know about it. 

I think the best thing to do here is to be honest with your team , just tell them the way you told us. You want to eat healthy and have some personnal tasks to take care of. There's nothing wrong about it , just try to go once a week or once every 2-3 weeks to the restaurant with them , it'll make them feel you're part of the team , and or not just trying to avoid them when you go eat at home. 

Suppose I am being interviewed and during the end of the interview, the people interviewing me ask me if I have any questions for them. At this point, should I only ask "deal breaker" questions (questions whose answers play a huge role in me accepting the job or not)? Or is it recommended that I ask questions just out of curiosity as well (questions whose answers wouldn't effect my decision on whether or not I want the job and whose answers I will find out within the first week or so of work anyways)? Examples of deal break questions for me would be: What salary range should I expect? When should I expect a response by? Is this a company where the workers work and see the manager more often than not or does the manager barely see the workers? Examples of question I would ask out of curiosity which wouldn't effect my decision that much and which I would find out the answer to when I start working anyways: Would I be allowed to use x/y computer software? Which Operating System would I be coding on (if I get the job)? Would I be working off of existing code / projects or creating on from scratch? 

This point is realy bothering me , have you thought about the fact your lead knows his job , and asked you to "school" some stuff because you don't yet have the required level to help on the next tasks ? I know it can be hard to acknowledge but maybe you don't have what it takes yet to work alongside the team on bigger tasks. But if it's not the case then you should totaly do what François Gautier told you. Come up with tasks you can do , or see with the team members if they'd be ok to share some work with you.