Chris H already has pointed out that aluminium is used is some modern armour, so this is just about weapons. If you look at a modern climbing axe, it has an aluminium shaft. If you look at a modern javelin, it (often) has an aluminium shaft. If you look at a modern trenching spade, it has (often) an aluminium shaft. Aluminium is much better than wood for pole arms which won't break, though you probably will want the tip or blade to be something which is harder. 

Ipomoea alba, obviously. Realistically, no Earth plants would grow without both a thick enough atmosphere or some other means to reduce UV damage, and a atmospheric pressure and temperature which allow for liquid water, which does not happen on the Moon. 

Presumably they are 120 years behind us then, as most of your questions describe the state of this world in the 1990s. 

These in part grew out of a desired that, for the preservation of individual liberty, a militarised police force controlled by the government was undesirable. Alternatives, such as allowing an arms race between the a militarised police force and an arms bearing population to maintain balance, have been shown to fail to produce a safe environment for the general populace. 

The answer is very simple to me. Just take my preferred opinion on how the po-, uh, grapefruits work. Each on converts the pokemon to energy and stores them. Occasionally the energy overloads the storage device, and a failsafe converts the energy back into the creatures. These energy beings can also be sent from place to place. 

Edit - I would consider making the infant creatures more exothermic than endothermic, and be able to heat themselves better as adults. Then the parents would have to take greater care of the infants and young children. These creatures would then instinctively know they need to protect their young. This line of thinking would help them to evolve to be able to better protect their babies, eventually leading to sapience (according to my reasoning). After all, love makes the world go 'round. 

We Kind Of Already Do There is one language, that while not spoken, is written by nearly everyone on earth. Math! The (Indo) Arabic numeral system is used by nearly every nation on Earth (except for a few of them, ironically which are either Arabic or India (I could be wrong)). In any case, the Arabic numerals and other symbols we use in mathematics communicate information, and are understood by most people in the world. 

In the UK this was covered mostly by special forces, but about ten years ago the threat had grown such that a separate Cyber Reserve was founded. This is separate/in addition to conventional electronic warfare/signals intelligence groups, which have been around much longer. 

What story would that be telling? Where would the conflict come from that drives the protagonist's arc? 

To start metallurgy, you need need ore near to the surface. Metals are generally heavier than other rock, so the usual way of the ore getting there is by water bringing it up. For example, copper ore formed over millennia from magmatic water. If your planet was terraformed from a dry state just before it was colonised, there would not be time for the geological processes to circulate it down and up again to bring the metals close enough to the surface to mine. 

Time is big, and the future is much larger than the past. If took the current world population and sent each person to a random point in time of stars and they then lived for a century, for less than 1% of that time would there be a time traveller alive in the universe. So you might get everyone wanting to visit 2016, but they may be a trillion other years to visit. 

So, if a person has no magic by the time they're an adult, it is legal to take them as a slave. If you can use your magic to grab a jug from across the room, why have a slave to go get it? How would people's limited abilities affect the influence of slavery? For example, if you can tear weeds out of the ground with magic, or influence them to die, why have slaves to cultivate your fields? Would this make it unlikely for regular people to have slaves? I think that wealthy people would definitely have household servants, but what about work? With the level of magic people have, would it be more feasible to pay people with magic or feed and house non-magic slaves? (They're not like us normal people, so they don't need as good of housing or food.) What types of areas would have more slavery? For example, would there be a lot of slaves in agricultural areas, and fewer in large cities? (I would also assume that some good people would have slaves just so that they get treated better than they otherwise would have.) This question is kind of long, and I apologize for that, let me know if there is anything I can clean up. 

We would observe differences. At the moment is an axiom of modern physics that the laws are the same everywhere. When we observe differences between the physics outside the solar system and locally, we come up with other models which might work over both scales, but there is no local evidence for these models. For example, the rotation of galaxies is different to what the laws of physics as empirically measured on Earth would be. One way of compensating for that is to introduce dark matter, another is to add another term to the inverse square law that is too small to notice on local scales. As either model does not have any effect on local scales, there is no way to prove them empirically. 

In our history, spaceflight was a spin off of the nuclear arms race that, when transistorised telecommunications became prevalent enough that extra bandwidth was required, was also used for telecommunications purposes. So without either of the two main reasons for funding development of space-faring rocketry, we would need to be looking at some other reason for going into space. Some ultimate disaster, such as crop disease in "Interstellar", might force us off the planet and into a space station. Mining rare elements from asteroids wouldn't make sense, since without post-transistor technology there's little need for them. 

Cancer is when the mechanism that controls the division of cells fails, causing cells to rapidly divide. I do not know of any earth creatures that are immune to cancer, although there are some that almost never get cancer. One example is the axolotl. This weird salamander can regenerate his limbs, and almost never gets cancer, and has actually been looked into as a potential way to develop a cure for cancer. Even if your aliens aren't immune to cancer, they can be nearly so. 

In my story, I have a fairly advanced human race who is at the point they want to start terraforming planets. Of course, all of the materials necessary have to come from somewhere, and the proposed solution is simple. In solar systems devoid of life and livable planets, mine the sun for use in atmospheres and planets for increasing the mass of other ones. One thing I noted would be that the sun is made up of mostly hydrogen and helium, so while a sun would provide a good amount of hydrogen, it wouldn't work very well for other atmospheric components (as in more fusion would be required to produce a reasonable amount of oxygen or carbon). My question is how technologically advanced would a civilization have to be to do this? What would be some of the difficulties facing this method? If this isn't really feasible, is there another way to find atmospheric components and water for terraforming? 

While the Earth's early, short term ships didn't have much radiation or micrometeorite protection, any long term ship has to protect its crew from hard radiation and micrometeorites. Current micrometeorite protection stops a 7.5mm aluminium projectile at 7km/s. That's of the order of a hundred times more energy than a bullet, though obviously if fired from the inside a bullet hits the pressure hull first rather than the shielding. Penetration depth of bullets is less than the penetration depth of hard radiation in most materials, including water which is the most likely near-future shielding. So a realistic ship might have a thin inner hull, a couple of meters of 'water' or ice for rad shield and crew use, then a micrometeorite shield. A bullet will penetrate the inner hull, but stop in the water after 30cm or so. Even without the water it would be stopped by the shielding. The water won't be very pressurised, so expect a bang and maybe a little splashing. Pseudo-gravity from centrifugal effects would mean the water would stay put; microgravity would mean the water might bubble out a bit where the bullet displaced it. If bullets can penetrate the hull of your spaceship then all your crew are already dead on a long term mission. By 'water' the load may get replaced with waste products as used, so the splash may be somewhat unpleasant. 

It would probably be feasible for some linguists who know what they are doing to create language D. Government enforcement, however, would be very difficult. They can't go into people's homes and make them stop, and likely a large amount of people would protest. However, publicly, these other languages could be made minimal. That is, if the government enforced it. 

Advances in all fields would happen with greater speed, and history would be more detailed. For example, in chemistry you find the molar masses of different compounds. I would only have to find the molar mass for, let's say, glucose, one time. Then if I ever have glucose in a chemical reaction, my life just got one equation simpler. 

Perhaps instead of them getting the oxygen from only their victims, they also have some kind of filter in their lungs that filters out CO2 and let's only oxygen in. However, over the life time of the mole, the filter degrades, eventually to the point where it cannot keep itself alive. Then it is out out to pasture. But why skip out in a good meal? More oxygen can be found in the blood of their victims, which means they don't have to waste filters during feeding time. Which means eat the lungs and arteries last, so they can provide you with oxygen while you burrow through the victim's living flesh. Even if the creature hAs inhaled a lot of CO2, it still takes less filtering and is nice and yummy for the flesh moles. And when their brethren become to old to efficiently filter out the CO2, it is time to feed... Because fo such creatures you just can't get enough oxygen by simply draining it from the living blood.