There are times when this information relates to something that cannot be disclosed as yet to employees. It could have to do with bids for new work which are to be held in confidence or it could have to do with ranking employees for a layoff or it could have to do with a potential company buyout and the buyer wants the information. All of those are things that may not be allowed to be discussed before they happen, especially the buyout which is probably even legally constrained from letting the information out ahead of certain milestones. The request is not even unreasonable. Just do it. 

I worked for an audit agency of the US Federal Government for 5 years. I was not an auditor although I occasionally participated in audits as a technical specialist. I also was reponsible to reviewing all audit reports. You are an auditor. It is your job to point out what is being done incorrectly. People don't like that, so this kind of conflict is inherent in the your job. There will always be defensive organizational groups. You cannot soften the blow or you will stop being an effective auditor. The first thing you need to do is to get a thick skin. You have to let any criticism of yourself and your report be interpreted by you as professional and not personal. You need to be prepared to defend your findings but not be concerned if the people who you send them to are unhappy. If they are doing their jobs incorrectly or illegally, it is your job to point that out. Of course they are going to be unhappy. The next concern is to not let criticism make you decide not to present all the findings as strongly as you need to present them. It is NOT your job as an auditor to make people happy; it is your job to point out what they are doing incorrectly. You are an outside force for a reason, you need to stand outside the corporate politics of this. You will win some and you will lost some (yes even when you are right.) but what you can't do is stifle your voice because people might object. You also need to present your findings dispassionately. Take great care to present only things backed up by facts (you should be tying everything in your report to a specific source anyway) and are not just your opinions. For instance, don't say these people are disorganized and stupid. Say they failed to do this task required by this law. They failed to perform this internal control required by this corporate policy. All costs that had receipts did not appear in the accounting system as required by the GAAP, etc. That is what I mean about the difference between facts and opinion. Let their management draw their own opinion about the relative competence of people. And yes you need to allow them to comment on your findings. Again, simply send them to the people involved with a due date for scomments to be received. The email or letter should just be a simple. Here is the report. Please provide comments by 1 Jul 2015. You need no discussion in what is being sent. The report should contain the facts you need to make your case. I also wanted to add that they are likely behaving the way they are as a tactic to make you back down. Your report threatens their jobs. So they are trying to discredit you or make you feel uncomfotable enough to drop the findings. YOu need to pay hardball with people like this. Don't back down on anything that is valid. However, in the cocurse of the review, they may have valid points to refute what you say as the auditor frequently may not have seen all the information. Make sure to be scrupulous about evaluating their aruments on the merit of the argument and not how you feel about the people making the argument. If you can make changes based on some of their counterpoints, then to the senior managers, who are the real audience for the report, you will appear to be the reasonable person. Don't fail to provide as much information as possible to refute any changes they request that you cannot find valid. However, including the objection with your refutaion again shows you in the better light than just ignoring it. Remember every time you do an audit, the potential to cost people their jobs or send them to jail exists. You have to be ok with those results to do your job effectively. If they are committing fraud, they deserve to go to jail; it is not your fault for pointing out crimes they committed. If they are managing their organization so badly that the senior managers in the organization decide to relieve them of their duties; that too is not your fault. Your job is to point out problems; it is also to point out potential solutions. It is not to implement solutions. If someone is costing the company due to their poor management, it is not your fault that he or she loses his job. Be aware though that the more they have to fear from your report, the stronger they are going to be in fighting it. Talk to your boss about strategies for dealing with objections. Make sure that what you did is not something that can be attacked on a factual basis (i.e., check your math for instance. I once found a 12 cent rounding error in an audit report that found $400,000 of cost savings. The activity we audited would have used that rounding error to discredit the whole thing. So check every fact and figure in your report meticulously (and do any calculations by hand as well as in Excel formulas). Check that values in the appendices match the values in the text, etc. Make sure you have backup documentation for every single number in the report. 

Consider asking for a promotion. It past time to be paid as a junior dev. Ask for a developer position or a senior developer position and commensurate pay raise. It is generally more effective to let people know your expectations outside the performance review process. Companies typically have a set budget for annual review raises and they spend a lot of time negotiating how to split that money up. It is better to let your desires for a certain amount be known well before this negotiation process starts so that you manager can push it. Once they have been set, giving you more typically takes away form someone else and at the point where they are telling people the amount, senior management is not as willing to do that. After all they may have already given out most of the pay raises before they get to you. 

Rather than applying for full-time positions, what I would do instead is start making networking contacts. Go to user groups meeting and other tech meetings that are local to you and start meeting people. If you have time outside of your internship, help the group put on an event. People who help with the nitty gritty of helping with the an event like a Code Camp or a SQL Saturday will make contacts in many of the best companies. You can even continue to help with some tasks during the school year, just not the on_site ones. You might even come up with a cool presentation topic that you actually get to present. 

Immoveable deadlines are a fact of life in this business. You cannot always control what must be delivered when due to client needs. You need to learn to live with that. Yes, you can point out that it will result in long hours and overcommitment but when there is a business reason why the deadline cannot be moved (as it appears there is) then no one is going to listen not matter how many facts and figures you give because the deadline is immoveable and the client will not reduce the features that must be delivred by that deadline. To listen to you would be to lose the business in many cases and frankly no company is willing to that. Your co-workers apparently understand that. Yes you can try to get things reduced to something that is more easily delivered, but unless you can hire more people, the deadline is going to dictate the work in many cases. You wanted to understand why they didn't listen to you. They want to know why you won't shut up about something that it is not possible to do. They don't want to work like that any more than you do, but they have long since realized that there are situations where that is the only viable possibility. What you need to do is to choose your battles more carefully. If you get known as the guy who is always trying to change what can't be changed, then each passing month they will listen you less and less. You have to show judgement about what you bring up particularly when you are new and have no track record. Find something that can be fixed and show them how that will help. Then find another, etc. Don't tackle the bigger issues until you have a reputaion for being able to solve problems. You need to learn more about the details of the business too. Why is the deadline immoveable? When we have immoveable deadlines it is usually because there is a legal reason why something must be delivered by a certain date (not possible to change, no point in even discussing), the client is moving from another business to ours and needs to be live on a certain date because that is when their old provider is turning off their old site (occasionally possible to reduce to minimum funtionality and may be worth discussing but be prepared to lose), if we don't get this done we are going to lose the client(not worth discussing, the business will never agree to moving this deadline), we promised it to the client before we checked with you (sometimes worth discussing depending on how bad the mismatch is, I can't deliver 3 months of work in 3 days not matter how many hours I work, but if they promised in three weeks and I say it will take 17 days, I am probably going to lose) and so forth. The reason why the deadline is immoveable makes a huge difference in whether this is something even worth bringing up. Until you start showing that you have judgement about when it is appropriate to bring things up and when it is not, then people will continue to ignore your input.