Lux can be measured with a low-cost hand-held light meter. Of course, an accurate and calibrated meter costs more. Lux is lm/m2; in other words, how much light hits a particular area. Lux meters collect light from an aperture of a known size, typically about 1 in2. 

If you choose to go backpacking in the Sierra Nevada in April, prepare yourself as if you were going in winter, because there will still be significant snow, and you could be hit by a blizzard at any time. To quote the National Park Service: 

I personally prefer folding my tent, but there isn't necessarily a "best" way. It depends on what's easier for you and what you think will be better for the long-term longevity of your gear. 

Suppose one is in distress in the wilderness, and is being searched for by planes or helicopters because they thoughtfully told their friends where they were going and when they'd be back. Alternately, suppose you're just on a hike but happen to look very similar to a party of lost hikers. How would you indicate to the crew of an aircraft that you are or are not in distress? Are there globally recognized hand signals to definitively say "I need help" or "I'm fine"? What if one wanted to relate more specific information, such as how many people are injured or what type of supplies you need? 

Anybody who has severe allergies which could lead to anaphylaxic shock should carry appropriate medication with them. Typically, that would consist of: 

The company recommends hanging it in a tree so the contents don't get crushed by an inquisitive bear, but you could lash it to a rock or bush to prevent it from being dragged away by smaller animals and I don't think crushing is much of a concern if bears aren't around. 

If all I had was some liquor, I would not be drinking that. Drinking alcohol causes dehydration, so while you might feel some very very temporary relief from having liquid in your throat, it's going to hurt you in terms of dehydration overall. Additionally, as you said, alcohol leads to poor judgement and reduced decision making skills. That's only going to make it harder to find the actual resources you need to survive. Alcohol and wilderness survival don't mix. It's possible to enjoy alcohol in the outdoors in a responsible manner, but if you get to a situation where the only thing you have is a bottle of booze and yet you don't have a means to purify water, you've made some poor decisions to get to that point. 

Every time I've used one so far, I've rented it form a place where somebody pointed and said, "OK that should be about the right size for you". I know there are different lengths as well as different thicknesses, but I'm not sure what determines the right size for a given person and conditions. I would assume that weight definitely has some effect, as well as whether you'll be in the ocean, a calm stream, or in whitewater. Does anybody have some good guidelines to determining the right size paddle board for a particular outing? 

Always bring plenty of layers, so you can add/remove as necessary. When I cross country ski, I often end up very warm. Even if it's only 20°F out I may be skiing in a synthetic T-shirt. The important thing is to have the warm clothes available to put on when you stop or if the weather worsens. Should you bring a fleece jacket? 100% yes! Do you have to wear it the whole time? No, do what feels comfortable. It's important not to overheat, as the sweat you will produce can freeze when you stop moving and can make it more likely that you get hypothermia. 

It's important to understand why blisters form. Friction causes heat to build up in an area, and the body creates a blister to protect the underlying skin from this excessive heat. If you don't reduce the friction, the blister will worsen. The first thing you want to do is treat any hotspot before it becomes a blister. When a blister first starts to form, before it is pus-filled, is the optimal time to treat it. Clean and dry the area, then cover it in athletic tape. When possible, wrap the tape all the way around whatever body part is blistered, so the tape adheres to itself and you aren't just relying on the tape sticking to sweaty skin. The tape is there both to cover the hotspot, and also to provide a lower-friction surface to prevent further damage from occurring. You should also readjust your footwear/gloves if possible to reduce that friction. If a blister does form, time is of the essence. The long you wait, the larger the blister will grow, because that heat is still being applied. This is why you should not wait until they end of the day to treat your blisters – treat all blisters ASAP! If the blister is relatively small and in an area where you can simply stop causing friction, then you don't need to deflate it. This is likely only going to be practical for some hand blisters; foot blisters usually need to be popped. To pop the blister: 

You're unlikely to just spontaneously find fossils in areas you go climbing/hiking; you need to specifically research where they are found and go to those areas. If you do find fossils, remember that they have been there for millennia. Practice good leave-no-trace principles, and leave the fossils as you found them. 

Yes, there is. The ANSI FL1 Standard was developed by the flashlight industry in 2009 and specifies particular measurement techniques and testing conditions. The standard includes test methods for beam distance (derived from lux), peak beam intensity (candelas at the center/brightest spot of the beam), battery run time, light output, and other features like impact resistance and water resistance. It also specifies standard icons and marketing guidelines to ensure consistent information is available to consumers. Here is a summary of the markings and their associated meanings, from Streamlight: 

From what I've been able to find online, it sounds like the Franz Josef has a steeper face and larger elevation change, whereas the Fox has a more gradual approach. Image searching seems to indicate that both are quite scenic though. 

This is a very personal, subjective thing, and I don't think anybody can tell you exactly what type or even style of ski to get when you're first starting out. The perfect ski depends on how much you weigh, how that mass is distributed, what types of conditions you typically ski in, whether you ski on groomed paths or narrow trails, and many other considerations. For that reason, the advice I would give you is, don't buy your skis right away, and do rent some so you can get a feel for what works best for you. To make a brief analogy, I wouldn't rush out to buy a fancy road bike if I wasn't sure yet if I'd rather go mountain biking or road biking a lot. Renting skis gives you the opportunity to try many different styles and sizes without having to make a long-term investment. You might inquire with local shops as to whether they have any discount program for repeated rentals. After you determine what kind of skis you really like, then you can start considering buying some. Another thing to check out are ski swaps and discounted gear sales. You don't necessarily need brand-new skis to start out with; in fact, many experienced skiers primarily buy used gear. You could easily get 2 pairs of used skis for the same price as 1 pair of new skis, and having two different types of skis will give you more flexibility for different snow conditions and types of ski routes. 

A patient with a leg fracture will typically be unable to walk without assistance. In the case of a closed inline fracture they may be able to walk, but this increases the risk of completely breaking the bone and causing a much worse angulated fracture. Litter evacuation is preferred for a fractured leg. I've written an answer about makeshift stretchers (which is really about why you should just wait for somebody with a real litter to arrive, but I digress). 

Several good tips have already been posted; another to consider is a hot water bottle. I was on a trip for a mountaineering class recently and was surprised by how many people had never slept with a hot water bottle before! Use a solid bottle which won't leak and is designed to handle high temperatures, like a Nalgene bottle. If you're already carrying fuel and heating water to cook with, it's easy to heat a bit more and throw it in your bag before you go to sleep. Then it'll already be nice and toasty before you get in. 

There are many methods of preserving food for days, weeks, or even years. Traditional methods include canning, pickling, smoking/jerky, and dehydration. There are modern counterparts to all of these. Canned food is not a good choice if you're carrying the food on your backs. Dehydrated and freeze-dried foods are your best bet, combined with non-perishable items that you might normally eat. Foods like crackers, roasted nuts, dried fruit, chocolate, granola bars, etc. are good for uncooked quick meals. You can purchase dried milk which can be reconstituted with water and eaten with dry cereal. For hot meals items like rice, couscous, and pasta are common. There are many types of commercially available prepared meals which you just add hot water to. The key is to avoid anything which would go bad without refrigeration. I suspect that if you look around your pantry at home you'll find all kinds of items you regularly eat that keep well without refrigeration. Four days isn't very long, and even things like bread and fresh fruit will keep over that amount of time, though they may be heavier than you wish to carry. Regarding your modified question asking how to keep perishable items safe to eat... there really isn't any way to do that. If it's perishable, it needs refrigeration. This can work in cold environments, but for trekking in the jungle, it's simply going to be impractical from a weight perspective. You're better off bringing non-perishable food items. 

You could also get some reflective elastic, such as this reflective stretchy running belt, and just remove the buckle and use the stretchy material: 

Black Bears simply don't like the smell of warm man-flesh; in fact, if one notices you, it's likely to take off. I've had bears sniffing around my camp before. Assuming all your food is safely stored already and you don't need to scare it off to protect your supplies, a perfectly valid option is just to stay still, and wait until the bear leaves. If you want to encourage the bear's departure, making a lot of noise is an effective deterrent as well. Shout, bang metal together, etc. If the bear is still sticking around, getting out of the tent, and waving your arms while shouting will be likely to drive away most black bears. In a properly secured camp, bear spray - let alone a firearm - are unlikely to be necessary.