The best suggestion for you question would be to visit a podiatrist to see if the toe position can be corrected in alignment with your shins and knee to prevent achilles tendon wear'n'tear and also to prevent the future issues reflecting themselves further up in the kinetic chain. The running shoes that you choose should also have hard soles if you don't have mobile enough ankles. I am assuming that you run either tip-toe or heel strike since your proprioception should already have been set to prevent direct impact on the waek side of your feets balls. I strongly advise you to get screened by an orthopedic- surgeon or practitioner to rule out and prevent possible (future) issues and see a podiatrist to get proper insoles. This will guarantee that you will have the best setup that your body permits and you will receive all the answers because they are the only specialists who can ELI5 all the questions and doubts you have regarding that matter. I hope this helps. 

Everywhere I read people talking about how to increase metabolism in order to improve weight loss and fitness. Be it with frequent meals, special foods, developing more muscular mass, etc. Overall people seem to have the idea that is one of the best goals for the human body. No matter how naive it sounds, I can never stop comparing metabolism with a very old proverb: 

Actually I've heard that stretching before a workout might be counter productive, since the stretch will decrease your ability to beat your own max load. You should focus more on a full body warm up. I normal go for 7 minutes on the elliptical or rowing machine (full body) or just start with a combo-set of no weight barbell exercises. After finishing a workout I do stretch adding also some yoga poses. 

The most single important change I made for my fitness was just enforcing the rule of no matter what, I must move. No single day I should stay still longer than 30 minutes. I work from home, so I do spend a lot of time seated and get some days where I never had a reason to go outside. While working I use the Pomodoro technique (work 25 min, stand up and away from screen 5 min). Being in the same position too long can harm your body in a way that no sport can repair the damage. There are studies where participants seating longer than 10h a day had 35% more chances of death, and exercise did not improve things. Now, sport is a great thing, just don't overdo. I never lost much hitting the gym four/three times a week. Changes appeared when I forced myself to stay active, stand up, walk for computer break, read walking around... Oh wait... I ride my bike an average of 45 min every day, nordic walk 2-3 hours a week, swim 2 days, and lift weights 2 days. The only intensive thing being the 30 min of a weight training workout. I would never consider myself the sport type of guy. Avoid at all cost thinking that one single type of training can heal your body, and then continue your normal life the rest of the time. 

For felixibility you can run a 15 repetitions of Sun salutations after your resistance. It will help blood flow and can workas a nice cleansing routine :) It takes only but a sheer 5 minutes if you have master it. You can use the first 5 mins to warm up, 15 minutes resistance, 5 minutes yoga sun salutations, and 5 mins cooldown :) Also make sure you train your external rotators of your shoulders, and make sure they are well in shape. supinated/neutral chin-ups should also be in your focal point of your workouts. 

There are two options for those who have wide feet when it comes to oly lifting shoes. Nike Romaleos 2 (interchangeable soles in the shoes which is a big +) and Adidas power perfect 2. I find adidas power perfect 2 pretty affordable and had to rip the glued soles out of the shoes. Orthotics fit perfectly and my toes can move. For the material of the insoles, my podiatrist is waiting for the new material which is being tested by her vendors. 

Turn that mental switch and start working out. Set some goals: short and long term. Make them SMART. "I want to get ripped" isn't specific enough. "I want to gain N lbs in a year" is better. Note: keep it realistic. Find a spot where you can workout by preference nearby. Whether it be a calisthenics park, your backyard, gym or a child's playground*. Basic requirements: somewhere you can do pull ups, dips and push-ups. The nearby requirement is essential: you want to make the mental challenge as low as possible. A spot that's far away might demotivate you to not go train on bad days. Assess your current level. Are you a beginner? Then don't think too much about routines. Working out once or twice a week isn't uncommon for beginners. Not having a fixed routine doesn't mean you should do nothing at all: keep it challenging. Are you starting to become an intermediate? Search for routines, try them out and see what feels best for you. Changing routines can actually benefit your growth by stimulating your muscles. 

Which one is the right timing? Does it change when keeping the head out always? So far my feeling is that I should delay flexing my legs as long as posible, at least not even start flexing during the time I am taking a breath, with the kick happening only after arms are completely extended. 

Looking around some information about breaststroke technique, I am seeing different information about the timing of the kick. With the recreational breaststroke (with head all time out) I tend to have my legs already flexed when breathing and kick when extending my arms. However I am trying to do this stroke and maintain a straight streamline as long as posible with the head under water. After looking around I see different recommendations about when to start flexing my legs preparing for the kick 

I am a software engineer and been already two years in a gym. As far as my experience goes, I never did really lose until I did something important