I'm hardly a Mexican legal expert. However, the Constitutional article you state (the first can be ignored, as that Constitution isn't in effect any more) seems to say that your right to keep guns in your own home can only be restricted by Federal authorities (not state or local authorities). However, there's no limit placed on how restrictive the Federal authorities can make it. If they want to ban all guns outright, they could. It also doesn't seem to give you any rights whatsoever outside your own home. This looks pretty weird to a USA citizen. Our Constitution tends to take the opposite approach that the Federal Government is prohibited from outlawing certian things, but the states and local municipalities are free to do so (aka: State's Rights). The effectiveness of this has waxed and waned over the years, depending on how the courts choose to interpret things, but that was the general guiding principle. As for the sign you posted, I don't know the exact law to which they are referring. It could be that the word "into" is important, and it is just talking about importing firearms and ammo, not actually the act of possessing them. 

The premise of the question is somewhat invalid, as the rulers of Egypt did periodically venture outside of the country's natural boundaries and conquer other parts of the Levant. Thutmose III held the high-water mark in the Ancient era, as he at one time held sway over all of the fertile crescent (except lower Sumeria), large portions of Nubia, and most of the western Red Sea coastline. A lot of that territory he had inherited from his father and grandfather as well, so this wasn't just a momentary conquest. 

As bizarre soul who actually blew some of his vacation in '88 on a Florida beach that summer watching the Rep convention coverage.. VP choices are generally all about compensating for the POTUS candidate's perceived weaknesses. Bush had been a moderate before his association with Reagan, which meant the conservative base of the Republican party was not all that hyped over him. So it was pretty much a forgone conclusion that his VP candidate had to be a true Conservative. Quayle certainly was (and is) that. So he was a good choice to shore up the base, but pretty much any conservative would have been just as good there. But Bush was at this time 64 years old, and had just come off of an 8-year stint as VP, which is guaranteed to make just about anybody look dull (Biden somehow magically excepted). The Doonesbury caricature of him was nothing but a disembodied voice. Also, the avidly anti-abortion and bellicose Reagan administration had opened up a large gender-gap between the parties. So you can see where it may have been thought the ticket needed some pizazz, and a way to appeal to women. With staged political events like the party nominating conventions, when information is initially released by the party elders, it comes complete with some points of discussion. This way they can at least get the media talking about what they want talked about from the start. Thus you can generally get some clues to what the decision makers thought the best selling-points for an idea (eg: a VP choice) would have been by what the initial discussions about the idea are. In this case, right from the beginning, even in some of the network coverage of the leaks before the official announcement, all the talk was about how Quayle was young and telegenic, and "resembled JFK", and how this would appeal to female voters. So that is most likely what they were thinking. (One wonders how many, if any, of the people making this supposition in the RNC's smoke-filled rooms in '88 were actual females). There were some superficial resemblances. In particular, at the time JFK ran for president he was roughly the same age as Quayle, and had served in the senate roughly the same amount of time. They were both white males too. Unfortunately for the GHWB brain-trust, that's pretty much where the resemblance ended. However, the JFK comparisons stayed in Quayle's stump speeches (VP stump speeches generally have to be approved by the POTUS candidate's people, when they aren't just flat out written by them). He even made the comparison during his VP debate performance. This of course set the stage for the top classic moment in all of US Presidential Debate history, Loyd Bentzen's "Senator, you're no Jack Kennedy" line. (youtube) 

As you mention, the Naturalization Act of 1790 did attempt to define the term "natural born Citizen". That act was replaced by the Naturalization Act of 1795, which did not include this language (which was itself replaced in 1798, which ended up just being repealed). So at the moment this term is not legally defined. However, courts do seem fairly happy with the 1790 definition. Of course, by this definition, it didn't really matter where Obama was born. His mom was a US citizen, so he is. The Wikipedia page linked above has a lot of good info on the history of opinions on its meaning. Lynch v. Clarke is apparently the most cited court opinion, which at least establishes that the term includes those born in the USA (even if both parents are foriegn nationals). The Congressional Research Service was asked to look into the matter, and delivered a report to Congress in 2009. The report stated that: 

The net assets of even the world's largest insurance companies aren't anywhere near the amount of money a large Economy like the USA or the EU loses during a recession. For example AIG is said to have total net assets of a bit less than $200 billion. That's how much you could theoretically get by sucking the company completely dry and abandoning it (leaving all its other insurees high and dry). However, USA tax receipts dropped more than $400 billion in just the first year of the recession (2009). They still haven't gotten back up to 2008 levels (although they should this year, or in 2013 in "real" dollars). This isn't even taking into account tax revenue drops for the 50 states, extra expenditures on unemployment benifits, medicaid, the stimulus commonly accepted as nessecary to get an enonomy out of recession, etc. Add all that up and you are easily into trillions. There is just no comparison between the amount of money represented by an entire nation's economy and the resources a meer company operating in it can muster. 

Two parts here: 1) Why didn't the Romans have cavalry? They did, at least early on. However, after about 107 BC they reorganized their military, and appear to have decided that other societies produced better cavalry cheaper, so they'd just use theirs*. The problem here, as I understand Oman's logic, was that as Cavalry became more and more dominant, this made the Romans more and more dependent on foreigners for their military. Given the tradition of generals installing themselves as Emperor, it was only a matter of time before foreign generals started running things. 2) Was Oman right back in the 19th century? Was this really that big of a deal? This is actually a matter of some debate. There are some who say yes, and further it was really the stirrup that caused it all. There are others who say it wasn't, and the real problem was a demographic crash in the western Roman Empire, which could have been caused by economics, or plagues, or climate change, or all kinds of other things. * - I believe the theory is that it is far easier for a pastoral society (eg: Berbers, Goths, Huns) to produce trained cavalry, as their children grow up on horseback and they are tending and keeping lots of horses as it is. A farming culture is much better at producing infantry. 

The correspondence between these areas and the "fertile crescent" is no coincidence. That's where almost all European crops were domesticated, and thus where they grow best. Other areas may be useful to rule, but to come settle and live, a European society needs a place its crops can grow. (Note the yellow bands in South Africa and Australia and New Zeeland. Its no coincidence those are the only areas of significant European habitation in Africa and SE Asia/Oceana respectively. To take a more detailed look, below is a worldwide climate zone map. The European crop package can grow well anywhere you see tan (semi-arid), green (temperate), yellow (Mediterranean), or the lighter of the more greeny blues (warmer Continental). Those areas match up almost perfectly with your map above of where native populations were completely eclipsed. Which Europeans ended up colonizing an area doesn't seem to have had an appreciable affect. 

This occurred because there was essentially an active campaign to wipe out the great Bison ("Buffalo") herds that the plains Indians depended on to support their way of life (and thus their pushback against American settlement). It would have come to an end during the 1880's, as by then there were only a few hundred Bison left. Sighting one from the rail lines would have been exceedingly unlikely. 

Its fairly simple: There was an arrangement where the Russian Rulers were paying tribute to the Golden Horde since the days of Genghis Khan. This is the international equivalent of "protection money". Either pay them the money, or they'd come raid your territory and take whatever they want (probably quite destructively). In order to get money from someone that way, a raid from them has to be a credible threat. Ivan III decided perhaps it wasn't, and mustered an army to face the Tartars when they came to collect. Since the Tartars didn't even want to fight his army, that was tacit admission that they couldn't force him to pay. Thus no more tribute. 

The only evidence I can find of actual practicing Buddhists is that a ruler from somewhere in Greater India sent an embassy to Rome sometime around the turn of the era (year 0ish). It did make quite an impression, due to one of its number self-immolating in Greece. There seems to be a bit more familiarity with people of that faith in Greek circles. However, I think it would be wrong to claim that it was well understood in the West, or to imply there were active vital groups of practitioners living in the major population centers of the Roman Empire, as the quote seems to. As for actual influence on Western Philosophy, its tough to find much first-hand evidence of that. The best I can find is a passage from Clement of Alexandria. He seems to be mostly accurately reporting how Budha himself was venerated, but in typical Greek form equates Budhist philosophy with the Gaulish Druids, Celtish philosophy, early Christianity, and all sorts of other non-Greek systems. Now Jonardon Ganeri has a pretty impressive CV in Philosophy, so I wouldn't want to tangle with the guy on his own turf. But as for historical evidence of his claim of significant Eastern influence in Western thought, there just isn't much. Without that, I'd say its a bogus claim. 

Quite successful, in the cases where they could muster the talent and connections required. The person who leaps to mind here is Dan Rostenkowsi, who for a decade when I was a kid was arguably the most powerful man in Washington as Chair of the House Ways and Means Committee*. His Grandfather immigrated from Tuchola, Poland, and his father was an Alderman in Chicago. That's essentially 1st generation Polish-American going straight into local politics, and 2nd into national. Other notables who were actual immigrants are Carter's National Security Advisor Zbignew Brzezinski (Warsaw), and Clinton's State Department head Madeline Albright (Prague). Bernie Sanders' father was born in Poland as well. Wikipedia has long lists of US politicians of Polish Descent and Czech descent, a smaller one for those of Serbian descent, and an incomplete list for Russian descent. * - This House committee was parodied in Eddie Murphy's movie Distinguished Gentleman as "The Power Committee". Its head met roughly the same end as Rostenkowski. 

I voted up Tyler's answer due to strong agreement with the second paragraph. However, I had two really long comments, so I'm making them into an answer. 

That seems pretty unnecessary (and certainly not worth noting as a smart tactic) if he truly never suffered a rebuff. The more likely explanation is that he was using this tactic to stage ambushes, and then retreating once (if) the superior force organized itself. Now in military terminology of course both sides like to claim victory if they can at all make a case for it. So what we have taken to doing in order to be somewhat objective about it is saying that the side that retains the field at the end of the engagement was the victor. Admittedly this means often the "victor" has suffered some manner of strategic setback, but that's how we term it. In either case, any time a commander uses the tactic quoted above to effect a retreat, it is technically considered a "defeat" in the engagement. That doesn't mean its a dumb thing to do, but you can't say he's "undefeated". I bring this up because history is full of commanders who were very successful overall, but in part because they knew when to retreat, and could do it in good order. In fact, its pretty much required. The counter-example is Pyrrhus, who is said to have "won" pretty much all his major battles against Rome (no retreats), yet lost his war.