Some data points: Almost all the factory-built fancy wheels I see on group rides are now laced 'passing' rather than 'crossing'. Seems to be standard practice across Campagnolo, Fulcrum, Shimano, Zipp, Mavic, etc. This may be because they like to use bladed spokes and perhaps there is an incompatibility there. But it may also be that it is as strong and removes a warranty-claimable failure mode. I did a google image search for 'broken spoke' which finds a lot of spokes broken at the elbow (as you would expect) and very few broken elsewhere. However the few which have broken elsewhere (and not as the result of a crash) look to have broken at the 'crossing' point. This makes sense because it should be the most-fatigued point in a double-butted spoke laced 'crossing'. I tried building a set of wheels 'passing' not 'crossing' and here are my observations: It was easier to lace the spokes. Tensioning and truing was more difficult because the tension of the inside spokes needs to be significantly less than the tension of the outside spokes to exert the same lateral pull. I had to cross the spokes on the rear drive-side: a short test revealed the rear mech was clipping the outside spoke otherwise. That was on an 11-speed hub with 10-speed drivetrain and the 1.8mm spacer behind the cassette, so on a true 11-speed system or with a 10-speed hub it might be possible to rip the mech off entirely. With disc brakes you might need to cross the spokes on the caliper-side to clear the caliper. With normal hubs and J-bend spokes I recommend that you interlace all sides of both wheels because the benefits of even spoke tension for all spokes on the same side of the same wheel far exceeds the minor benefits of not interlacing the sides you don't need to interlace. Looking at my wife's DT Swiss wheels they are laced crossing with the inside and outside spokes leaving the hub from almost the same plane, so they are close to achieving the benefits of both systems. 

Campagnolo 10 speed cassette is only 0.6mm wider end-to-end than their 9-speed cassette, so as long as the 9-speed setup still has that much adjustment in the limit screws you should be fine on that count. The jockey wheels only care about the inside width of the chain which is 3/32" on pretty-much all derailleur gear systems that have ever existed, so you won't need to change them for that reason. I would try it, if it doesn't work you can always fall back to your 9-speed plan. 

Calliper and disc positions are standard, as are hub widths and fork spacings for disk wheels. Minor adjustments of the calliper's position could be required. There are however several methods for locking the wheels in the fork that will require your attention: traditional quick release or different types of through axles! 

It is always strongly recommended (by the manufacturers, I read it on Shimano's instruction sheet) not to lubricate a new cable when you're installing it. The reason is that both cable and housing are teflon-coated at the factory and lubrication could destroy that. When a cable loses the ability to move freely it is best replaced together with the housing. 

Hole positions for Keo and Delta are exactly the same. I've switched over 3 years ago and the shoes didn't cause any problem.Even Shimano cleats of the 3-hole type have exactly the same pattern for the holes. And with the adapter Speedplay cleats will fit too. 

The minimum is dictated by the width of the rim. Sheldon Brown has tables, here: $URL$ The maximum size depends on the space between the stays at the rear and the width of the brakes and the space under the mudguards where the tyre has to fit. This has to allow for the dynamic shape changes the tyres undergo while you're riding and for mud or debris sticking to the tyre itself, if you don't want to be thrown off the pony by a locking wheel. These are no laws of Nature. If the size works it's OK. 

You'll have to 'mess' minimally with the FD in a way that you'll have to adjust the min/max screws to lock the FD in position and (better) remove the cable. Leave the derailleur in place as it will act as a chain-guide. 

These units are simply not meant to be serviced. The end of the bolt looks stamped like a rivet anyhow. It may be a bit short as an answer but it's the (bitter) reality. 

The correct answer is yes and no. There are in fact two types of Presta valves: One where the core can be removed. Those are often used with tubular tyres so that the inner tube can be filled with a sealant (latex) fluid. Some higher quality tubes also have removable core valves for the same purpose. Normal and cheaper tubes have Presta valves where the core cannot be removed. There is a special tool to be used for handling the core although like @Michael said the (careful) use of pliers also works. Another reason for a removable core is the possibility to use valve extensions with high rims. 

Well, since the most valuable thing about you is your brain... take that in to consideration. Also, on a side note -once you've crashed and made impact on the helmet - you should discard and buy a new one. Personally, I would not be scared to buy a cheap one on clearance - there are many riders who will wait til they wear out, damage, or just get tired of their current helmet before buying a new one. But I won't say this is the best decision. One BIG thing I would make sure of is that using the old helmet doesn't effect your insurance coverage. For example, in America, military personnel must wear proper safety gear or they may lose long-term benefits. That's why you can always spot a military person on a motorcycle or bicycle. They have helmets, gloves, reflective vests, etc. I know my insurance long-term benefits has language in coverage (or lack of) about "dangerous" activities and not taking proper precautions. 

Yes, more detail about your riding scenario will help. Are you trying to ride it alone at times? Tandem wheelbase length could be an issue if you are going solo. Also, if you and the other rider are not leaning into turns correctly with each other, then this can be causing skid/balance issues. One last thing - the heavier rider may need to be in front. The front wheel is all your stopping power and so their weight will stablize the front end. If there is a great deal of weight difference in the riders, then you will have to experiment which position allows most comfort and handling. 

I have enjoyed years of cycling to music using speakers on my bike. Now that I have an iPhone with speakers, I mount it on my handlebars and go. Its loud enough to hear but as soon as a vehicle get near me, the music is drowned out - therefore no vehicle sneaks up on me. Also, not having headphones/earbuds on also makes me feel less restricted and I never had to take a hand of the handlebar to adjust an earbud. Go with small battery powered speakers (rechargable batteries makes this cheap) or a device like an iPhone or iPod touch. 

I've been wondering is there a marketplace to buy/sell/get original parts for bikes no longer made? I have a Bridgestone X0-1 Hybrid (the weird looking one with mustache handlebars) and I want to either restore it to original like new condition (or might just sell it) but I haven't really found a good place to research this. Any ideas? I've tried ebay, but either its a whole bike (I don't need that) or never the parts I need! Thanks, Mike 

I would not worry too much about that crack. As long as the seat-post is deep enough in the seat-tube and the bolt on the clamp is tightened to the required torque. What could be of some help (if the clamp is removable) is a double post-clamp where the lower part is around the seat-tube and the upper part of the clamp holds the seat-post thus distributing the pressure and putting vertical load on the seat-tube. 

If you want to go left you'll have to position yourself at the right edge of the road. When you get a green (cycle only) light you'll cross the street that come from the right at the pedestrian crossing and you'll wait at the red traffic lights on that street. When they switch to green you go straight ahead. In fact it's a two steps left turn with the advantage that you don't cross the path of in-coming cars. The downside is that you'll have to wait twice at red lights on that crossing. The additional white panel tells you what to do: Wait at the traffic lights for the cars coming form the right. A red cycle lane that you see in the picture lies ahead of you. 

You'll need to change the chainwheels and the cranks, the rear derailleur, the brake-shift levers, the cassette and the chain of course. The rear wheel probably has an older hub but then if you're lucky and the hub is designed for 10-speed as well it will also take 11. The brakes won't need changing but then the newer ones are designed for less friction in moving parts. Technology trickle-down from Ultegra. 

Braking with both brakes at the same will make the braking more effective and shorter, leaving plenty of time in between for the system to cool down. Brakes should be applied for a short period only at maximum intensity until your speed is reduced to the desired level. Having brakes applied and dragging over long periods will keep speed down but only at the expense of considerable temperature rise of the disk, the rim and if it applies of the brake fluid. There will be a risk of failure if the brake fluid reaches boiling temperatures. This is true with any vehicle. 

I've found out that those cotton strings or ropes from paper shopping bags are a rather practical tool for cleaning cassettes. Remove the wheel, sit down and put it against your shins, cassette facing away. Then engage one of these strings between two cogs and move it left/right/left/right. The freewheel helps and for increased efficiency the string can be soaked with detergent or solvent. It may be washed and re-used quite a number of times.