One in doubt seeking for an end of doubt may always feel welcome and give it a challenge for release. It's not the case that the Buddha did not invite to test and give him, his Dhamma and the Sangha a challenge or good prove. But it's not the case that there will be sacrifices of that without duties for the sake of resist in the middle of doubt. So even seeking for a firm vision is ones personal choice, ones personal sacrify, ones personal giving for a better "gain". First Things First and Respect, Confidence and Patient are by the way two useful talk if that much sacrify and devotion, giving, can be given to be able to take. If associating with those of doubt, approaching and asking "fools", honor what actually does not hold to be worthy of being honored, how can unshakable confidence, such based on "when you know for yourselves" be ever expected? How can security be found if no refuge is taken? And again: how does doubt feel? [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial use or other low trades and exchange for the world.] 

Start to train your self to take care of yourself in keeping precepts where ever possible and bend away from the greed of looking around for short gains, watch out you current step. If you think to much about others welfare you might fall on your mouth, like my person did today, not taking care on that what is near and in range... it may happen fast if you forget your prime own protection letting the mind wander of, nor to speak if many might be after you waiting for moments you leave the place of work (frames of references). Anumodana! [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

So it's up to you of whom you go after: those who abound their parents and previous supporters by their systems in rest houses, leave them up to others or people of integrity and still functioning society, carrying and having a heart, feeling obligated for even small gifts. It's easy and quick managed to join into the foolish-hood. Here are some usefull teaching in general on this topic: 

So really good to think much about the starter for a good walk-about: "What is worthy to go after and fall for it?", and how to not forget and fall into self-centeredness., get stuck. May all beings have always proper and never to less Respect, Confidence and Patient, and even it may sound contradict, starting with goodwill to be able, with one self, since someone not estimating ones own merits, does not know the cause of pleasure, how could he/she ever find any real refuge and follow it? Addition because it could work to make the way of approach for a fruitful relay-tion-ship reasonable more understandable. What kind of guided person in a relation do you like to be? (Drawn from nun Uppalavanas translation of AN 7.13, seven kinds of wives) 

The chosing of words here: should not engage is very conductive and wise. "Engage" -> three doors of conduct, mental, by signs or direct by body. When ever you may get the feeling to engage, to be involved, to feel not well with it, try to change and fix it. It's in most cases not really possible to generalize useful for many in certain details, but the main objectives are to find freedom from remorse by keeping precepts and once they grow to a matter of heart and leave the level of outwardly "rituals" or justification of all variants, the wise and conductive way is to follow ones heart and uprightness. Whether such is made by changing whole things or by changing ones also executed level of engagement in a non-denying way, a non-hypocratical but honest way, might be also different case by case. At least, once aware and clear of effects, mental approve, not to speak of enjoying benefit based on suffering of others, althought not ordered by signs or words, not done bodily and direct, such mental kamma has effects. That is why it is suggests but not often forwarded, since difficult from most, or certain "dangerous" to lose persons favors: "a lay follower should not engage in five types of business". Especially in SE-Asia it is very seldom straight and un-flowered forwarded. Maybe a sample is useful to make it more alive: There is a young family making their live by selling pork is soup and the householder drives daily his motorbike through the villages to sell "fresh" meat from pigs. They usually love giving and when ever on alms coming till their village, not only meeting the husband on his hurry selling drive, they would joyfully offer some of the noodle soup. It has needed a very long time till my person was able to "give a little back", to meet the proper occasion so that they would be able to listen, propably understand. Some days ago the mother of the pair was visiting, and while joyful prepearing alms was moaning on and on "Ohh, steedy ill... permanent sick..." After the round after the meal, the house was crossed again and turning now around, asking "who is permanent sick" my person was explained that the young householder was subject - not much wondering - and got invited to sit down and possible help. So they have been carefully been taught about the issue of livelihood and the protection of silas in regard of sickness and livespan. Not surprising the couple would have prevered to hear a blessing or what ever "miracle" and not much of joy to hear that, yet nevertheless listening... My person had not met the meat driver since this day and did not came till their house since this occation. May it not only be a "the Dhamma is right" but also have possible turned to a longtime better. One needs to know and understand that sure 40% and more people are actually engaged in meat - or animal trade business and the rest of 55%in other un-lucky trade. Why should the reallity in the west or modern world be much different? Only because the whole way from killing till the serving of food is more defuse and not so easy traceable does not mean that "reality" and less care, or not seeing an alternative, not able to let go of certain things, needed to let go, are not different even more worse. While people observe things here in the neigborhood here, "reality" enters the homes over there via TV, youtube or SE... who's today not merely just an employee rather than business owner... who is informed and aware, free to choose his ways or not. What about all the modern occupations and harmful trades, deriving issues? Step to more remorseless livelihood as soon as issues are traced. There is much more benefit of a seldom to gained live is taking on the "lower" and "simplier", not so material benefical ways to earn a living and to be possible just a servant, house keeper or helper, cleaner... what ever. Its good to be modest and prefer highest Protections: 

It's possible for lay people as well. It requires freedom of remorse which means firm virtue by heart AND (especially since still much possessing) liberation of stingyness. Usually lay people would use this six (ten) kammaṭṭhānas to develop refined concentration: Recollections, ten (anussati). 

Yes, Kauva Aatma, for a good, a bad or neither good or bad. Something most are not aware, talking "I know" and do not. To make it short, best is it to compair it with a pit-fall. As long as it is not removed, if one actually get's trapped, the action is full filled. Now think of how many debts some accumulate, debts keeping them to come back again and again... think on how much remorse might follow, once finding out a better. One question, bringing that to awarness was: Pitfalls of answers: what are effects of answers having be received, yet knowing they where …. Nyom Chris gave some practical advices. Here as a sample directly, indirectly on this matter for understanding: 

One who gives is never poor while even the riches person without real generosity and lack of gratidute is the most poor person in this world. Who do you like to be? A rich outwardly or a real rich who does not care of what people without integrity might think and say? It's all of your choice, short and cheap happiness or a heart at peace, fulfilled it's obligations and at lasting joy in remembering his/her gratitude, generosity and virtue, equal the Devas and great men. Be aware that you ask here in an enviroment of people with grave wrong view even suggesting foolish or bad thing in the name of Buddha, Dhamma, Sangha, so generally you must be very gifted not to simply follow fools advocating in accordiance with also you own defilements and tenencies to greed, aversion and delution. One feeling deeply obligated to ones parents, even if a mass of fools laugh at it, even if meeting many burdens, is by far more secure to gain real wealth as the modern and western fools, how ever sucessful they might appear for now. 

There is just one Buddha Dhamma, one path to liberation. How such is caused? Disrespect, selfoverestimation, non-devotion torward ones father: in short foolishness. 

For example. My person would not agree, since generally "foreign-policy agenda" are generally given more sensibility. If we take the cases in BMC2 in relation with lay people it allows the Sangha to take on disciplinary measures. See Reconciliation BMC2 and the story of Cv.I.18.1-5 

And not just for one and now... long time for one to wander on having overestimate one self, not to speak on deliberately account. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

As the word "recollection" already indicates, there have to be something to recollect. Once a lay person can with ease recollect on the six he/she might have already entered the path of Dhamma. Then it should be possible to also reach higher Jhanas by will, using the certain "mindfulness objects" (on the body parts till 1. Jhana, or Ānāpānassati for all others) since the other recollection are said lead "only" to Upacārasamādhi (proper concentration). If conditions allow serious practicing the Brahmaviharas, they are also open for a good use to reach certain Jhanas. So everybodies requirements are to listen to the good Dhamma, find firm faith and seek for refuge in the Buddha, the Dhamma and the Sangha of his disciples (real devotion and refuge), taking on the precepts by heart (right resolve, real metta) and real generosity. Once those things are firm, there should be less obstacles for the reaching of Jhanas. All possible attainments are possible for householders as well, of course attainments have at least, if not before effects on ways of livelihood possible for one having reached certain state of clarification. Certain circumstances make possible attainments and practice more difficult but it's like always at least an individual, kammic, matter: if, what and how in detail and ways to meet the Noble Eightfold Path. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.]