Looking at the many aspects of mind and wondering whether they are self or not self at a metaphysical level can lead to a trap of continuous doubt about anatta. It can be better/more skillful to ask if it fits with criteria which the Buddha described for not-self. One criteria given in the anatta-lakkhana sutta is that something which is not controllable is not-self. 

I am searching for a sutta which gives a general guideline which helps in making ethical decisions. There are many suttas which give a skillful action for a specific scenario but I am looking for a guideline which shows us how to choose one action instead of another. Often in ethical decisions it is possible to see how any decision hurts others indirectly. For example: Should I read printed news or online news? Printed news involves cutting down trees and destroying habitats, online news requires burning fossil fuels and polluting which harms people. We can endlessly intellectualise about the results of actions but this is paralysing rather than empowering. I would hope that a sutta doesn't suggest to analyse all possible results of an action. I'm not sure what form the guideline will be in but I suspect that it will involve looking at one's own mind to see the motivations for an action or to see if any green/anger/delusion arises when taking the action. The differences between an ethical action, skillful action, and meritous action are quite slim so the sutta could refer to any of these. 

In western monasteries isn't not uncommon for monks to use computers to teach the dhamma online or write books. However, a monk wont own the computer, you'll be giving the computer to the sangha. You shouldn't have to worry about whether a pen or a computer is more of a distraction, the monk should be able to handle his own mind and distraction. If he knows that a computer is too distracting for himself then he will use a pen. As for the Vinaya, you may want to search for terms "piracy" and "pornography" in Thannisaro Bhikkhu's book The Buddhist Monastic code I. Piracy isn't against the vinaya but if a monk wanted to avoid piracy then unintentional stealing is not against the Vinaya. Accidentally seeing pornography isn't against the Vinaya but staring lustfully at a woman's parts (without intending on emitting semen) earns the lowest punishment- a dukhata. 

If you are looking for a Buddhist answer you will have to accept that the Buddhist approach largely involves changing how you view the situation rather than changing what the situation is. You haven't mentioned any techniques you tried for dealing with the situation so here are three 

You're right that thoughts about the future and past are not part of the practice but sometimes we get distracted without going to the future or past. For example if we see a bar of chocolate we have sight in the present moment; then we might get distracted and start to think "Where are these chocolates made?" or "How many calories are in the chocolate?". These thoughts aren't about the past or future but we are now lost in thinking and we are not in the present moment. As an extra note, if you change from seeing chocolate to thinking "How many calories are in the chocolate?" then the present moment changed from sight to this thought about calories, you could remain in the present by observing the thought but observing a thought is different from just thinking it. 

In this example from the moment the chanda arose you knew that you could only attempt to feed the man so there was no attachment to the result of your actions. This line of thinking didn't lead to a craving for the man to be fed and so there was no dukkha as a result. 

Buddhahood isn't the only source of authority in Buddhism. We have four stages of enlightenment, the final stage is an Arahant. An arahant is like a Buddha in that both understand the nature of the mind and they no longer experience suffering of any kind. Because an arahant can experience dharma first-hand they are an authoritative source for Buddhism. Arahants aren't that uncommon or hard to find but we can't prove that someone is an arahant so we just get different lineages who claim that their teacher is an arahant and they treat their teacher as a source of authority. For example see Ajahn Jayasaro's book on page 6 where he claims that Ajahn chah (the teacher he trained under) was an aharant. There are a few differences between an arahant and a Buddha. A Buddha is a type of arahant who has discovered the dharma by themselves without the guidence of another arahant. Since they discovered it themselves they have a superior ability in teaching the dharma. I'm uncertain if the authors you mention are claimed to be arahants or even if they are at a lesser stage of enlightenment but we do have many sources of authority which appeared after the historical Buddha's death. 

When reading through the Maha Nidana sutta I came across the three types of becoming: Sensual becoming, form becoming, and formless becoming. I am trying to understand what the different forms of becoming are. This sutta does not explain how they are different, it only says that birth occurs if any type of becoming occurs. To try to understand the differences I read the Bhava sutta; this sutta says 

I asked my teacher how somebody should see for themselves that rebirth occurs, he (a Theravadin monastic) said that with great samadhi one should watch the twelve nidanas (the process of dependant co-arising) to see the eleventh nidana (becoming leads to birth). I can accept that if one watches the nidanas then one would see that becoming leads to birth. However, seeing birth occurring during our (biological) life is separate from concluding that (re)birth occurs after physical death. I think that the most simple way to put this is that the process of becoming leading to birth is not dependent on the body. If one can see the eleventh nidana then how would they confirm that the eleventh nidana does not require form? Perhaps I am on the wrong track entirely and the proper action is to watch some other process to see that the mind (instead of just the nidanas) does not require a body to sustain it. 

There is a Theravada group which is run by monastics at Bhavana Society. They run the group through Discord, they do group meditations, sutta readings and book study sessions. You can join their Discord server here There is also an online meditation group who use google hangouts. They usually do meditations twice every weekday. They aren't affiliated with any Buddhist tradition although there is a monastic who hosts meditations regularly. This is their google plus page 

Horescopes did exist at the time when the Buddha was born but they aren't mentioned often in the Buddha's teachings. One mention of horosopes is in the Samaññaphala Sutta, this sutta lists many types of fortune telling as wrong-livelihood for monks. 

The Buddha tends to give a different style of teaching for lay people and monastics. Meditation is rarely advised for lay people, they focus on developing merit for a good future rebirth. Lay people are frequently urged to follow the five precepts, to develop right livelihood, and to give dana. So you are already going beyond what is suggested by the Buddha. You may find his teachings for monks to be more relevant for your practice but don't lose sight of the basics, precepts are an important practice to complement meditation. 

Consciousness is also impermanent. You can theorize all you want about whether consciousness is a self but if you attach to the way your consciousness is then you will suffer. When you go to sleep your consciousness stops, that is a sign of impermanence. When you drink a lot of alcohol you can fade in an out of consciousness, your consciousness is hazy, if you were attached to your consciousness being a specific way then when you drink you'll suffer. 

There are two Pali words tanha and chanda. Chanda is a sense of wanting which arises in the mind before the defilements turn it into tanha which is the craving that leads to dukkha. When chanda arises we can use wisdom to decide whether to follow a want or not, if we have no wisdom then when chanda arises we immediately attach to it and think that our wants have to be met and so we suffer. If chanda arises and the wanting is right-aspiration then we choose to follow that thought, however, we don't attach to it so that when our efforts don't get us what we wanted we don't suffer. This is a difficult distinction to see, an example of how we can treat chanda with wisdom might help.