Why are people with full suspension bikes with several inches of travel be concerned about 'Stiffness' when discussing the advantages of thru axles. I would think this is more of a concern for rigid bikes which don't have suspension. Isn't the advantage that you're just less likely to snap the axle when riding down a gnarly trail not really how 'stiff' the axle is or does this have some other purpose? 

I mash a lot and wind up killing chainrings. I later find that my chainring warps at the midpoint between two chainring bolts. Usually my first sign that something is wrong is my chain pops off or breaks and I can see the bump in the chainring that caused it. I've gone through a 3 or 4 34t/36t chainrings between my single speed track bike and geared cross bike bike with a shimano deore drivetrain. Both have bash guards protecting the outer ring, so I doubt impact is a factor. When replacing these, what is going to resist bending more, steel or aluminium? 

I'm interested in playing video games while riding the bike trainer this winter. Using a controller with a regular setup would likely require me to sit up on the saddle, possibly setting myself up for some weird / painful conditions due to unusual posture for extended periods of time. I would likely plan to ride for at least an hour, if not longer each session. How can I set up my bike so that I can be comfortable holding a controller and riding at the same time? 

Some traffic lights in some cities have sensors which detect a strobe pattern emitted by emergency vehicles like ambulances, firetrucks, and police cars. I've heard that it's more of an urban myth that they would be triggered by devices not designed to be picked up by the sensors or by drivers flashing their high beams. However, it's possible that the flashing headlamp you use is bright enough and has a similar strobe pattern which triggers the preemptive mode on the traffic signals. See more at wikipedia: $URL$ 

If you don't have a screw extractor, you can use a dremel tool cutting wheel to put a slit across the cleat bolts and try to remove it with a standard flathead screwdriver. Obviously the destructive method of removal, may damage the small oval shaped plate that distributes the force of the bolts across the cleat as well. 

Think of the problem from the other perspective. The designer of the cassette knows how much the derailleur will move the chain laterally - nearly constant each shift. That's all the derailleur really does. The designer can therefore design the profile of the cassette teeth and the position of each cog 'clockwise' relative to the next one to enable good shifting, change some cogs and the shifting might not be as smooth. Then the derailleur springs simply take up the slack in the chain. If the cog gets bigger, the chain pulls on the springs more. If it gets smaller, the springs take up the slack. Simple as that, the derailleur doesn't need to "know" anything. Edit: The parallelogram design of the derailleur will mean that the jockey wheels are moving downwards as the chain moves inboard. This is proportional which is not a problem for conventional cassettes. If the cassette had a large sprocket inserted like you suggest, the gap between the jockey wheel and the sprocket would be reduced significantly- potentially a problem if sprocket chosen is too large. The b-screw could be adjusted to allow a certain compromise but only to an extent. 

A rider's weight is positioned behind the front wheel more compared to the rear wheel, so probably contributes to higher impact force at the front over a single crack or bump. Plus once you've lost momentum from the first impact, there's less energy for the rear wheel impact anyway. A MTB might have more rear travel than it appears to have (smaller rear shock than front), because of the geometry of the rear linkages. A Full sus bike might well have matching travel at both front and rear but not look like it does. 

I beg to differ! I spy more cables hiding in the carpet If you have two pairs of cables, the thicker ones are for the brakes (thicker=stronger in this case) So there will be some lengths of housing to match each pair, in two sizes to suit the cables. The lengths of brake housing will be one short (front brake) and one long (rear brake). You can run the whole length to the rear or trim it as needed by your particular frame. Post more close up photos of the frame if you need help. Then there are three lengths of gear cable outer on the left. Two to run from the shifters to the frame, then one short piece to run to the rear derailleur. You'll need good cable cutters to trim anything. Trivial with good quality cutters- invest! All of the other little pieces are important too, there should usually be a plastic or metal 'ferrule' at each end of any outer cable for protection. They come in different sizes of course for the two cable types. 

If you're on the sidewalk, and it's legal to ride on the sidewalk in your area, then it should be ok to ride facing or against traffic while on the sidewalk. However, If you get off the sidewalk and on to the road, then you must ride with traffic because YOU ARE TRAFFIC. 

A few forum searches gave me the recommendation to purchase the same shimano MW-81 shoes one (european) size larger than my regular shoes. I think that was a good choice, especially since I tend to wear thicker socks with them in cold weather. 

Kool stop R9 Magura HS33 Pads are made to work with Rigida CSS rims. Also V-Brake inserts by kool stop for Rigida CSS rims. 

1x9 setups are more common on a mountain bike or commuter bike setup with rapidfire shifters than a drop bar setup. However, due to a lack of front derailleur they can have chain jump issues due to the effect of the rear derailleur on the chainline. This has to be compensated for, often with a chain guard on the outer side and jump stop on the inner side of the front chainring. It's also a bit weirder to have 2 STI brifters and only have one of them for shifting on a road / cross bike. Especially when brifters cost a lot of money. Most groupsets come with all the drivetrain and shifting gear for a 2x9 or 2x10 setup. So, they install it on the bikes as a set, It would probably be cost prohibitive for manufacturers to break up the groupset and they would probably have to pay for extra parts (like a chain guard) to make it work. There are however several bikes on the market with a single front chainring and an internally geared rear hub. These bikes don't suffer the downfalls of having to deal with chain jumps as much as bikes with derailleurs since the chainline stays consistent (and hopefully releativly straight). UPDATE: Modern mountain bikes and some cyclocross bikes have been switching to 1x drivetrains as a standard drivetrain option. New technology, clutch rear derailleurs, narrow wide chainrings (there are several variations), and wider range rear cassettes (up to 44t) have made it so you can have a wider gear range and get rid of the extra chain retention gear that you used to need for this setup. SRAM and Shimano both sell 1x drivetrain groupsets and now some frame manufacturers are dropping support for front derailleurs. 

You're trying to pull more cable through but the shifter is already in min gear after one click, while the derailleur is not. The shifter needs to be in the correct gear (smallest cog) when you install the cable. So when the cable is un-done, you should repeatedly press the thumb shifter while pulling the cable until all the tension is released. Then tighten the cable pinch bolt and set up the rear derailleur as normal. That's if you're reading this... And didn't get the issue sorted months ago. 

I assume the mech hanger is aluminium, as normal. Aluminium is much less able to handle fatigue caused by this kind of bending than steel, I would advise strongly against trying to bend it back into shape. The only reason your bike even has this part is so that you can install a new one cheaply when you damage it in this way. Without it an aluminium frame would be damaged and written off. It looks as though the frame dropouts have stayed still, but your LBS will have tools to check their alignment if you don't want to buy these. You should check the alignment of the dropouts and source a new hanger. Easily sourced online if you want a DIY solution. Then you could try installing the derailleur if you determine it is still usable, or buy and install a new one if it seems damaged. It looks bent from here and worth replacing. Bottom line is you've trashed your derailleur hanger and need to put up some cash. The silver lining is that because of the hanger it is much less expensive than the cost of a new frame. Hope you're back on the road soon! 

You need to determine the diameter of your bullhorn bars where the shifters will mount. Then find out the range of diameters that the shifters can fit around from the manufacturers specifications. If they don't fit safely then you need to find components that do match, either chunkier bars or shifters with smaller brackets. Without more information in the question there's no way to answer whether they are compatible. However the 'width' of bullhorn bars is much less than typical flat bars so the lack of space along the handlebars may inhibit your hands/levers/shifting. There simply might not be enough space to fit the levers, which is why this isn't done more often 

Consider that you should use either grease on the threads of your chainring bolts when installing chainring bolts, you want to be able to easily remove these later as chainrings do need to be replaced over time. Get some grease on the faces of the chainring and crank spider where they touch the chainring bolts. Some people are fine with blue loc-tite, but I prefer not to have to force it. Don't just tighten them once and assume it's ok. Go around the ring and tighten every other bolt until you've tightened them all. You can do a star pattern if you prefer, just don't tighten them simply in order around the ring. Make a couple passes and incrementally increase tightness. You want to ensure they are tightened evenly, so that none of them are loose while others are over-tightened. Use a torque wrench if you're really worried about over-tighening. Make sure you're using the appropriate length of chainring bolts (which doesn't seem like a problem from the photos). Some bolts (actually the sleeve/nut) are made longer to go through the crank spider and 2 rings (or bash guard), while others are made shorter to go through the crank spider and a single ring. 

Buy a hip pouch with a u-lock holster built in. Keep your bike tools in it, and then put your u-lock in there. Alternatively you can get a u-lock braket for your frame, but I don't like them because the extra weight makes my bike slower to toss around, I prefer the weight on my body. Not using a u-lock (or a hardened steel chain) is asking to have your bike stolen in most cities. Using quick release wheels is just asking to have them quickly stolen off a well locked frame. It only takes someone a minute with a bolt cutter, or a few minutes with an angle grinder to steal just about any bike. Most often, it's making it less desirable to steal YOUR bike versus OTHER PEOPLES bikes. If a thief doesn't have to work too hard to steal the bike down the street, he'll probably skip yours unless he has targeted your ride.