I would say that 2 - 3 sessions of heavy work every day would be too much, but then with adequate nutrition and recovery, I imagine even that can be adapted to. It all comes down to what your goals are. I know of a few weightlifters who train multiple times a day, but these are people who compete at a national level, and by necessity, training for weight lifting tends to involve lots of sets of low reps, especially for the more skilled movements (snatch, clean and jerk). Some old school bodybuilders used to train twice a day, morning and evening, with pretty full on sessions both times (names escape me at the moment, but T-Nation has posted a few articles on some of these guys). The Squat Every Day program gained some traction a year or so back (I've fallen out of touch, so maybe it still has some), the idea being that you work up to your squat max every day, and once you get over the initial week or so, your body gets used to it. For skilled movements, and arguably for pure strength without a lot in the way of hypertrophy, training multiple times a day can be very beneficial. Suck at pulls ups? Then do multiple sets throughout the day and watch your strength increase. This is commonly known as Greasing the Groove and from my understanding trains the CNS to more efficiently recruit the muscles required to carry out the movement. 

I'm going to ignore the knee issues because a) I'm not a doctor, and b) they're unrelated to the question you're actually asking (though if you're concerned, go talk to a sports specific medical professional about it). What you're experiencing are commonly referred to as "newbie gains", as in, as a person new to working out, you're finding that the amount of weight you can lift rapidly increases as you get more comfortable under the bar / handling the weight, your technique improves and you build a better mind-muscle connection (i.e. you learn how to recruit muscles better). Make the most of them while you can, but try and not go crazy and injure yourself. You'll find at some point the amount you add to the bar session to session will drop off until you're making either very small gains or seemingly plateauing. This is what's commonly referred to as "the grind". This is the point where most people quit. Don't be most people. When you hit this point, recognise it for what it is and make sure your diet and recovery and on point, then do what you can to push through. You may need to mix up your training a little, you may just need a week off, but that's a question for another time. 

I know, brain fuzziness isn't a technical term, but hopefully it makes sense... I train in the mornings before work (because the gym is waaay too busy after work), usually around 0700, after waking up somewhere between 0600 and 0630. I generally eat a banana and have a glass of beetroot juice before training, just so I've got something in my stomach to train on (note: I never used to do this and used to feel really sick part way through the session, so this does solve one issue). The training is either Squats > Overhead presses > Chin-ups or Squats > Kettlebell swings > Turkish get-ups. The workouts are tiring, but I wouldn't say excessively so and I generally leave feeling pretty good, but knowing that I've trained. Post workout I have a whey protein shake, followed about 30 minutes later by something along the lines of roast butternut squash / sweet potato (or stir-fry veg) and some form of protein, normally fish related. The problem is, when I get to work (I work as a software developer), my head gets a bit "fuzzy" or "foggy" and I really struggle to concentrate on things for a few hours. If I'm working on something I know well, then it's not an issue, but if I'm working on something unfamiliar, I really struggle to work through things. Has anyone else come across this? Could it be some form of low level dehydration (I'll admit, I normally forget to drink during the training session, but tend to chug up to a litre of water when I wake up). Any suggestions as to how to avoid it (aside from not training in the mornings). 

To sum that all up (because I always get carried away when writing about climbing), 1) give it time, 2) work on your technique and don't rely purely on strength, 3) give it time, 4) work on your core strength (climb like a woman, though possibly not Alex Puccio) 5) stretch, work your extensors, get the blood flowing and don't forget to warm up. 

The gym that I train at has several rather cheesy quotes sprayed on the walls, one of the ones that seems particularly apt here is "You don't have to be great to start, but you have to start to be great". What I mean by that is that if you haven't dedicated any time to fitness in the past, then any time you can dedicate to fitness, be it cycling for an hour, or something else, is going to be an improvement and help you become more fit. I would suggest adding in some basic strength work, so something like squats, lunges, inverted rows, that sort of thing, as the benefits of getting stronger are numerous and can help with other activities, such as cycling. 

Taking a slightly different tact, given your lack of equipment, why not go for a mostly bodyweight workout? I trained exclusively with bodyweight for a few months when I was really concentrating on my climbing, and I was amazed at the amount of muscle I gained (and the amount of fat I lost). There are some very good resources for bodyweight workouts, some of my favourite at from Gold Medal Bodies, Al Kavadlo and Paul Wade (no link, but you can read an interview with him. If you just want something you can do in the short term, then pick one exercise from each category below (given in roughly ascending order of difficulty) and if you can do a 2 solid sets of the progression reps or time (in brackets), move onto the next exercise in the list for your next session. Lower body 1: 

I've always found something like working on antagonistic muscle groups, stretching tight muscle groups or just plain tidying up the gym a bit usually keeps me entertained. 

Since you've got a chin up bar at home, I'd recommend something like Pavel's Greasing the groove method. I've used this in other exercises to great effect. Basically, take half the maximum amount of chin ups you can do (note: chin ups are with your palms facing you in an underhand grip, pull ups are with your palms facing away with an overhand grip) and do that number of reps every time you walk past the chin up bar. If it's somewhere you don't walk past, then set an alarm and do it every hour. Essentially, do lots of mini sets constantly throughout the day. The idea is to view this as practice. Strength is a skill, you need to learn the skill in order to improve. You want to get better at chin ups, then practice chin ups. You get better at a skill by constant practice, so you get better at chin ups by constant practice of chin ups. 

There are a large number of programs out there aimed at beginners, written by well regarded coaches and trainers, which will give you a decent weight (strength) training program as well as options for cardio. When you find one you want to try, stick with it. Don't chop and change. Too many beginners change programs every week. Pick one and stick to it. Something like the New Rules of Lifting series by Alwyn Cosgrove and Lou Schuler would be perfect. 

Yes, I believe it's known as rucking and is a staple of military training (note: so I've read, I have no personal military experience). Dan John talks extensively about loaded carries if you want to try something slightly different. These are great for increasing work capacity, burning more calories, increasing strength and endurance, and just making you tougher all round (because hugging a sandbag to your chest and trying to walk while it's trying to crush you is character building). In short, if you get bored just wearing a weighted backpack, while walking, you can try hugging it to your chest, carrying it in one hand (note: swap hands at the half way point), carrying it overhead (you may get weird looks from people), carrying it overhead in one hand (likewise), carrying it across your shoulders, carry it on one shoulder, put it in a sled and drag it, put it on a sled and push it, put it in a car and push the car, put the backpack on a friend and give the friend a piggy back... ok, so I'm getting a bit carried away, but you get the idea, there's several different things you can do with a loaded backpack :) 

All of those exercises have progressions and regressions you can try to work through, though I'm not sure if the progressions would be too big of a jump on some. 

Yes, you can absolutely design a program around deadlifts, but the real question is should you. Few years back, I wrecked my shoulder in a climbing accident, and I found that all I could really do pain free was deadlift, so I deadlifted every day. I can't remember the exact program, but it was based around multiple singles every day, increasing the number until I reached a point, then adding weight and starting again (i.e. start with 80% of your 1RM, pull this for 5 singles. Add a set every day until you're pulling 12 singles, add 5kg and start again with 5 singles). By following that program for a couple of months, I went from a shakey and occasional 160kg max to an easy feeling 170kg. If you want a program based around deadlifts, think about multiples singles. Something as described here would be good $URL$ 

What you're trying to do is, unfortunately, not that easily accomplished. Boundering grades are always a little subjective (depending on the climbers strengths / weaknesses, body mechanics, proportions, etc), so you may find that you struggle on a V8 whereas you fly up a V9. I remember reading an interesting article a while back that the best boulderers in the world were reaching a point where they were setting very high grade problems that, completely unintentionally, may be close to impossible for other people to climb. Someone like Adam Ondra has a particular technique that he's trained to work for his body type, so someone who doesn't have that exact body type, may simply be unable to complete the moves to complete the route. Having said all that, your edit about videoing your technique is a very good idea, but I would add in one thing. I'd create a workout log style record of the routes and record two additional values; Rate of Perceived Exertion (RPE) and Rate or Perceived Technique (RPT). Both on a scale of 1 - 10. RPE has been fairly well explained elsewhere, but is essentially how hard the route felt (so an overhang on crimps is going to use more exertion than a slab on jugs). RPT is something I've taken from the Gold Medal Bodies (GMB) training programs. The idea being that you can rate your technique on a scale of 1 to 10, based on how it feels (and possibly on video review); so if you're ascending an overhang, and you're an upper body dominant, gorilla style climber, letting your feet hang free and swinging from jug to jug, then you're technique is going to be pretty low. If you're moving up the same overhang, but twisting your hips into the wall to increase your reach and heel hooking / knee baring to chalk up, then obviously your technique is a lot better. The by-necessity variation in bouldering routes means that unfortunately, there's never one metric you can measure to gauge improvement. You know where your weaknesses lay, so maybe monitor those as you train them as they should show the fastest improvement. 

With the deadlift (and other lifts that begin with the bar at a dead stop on the floor, such as the Olympic lifts), then taking a second or two between reps is usual, and arguably safer than doing the reps touch-and-go style (where you pretty much "bounce" the bar off the floor). The main reason, again, pertaining to deadlifts mainly, is to allow you to reset your body and pull with decent form (i.e. not rounding your lumbar spin overly much). With other lifts where you support the bar (i.e. bench, squat, overhead press), my opinion has always been that if you're supporting the weight of the bar, then you're still working in the same set, because your body is still working. During high rep sets of squats, I've stood gasping for air for several seconds before doing another rep. During the bench press I consider it normal to take a breath between reps with the bar at the top, which can take a second or two, with the overhead press, I rest the bar at my shoulders for a second to kill any momentum before I press again. The best way to think about it is to be honest with yourself and not worry about it too much. If you walk away from the bar, then the set is over (I used to say if you let go of the bar, but I've seen some powerlifters stand up to take a deep breath between reps), if, in your head, you're still in deadlift mode, but need to shake our briefly, then I'd say it's the same set. 

As with deadlifts, these are usually thought of as having massive weight across your shoulders and squatting while your face goes the colour of beetroot, but try working up to a set of 10 pistol squats on each leg, you'll have pretty solid legs. Lunge Possibly one of the most hated movements with anyone I've asked, from a position of one foot a few feet in front of the other, bend both legs until your back knee touches the floor, then stand up again. Simple. 

I remember a while back (several years, so my memory of it may be slightly off) I went through a phase of reading books by old time strongmen, especially Eugen Sandow. Admittedly, back then, there wasn't really any research into physical fitness, but one of the ideas that he kept coming back to was how strength training and physical activity would help with living longer. 

I'm going to jump to the conclusion here that when you say "abs", you mean the core musculature in its entirety. While Pancake's answer is good, it does only address part the story. The core musculature does have several functions, flexion (as in a crunch), anti-flexion (when you brace such as in a squat or deadlift), extension (superman style exercise), anti-extension (a plank exercise), lateral flexion (side bends), anti lateral-flexion (1 arm farmers walks / suitcase carries), rotation (cable core rotation thing) and anti-rotation (Pallof press). Now arguably, it's the anti exercises that are more important for proper spinal alignment and health than the flexion / extension exercises, as in life you're more likely to need to brace yourself against forces through your core than the opposite (picking up shopping from the floor, lifting children (preferably yours) overhead, holding a door for someone), though I have also read from some highly regarded strength coaches that flexion type exercises help lubricate and provide nutrients to the spine. What I think pretty much all coaches agree on is that there's little point in doing thousands of crunches a day in pursuit of a six pack. Though I don't have time to search for it at the moment, from memory the rectus abdominis (six pack muscle) is made up from roughly equal parts fast twitch and slow twitch muscle fibres, so it's a good idea to mix up heavy, strength based crunch style exercises with more endurance type ones. Basically, work everything, but don't go too nuts in any single direction. 

Squats. Lots and lots of squats. Squat variations. Lots and lots of squat variations and progressions. Lunges and lunge variations as well. Have a look at something like Convict Conditioning and work your way up to pistol squats. When you can perform 5 consecutive ass to grass pistol squats, chances are you'll have some pretty strong thighs. 

Feel free to also throw in some handstand work, because it looks cool, and some bridging work ONLY if you can (basically, I'm not familiar with scoliosis, so I don't know if bridging is a good idea or not). Note: Some of this is based from my personal experience, some is from what I've read in various books. It's a guide, not a bible. I'd highly recommend looking into some of the resources I mentioned above. Note 2: If you're worried about your arm gainz (there is a LOT of arm work in your proposed routine), then you can do some curls at the end of each workout. Note 3: If you don't have anywhere to do inverted rows or pull ups, then you can do one arm dumbbell rows off the bench, do sets of 10, when you can do 4 sets of 10, increase the weight. This may lead to a situation where you can row more than the dumbbell handles will hold, in that case, use the barbell to do one arm rows.