Say the current setup uses a zero offset seatpost, and a 100mm stem. If the seatpost were replaced another seatpost that has a 20mm offset, should offset be subtracted from the stem length? My current situation is for a road/cross frame, dunno how important that is to the topic vs mountain/etc frames. 

I've been browsing 700c carbon rims on ebay, and noticed most are listed with the 33/50/60/88/etc mm in the title. What does this represent? It doesn't appear to be spoke/nipple holes. Additionally, what's the general life span of a carbon rim? 

I got front & rear Phil Wood hubs for a touring setup back in Oct of 2011. I'd been using them for commuting to work -- averaging 20 KM a day. Except I'd been off the bike for the month of January, started again in Feb. A week ago, things felt weird. Discussed with a fellow cyclist at work, who said it sounded like the hub was going. The following day, there was a loud crunch from the rear and the chain felt like it was slipping. I took the wheel into the LBS who built the wheel for me. They told me one of the four palls had an issue, and a spring was bent, so they corrected. I picked up the wheel today, and got 10 KM before things started again - crunching noise from the rear, and a slip. So I dropped the wheel with the LBS, who said they'll look for a rebuilt kit. What is a pawl? Is it part of the freehub? Is a rebuilt kit enough, or should I be pressing for the LBS to RMA the hub? Edit: In case anyone's interested, Phil Wood said they're aware of quality problems and wouldn't expect a rebuild kit to do much. RMA time... 

For bike touring, I've had some good luck using a rain cape, a bike specific poncho that sits over your bars and is open on the bottom. It provides a lot of ventilation and keeps a lot of the water off your legs without hot rain pants. You can pair this with some shoe covers and/or gaiters to keep your lower legs dry (or just wear shorts in hot weather and don't worry about your legs). Typically, you'll also want fenders as well to keep road spray from coming up under the cape. 

I have a surly karate monkey set up as a single speed. The frame has rear facing horizontal dropouts (track style). I don't like quick releases due to potential theft when locking up my bike. Are standard Allen key skewers or security skewers (like hublox or pitlock) going to hold my rear wheel tight enough to avoid sliding forward in the dropouts? If not, would zefal locking skewers be appropriate? 

I'm interested in playing video games while riding the bike trainer this winter. Using a controller with a regular setup would likely require me to sit up on the saddle, possibly setting myself up for some weird / painful conditions due to unusual posture for extended periods of time. I would likely plan to ride for at least an hour, if not longer each session. How can I set up my bike so that I can be comfortable holding a controller and riding at the same time? 

There's too little information to say much about your diet, and it's not the sort of thing anyone can definitively recommend without having seen you in person and having more detail. Your doctor would be a good place to start, there are numerous diet strategies you can research. 

Does anyone know if any of the popular iPhone ANT+ bicycling apps have the ability to import a GPS track? I'd like to start exploring some of the local trails/routes a bit - I've got .gpx tracks for some, but don't know of any iPhone apps that will both allow the import of the file AND feature any sort of ANT+ tie-in. I normally use digifit with speed/cadence and HRM sensors... I've got a GPS track of where I AM, but really wish there were some sort of approximate "turn by turn" for following some of the trails/routes, especially the urban ones that are not clearly marked. 

I'm looking at a Ti frame with a 135mm rear end, disc brake. And I have invested in wheels for my commuter, which is disc brake... but a 130 mm spacing. Is 5 mm enough of a concern -- impact to the frame, the disc brake setup -- that I should look for a frame with a 132.5 mm spacing if I want to be able to use wheels off my commuter? 

When you open the quick release on your caliper brakes, the brakes open wider to allow you to release your wheel quickly without deflating your tire. Longer brake pads could then touch the frame or fork and chip the paint. Some people even trim down their canti brake pads to avoid this scenario and sometimes in an attempt to reduce brake shudder. Additionally, most v-brake style pads come with a series of washers (one concave and one convex that on either side of the brake arm you bolt to) that allow some angle adjustment which allows you to set the toe in and angle of approach on your brake pads without bending the brake arms. This is available on some brake pads intended for caliper brakes as well, but the washers tend to be much smaller. The extra washers may also prevent you from removing the wheel without deflating your tires. But will these pads stop you? Yes 

Get a pair of calipers and measure the width of both the chainring and the cog. If the width is much larger than 3/32" then use 1/8". If you don't have calipers, but have a piece of 1/8" chain, then put the chain on the cog and the chainring and see if there is a large visible gap between the plates of the chain and the teeth, if so then can probably use a 3/32" chain, if it's pretty snug you probably need a 1/8" chain.  If you have a 3/32" chain instead, then put it on both cog and chainring, if the teeth fit through the holes in the chain and the chain rests evenly on the cogs, you're probably fine with a 3/32" chain, if it sits unevenly at all, you probably need 1/8". If you don't have a chain, then you could check for width markings on your chainrings and fixed cog, if they are single speed chainrings they tend to have a width marking on them (to distinguish between 1/8" and 3/32" sizes). Keep in mind, If either the rear cog or front chainring is larger than the other in width, you need a larger 1/8" chain (which really won't run poorly on a smaller chainring, but a smaller 3/32" chain just won't fit on a 1/8" cog or chainring). Also, If you're buying a 3/32" chain, you'll probably find that as a 6/7/8 speed chain at most bike shops. You probably don't want to try to use a 9 or 10 speed chain on a single speed bike. 1/8" chains are used exclusively for single speed setups. 

No. The leader is working harder, breaking the wind for those behind them. Having people behind you doesn't change that. 

I'd suggest a cyclocross (CX) frame over a mountain bike. CX frames have wider stays to take wider tires, and most have fender/pannier mounts. A CX frame can be lighter than a mountain frame, and most are made to be packed on the shoulder if necessary. Disc brakes on CX frames are a lot more common now - mechanical for the most part, more hydraulic options within a year or so (and frames are typically setup to handle either). Road forks are unsuspended, and it's easy to find disc forks -- chromoly are available, cheap, and heavy. If corrosion is a big concern, titanium makes the ultimate winter bike. No corrosion concerns, strong as steel and comparable weight aluminum (if not better). I don't see an issue with lights -- most seem to use o-rings to attach, so they can be taken off easily if need be. 

I've been running a non-brand name full carbon saddle for less than a year. It lasted through a couple of crashes and 'cross season. But when my usual ride stopped for coffee, I found out both rails failed. When in alignment, the saddle held enough to get me home. The break was right at the point where the Thomson Masterpiece clamp mechanism starts, not far behind the nose of the saddle. Is there anything to be aware of about where the rails broke? The seatpost is offset - does this mean I should be running a seatpost without an offset? I expected the failure at some point, just want to be sure there isn't anything I'm missing before shopping for a replacement. 

Not typically. They have different pull ratios. However, you can get a device called a travel agent to make this work. Some companies such as Paul's make a cyclocross specific v brake such as the Mini Moto which have the same pull ratio as road brake levers. If you're not using brifters and have separate brake levers and shifters, you can buy linear pull drop bar levers like Tektro RL 520 that will work with your v-brakes without buying separate travel agents. 

For this bike you may be able to get replacement seatstays or chainstays from the manufacturer. See their frame parts section of their store or give them a call. $URL$ 

Clear glasses with no tint and a good 100% UV and Fog resistant coating that do not block peripheral vision are useful in the almost any conditions They may not be optimal for all, they have the fewest benefits but few faults. They are generally safe and useful in Dawn, Day, Dusk, and Night conditions. Lenses with any Tint may be dangerous at night or at dusk, especially in off-road conditions. As an all season commuter, mountain biker, and occasional road rider, I use clear glasses the most. Typically $10ish safety glasses from UVEX or MSA, but more high-end performance options exist. See the answer from mattnz for an excellent rundown of the pro/cons of other tints, but if we are asking what tint most useful in general, I think the answer is none. 

People definitely noticed when I'd pass them on climbs I could muscle over, but longer, drawn-out climbs demonstrated that high cadence (80+) is a better approach for the workout. The higher cadence increases the likelihood of hitting the point where you are burning fat. At which point, you don't have to ride hard. Any bike will allow you to reach that point. But the weight is a factor for the speed you can reach, and sustain. Which only matters when riding with groups. There's no frame that's perfect for everything, but cyclocross covers most of the bases enough. They generally support fenders & racks, and disc brakes are becoming very common (even on high end frames). With a triple ring crank, you've got a great touring bike. A compact crank is fine for most commuting, and a standard 53/39 will put you on par with most road bikes. 

I agree with Hicks sentiment that the crank "giving" is more likely due to worn parts or misalignment. The crank would have to flex a lot to actually be responsible for ghost shifting, which would make it incredibly poor quality. Sheldon's article strikes me as cursory for "When Should You Stand"... Assuming you have the gearing for whatever you're riding (reasonable terrain), yes - there shouldn't be a need to stand to pedal. Bypassing what Sheldon covered about gearing and saddle height... From a road riding perspective, standing takes less effort because you can use body weight rather than legs to crank over. It's used a lot when hill climbing - gives the legs a rest, and the opportunity to sprint when others don't know to. The gist I got recently was "if others are standing, so should you" - it struck me as prudent if you don't know the route, otherwise ride as you feel comfortable. Standing is often used to initiate a sprint on more level ground, to get the momentum up. But depending on the speed, being out of the saddle can mean your body is creating more drag -- counteracting what you intended to do. I stood while mountain biking on a hard tail (no rear suspension), for psuedo-suspension. I remember my quads getting a workout until I built up the strength. I still habitually take weight off my saddle when riding road. 

I have a Race Face Evolve DH crankset which takes 104 BCD chainrings. However, I pulled a 104 BCD chainring off a Shimano Acera Crankset and the rings don't interface properly with the Race Face cranks. The chainring bolts line up, but the shape of the ring below the crank bolts has a different curvature and doesn't mate with the crank spider. I'm trying to just buy cheap/durable steel chainrings for my mountain bike and didn't expect this incompatibility. What chainrings are generally compatible with this crankset? Are sram/truvative rings generally compatible? 

I don't think you need anything particularly special. Sleep well and make sure you have calories before you ride. Breakfast before your morning commute and possibly a snack before your commute home may do a great deal to prevent you feeling dragged down during your ride. Anything with some carbs will probably do, PB&J works great, so do cliff bars. 

It does appear a bit off. Looks like there is some extra resistance present somewhere in your drivetrain. Check your chain tension. If it's too tight, that could be adding resistance. You could also remove the chain from the fixed cog and spin the wheel to see if the resistance is coming from the hub. 

It all depends on the horses' temperament. Some are OK, some like cars but not bicycles... Generally, horses with kids/teenagers riding them on the road will be pretty laid back. The horses that are being led by someone are much more suspect. Competent equestrian owners/staff know that any horse [that will be taken or ridden on roads] needs to be exposed very carefully (for the safety of the horse, the rider, and the general public). They have to accept that the horse may never be comfortable in that setting. But anything could spook the most experienced horse - you never know 100%. If possible, send a single person ahead to talk to who has control of the horse while watching how the horse reacts. 

In my experience, if you can keep up then you can draft someone. There's no asking involved, but it is appreciated if you switch up to lead for a little while. At the speeds you're talking, with the exception of those on electric bikes, most of those cyclists will be involved in some form of cycling (track or road, mountain less so) so they aren't as bothered as others might be. Some will get "cat 6" on you, and try to drop you if they notice. The real issue is that the person leading needs to communicate their movement, like avoiding obstacles (glass, people, holes, etc). Drafting really close (wheels are close -- within 1 inch/2.5 cm, or far worse - overlapping) gets more dangerous at the higher speeds because as the person drafting, you don't have the time to react to quick braking/etc. As the person drafting, you should not be relying on the leader/person ahead to point stuff out - you should be looking ahead and around to anticipate as much as you can for yourself. 

When buying new wheels, make sure the spacing matches up. Road wheels typicall use 130mm rear and 100mm front spacing where as most mountain bikes use 135mm rear and 100mm front. Hybrids vary, but it looks like this one has Shimano RM30 hubs which are 135mm spacing like a mountain bike. However, if you find a 130mm spaced wheel you like, you can add spacers to make it fit the 135mm spacing of your bike if need be. I think it's worth a shot trying out a 700x28c tire on this bike without changing the wheels, which would be much cheaper than switching the wheelset. FYI, I got my spec information for the wheels from here: $URL$ 

Just buy a 104 BCD (Bolt Circle Diameter) chainring with the same number of teeth (probably a 42 tooth on this model). Try searching for '104bcd 42t' on google. Unbolt the chainring bolts (you may need a chainring nut wrench to hold the bolts while loosening or tightening them like the Park CNW-2C) and then put the new ring on and bolt it back up. You may need to remove the crank to get this on, but usually you don't have to worry about that for larger outer chainrings, so I think you'll be able to skip that step.