What does this mean? Does anyone know of any studies on this phenomenon? Are we to believe that men are 10x more immoral and/or misbehaving than women? Or, are men held to a different standard? Any ideas on the cause of this phenomenon? $URL$ 

Insofar as you are asking if it is sound logic, the answer is no. One does not have to negotiate, or do anything, to experience transition. Why? Because unqualified transition may require no effort. A fitting Machiavelli quote: "It must be considered that there is nothing more difficult to carry out nor more doubtful of success nor more dangerous to handle than to initiate a new order of things; for the reformer has enemies in all those who profit by the old order, and only lukewarm defenders in all those who would profit by the new order; this lukewarmness arising partly from the incredulity of mankind who does not truly believe in anything new until they actually have experience of it." 

Yes it does. There is a middle color between the least color intensity and highest color intensity. There is a middle color between the middle color and the least color intensity, and so on. This halving goes on infinitely. Therefore, a change in color can never be completed. 

-- Wittgenstein Both Plato and Aristotle saw in mimesis the representation of nature. Plato's distinction between eikastic and phantastic representations, seems very much on point here. For example a photograph (representation of the past) has limited capacity to convey reality (the moment), perhaps an artistically altered image may better convey the (now past) moment? Which is better? Why? 

There is no such thing as professional philosopher. Professors of Philosophy are professional professors, not professional philosophers, right? I mean, the school makes it's money in tuition (and learning subsidies) and the Professors are paid with that money. They are paid to teach, not to philosophize. Maybe there are a few authors that in fact are professional philosophers, but that's a small number of people. As for professional sophists, they are typically lawyers. They make their money when people hit low points in their lives, get in trouble with laws/statutes which were created by lawyers/politicians pandering to their constituency, and they charge as much as they can (or are paid by the government). In this case, the power of argument produced is typically directly proportional to the amount of money spent on the lawyer. 

One does not have to do anything but considering what is possible vs what is probable seems fitting here. A meteor could crash on my head in 5 minutes but I am not going to speak my last wishes and prepare my last meal at this time. In other words, it seems proper to weigh the probability in determining the value placed on a possibility. 

Ancient Greeks touched on this question 2,400 years ago. The idea may date back to ancient Egypt (Temple at Luxor). Insofar as you mean "what is this experience?" - the cave allegory provides ideas. See also Hillel: 

Presumption of innocence is meaningful in the same way as the concept of unalienable rights. It is a construct amounting to a lie, and not a noble lie, rather a malicious lie. "Beyond a reasonable doubt" is the degree of certainty a juror must have in criminal cases whereas "preponderance of the evidence" is a different degree of certainty seen in civil cases. You and me and every other citizen of the "top level of civilization" knows that once a person is indicted of a criminal offense, they are believed to be guilty and they are treated guilty even after acquittal or dismissal of the case. If presumption of innocence were the case, how could one be jailed, cuffed, and demanded to provide bond in exchange for freedom pending trial? If the case is dismissed, it remains on the individuals record. 

The answer then is to never take revenge - "the action of inflicting hurt or harm on someone for an injury or wrong suffered at their hands." Instead, you punish them, as in "the infliction or imposition of a penalty as retribution for an offense." This sleight of words is your key. Again, we see this regarding killing. Killing is said to be forbidden. 

Insofar as fatherhood means loving ones offspring, I do not believe that it is common understanding that fatherhood is unnatural. In fact, many species' males display affection and protection for their offspring [link]. 

Is there a significance to the 3ʳᵈ place reception / grading that the play is said to have received? Is this grading historically accurate, or is it included in the play itself? I suppose the fact that Aristophanes was not sentenced to death indicates something... 

Socrates is saying that this cannot be true because an act is an verb, not an attribute. Pious is is an attribute/state, not an action/verb. Love can be an act or an attribute - loves and loved, respectively, for example. Something is not being loved [act] by those who love it because it is something loved [attribute]; but it is something loved [attribute] because it is being loved [act] by them. 

The issues are the paradox of mans experience and his representation of the present moment in relation to the past or the future. Regarding the paradox of experience: 

Getting in touch with a higher power is religion. So, religion seems to me an act more than a stance whereas an ideology could be characterized as a position, or stance. One can't be religious and not practice their religion. The actions of a cult lead a discord between the end of their means and reality, typically manifested as a rejection by society. 

ψεῦδος, actually translates to "false." The connotation of deception introduced by the translation of ψεῦδος to "lie" appears to be the source of confusion. A noble falsehood is more palatable insofar as the originator of the falsehood is ignorant of the degree of falseness, or at what point the allegory breaks down when subjected to reality/nature. It seems as long as we depend on falsehoods for motivation or direction, we can safely be characterized as a mislead people. We are presented with the cave allegory. We also know of the fundamental concept of ownership in Western thought vs the leave it as your found it thought of the natives. 

A huge argument between Austrian School and Keynesian economics has been taking place and got very heated since the 2008 financial crisis and subsequent TARP actions. I recommend that you start by reviewing fractional reserve banking and being able to understand the meaning of bank "notes". 

"I know that the number 12 horse will come in first place." "The number 12 horse has finished fourth." I lied because, in fact, I did not know how the race would end. In other words, the quote seems bogus to me based on the above check. Therefore, I discount the entire quote as questionable, including the part referring to knowledge. 

In other words, a coward is a very poor conductor of God's work. Hillel urges us to stand up now, not tomorrow. For more direction, see Pirkei Avot 

Also, relating to the concept of a word, it's interesting to note the term in a computer science context where word size is considered. 

Forgiveness or punishment for your transgressor is yours and yours alone. Anyone else laying claim to it is a mere thief. In other words if society at large or some random member of the community imposed punishments, embargoes, sanctions, etc upon your transgressor on your behalf they are stealing your revenge. They are wrong for this. Same for forgiveness, society cannot forgive your transgressor on your behalf. See Simon Wiesenthal's book The Sunflower. Defend yourself. Seek damages, reparations, and perhaps death of your transgressor. Finally, yes. If you allow people to push you around and disrespect you, your psyche and ultimately your world will deteriorate. Theology professor Leonard Greenspoon reminds us, 

Galileo works everytime (he was imprisoned for life by religious authorities because he challenged the belief that all heavenly bodies revolved around the Earth). Science is concerned with right and wrong, religion is concerned with 'good' vs 'evil'. 

Our current scientific theories, e.g. quantum mechanics, enable us to predict outcomes with 99.999% success. Religion does a poor job of predicting outcomes. Lastly, regarding dinosaur fossils, go down to your local museum of natural history and see a fossil for yourself. 

Nothing occurring in the physical world can be proven absolutely because reality itself must be assumed to be true. Therefore, it is possible that the universe is an imitation. However assuming reality is fact does not mean that we cannot observe natural patterns to the point where we can predict certain outcomes with 99.999% probability. The probability is what we have to work with. Certainly, the trend is your friend until it ends. 

With the advent of computers and the creation and adoption of so many computer programming languages, are logic symbols still valuable or are they a relic of the past? If logic symbology remains relevant and valuable, can you give an example? 

The fact is, truth is an ideal. Facts refer to the verifiable and reproducible, e.g., the brick falls to the ground when dropped. Truth equates with true, which is a boolean, not existing in the natural world. 

So respectfully your question, "Aren't Determinism and Free Will indiscernible from the mortal perspective?" seems unreasonable in light of the fact that you articulate the question which suggests that you grasp the terms - the terms are discernible to you. Free will is said to be considered by Aristotle well over 2,400 years ago. Wikipedia has excellent information on these terms/concepts. See Free will and Determinism. 

OUR WORLD Logic?... Our world? How could something belong to us if we did not exist? It seems that everything existing before humans would be outside of our world. Taken to the extreme, was the initial instance after the big bang our world? After humans become extinct and the Sun implodes/explodes, is that also our world? Taken further, is today our world? If I died today, would tomorrow be my world? The idea that this is our world seems quite self centered and reminds me of how Galileo was imprisoned for life for positing that the Earth was not the center of the universe. My thinking leads me to believe that our world has existed only as long as we have, not any longer. That's just my 2 cents (my own answer). THE UNIVERSE Physicists continue to spend a great deal of effort in understanding the origin of the Universe. You might get some neat answers if you ask a community of physicists. 

-- Wikipedia - List of fallacies Deontological ethics concerns making a morality judgement of an action based on rules. The word "Wrong" in premise A signals to me a matter of ethics. Per Wikipedia: 

Assuming relations the purpose of man, is it possible for one to practice philosophy in speech only, and not in deed? In other words, can one simply read and write alone in a room and be properly characterized as philosophizing? 

He is encouraging the reader to embrace philosophy and to be skeptical of the spoken or written words of other men as they are, at best, explanations of nature. He would prefer you to thirst for learning rather than thirst for answers provided by others. 

It could be called a Cartesian theory. Cartesianism is the name given to the philosophical doctrine (or school) of René Descartes. Cartesians view the mind as being wholly separate from the corporeal body [source Wikipedia]. 

An invention is something that did not previously exist. A discovery is made of something that already existed. Therefore, mathematics was invented as it did not exist before someone created it. For example, the number 1 exists only insofar as imagined and not in nature.