Note. OP's question was not clear if the travelers were "instantly" transported in an FTL sense. If the travelers are instantly transported, then as I explain it's trivial. If OP means moving billions of years in time, the question is meaningless. (There's no way whatsoever to predict where everything was/will be over huge time periods.) 

Locomotion could be more efficient? Particularly at high speed. Hence, saving food. Obviously if you run/march more efficiently, you need less caloric intake each day. Thus, in answer to your question it's quite possible that when moving at high speed a Foxtail would need less food each day. The general point (as far as we know) of a tail on things like leopards, dogs, is some sort of counterbalance system while moving along at high speed. (Check out awesome videos about this in regard to leopards.) It's possible that, quite simply, Usain Bolt would be faster over 100 with a tail. And that for conventional joggers, you'd use less energy - maybe much less - over everyday 5ks and 10ks. Certainly, in a story-telling sense, it would be totally feasible and reasonable to assert this. (Note that, indeed, human or any animal biomechanics is a fascinating field. Particularly with robotics coming along trying to equal it. The two human gaits of walking, running, are astoundingly efficient. There are some really fascinating results - for example, as any nutritionist / sports medicine person will tell you, when humans run, interestingly they use the same amount of energy per kilometer - it doesn't matter if you run fast or slow; energy use during walking gait is totally different again and interesting in other ways.) Again, in a story-telling sense, it would be totally feasible and reasonable to assert that adding a tail makes, in particular running, maybe all locomotion, a little more efficient - so you need less food per day! To put it another way, it's a commonplace thing in scifi that adding a monkey-tail makes it "easier to climb around in trees or zero gravity". Similarly, you could say adding a "balance tail" (think of those leopards) makes locomotion a bit more efficient - needs less energy, can go simply faster at top speed. Thus, in answer to your question it's quite possible that, particularly when moving, a Foxtail would need less food each day. More efficient locomotion == less calories needed each day == less food needed each day. Maybe it helps your story! 

If you mean violence as in rape, I would suggest she can tie herself into a kind of very loose sleeping bag blanket with her hands and arms free inside, with daggers. She can ensure her sleeping companions know it, and will wake in time to stab anybody trying to unlace her or cut through her blanket. Of course they might try to knock her out first! Another idea is to just wear a poncho (again with daggers at the ready) and a very wide hat to protect the head from rain. The private tent (although historically accurate) is a bad idea, it prevents her from seeing others gather or approach. I would see if she might be able to arrange ropes or netting up in a tree so she can sleep in it without worrying about falling out, again with a hat and waxed blanket to stay dry, and a dagger for self defense. On the ground she can be grappled and pinned or knocked out, I don't think men will try something twenty feet up in the air where a push or a slip might be lethal, and she could plausibly hear them coming and wake up. 

The night sky will still tell you, your planet is orbiting our Sun. Just ignore the stars of the Milky Way. The Milky Way is just one galaxy of many. It is moving, but in 600MY it will have moved about 11 times its width. But it is only 100,000LY across; other galaxies are a million (M100 is), even 1.5 million LY across (Hercules A). They are moving, but Hercules A (or M100) will be so close to their original positions, from Earth's POV, that they can't be anything but those galaxies; no matter how their stars may have moved about in that time. Nothing else that big could have appeared that quickly. Given just a few dozen large distant "lighthouse" galaxies in the universe, we can compute our position by their relative positions and angles with each other; the lines between them will form a kind of 3D mesh that is unique to each position in space. Their rate of movements is already known, we can compute how this map will look at any future point in time: In one million year steps would suffice. Using that, they can discover they are 600M years in their future, and using that, determine their location is our Sun, in our orbit within the Milky Way, and that the planet they are (due to its size, mass [measured by strength of surface gravity] and orbit) has to be Earth. 

It's trivial: our observable universe, in fact contains only a few very large structures, which are easily identifiable. You'd just look for and identify the sloan great wall, the Bootës void, and the 3 or 4 biggest superclusters. (Obviously, this would take incredible telescopes and a few years.) {Note that we already have "incredible telescopes". Read up on Europe's GAIA space scope, which is pure "sci-fi".} Vashu has already included in his answer and overall map of our observable universe, which shows how obvious it is. 

a handful of rebels would scoff at the idea as one of the ridiculous notions instituted by the Empire; most would just go along running the concentration camps. In any totalitarian society the majority just mindlessly go along and do what they're told. 

Say you're paying 10 million a year tax. All you have to do, is have four children ............... and you now pay basically no tax!! (You only pay the modest baseline $1m a year.) For the profoundly rich who pay 100s of millions a year in tax, it would be insane to not have four children: every single truly rich person would have four children: it would be absolutely ridiculous to not do so. As mentioned above - especially - death taxes are the truly hated thing amongst the rich. Consider tycoons with a wealth measured in the billions. When they die, basically the government takes most of it. By simply having four children, they get to keep ALL of their money (ie, the inheritors get it all, the government gets nothing). The above system would certainly and absolutely ensure that everyone who pays more than, say, about $2m a year in tax, would, almost certainly have four children - it would be crazy not to. 

In agreement with Falc; but I will extend the answer: The solution to too much chaos is to increase predictability by changing your environment. In truth, I see little difference between this "sense" and normal human cognition; our brains are constantly, relentlessly predicting the "future" on every level, even the subconscious level. Otherwise, why would I be surprised if a 1-foot tall Tyrannosaur suddenly appeared in my living room? I would be surprised, because my subconscious is constantly predicting, based on what I am seeing and what it has learned about persistence of objects and how my living room "behaves", and when its predictions are met it raises no alarms; when its predictions are wrong it raises alarms, in the form of surprise, adrenaline rush, hyper-focus, and so on. The same is true for the more non-magical things: We are surprised if there is a loud thump sound coming from above; because it varies from what the subconscious is expecting. So what do people do, IRL, when chaos reigns? Take the explosion of a terrorist bomb, or a terrorist shooting: They duck, they hide behind things, they lock doors, they run -- all things that increase safety, which means lowering the probability of future injury, pain or death. Ducking reduces the immediate physical profile to make it less likely to be hit by projectiles (including bullets). Hiding does the same; locking doors does the same, running increases distance. Presuming the chaos is localized (like with an explosion), the further away you are in any direction the less likely you are to become a victim of falling objects or flying bullets. I do have one quibble with the OP's alien premise: Precognition of your own imminent torture or death is not likely to be a calming influence in any way preferable to not knowing what will happen, since the unknown at least bears some chance of not being harmed at all. (If it bears no such chance, then it is not the unknown!) That said, one way in which your hyper-predictive aliens might act differently: Every move they make changes the future they see; so moving in a direction which increases chaos (or, and not the same thing, increases the certainty of harm) can be reversed; so they can consistently move in the direction of least chaos (or the greatest certainty of least harm). This ability could also make them very difficult to lure into traps, and very difficult to ambush, trick or assassinate. In fact, the ability may cause them to seek the chaos: If I am a politician about to give a speech, and I foresee myself getting shot in the head, I may immediately seek to move in any direction that breaks that prediction; and if all directions other than walking through the door to the convention center are chaotic, so be it: Better adrift in a sea of chaos than dead; and eventually traveling into the chaos it must dissipate somewhere and I will find a safe harbor with my head intact. 

Regarding point 1, of course - obviously - you might need staggeringly big rockets and other astounding engineering difficulties. (You may well need fusion! or anti-matter! engines to make huge amounts of electricity - whatever. You would surely need some sort of astounding laser technology to blast out of the way any micro-particles in front of you - etc etc.) Once again, thanks Einstein - any speed at all, whatsoever, is identical to no speed at all. There is absolutely no difference between speed and no speed. (Note that indeed our planet (indeed, our galactic group) is whipping along at an astounding speed; when we take off to the moon we just "add speed" - the "original" (staggering) speed of the planet means absolutely nothing.) Speed and no-speed are the same. In contrast - point 2 - traveling at light speed (or higher) is utterly and totally different, requiring utterly new base mathematical concepts, totally and completely unknown to us. 

Note that one huge social effect would be: women who want to have many children would be in incredible demand amongst the super-rich. (Indeed, it would apply to men too: imagine a super-wealthy family and consider one of the females in that family. It would be totally ridiculous if she married a man who "only wanted one or two kids" - you'd be literally throwing away billions.) Almost certainly women (and men) would start having children very, very young (why risk billions of dollars on an older partner - fertility declines with age, there is chance of not being able to have the four children, when one starts older). One plot point could be .... perhaps women would tend to have one "demonstrator" child at a young age, I mean to say as a single mother, at say 16. They would then be really "proven" (i.e. to the world's rich) that they can easily bear healthy children. Conversely older men with lower fertility, would be summarily discarded by the world's female rich: there'd be no room for niceties in the need to quickly reach four children. Don't forget, for the truly rich you'd be throwing away 100s of millions a year, until you got to the "four quarters"; every year you waited until getting the four children would be more zillions down the drain; it's possible very young marriages would become the norm again (as for all of history before about 100 years ago).