If you do not have a set schedule, and, in particular, you do not plan to cycle more than maybe 60 miles a day (through reasonably flat terrain) then anyone in decent shape can do a multi-day tour. You do not say how you plan to be "supported" for this trip. If you will be carrying all your own gear on the bike ("self-contained") you need a decent bike with a reasonable rack and panniers, and you need good lightweight camping gear. If someone in a car will be carrying your gear then you just need a halfway-reasonable road bike. Whether you plan to camp or use hotels, you will need to plan your route with stopping points -- while there are parts of the US where you can get away with just camping on the side of the road (or asking a farmer's permission to camp on his land), this probably not something you should plan on. (Of course, if you are supported by car you can be transported back and forth between bike stops and nearby hotels.) Frankly, the "logistics" is probably a far bigger problem for you than the actual biking. 

If you could find several long hills of different but relatively constant (and not too steep) slope, then determine the slope and your terminal velocity on each hill (assuming that velocity is below some safe speed), you should be able to do the math to determine aerodynamic drag (working on the reasonably valid assumption that rolling resistance is negligible a higher speeds). Or, with very careful observation, you could determine how rapidly you decelerate on a level road. 

Unfortunately, my camera only does a middling job with macro photography. In the first shot the bad cone is on the left and the good (stock Shimano) one is on the right. The second shot is the bad cone removed from the axle. The line you can see, up close, looks kind of like a bead of weld, with "puddling" -- little dents kind of pushed up against each other. When I went to remove the cone I discovered that it was very difficult to remove. Something had snarled the threads on the axle, at about the junction point between the cone and the lock nut. It was impossible to say with any certainty, but it looked like the axle was very slightly bent at that point. It may be that a bent axle was the cause of the failure (though I don't know how it would have gotten bent, or how a bend at that point could cause a bearing failure). Anyway, swapped in the axle from a new hub (also replaced the balls and repacked it) and the noise seems to be gone (though hard to tell for sure, as it was so windy for my test ride). Grrr!!! The noise is back, with the new axle, cones, and balls. Have not taken it apart yet, but I'm guessing one of the cones will be pitted when I do. And looking for a new wheel, I can't find anything on the internet. It's a Shimano HB-A410 hub, Mavic 622x18 rims, 36 hole. So far I've not found any 36-hole front wheels, and most of the 622 road wheels I find are "aero" -- not exactly the style for my touring bike. I'll check the local shops to see what they can get -- failing that I suppose I'll have to build my own. "Final answer": Pretty much convinced that the hub was bent and came that way from the factory. This is consistent with the repeated spalling and the damage to the axle that I found. Replaced with a nearly identical wheel from Peter White and things seem fine. 

Close as I can tell that tool helps you take apart the master link (if a SRAM style, at least), but does not really aid in assembly. I've seen images of a different tool, a sort of vice, that gives you some slack for both disassembly and assembly (by grabbing the links adjacent to the master link or taken-apart standard link and holding them in alignment) that I would think would be a more useful tool. But I don't offhand know where to get one. The SRAM style master link can be disassembled with a pair of pliers if you hold your mouth (and the pliers) right. The trick is to catch one plate with one jaw and the other plate with the other jaw, holding the pliers at an angle. Works best with needle-nose pliers, but can work with regular ones. 

There is a major problem with making (in the US) left turns from 2-way to 2-way. (I presume you're in the UK?) Modern cars typically have a rather substantial (ie, wide) "pillar" at the corners of the windshield, and this can easily hide a pedestrian or bicycle. This problem accounts for many pedestrian accidents. (The problem is not nearly as severe going the other direction since the bike/pedestrian is closer and not as easily hidden by the pillar.) Traffic safety folks are just beginning to focus on this problem (that seems to have become more severe with safety "improvements" to the vehicles leading to the wider pillars in cars). In terms of a government "push", the pedestrian safety angle is probably the best approach. Dunno about British law, but in most of the US the motor vehicle operator would be "in the wrong" and should be found at fault in the case of an accident in this situation. But of course it depends a lot on who has the better paid lawyer and how the motorist's lawyer manages to paint their client as the innocent party in this confrontation with a "crazed" cyclist. 

As I've remarked several times, part of the "break in" involves pulling the hairs from your butt. It's the hairs, all tangled together, that create most of the "butt burn" that you tend to experience on longer rides. Shaving your butt short-circuits this step and lets you tolerate long rides much better, with less "break in". Of course, there are other factors -- you need to develop some "inner calluses" in the areas of most pressure. And you also just need to develop your riding style and the strength in your arms and legs to enable you to remove some of the pressure from your butt. 

Some riders will reach down with their gloved hand and let it brush the wheel as it turns, to remove any glass or small pebbles that have adhered. Long-distance riders have been known to use a formed piece of wire or molded plastic attached to the front "brake bolt" (center bolt hole in the fork above the wheel) that continuously brushes the tire. There used to be a product sold for this, but I haven't seen it in maybe 15 years. I don't quite have the nerve to reach down and brush the wheel with my hand, but as luck would have it my front fender is quite flexible and I find I can reach down and press the leading edge of the fender into the wheel to brush it off. I do this when I hear/feel something on the tire. 

I'd say it mainly depends on the smoothness of the surface, and "packed limestone" can run from glass-smooth to too rough for my 35mm tires. And, of course, in terms of punctures a lot depends on the "weight" of your tire as well. Basically, if your teeth aren't getting shook out of your mouth, and the surface doesn't have a lot of random loose sharp pieces (more likely with stones other than limestone), it's probably OK, unless you're running super-light racing tires. If you're going to be doing a lot of this in the future, though, you probably want to consider switching to a wider wheel/tire if your frame allows it. And you can probably go up a size with your current wheels, without having to change rims. 

When I'm touring ("unloaded") I carry two moderate-sized panniers which end up being about half-full. In addition to rain gear in both, one contains snacks, my daily medications, and other odds and ends. The other mostly carries my full-sized camera, stuck in a large plastic bag if the weather is threatening. My phone (turned off) is in a small plastic bag in one pannier pocket. Last year it rained 4 out of 6 days of our tour, and I had no trouble keeping the camera dry. (In fact, the panniers have pull-out rain covers, so everything else stayed dry as well.) I've never carried a laptop, but I wouldn't have too many reservations about sticking one in a pannier, perhaps padded by some clothing. 

Uh, you realize, don't you, that there is a shaft that connects the left and right sides, and that shaft, on any halfway decent bike, is incredibly stiff. There may be some very slight difference in efficiency due to the flexing of the shaft, but it would only be measurable in laboratory conditions, with a mechanical "rider". And the fact that the drive-side shaft is usually longer means that the pedal position on that side will be subject to more flex, causing the leg on that side to "flail" about slightly more. But, again, the difference would only be measurable with laboratory instruments. All in all, any measurable effect would be orders of magnitude less than effects due to asymmetries in the rider's physiology. 

The way you're inclined to do it is the right way, but you're kind of stuck if your buddies aren't as comfortable in traffic, and you want to stick with them. I rarely face this specific situation, but I've many times run into something similar when making a left turn across multiple lanes -- I just get into the turn lane and make my turn, but other riders are reluctant to leave the right shoulder. (Of course, in part your situation is a comment on the bicycle-unfriendliness of many urban road designs. Designers (who obviously don't ride bikes) think the mere existence of a bike lane is "bike friendly", when that's really the least of the issues.) [I'd add that there's absolutely nothing wrong with being a bit slower than other traffic and occupying a lane for a relatively brief period. Few people would get upset if a truck did it.]