Based on this rule, the situation I described should have resulted in both balls being pocketed, since the center of each ball was over the pocket and not the table surface. 

After you click on "Get Report", you will find 19 pitchers who have hit postseason home runs. But it only shows 10 of those names, since you have to subscribe to see the entire list. Just go back to the search form, click the "Use ascending order" box, and click "Get Report" again to see the rest of the names. The 19 pitchers are: 

At many American sporting events, if a player with a "u" sound in his name is on the home team, and he enters the game or makes a play in the game, then there is a good chance the fans will chant his name with an extended "u" sound. Here are a few examples: 

There is even an entry in dictionary.com which has the same definition for "jaculator", but I'm fairly certain that word isn't used nowadays. 

Is that true? Has the Lambeau Leap been banned at every NFL stadium except Lambeau Field? If so, when did that happen? 

This question is inspired by the recent debate[1][2][3][4] about whether the 2014-15 University of Kentucky men's basketball team (who had been undefeated until tonight's loss to Wisconsin) could defeat an NBA team. Has an American college team ever played against an American professional team (either actual teams or all-star teams)? If so, how did they fare? 

Yes, I think the risk of turning the ball over would be fairly high. When one player is running with the ball, all of his teammates are probably trying to block for him. They may not be prepared to catch a lateral from him. There will also be defenders chasing him, and they may be in a position to intercept or knock away the lateral. In addition, a player who wants to throw a lateral needs to turn his head around to see if any teammates are behind him who can catch the lateral. Then he needs to move the ball from his protective grasp into a position where he can throw it. This leaves the ball exposed, and since he's no longer paying attention to the defenders in front of him, they may be able to knock the ball loose if he doesn't throw the lateral in time. There's also a risk of injury. When a player is running with the ball, he can see the defenders in front of him and can brace himself for a tackle. But if he turns his head around to see if he can lateral the ball, then he may get hit unexpectedly. This increases the chances of an injury. 

That is 17 straight regular season games without a WR catching a TD pass (the Chiefs did have a WR catch a TD pass in their playoff game last season). A December 19 article on Steelers.com confirms this: 

According to the Pro Football Hall of Fame, two teams with an 11-5 record have missed the NFL playoffs during the 16-game regular season era: 

No player has ever won NCAA basketball championships with multiple teams. The player who came closest to achieving this is Bob Bender. He was on the undefeated 1976 Indiana team that won the national championship, and he was also on the 1978 Duke team that lost to Kentucky in the title game. Wikipedia says Bob Bender is the only college basketball player to reach the NCAA championship game for two different teams: 

It turns out that the Small Final would matter in the rare situation that 4 or more competitors in the Big Final are disqualified. If that happened, then they would award the remaining medal(s) to the top finisher(s) of the Small Final. This situation happened yesterday in the Women's Short Track Speed Skating 3000M Relay. Four teams participated in the main final (the "A Final"). However, two of those teams ended up being disqualified, so they awarded the bronze medal to the winning team of the "B Final", which had been run to determine 5th through 8th place. 

A 7-9 record has a .4375 winning percentage, and a 4-5 record has a 0.444 winning percentage, so that means the 2010 Seattle Seahawks at 7-9 have the worst record to ever make the playoffs. 

The next day the teams had another scrimmage, and the Dream Team destroyed the college players. Here are some interesting quotes regarding that second scrimmage: 

The National Association of Professional Baseball Leagues is the umbrella organization for the minor leagues, and in 1999 the organization changed its name to Minor League Baseball. Since Minor League Baseball is governed by the same rules as Major League Baseball, the minor leagues have 90 foot base paths. In Little League baseball, the length of the base paths varies depending on the age of the players and local preferences: 

The runners on base at the time of a pitching change are called inherited runners, and if any of them score, the run(s) are considered given up by the pitcher who allowed them on base (in your example that is Pitcher A). 

If a double-elimination tournament has the same number of games for both the winner's and loser's brackets, then you could call it a "race to N/N". An example of that can be found here: 

Football From 1934 through 1976, a preseason match called the Chicago Charities College All-Star Game was always played between the previous season's NFL champion and a team of the previous season's star college seniors. Forty-two of these games were played, and the college all-star teams won 9 of them, lost 31 of them, and tied 2 of them. 

But instead of calling it a "race to 3/3", you could just call it a "race to 3". An example of that can be found here: 

In a recent game of pool, my opponent hit a shot that resulted in 2 balls getting stuck in between a pocket's walls. They were both still touching the table surface, while at the same time partially below the table surface (partially in the pocket). Here is what happened: 

In your example, the closer qualifies for the save since he satisfies all 4 conditions. The reliever who came on in the 6th and pitched 3 innings cannot qualify for the save since he was not the finishing pitcher. 

No, it's not possible for an NFL team to lose points during a game. There are no penalties or anything that can deduct from a team's score. However, due to the NFL's instant replay review system that requires all scoring plays to be reviewed, it might appear that a team can lose points. As an example, you could have a situation where a team scores a touchdown (the referees on the field ruled that it was a touchdown). The scoreboard would add six points to that team's score. However, since it is a scoring play, it would be reviewed. If the ruling on the field that it was a touchdown is overturned, then the scoreboard would remove those six points from the team's score. It might appear that the team lost six points, but they really didn't, because that play was actually not a touchdown. 

Like Philip Kendall said, in athletics, a person who throws a javelin is called a "javelin thrower". Collins Dictionary has an entry for "javelin thrower": 

He also wrote about how if a star player was in danger of getting into foul trouble, then the referees would try to keep him from being benched by only calling obvious fouls on him or trying to give fouls to other players: 

The player is near the net and they hit the ball after it has passed over the net. The follow through on their swing is allowed to extend into the opponent's court (provided that they do not touch the net or the ground). The ball bounces on the player's side of the court, and due to spin or wind, it goes back over the net. In this situation, the player is allowed to reach over the net and hit the ball (provided that they do not touch the net or the ground). 

That article also says that before 2014, no team had ever had fewer than 2 touchdown catches by a wide receiver in a 16 game season: 

The Lambeau Leap is a celebration started by Green Bay Packers players who leap into the stands after scoring a touchdown at Lambeau Field. The celebration has spread across the NFL though, because I've seen players on other teams leap into the stands after scoring a touchdown at their home stadiums. During the September 28, 2017 game between the Bears and Packers at Lambeau Field, Green Bay running back Aaron Jones scored a touchdown in the second quarter. He celebrated by doing a Lambeau Leap. Jim Nantz and Tony Romo commented on the Lambeau Leap during the CBS broadcast, and they said that the Lambeau Leap had been banned at every stadium except Lambeau Field, where it had been grandfathered in: 

Of course, Donaghy is a convicted felon and the NBA and many other people think he has no credibility. Henry Abbott wrote an article for ESPN.com in which he examined the book. He said that some of the claims in the book were refuted by Charles Barkley, Phil Jackson, and others. But he didn't provide any evidence or quotes from anyone to either support or disprove the claim that referees give preferential treatment to star players in terms of foul calls. 

That means no NFL division has ever had all of its teams finish with a winning record. EDIT: In 2014, the NFC South had all of its teams finish with a losing record. The Carolina Panthers won the division with a 7-8-1 record, as mentioned in this article: 

The term "joust" may not be used internationally, but the FIVB rules still say that extended contact with the ball over the net by two opponents is legal: 

Is it possible for three NFL teams in different divisions in the same conference to all go 16-0 during the regular season? I'm not sure if this is possible with all the scheduling rules that they have. If this is possible, then one of those 3 teams would lose the tie-breaker and have to play a wild card game. So they would have to play 4 playoff games to win the Super Bowl, and they would be 20-0 if they won the Super Bowl. 

As for finding the most home runs in the first n games of a season, I don't think there is anything. I checked baseball-reference.com's Batting Game Finder, and it doesn't appear to have that capability. 

How does the NFL decide which teams play in London every season? Do any teams actually volunteer to play in London, considering the jet lag and also the fact that you might have to give up a home game? Does the NFL provide any sort of compensation to the teams that play in London? 

There used to be the word "jaculator", which is defined in The Century dictionary and cyclopedia (published in 1906) as "one who throws (a javelin)": 

Baseball There is a long history of college teams playing against MLB teams in spring exhibition games. This WSJ article has a good description of it: 

There is the word "javelinier" (or "javelineer"), but apparently that is only used for non-athletic purposes. Wikitionary defines "javelinier" as: 

"Has an NFL team ever gone an entire season without a wide receiver catching a touchdown pass?" Yes, according to the Sporting News, three teams from before the NFL's modern era did that: 

It seems the Australian Open is the only Grand Slam event in tennis that does not have both men's singles semifinal matches on the same day. This means the man who won his semifinal match on Thursday will have 2 days of rest before the final, and the man who won his semifinal match on Friday will only have 1 day of rest. It would seem that the man who has 2 days of rest would have an advantage, especially if both of the semifinals went 5 sets. Has there been any analysis or statistics (such as win-loss record) that show that the man with 2 days of rest indeed has an advantage? 

The Baseball-Reference.com Batting Game Finder has data going back to 1903. To get the list of pitchers who have hit home runs in the postseason, make the following setting changes on that page: 

According to Wikipedia and an ESPN article, the name "Legion of Boom" started when Seahawks safety Kam Chancellor appeared on the "Bob and Groz" radio show on 710 ESPN Seattle on August 2, 2012. Kam Chancellor was back on the show on October 2, 2013, and they discussed the origin of "Legion of Boom". You can hear the audio here. At 42:17 in the audio, Bob/Groz say the following to Kam: 

Derek Jeter's flip play against Oakland in Game 3 of the 2001 ALDS is considered one of the greatest plays in baseball history. The underlying notion is that if Jeter had not intercepted the ball and flipped it to Posada, Giambi would have been safe. Contrary to what I've read on various forums that have discussed the play though, the video shows that the throw from the right-fielder was not off target and the ball had not slowed to a crawl by the time Jeter intervened. I suspect that if Jeter had not intercepted the ball and taken the time to flip it, the ball would have gotten to Posada earlier, Giambi still would have been out, and the play would not have been as close as it was. Has there ever been any analysis done on this play? I know that ESPN sometimes does a "Sport Science" segment for certain notable plays. I would be interested in knowing the direction and speed of the ball just before Jeter intercepted it, and the speed of the ball after he flipped it.