The classical canon gets good coverage with suttacentral and accesstoinsight, but I was wondering if there was such a website for Mahayana writings. (Post-canon writings diverge and become extensive, meaning different translators, copyrights etc, but if something relatively comprehensive-ish is around, would be great!) 

The bully's actions will end up having negative consequences (karma) for himself through his own wrong actions. Having compassion for him, the parent of the bullied kid should try and explain this to him and his parents, but if they do not listen then it is for them to learn for themselves. Buddhism denies the ideology of violence, whether physical or mental, therefore no method beyond 'think, speak and act by example' is embraced. It is interesting to point out that the Buddha as depicted within the Tripitaka was not detached in the way you perceive of Buddhist monks. He formed a life long relationship to those within his Sangha, even if not defined within the framework of having any desire for such a relationship. In fact, because he lead a homeless life dependent on the food of householders, he was engaged with the world as a whole. I have yet to read of him rejecting an offer to teach the Dhamma to anyone within the Sutta Pitaka, including those that threatened his life. In my opinion, he tread the whole middle way, engendering both the detached Arahant ideal, as well as the Bodhisattva ideal of being (not wishing, since he was the Buddha after all!) for the benefit of all beings. The two ideals don't exclude but rather reinforce each other - it is much easier to be filled with loving kindness for all when there is no desire for one's own self to interfere in the equation! 

Understanding is conditioned, on a place, a time, a frame of reference. Your falling into ignorance is an intentional choice, if you are already aware of the Dhamma. 

I'm reading 'The Religion of Israel' by Yehezkel Kaufmann, and whilst it's all a bit arbitrary and Essentialist, there is an interesting delineation, if seen from a Buddhist perspective. In all pagan religions there was the divine and the meta-divine, the gods and the primordial realm. This primordial realm was the seed for all creation, and whilst having effect on both the gods and humans, was itself independent from it all. The Hebrew spin was to claim YHWH as the primordial being, therefore assigning him all the classical anthropomorphic God features, with the Essence of perfection and other divine qualities. Brahman on the other hand, received the vague but more logically accurate - 'neti neti', 'not this, not that'. The Buddha simplified all this by instead removing the meta-divine, the 'meta' being deemed unverifiable and entirely without purpose given the effectiveness of the principle of dependent origination. The Buddha was also similar to the mathematical limit of the Noble Eightfold Path, which describes both a morality not so different from what the more refined versions of 'God' bring, and an equanimity suitable to a physical manifestation of the Dhamma. The Buddha showed a perfected morality, a perfected concentration, and a perfected wisdom. Aside from the actual metaphysical properties of God, the Buddha does comparatively better than many a good variation, so it's not unreasonable that people would see a 'divine' element in the Buddha when coming from life long world views that have a divine. 

The Buddha is careful not to deny the achievements of others, but framing achievement through the understanding of the four kinds of clinging, he implies that others may reach a very close goal, yet through having wrong view with regards to Self, through not penetrating anatta, are still clung to it, and hence have not cut off clinging (and therefore craving, which correlates directly with suffering) at the root, when declaring so. 

, whilst Absolutes are not Absolutely denied by the Buddha, given the empirical evidence of impermanence (and the non-self that follows), the only place where such Absolutes could be found is beyond empirical evidence - beyond experience (or Metaphysics, 'after Physics' - as Aristotle stated, with regards to the investigation of 'things' beyond evidence). As such, this Essentialist Truth - whether theistic or nihilistic - is only ever an inferred Truth - never a directly perceived Truth.. Plato's Parmeneides says as much! 

The really basic answer is that the subcontinent had a longstanding oral tradition stretching back to at least 1200BC, which can be determined from linguistic analysis of the Rig Veda.. Just common practice until about 300-200BC probably! 

There is a precedent that the Buddha set for letting in a 'different' set of humans, when he allowed women to join the Sangha, and his reasoning there we that the female mind had the capacity to reach the goal. Arguably, you can use this for any other 'different' life form. The question is not whether AI (I assume cyborgs with human brains are human and ones with non-human brains are AI) will have access to the logical and reasoning aspects of the intellect that are necessary to recognise the Four Noble Truths. This is likely because the Truths are empirical and the human mind already has access to all empirical evidence within its frame of reference (subject to technology). So I don't think AI will be substantially different from 'Intelligence' to justify the 'Artificial`. The question is whether all life, that has the capacity to comprehend the Noble Truths, can meditate and experience cessation (as the process of Jhanna may be dependent on the human intellect, I don't think it is initially necessary for distinct life forms in their exact form). Personally I think this will happen soon enough with some animal species like dogs, which are already getting to 3-5 year old intelligence through cohabitation with humans - so they are not far from having a right to access to the Dhamma imo (being carbon based, their minds shouldnt be too different from human's). Cyborgs and AI are too speculative at this point imo (although AI is heading down the neural network route, so same architecture as the human brain really), but I would find it difficult to believe that a conscious non-human intelligence would not be able to find a secluded place, sit down, and learn to have a peaceful abiding. (though specifically for Cyborgs - since post human upgrades will have individualistic motives and end up dependent on the purpose of those upgrades, some Cyborgs may find themselves more stuck in Samsara.. militarily enhanced human minds, if they appear, will likely find it useful to have cognitive empathy downgraded.. This will obviously not help along the path. On the other hand, a Cyborg who's mind has been specifically enhanced for medical practice (the Buddha described himself as the doctor (not that one! ;) ), is likely to benefit from his enhancements in the practice of Buddhism.) 

Which 'you'? The you that at 69 will likely become more conservative and less social? Or the you that at 5 had no concrete notion of Self, or the question the 'you' of about now poses? The me of 5 minutes ago had no knowledge nor memory of your question. There is a self - a self that is dependent on conditions - dependent on mother and father for birth, food for existence, conditions for death. This is a conventional 'you' and such a notion is fine - convenient and useful within conditionality. The Buddha argued agaisnt an independent, permanent, unconditioned You - the soul or Atman, however envisaged. Self is 'obliterated' through one link: of only those things which are observed directly by the senses (mind is included as a sense in the canon), all things are observed as subject to conditions for arising, subsisting and ceasing - subject to change. Things that are subject to conditions, impermanent - as all that is observed is - cannot be the basis of a permanent and independent Self. (it's a tough switch to thinking.. for me for example, I kept 'summing up' all experience into one exact thing - but that is the process of making a permanent Self from an objective experience that only provides impermanent objects as building blocks!!). As such, if you think it, it's not Self. 

You may choose not to believe in cosmic Karma, as in Hinduism, but kamma in Buddhism is only accrued due to intentional actions. Denying intention is denying agency, in one way or another. AN 3.61 deals with that issue, and with respect to God and kamma's place if God is to be believed in. The Buddha did say: 

This is a depiction of the Buddha in his last moments of life, just before he achieved parinibbana (nirvana-after-death). There are 32 signs of a great man and 80 secondary signs (all of which the Buddha possessed) $URL$ and long slender fingers, long earlobes as depicted are two of the lesser signs.. I guess if you examine it up close, you will probably get some more (foot arches etc?)! As for the differences, I am not well versed in art or its history, sorry! 

Start with the Digha Nikaya, I would say. It is the Pali Canon's 'introduction' to the Dhamma. There are two really good websites for this: $URL$ $URL$ If you like to get a hard copy, then you can't beat Bhikkhu Bodhi's (Maurice Walsh's) translation! $URL$ If you are a heavy rationalist then also read Nagarjuna's 'Fundamental Wisdom of the Middle Way', preferably the Garfield edition, as it gets misinterpreted quite a lot and he gets it right! $URL$ (I am such a rationalist, and for the first year of getting through the Digha Nikaya, with the cosmology and gods found in some Suttas, made me read too much into the similarities between 'original Buddhism' and other faiths.. after reading Nagarjuna that wasn't as much of a worry!) I would say don't explore Mahayana scriptures too much (beyond Nagarjuna), until you have gotten through some of the Pali Canon. It is the oldest of the old, likely very very close to what the Buddha spoke and there is little in it which confuses. If you want a lighter load then the above, get the Dhammapada and the Sutta Nipata. The latter is considered one of the oldest parts of the Pali Canon, and is at the very least very similar to the Buddha's Dhamma. $URL$ $URL$ Most importantly, meditate! Digha Nikaya 22 gives a long and detailed analysis of how to meditate $URL$ .. I find the commute to be a good time to meditate (some earphones can kill the noise, and overall those journeys are very impersonal - a strangely 'secluded' space imo!) 

If Brahman or Nibbana, Atman etc are truly 'neti neti', then all of the Darshans do, in engaging in language, are little more than speculation. Which is why the first Sutta of the Digha Nikaya asks those on the path not to do so! If this is not enough, Nagarjuna in the Mulamadhyamakakarika, explained the Buddha's words within a more philosophical context. His treatise however, is also metaphysics free, in that it never steps beyond the bound of logic and the empirical - neither nihilism nor essentialism are asserted, only the empirically evident dependent co-arising, within the framework of emptiness, is asserted. 5) I am not awakened, so I'm sure someone could say otherwise, but in having given up greed, sensual attachment and aversion, whether the awakened person is conscious or in deep meditation, by the definition of what the end goal is, they are free from attachments. There is not much more than that that needs to be said in this imo! (in other words, your 5 questions go beyond what language can provide, if you wish to know, find out for yourself! :D ) (sorry, this is a bit long and probably incomplete, but it's a good start imo!) 

So confession is understood as wise, and acceptance of such is also, but this confession is to a human being. 

In addition, for energy specifically, Noether's theorem shows that energy is conserved, or more famously that: 

Would not make much sense, if there were only one birth to end or no births to end. Rebirth is part of (mundane) right view: 

As to your title question, MN27 - $URL$ gives an account how every achievement before Nibbana, is no thing more than a clue as to the accuracy of the Buddha's insight. Prior to the attainment of arahantship, 'Truth' is not to be realised. Practicing the same thing over and over again does make the mind 'run in that context' even outside of intentionally concentrating on that subject - I used to dream about weiqi when I used to play 4 hours a day.. In this respect, some aspect of Buddhist literature may be interpreted as only psychological (monks meditating and reaching the Tusita heaven etc.. Though these states are only ever acknowledged as psychological within Buddhism). The difficulty with your point is that, if you skip annihalationism (nihilism), and embrace mundane 'right view', or: