Use a method similar to that used on some submarines: filling tanks with seawater when you need to go down (get heavier), and emptying them when you need to go up (get lighter). Just like with submarines, air is all around you, and in compressed form it has quite a high density of 870 kg/m^3, pretty close to that of water. Equipment for liquefying air appeared at the start of 20th century in our world, so it should be quite possible with your level of technology. So just have air tanks distributed around your ship, and fill them with liquid air when you need to compensate for mass loss. In a normal state you will probably want them about half-full, to allow for both gain and loss. 

EVEN MORE MINING (AND WAR) Did you know Nitrate minerals are often mined for use in the production of lethal explosives? AFTERLIFE WOULD NOT BE THE SAME AGAIN Unlike real world salt would not be considered a “sacred substance” (but I guess that a nearly endless salt desert will be regarded with a certain reverence, same way as sand is not a sacred substance but a desert can be a holy place). I don’t know if this is necessarily true since according to gospels Jesus, who lived in a geographical area plenty of salt, still used salt a metaphor to indicate something very precious (but that can be cultural contamination). Sure thing, sooner or later primitive societies around this sparkling abyss will discover the important mummification properties of salt, and not unlike how ancient Egyptian did with Natron Valley and the substance which goes by the same name, mummification and body preservation in the afterlife could become an important part of their religious consciousness. 

Guinea pigs and slaves What do we have here? On the one hand, not very intelligent and dangerous to the civilians barbarians. I'm pretty sure that, despite all the civil rights' activists' efforts, those giants won't get equal rights to humans for many decades. Not only that, but their movement in cities would be heavily regulated, if not outright outlawed. And considering that even human slavery still encompasses millions of people, those giants would be used as cheaper and more efficient labour with no hesitation (especially in Russia). They would be lucky just to get enough to eat, never mind seeing any money. On the other hand, they clearly posses some "magic" in their bodies, that makes them not only survive, but invert the square-cubic law. That would make many biologists around the world very interested in dissecting and examining giants. Again, depending on a laboratory that captured a giant, they would be lucky to just survive and be fed. 

THINGS CAN GO REALLY WRONG In a certain sense the civilization depicted up to this point is an unbalanced society in which the access to a “modern” comfort such as mass food preservation is unmatched by other solutions to manage population growth such as medicine and fast travel, although the former can supposedly benefit from the salts mining industry (e.g. soap). Primitive societies will be confronted early with the problem of overpopulation, and the ratio between resources and mouths to feed is very reminiscent of the story of a people who loved to build giant stone heads. Factors like increased interaction between different civilizations, war over resources (with explosives!) and population booms due to better diet and better hygiene will all play a role in a fast changing and complex society. And let's not talk about salt tornadoes ravaging the countryside. However all things considered I think that if certain conditions are met it can find its balance. If only this wasn’t… AN IMPOSSIBLE UTOPIA The amazing advantages which came from having an endless reserve of useful minerals is almost too incredible to be real. I know this is not part of the question, but since you provided a specific setting I think it's fair to point out its glitches. The real problem with this scenario is that the conditions which are to be met to make this unbelievably vast salt flat possible will at the same time make human colonization impossible. Not only the intolerable climate will hinder any colonization attempt, but there will be no fishing industry and no farming; in short, nothing to use the salt for. Sure, all the other important properties will be of some value, but the impossible climate will render salt mining in this area as expensive and dangerous as in real world, essentially canceling out the advantages. 

This is actually more plausible than it seems. I remember reading an article (will try to find it later and add a link) dealing with modelling of a large fire in a certain modern city (can't recall which one exactly, but I think it was Moscow). The surprising result was, above a certain size/intensity, the fire was self-sustaining, with concrete burning and immense winds fanning those flames and spreading them over hundreds of meters. It had something to do with regular layout of buildings directing winds in a special way. Of course, that study was assuming the "candle" dropped was a medium-sized nuke, which isn't exactly what you were looking for. However, I find it quite plausible that, if you pick the point (or points) right (and modern computational resources can help you find the winning setup), you could start a similar self-sustaining fire on a smaller scale at first. Such a fire could grow to envelop few building blocks within an hour, which is fast enough to avoid being extinguished too soon. After that, regular firemen would be unable to do anything, while extraordinary measures will take some time to get approval — time that the fire will use to engulf the whole city (and millions of civilians trying to flee in panic won't help either). 

Deceptively simple question but actually rich in cool and unexpected outcomes. Let’s start by saying in part you already unknowingly answered your own question: ancient societies would have treated salt as modern ones do. Salt wouldn’t have been precious, and people could have used it in new “wasteful” ways. Before starting anyway be aware that “salt” is a very generic term chemically speaking, but given that you gave a very specific context (an evaporated sea) I take it as meaning evaporite minerals, exactly the kind of stuff you’d find on the bottom of (at least partially) evaporated sea along with “common salt” (sodium chloride). Now let’s see the consequences of a relatively inexpensive and easy exploitation of these evaporite deposits. MORE WAR, EXPLORATION AND COMMERCE The most important consequence here would have been IMPROVED FOOD PRESERVING, which is maybe the most appreciated characteristic of common salt. The ability to prevent the growth of bacteria, fungi or other micro-organisms from the early stages of society would have impacted settlement patterns. Being able to conserve food in a cheap and efficient way would allow for new areas to be settled that are not on a natural channel of transport (e.g. a river) that may have otherwise not been settled. New unpopulated areas would be settled earlier and better: exploration can potentially mean laying out new commercial routes or faster colonization by a possible salt empire, especially considering the immense utility of preserved food in feeding a marching army (think of food rations in modern armies). In brief: improved contact (benign or not) between distant civilizations. MORE AND BIGGER CITIES (but frailer early societies) The possibility to conserve food for longer periods of time means that goods can travel farther from the farm and selling can occur on a wider scale than a local one. Think of how the invention of the refrigerator made possible to ship perishable food products long distances: same but in a smaller scale. Without food preserving land for agriculture must be necessarily evenly distributed across a populated area, but with cheap means of preservation a fertile small portion of the existing land can produce food for all the others and sell the surplus in a wider area. This mean professional farmers which in turn mean more people that can do other things other than farming to survive (e.g. merchants, smiths, scribes, philosophers, etc.) more cities and more complex societies. All of this actually happened in real world, but with an easier access to salting it will happen earlier. Without a mean to preserve food your diet and health is affected heavily by the seasons and what could be grown relatively close to your region, but with salting accessible to everyone, population will no longer be restricted by these limitations. As well as changing the goods purchased at the market, the ability to store these foods for extended periods of time will led to an increase in leisure time, because without accessible food preservation, people would have to shop on a daily basis for the supplies needed for their meals. Note that increasing population will led to an increasing demand for agricultural products, which has to be met through expansion, improved technology and inventions or the civilization will collapse under its own population pressure (many evaporites have fertilizing properties, so this can be of some help, we’ll see that later). All this trade and concentration of farming activities can have serious downsides though: harvesting failures, famines and epidemics will travel quicker and will have more significant consequences. Empires, at least at early stages of civilization, will rise and fall abruptly. Another downside is that all this sodium consumption can led to severe health problems (that can indeed balance excessive population growth though). FERTILE SOILS? Somewhat related to the previous topic. I’m aware that nitrates obtained from many evaporites are excellent fertilizers. Gypsum for example was regarded almost as a miraculous fertilizer in the 19th century and even a war was fought over it. I’m no chemist nor agronomist though so I’ll leave this one to experts. EXCELLENT CHEAP MATERIALS FOR ARCHITECTURE AND ARTS With all that “salt”, a lot of it can be used for artistic or masonry purposes. For example during late antiquity in Rome and later in medieval Germany many churches had selenite used in for panes in windows as a cheap and beautiful way to replace glass. Gypsum blocks can also be very useful in architecture, being a massive lightweight building material suitable for fire-resistant non-load bearing interior walls. Furthermore gypsum is a key component of plaster which has many uses in architecture and art. Speaking of art, another material commonly found in evaporite deposits is alabaster which is a superb material for sculpture and it was also used in architecture especially in the ancient world before steel was developed, when its relative softness made it much easier to carve than other stones. Also, salt is important in pottery in the process of glazing, and plaster is excellent for casting. 

Obviously, it depends on the way magic works, but we can ask a more generic question. Can a healer kill? Imagine a surgeon with a scalpel in his vic^W patient. Can he kill? Of course, it takes him a lot of precision and control not to kill. And if your healer can use his healing magic on his opponent, then, figuratively speaking, he has his scalpel in him already. Now all he needs is to twist it just the wrong way. 

The main problem of the recycling souls idea is this: it assumes that creation of souls is separate from creation of bodies. And you can turn this problem to your advantage. Simply put, either there is a fixed and finite amount of souls, or there is some sort of mechanism of creating additional souls that is not tied to actual procreation. As long as the latter mechanism has a limited throughput, sometimes a situation may arise when there are fewer souls available that there are bodies born. A locust swarm got a good year and grew thrice the usual size? Nearby forests will be teeming with undead animals, and nearby villages will have plenty of children born soulless. Also, if souls can be created, then souls can be destroyed in one way or another. A soul-splitting bomb may be used to turn enemy city to undeath, or a natural disaster can bring about a localised zombie apocalypse. Souls travel from dead bodies and later to newborn bodies. Both of those processes can be disturbed: souls of the dead can be captured to prevent their departure or to inflict punishment beyond the grave; newly arriving souls can be delayed till the body turns to undeath. There could be some sort of a magical crystal that dampens souls, and a cave system full of those crystals would house an undead colony, with undead giving birth to more undead. 

CIVILIZATION HAS POTENTIAL TO EASILY SPREAD NORTH (or up a mountain chain) All these excellent insulating materials mean that theoretically buildings can be heated more efficiently and civilization can advance more easily in harsher climates, especially if one can afford to melt snow by spreading a lot of salt around. BUT (speaking of architecture) CONCRETE INVENTION WILL BE somewhat HINDERED Just a wild guess but in a context in which salt spreading for melting purposes is invented before concrete, the latter has a few chances to be invented and extensively used since salt is reinforced concrete’s worst enemy: we can afford to use it in modern world just because we spend a lot of money in building maintenance but this is still really an unbelievable architectonic nonsense. CLEANER PEOPLE Salt is very important in the process of manufacturing soap. To make it obscenely simple soap is made up by fat or tallow and alkaline salts. The salts were the expensive part so soap was a thing for riches. But in this salty utopia soap is a cheap byproduct of animal processing, since a vast variety of salts can be found with relatively little effort. MINING SALT WILL SPEED UP INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION Mining salt was one of the most expensive, laborious and dangerous of operations, due to rapid dehydration caused by constant contact with the salt (both in the mine passages and scattered in the air as salt dust), among other problems borne of accidental excessive sodium intake. While salt is now plentiful, until the Industrial Revolution it was difficult to come by, and salt mining was often done by slave or prison labor. This is obviously not true in a society in which salt is found at surface level and is also nearly infinite. There will probably be professional salt miners and refiners and the industry will be extremely well developed. And there are other substances you can come by while mining salt, such as sulfur, natural gases and even petroleum (trapped under salt slabs by the their impermeable nature). All of them are important substances for technological development and their discovery and exploitation will probably come earlier than in real world because of all this salt mining activity. Obviously all this line of reasoning assumes you can access a 3500 mt deep incandescent basin without consequences, which I anyway doubt (see later, An Impossible Utopia). 

While champion warfare was mentioned, it never was the method to determine a victor, merely a way to gain morale advantage before upcoming battle. As it stands, I don't find it quite plausible that no ruler will abuse reluctance of others to go to war. Politics were always a messy business, not a matter of chivalry. And if you are going to backstab a neighbour instead of honouring duel results, you are going do it in a way that puts you at advantage, without any lengthy wars. However, you have what would make it much more believable with some adjustment: the Empire. If mountains aren't quite high enough to prevent it dealing with any one kingdom, then all kingdoms could've entered a loose defensive confederation of sorts. Something like the Holy Roman Empire of their own, but without the Emperor. With a Diet for passing confederation-wide edicts and laws. Of course, still resolving conflicts with a duel wouldn't occur right from the start, there wouldn't be enough trust between participants yet. But it can be passed by the Diet later on as a way of resolving conflicts without being too detrimental to the overall defensive capability. And since now this is the will of all the kingdoms, not honouring the result of a conflict resolution would put make a lot of people angry with you, not just your victim.