A normal BABIP for a pitcher is around.300. It's possible due to exceptionally poor, or exceptionally good defense that "normal" could be anywhere from .290 - .310. So anywhere within that spread should be considered somewhat normal. What a high BABIP tells us is that a pitcher is unlucky. It tells us this because we are generalizing that once a ball is put into play (notice strikeouts, homeruns, sac flies and walks do not count) the pitcher has no effect on whether that ball is a hit or an out. If the average ball in play goes for a hit at a .300 rate, but pitcher A has a BABIP of .370, it's telling us that this pitcher should regress towards the mean. So if the pitcher does regress towards the mean, we would expect other stats like ERA or WHIP to come down as well. On the flip side, a low BABIP tells us that a pitcher has been lucky that more balls hit in play did not go for hits. So we can look at a pitcher with a .250 BABIP and expect that his other stats may be going up as well as he regresses towards the mean. Now it's certainly not full proof and doesn't take into account fly ball/ground ball rates etc... But used with other advanced statistics, it can tell you quite a bit. BABIP can also be used for hitters, however it is not quite as helpful. While it can be generally said that once a ball is in play, a pitcher has little influence over whether or not that ball is a hit, it can't be said for hitters. This is mostly due to speed, where faster hitters are more likely to effect their BABIP due to running out infield singles. 

I can not comment. Otherwise I would have and most of my answer may be regarded as opinion based. My children are/were competition swimmers (almost national level) and have the following observations. 

I cannot comment. So a different and possibly correct answer although my first instinct was a dropped ball. But reading the third main bullet in Law 12 of @studro 's self answer this appears to be a direct free kick. Ball is in play, the offence is made by one of the persons listed, outside the field of play. Law 12 states a direct free kick. The language is definitely not precise but whether the official is inside the lines or outside should not really matter in this case. In my opinion the rule refers to the position of the offending player / team official and thus implies a direct free kick. If it had happened yesterday I would have resumed with a dropped ball. Now I'm not sure. 

So, it's more a range of temperatures to fit optimal performance ranges. I doubt that it would affect record times as much as being noticeable. Obviously, each athlete has their own optimal temperature range. This would hold for any sport. Having said that, the shorter distances would be expected to have a positive effect of higher water temperatures as you would be able to absorb the heat. Longer distances may even suffer from high temperatures as you can not dissolve the heat. The regulations (as linked to in another answer) do not state why the temperature needs to be in a specific range. It can not be determined if this is due to less resistance in warmer water or due to the effect of water temperature on bodily performance. 

There is an interesting unwritten rule that actually gets contradicted in the official MLB rules. The "tie goes to the runner" claim is one that most baseball fans have heard. 

$URL$ That article also goes on to state the viewership of a team like the Yankees on the YES network (318,000 average) vs a smaller market team like the Royals (32,000). Taken in that context, the Pittsburgh deal may not be all that bad. It may not be the best thing for parity in the league, but considering many teams are getting large front loaded contracts, equity stakes in TV networks that can be worth more than their franchises, and predictable cash flow, these deals can be a huge win for organizations. 

Many times these long term contracts come with large amounts of cash up front, as is the case with the Texas rangers new 20 year $3billion deal with Fox Sports. 

So in this case the rules claim the ball must arrive first. Giving the tie to the runner. However... 

Apologies for the lack of links as I am basing this off my (limited) playing experience, but it seems to be the case when I watch NFL and College games as well. 

Quarterbacks take a lot of hits in the wishbone. The offense requires the QB to run with the ball on outside options and take hits from linebackers/lineman even when they pitch the ball. For this reason, QB's get hurt often in the wishbone. Related to #1, with most pro-offenses being pass heavy spread or west coast style, QB's are reluctant to be featured in the wishbone as it hurts their chances of advancing to the NFL. Related to #2, because QB's are reluctant to be wishbone QB's, college teams are reluctant to feature the offense as it could damage recruiting. This effect runs down to the high school levels as well. The wishbone excelled in a time where linebackers were considerably slower than today. Without hard 40 time stats, it is generally accepted that defensive linebackers move much better today than in previous eras. The wishbone requires the QB and RB to get to the corner in many of their bread and butter plays in order to force a DE to choose the QB or RB, and then have the QB or RB beat the corner back for large plays. Faster linebackers require more blocking on the outside, and spoil the top plays of the wishbone. There are few stars in a wishbone offense. The QB may be the biggest benefactor stats wise (and we covered why they don't want to be featured in the offense) and the remaining skill players spread touches more than in modern day offenses. Time. If you fall behind in a game, the wishbone takes a long time to score points. Most plays are running plays, and a team with a weak defense will find themselves with no plays in the arsenal (and perhaps not the right talent to execute even if they did) to catch up against large deficits. 

To expand on gbianchi's answer, it's often typical in team sports to rate a defensive player on the offensive proficiency of the person he is covering. Rating a defensive player on goals scored, tackles, and headers might not really be indicative of how well he is playing. If Lionel Messi comes into a game averaging 4 shots/game and has 0, that is a good indication of how well the defender was playing. This type of analysis obviously requires some amount of knowledge about the opposing players, but from my experience, the type of people who care about rating defenders are the ones who follow the game pretty well. Nonchalant fans are the ones who are watching the ball the whole time. 

DISCLAIMER: I am not a doctor, nor do I claim any sort of medical expertise. If you are experiencing discomfort beyond normal soreness, I would recommend seeing a competent doctor. I merely intend to impart my personal insights and experience. I'm not sure if I understand "Where is the red spoted zone", but the picture you provided is pointing to the sartorius (the upper line) as well as the quadricep ("quad" - the lower line). If both of these are hurting it's probably two separate issues that could've been caused by any number of things. The sartorius connects the interior knee to the anterior (outside) hip. If you're consistently getting problems with this, your spine could be out of alignment which is causing your hip to pull in an unnatural direction. As stated before, I would suggest seeing a competent chiropractor/sports medicine doctor. I consider myself to be an above-average runner, but I've never run the 15-20k/day for 6 days/week as you mentioned. Your body needs rest and time to recover. If you don't let your muscles recover, after time they become stressed and incredibly susceptible to increased injury (especially when there might be an existing injury that's been neglected). This article talks about the necessities of recovery and how it might vary from person to person. It might give you a better idea of how to maximize your recovery and workouts. My suggestion: see a doctor. Determine what the issue is, then when you've fixed it, you can ask for better help about how to avoid it.