Well you can look on the Amnesty International web site, I found a description page there on Prisoners of Conscience that links to individuals. As to individual lists you can across one at Wikipedia but I also found at least one on their site for Cuba that lists many people. You can probably find others, though I didn't do an indepth look on the site. As to a full list, this news story from The Nation notes that 

The original source is from the California Department of Conservation, learn something new every day.. 

You can read more on them here: Chinese Railroad Workers - American Experience There were indeed construction companies that also hired workers, which were hard to find as Irish workers at the time were becoming in short supply as noted above. What aided the railroads in the late 1800's was the ending of the Civil War, where suddenly many soldiers were de-enlisted and needed to find work. Many shifted west and took on the labor for building the railroads from the mid-west towards the west coast. There were ads placed in papers to bring the Irish towards the mid-west both for settlement and labor, they did build many of the railroads East of the Mississippi, an interesting overview of Irish immigration and this is in this article on the Molly Maguires. I know I have more at home or somewhere, I'll add later when I get a chance. 

In my Muslim History class some of this went back to both Arabic culture around the time of Mohammed (the spelling I will use) and his numerous wives, basically taking from his example as The Prophet whatever he did was eventually discussed and passed down in religious law over time. Although changes were made basically looking at his example the Islamic Jurists issued opinions and edicts for centuries about every aspect of life and culture. From what we studied at the time there was not much change on this - the number of wives was small since my teach joked, only older men would afford multiple wives but they didn't have the energy for them. Although it is rare for many Muslim men to have multiple wives, mostly you will see them only with the wealthy families in the oil-rich countries in the Middle East and even then you might not have someone with 4. As to the countries many of them have changed in the past 100 years. From the Status of Women in Islam 

Without that industrial infrastructure you could not have the manufacturing take off that the country had, in my opinion. Again the economic system plays a very important role, Capitalist markets on Taiwan allowed it to grow and become a manufacturing/exporter with a cheap, educated labor pool. Since many of these reforms, or a cheap manufacturing workforce, never took place on the Mainland until Deng Xiaoping began reforms that set the stage for the China we have today. As noted on Suite 101's Chinese History page Deng began reforms in 1978 called the 

Pretty much correct Wladmir, this article shows the growth over time, but it was all due to the Permanent Apportionment Act of 1929: $URL$ As noted here: $URL$ this came down to a fight after the 1920 Census, where apportionment did not happen, so it was mandated to be at the current level which was 435 at the time. 

The problem you have with such a journey, at the time, is there is no direct way to travel between the two. From most texts I have read about shipping to Philadelphia entry is only through the Delaware River that makes up the border of New Jersey and Delaware. When reading about Howe's exit from Philadelphia this is prominent as the Colonials were attempting to blockade the river with ships. To get from Boston you would need to go down the coast and then travel up the Delaware River. With that in mind I looked at first to see if there was anything that showed how fast ships could travel at the time. I did find a site asking such a question a few years ago, on the American Patriot blogspot where they extrapolated the speed of sailing ships. Which is really needed to answer this, see the site for how they determine that rate. The speed they come up with is 8.3 mph, I will use that to base my answer. If you look on Google maps you can get a straight line distance of roughly 310 miles, land based. That is by current roads, which is not what you would have even had at the time. There are numerous texts that note how long it takes to travel up and down the East Coast, no need to cover that. Using Google Maps you can drag the roadways along the coasts and get a closer approximation of 603 land miles (or 524.6 nautical miles) which gives a travel time of about 63 hours. As a check if you look up the Port Distances between Boston and Philadelphia you get 535 nautical miles, which is very similar to the Google Map conversion I just did. So, if the trip was a straight shot, without stopping (which I highly doubt) you would be looking at 63 hours/ 2.5 days of travel time to get from Boston to Philadelphia. As noted below this is not how you would travel, pulling into ports to stop, avoid storms, or trade along the way would definitely increase your travel time. 

In a recent Medieval History class my professor made a statement that Theodoric the Great after he signed up with Byzantines was killed on the orders of Justinian I so the Byzantines could take over Italy. With Theodoric removing Odoacer, with the initial blessing of Zeno it seems that maybe he outlived his usefulness, especially if Theodoric was an Arianist. This supposedly happened in Ravenna, or there abouts. I haven't found much on this, or on Theodoric's death (other than he died on Aug 26, 526). Did Justinian I have Theodoric killed at Ravenna? I don't think it was Justinian I himself, since I can't find anything that says he ever vistied Ravenna but it may have been done on his orders. Anyone have any primary sources that might note where Theodoric died and how he met his end? 

From my readings I know John Hancock did sign one of the published copies later, and being the first his was more prominent - and this size difference may be due to the fact it was printed rather than signed. Some of the other signatures seem grouped such that they might have been signed at different times as well, how were the signatures added to the Declaration and was the printing process involved in their differences and groupings? Edit** Some additional information on the Legends that have sprung up around John Hancock's signature 

I was reading an article on the Vasa the ship built under command of King Gustav Adolf, the ship sank during its launch on August 10, 1628. Part if the article mentions that the ship was somehow unbalanced and the idea proposed is that it was built with two different philosophies. One of which is the English/Mediterranean version which supposedly were built around frames with well structured and precise measurements for the planking, the other half of the ship was supposedly done by the Dutch method which just built the ships quickly from the bottom up. I can kind of understand the Dutch version, at least from a land perspective where like a house you can craft something from the bottom up and use what you have; which is the suggestion of the Dutch method. But what would be the origin of the English method which obviously meant a more involved process with craftsmen and some serious education to deal with the mathematics it would take to design the ship before it was built. In some ways I'd almost see this as going back to the early civilizations in Europe (like the Romans or the Greeks) with the knowledge passed down or evolving over time. Would this be the case or did this arise out of a later time? 

or if you go by Senator John Kerry, who helped support the amendment to remove the ANC from the FTO then it's back to the 1970's. 

States Electors aren't really bound to the popular vote, there have been cases where the popular vote did not decide the winner-take-all voting system we have; I note this because Main and Nebraska do have a different system as Keith notes. That system divides up the votes, and while this typically matches the Popular vote it has not always been so. I'm not clear if you are asking about specific states, or in general for the elections where the national popular vote did not match the Electoral College - which gave the election to someone else. There are not really that many cases of this: