Buddhism continues to evolve even today. The spread of Dharma in the West has brought with it changes to meet the unique challenges of the West. For example many modern Zen roshis in the US have dispensed with their robes except on ceremonial occasions, and wear every day lay person clothes. Chogyam Trungpa, the Tibetan master was a firm believer in such pragmatic change when he set up Naropa University and wore suits to lectures. 

All Buddhist traditions including the now extinct ones derived their rules from the original Prātimokṣa (path to liberation). 

There are several ways to describe enlightenment [SN 35.204] - one can describe it as a lack of need for external entertainment, but there are other descriptions. I'll offer one more here. Enlightenment as an energy conservation model of the central nervous system. All actions are born out of some root emotion, even so called neutral actions. Let's examine some principal emotions in ascending order of fuel efficiency. At the least fuel efficient and even dangerous end, there are anger and fear. Anger - this is perhaps the most energetic of emotions, but also the least fuel efficient - it offers a sudden burst of energy but can deplete one's vital energy reserve (some systems call it qi or prana) rather quickly. As an example, notice that in boxing matches, and 100m sprints, the athletes typically produce a lot of energy through anger and bravado, and one even notices this in their pre-game interviews. However they cannot sustain this energy for very long, and grow tired quickly, thus these events are short and furious. At the opposite end, marathon runners are generally mild mannered and don't carry the same kind of hatred towards the opponent - an angry and furious marathoner will find it hard to even complete the event. Fear is similar to anger, and anger is in fact derived from fear, but it doesn't end when energy runs out. One can be too tired to be angry, but one is never too tired to be afraid, and this leads to depression where the sufferer totally lacks any energy. An angry person who grows tired will sustain that anger as fear. At the most efficient end there are the peaceful emotions of compassion, loving kindness, sympathetic joy and equanimity. One can sustain compassion for a long while (even indefinitely) provided one doesn't let other emotions like despair eat into the energy body. There is a psychological concept of compassion fatigue, but this isn't pure compassion, it is compassion tinged with fear. The fear depletes energy reserves and even compassion becomes impossible. This is why there are records of field surgeons in WW2 committing suicide after saving hundreds of lives. Thus enlightenment is about having maximum energy in the CNS through the wise use of highly efficient emotional states. The unenlightened who are unwise in their use of emotions will need the use of CNS stimulants to sustain their energy levels. Caffeine is the most common, anti-depressants and pharma drugs are in the middle, and at the extreme end there are psychotropics like Cocaine and other drugs. 

The three poisons (Sanskrit: triviṣa; Tibetan: dug gsum) or the three unwholesome roots (Sanskrit: akuśala-mūla; Pāli: akusala-mūla), in Buddhism, refer to the three root kleshas of ignorance, attachment, and aversion. These three poisons are considered to be the cause of suffering (Sanskrit: dukkha). Source: Three poisons (Buddhism) - Wikipedia They are commonly circumvented by contemplating on the three characteristics or marks of all existence - anicca, anatta and dukkha. See this talk in the Burmese vipassana tradition. See also, kleshas 

King Ashoka had to feel and see the blood and gore of the Kalinga war first hand to change his views on violence - he was already a Buddhist or exposed to Buddhist views on violence, but the non-violent message didn't penetrate his being until he got a maximum dose of violence. (source) 

Prevention is better than cure. It is easiest to tackle the mental pollution of unwholesome acts before it has happened - i.e. at the stage that desire is born. For the same reason, help groups like Alchoholics Anonymous say "Say no to the first drink" - call a sponsor or friend and get over the urge. Suicide hotlines work the same way - they would like us to call at the very first thought of self harm, and not when we are standing on the ledge. Likewise, it is more effective to walk away or keep silent when we feel angry, than calm down after a long rant. Preventing unwholesome desires from arising, or tackling them as soon as they have arisen with right contemplation is better than recovering from the addiction. Samsara is a greater addiction than any drug or alcohol. 

I've heard Mithrigala Nissarana Vanaya is a good place. I don't know if they do long retreats but most monasteries will accommodate the sincere aspirants. In Burma, I've personally hoped to someday spend a long retreat at Panditarama (Vipassana) and/or Pa Auk (Samatha). In Thailand I've considered Wat Chom Tong near Chiang Mai. There's also the Panditarama center in Nepal. The Goenka centers are located around the world, as well as in the above countries, but they are aplenty in India, including at Bodh Gaya. They do 45-60 day retreats, but one needs to work up to it over a few years since they require one to have graduated several preparatory retreats. The above are all Theravada retreats. If one is interested in the Mahayana tradition I would unhesitatingly recommend Plum Village in France. 

(source) Then there is of course the position that the very idea of a Bodhisattva way of life isn't a purely Mahayana experiment. 

The legend of the Buddha shows that Siddhartha, before he became the Buddha viewed his body as a defilement, hunger as a prison sentence that kept him trapped in this world, and practiced severe starvation penance. He couldn't sadly make meaningful spiritual progress towards Buddhahood with this belief system. When he learned to respect his human condition and eat food, his spiritual progress rapidly advanced. By observing the beauty of nature interacting with our body, in a vegan diet, in asanas, in wild natural situations where our body helps us survive, we can practice a form of Vipassana or deep insight. We see that there is no independent existence, that all beings are interdependent. We must see that the idea of "I" is a compounded reality. The "I" who is well rested, eating healthy and exercising is very different from the "I" who is sleep deprived, intoxicated and eating junk food. Thus we are our good or bad habits, we are nothing more than our thoughts, actions and speech in this present moment. By observing our body in sickness and health, in youth and old age we see the impermanence of reality. Thus, respecting the body can lead to insight, but there is a danger that it can also lead to hubris and pride. If we spend a lot of time in front of the mirror basking in narcissism, that's dangerous :-) We must learn not to fear the environment. We cannot control all aspects of our life. Eating healthy vegan food is good, but if we can't find good food one day, and we must eat something, we must learn to make do with whatever is available with no regret or sadness. The Buddha was often offered fancy meals in palaces when Kings and rich men invited him and his followers for lunch. No matter how good the hospitality, he didn't linger on in the palaces even though he could have. He kept wandering into forests and little villages, making no allowance for comfort. So one day he would eat in the palace, the next day he would be in the forest and drinking muddy water and eating grass to survive, but he wouldn't make a face or miss for one moment yesterday's lunch in the palace. He never recommends poisoning the body by eating poisonous mushrooms or berries, so some care must be taken, but not so much that we fall prey to comforts and luxuries. On his last meal, he knew the food he was being offered was dangerous (traditions do not agree on whether it was rotten pork or mushrooms or something else). In any case he knew it was toxic, so he asked his followers to not eat the food, and have the rest of the food buried. However, he ate the meal with the same beatific smile, and passed away with no regret about losing his body. That is the kind of wisdom and detachment we must follow. Update: This health update from Plum Village, about the recovery of Buddhist teacher, Ven. Thich Nhat Hanh or Thây from a life threatening stroke is a good teaching on enjoying the wonderful joy of being, whatever one's condition.