Center of the pitch is not of importance, as both batsmen have crossed each other so non-striker will take strike for this particular case provided that the fair catch is not taken before they crossed each other. 

Summarizing, open pattern generates more spin than the closed pattern but even for the same pattern spin produce will differ because of tension of strings. Considering both 16 x 18 and 16 x 19 have same tension there will be little variation on produce spin. At last there will not be significant difference between these two rackets performance wise considering both have same tension. It will ultimately depend on choice of a player, which one he feels comfortable with. But I couldn't find something suggesting 16 x 19 being popular than 16 x 18 pattern racket. 

Instances that I could find where batsman was not given out due to lack of appeal are as follows: 1. Strauss edged it twice but Indians didn't appeal! 

This manchestereveningnews article states that Valencia will not serve a suspension for his red card. With the help of same article, Wayne Rooney and Paul Scholes served three-match ban for being sent off in a pre-season tournament in Amsterdam 3-1 win over FC Porto. [Source] 

After a long search finally found it. Statsbomb Article clearly explain the extra time minute percentage in European 5 top leagues. These two picture obtained from Statsbomb website clearly shows the percentage of time added. 

In short, there being no rule on this, currently available helmets not providing significant safety improvements and looks also not well received in Baseball community, is the main reason pitcher not wearing a helmet. But it just a matter of time before they will start wearing improved one. 

Other such incidents: mirror.co.uk, bleacherreport.com, bbc.com From football-stadiums.co.uk article, 

Rackets with more vertical and horizontal strings – e.g. 18 x 20 – are described as having a “dense or closed” pattern, while rackets with less vertical and horizontal strings – e.g. 16 x 18, 16 x 19 – are considered to have an “open” pattern. All these string patterns are most common. As per your question, 16 x 18 and 16 x 19 can be considered as open pattern one and has a difference of one string only. How open pattern affect on-court performance:Source 

Who are the voting journalists and which countries are they from? Respected football journalists predominantly from France, England, Spain, Germany and France Football media outlets are the ones to take part in voting process. Whether the system is based on one vote per journalist, or are the votes weighted in any way? Jurors will pick their top players with different points per their order of selection (See rules above), which will be totaled to decide the eventual winner. For 2017 Ballon d'Or Cristiano won with 946 points with 176 jurors voting. See: The complete classification of the Ballon d'Or 2017 

Aerodynamics of Cricket Ball Swing DOI: 10.13140/RG.2.1.1676.7523 Vaibhav Ghiya The science of swing bowling RABINDRA MEHTA, espncricinfo.com What is reverse-swing, how to bowl reverse-swing and how to bat against reverse-swing?, indianexpress.com Swing and seam bowling, bbc.co.uk Reverse swing or super swing?, espncricinfo.com The Science Of Swing: How Do Bowlers Swing the Ball In Mid-Air?, scienceabc.com Reverse swing, wikipedia 

I know if a fielder is absent for a period of more than 15 minutes, the current Law restricts when he may come on to bowl when he returns to the field of play. But does the Law mention anything about waiting time before batting if fielder has missed the whole of his side’s fielding session. If there is no Law for this situation, how do they deal with it? 

However for the mention case, where Jack Hendry of Dundee tackles his own team-mate Cammy Kerr in a match against Rangers which they lost 4-1, I could not find anything that happened after the incident but I'm sure that Jack did not get booked. 

Steve Young played 17 seasons (15 in the NFL, 2 in the USFL). Sources: pro-football-reference, britannica, nfl.com, cbsnews, profootballhof, totalfootballstats, wbur.org IMO, he intended to say "I played almost 18 seasons." instead of "I played 18 seasons." in that interview. Even if he have calculated his NCAA career that would make it 19 different year. 

That means prize money is not decided yet for Australian Open, which will be done through Prize Money Formula Rule (see: WTA 2018 rulebook page 167 for more information). 

Again, if we look at last few injuries these two equipment also wouldn't have protected much. Even a batting helmet might not prevent those injuries. Source At last from article of Time Keeping Score: Baseball’s medical director, Dr. Gary Green — a physician and professor of sports medicine at UCLA. 

Watch this youtube video. Sorry for the title. 6. Murali Vijay against Australia 4th Test, Australia tour of India 

If a bowler takes last two wickets in one match and in the next match he takes a wicket in the first ball of his very first over, it will not be considered as a Hat-trick. From cricket.com.au article "Three in three balls - but no hat-trick": 

So, weight limit for darts is 50 grams. You can find about dart information of a player using dartsdatabase.co.uk. From perfectdartsforum post "Average Dart Weight of the Top 32 PDC Players" average was found to be 22.09 grams. (might have changed so use dartsdatabase.co.uk) 

Which shows that this rule is specific to different competitions. So, substitutes may warm up along the side of the pitch as per the regulation of a competitions. 

This means forgoted Red card can be given, only if play hasn't restarted or the referee hasn't signalled the end of the first or second half (including extra time) and left the field of play or terminated the match. And from FAQ of IFAB: 

TL;DR, College men's basketball were played in four 10-minute quarters between 1951-52 and 1954-55 seasons and later it changed back to being played in two 20-minute halves. 

But When V8 Supercar driver David Reynolds did a shoey after winning the second Saturday race at Darwin’s Hidden Valley later that year, it got mainstreamed (at least in Australia). 

[Note: These abandoned matches examples are not because of red card limit] Result after abandoned match depends on competition, Football League decided abandoned match of Blackpool v Huddersfield Town as draw whereas there are many cases of match being decided as 3-0. Few examples of such are, 

So, when a kid tried to grab the ball inside the ground but if it is confirmed that the ball did not hit him that is not to be considered as a boundary. However again if it is certain that the ball did hit something and jumped so depending on what was decided before game (whether that obstacle within the field of play is to be regarded as a boundary or not or if it was discarded piece of clothing, equipment or any other object of a fielder which made contact with the ball) umpire has to give decisions based on either [law 19.2.7] or [law 28.2.3]. However, if above things were not certain then from, 

FC Barcelona is the European football team that has the longest consecutive participation streak of 60 (1955/58-2017/18) and counting in UEFA club competitions. Data from the linked websiteRec.Sport.Soccer Statistics Foundation upto season 2015/16: 

Albania were awarded 3-0 win after Serbia match abandoned over drone stunt Malmo awarded 3-0 win in abandoned Gothenburg match Siġġiewi FC a 3-0 win after finding St George’s FC guilty of causing the abandonment of the BOV Second Division match 

How do bowlers actually get the ball to reverse? There is nothing much to it, a bowler bowling outswingers will still have the seam pointed towards the slips, but with the rough side facing the batsman, instead of the smooth for conventional swing, the ball will now behave like an inswinger and swing into the batsman. So, if the contrast in surface roughness on the two sides of a ball is successfully created and maintained, just by keeping the rough side of the ball on the off-side, the shiny side on leg-side bowler can obtain reverse swing. The grip, raised seam of the cricket ball, wear and tear on the ball, speed of the ball bowled (above ~80mph) and fast movement of the body (bowler’s action) is key to get the ball to reverse. 

Yes, MlS teams can not make any appeal once their upper limit for appeals expires. From backlinesoccer.com article, 

No , the athletes doesn't have to provide or supply their own helmets. Universities also don't have to buy new helmets all the time and may paint over helmets they already have. And for those who have to buy new one collects money by reselling used one to donors. Not sure about choosing the helmet, many article's on NFL mention player can choose their helmet but found nothing about NCAA. University will buy the helmet and provide it to the athletes. Source: CBS SPORTS 

Before the change of law procedures of Law 42.18 Players’ conduct would be followed in this situation. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- This case is now covered by the new code of laws NEW CODE OF LAWS - OCTOBER 2017, thanks to @gout for looking into this and reminding me in comment. Law 25.7 Restriction on the striker’s runner states: 

This law will now restrict the movement of runner for injured striker before he strikes the ball. This new set of laws with few other that have been changed will take effect around the world from 1 October 2017. 

Other article: cs.uml.edu From IAAF Scoring Tables of Athletics for Indoor and Outdoor may be significant to question: 

If you are playing T20 cricket law 41.2 Restrictions on the placement of fieldsmen from Standard Twenty20 International Match Playing Conditions – 2016-17 will be applied. 

Which clearly shows different method yields different club value. From "What is the optimal method to value a football club?" by Tom Markham. Traditional corporate valuation techniques are Market capitalisation, Discounted Cash flow (DCF) models, Bankruptcy valuation. And methodologies used within the football sector to ascertain a club’s worth are Revenue multiples approach, Forbes valuation, Broker valuation and Multivariate model for EPL club valuation. At last, valuations are done with different set of data and owner may not pay the same amount as valuation. Forbes valuation hasn't been accurate to predict the sales of team i.e; Real Madrid valuation of USD 3.65 Billion doesn't mean that cost of buying Real is 3.65 Billion. 

Another explanation: Air passing over a cricket ball creates turbulence, and two kinds of swing result from the ball responding to surface turbulence in opposite ways. In conventional swing, the ball is believed to move towards the side of greater turbulence, while in 'reverse' swing it goes the other way, away from the turbulence, and hence the term. Differential turbulence between the ball's two halves can be created either by angling the seam (as in new-ball or conventional swing), or by allowing one half to scuff up through wear and tear while the other half is kept obsessively polished and smooth (as in reverse swing). If there is a pressure difference between the two sides of the ball a side force or swing will be generated. To understand this explanation read this article written by Rabindra Mehta, a Sports Aerodynamics Consultant and NASA Scientist based in California. Also watch this youtube video. 

As a matter of fact there is time limit to apply for review. Standard One-day international match playing conditions APPENDIX 7: Decision Review System (DRS) - Playing Conditions states 

For full list of client: (Source) Baseball Erick Aybar, Atlanta Braves Robinson Canó, Seattle Mariners Rusney Castillo, Boston Red Sox Yoenis Céspedes, New York Mets D. J. Peterson, Seattle Mariners Dustin Peterson, Atlanta Braves CC Sabathia, New York Yankees Braden Shipley, Arizona Diamondbacks American Football Dez Bryant, Dallas Cowboys Victor Cruz, Chicago Bears Todd Gurley, Los Angeles Rams C. J. Prosise, Seattle Seahawks Geno Smith, New York Giants Ronnie Stanley, Baltimore Ravens Jaelen Strong, Houston Texans Ndamukong Suh, Miami Dolphins Leonard Fournette, Jacksonville Jaguars Basketball Willie Cauley-Stein, Sacramento Kings Wilson Chandler, Denver Nuggets Skylar Diggins, Dallas Wings Kevin Durant, Golden State Warriors Henry Ellenson, Detroit Pistons Michael Gbinije, Detroit Pistons Caris LeVert, Brooklyn Nets Justise Winslow, Miami Heat James Young, Boston Celtics Matt Barnes, Golden State Warriors Rudy Gay, Sacramento Kings Ty Lawson, Sacramento Kings Association football Jérôme Boateng, FC Bayern Munich Boxing Miguel Cotto Andre Ward Luis Arias Sonny Fredrickson Tyler McCreary Retail Malcolm Anderson, AT&T 

It would have been better if there was predetermined criteria to select best loser. As there is no indication of that criteria, selecting best loser can be done in following ways: 

The answer I have given is mostly based on Wimbledon grass court but should be same for other court. 

There are not many scientific studies regarding shaving legs and swimming performance but the claim "Shaving reduces drag and thus makes you faster" is supported by study of Sharp & Costill (1989) published in Medicine and Science in Sport and Exercise, however criticism of that study is small sample size, equating passive and active drag, etc.. 

I searched for Law to deal with the situation where the bowler deliberately pauses or delays while bowling but found nothing. Is there a law that I did not found, if there isn't then what does umpire do in this situation? I am asking for situation when bowler may use this tactic to distract the batsman. 

So it is clear that 5 reviews against Moeen Ali is the highest against a player in an innings during a test match until now. So no player has survived more player reviews. And from same article: 

Assuming you are asking about head coach as management team of football club can have other coaches like fitness coach, goalkeeper coach and like. See: Chelsea FC management team Responsibilities of a head coach in a professional football club usually include (but are not limited to) the following: 

IAAF Scoring Tables for combined events have formula. IAAF Scoring Tables for Combined Events Pdf file contains formulae (equations) to calculate the point score (P) For a given performance. 

And this article from Mirror states, Messi, 29, was furious with official Dewson Silva during the first half of the 1-0 victory, and was seen on camera verbally abusing Silva, reportedly declaring: (contains foul language) 

(The situation explain in this answer assumes action against a teammate which involve misconduct and wouldn't be only foul. See this answer) Can football players be penalised for an action against a teammate that is normally a foul if done to the opponent? (Answer is no, for an action against a teammate that is normally a foul if done to the opponent.) 

Instances that I could find, where the batsman chose to walk, after realising that they have nicked the ball, without any appeal from the fielding side (at least not until they choose to walk out) are Kumar Sangakkara against England (not sure which match) and Hashim Amla for KXIP against RCB. 

Since I don't have referee's match report this is not a complete answer. Clearly Ramos shot was on target but was given as Merten's own goal, the most likely case was that referee interpreted that as an own goal. This old FIFA article states: