Radio astronomy This could be a really excellent opportunity to explore what it would be like if astronomy were discovered at a level of technological development comparable to that of the early 1900s. History could be littered with the corpses of the cooky astronomers (think a mathematician/cosmologist who everyone treated like an insane alchemist), people who inferred the existence of the wider universe from the cycle of days and the tides (if there's a moon or moons). The new radio astronomers would probably be ridiculed for outrageous claims about things nobody can see, only to have the evidence slowly mount that there's a lot going on up there. 

Some ancient civilizations used elephants like Cartago. If there had not been horses, Cartago would have extended the use of North African Elephants to others areas or countries like the Roman Empire. Elephants may be only used for war because the maintain of one of them may be very expensive for a regular farmer. In medieval age, they may easily grind hundred of soldiers. And after the discover of powder, elephants may have a canyon on theirs backs. More information here 

Fences provide part of an answer--they can keep out all the land predators. That reduces the problem to the fliers. Fliers usually come in two varieties: Raptors (day hunters) and owls (night hunters). If the monsters do not include both classes you have a safe time behind your fence. If not: A bird big enough to threaten a human is not going to be a highly maneuverable flier. Put posts all over your farmland. Alternately: Break it up with barriers of some kind. Deny the birds the takeoff distance they need. Also, do they recognize the threat posed by a bow? If so, they'll stay far away from any party with a few armed guards. 

The spell should poison human food as bread or baked rice. Also, it could affect to drinks like wine or beer. Animals will not be affected as they do not eat this kind of food (maybe some unfortunate dogs). 

People should live in boats. When they want to move to another place, they only have to built a temporally port in the desired place until they decide to move again. For that reason, cities in Szerika may be built in a lake areas or in the coast. 

It's not possible. Lets suppose you have a magical air supply and a magical perfect insulator and you're behind something sufficient to protect you from the direct physical impact. (The latter is actually feasible--blast yourself a crater--it won't stop something dropping on you but it will channel most of it past.) For a typical adult male I find a survival time of about half an hour before your own body heat kills you. Women have an even shorter survival time because they're smaller. (And note that I'm using just the basal metabolism. In practice you're going to have been exerting yourself, the time is even shorter.) Now, for how to survive: You're a long way from the source of the eruption, the pyroclastic flow isn't going to be all that thick. You're going to need a survival vehicle that you take along if you're going too far from the shelters. Hop in, when the flow gets close you push the button and some solid rocket boosters kick you up a few miles. (You'll need an oxygen mask.) Once the boosters drop off you're left with a paramotor, deploy the chute at the top of your trajectory and fly away--the deadly flow is below you and you're going to be able to stay up a long time. 

Ninja is perfect for low density post-apocalyptic urban warfare. Scouts are essential. Stealth and speed allow you to bring something unexpected to every encounter and defending against stealth adds an interesting dimension. I might not call them ninjas though, ninjas were invisible because they were just like everyone else. They blended in with the normal people. Nobody is normal in your new world. 

The problem with freezing is that tice crystals form in the blood and rupture cell walls. Removing the blood prevents this problem. Freezing the body slows the metabolic processes almost to a stop and frozen cells kind of get surspended. Replacing cryofluid with blood takes time, and I guess you probably want to warm up rather slowly. (I am not a mad scientist but if you warm things up rapidly they can heat unevenly and rupture) If you want to revive quickly, freezing is probably out. I guess you could invent a substance which prevented ice crystals from forming, this would remove the need for the transfusion, but raising the body temperature from way below freezing to body temperature and restarting metabolic processes is going to take some time. Freezing mimics time slowdown by reducing molecular motion, is there some way to fake that? ( I mean unless you just want to posit time stasis pods). Ok this is going to be a long trip, so stay with me. Freezing slows the vibration of molecules, nothing moving means metabolic process just kind of pause. No glucose is consumed, no oxygen is required. Freezing is a faked time out. But heat is just the vibration of molecules. Vibration can be countered by an opposite vibration (noise canceling headphones work this way). Each substance has a different vibrational frequency (this is why earthquakes can cause the tops of buildings to explode --match the structure's vibrational frequency and the energy builds and builds). So, scan the body, you need to invent a scanner, something that passes through normal matter almost effortlessly, the key being almost. The interference pattern for each type of molecule will be different. A supercomputer then needs to map the body and calculate the opposite vibrational frequency at every point. The stasis pod protects an opposite vibrational frequency for every part of the body, trillions of different beams. (You also need to invent the beam transmitter which can project the beam to precisely the right point --maybe two beams that only cause an effect when they meet) Molecular activity ceases instantly. Also can be switched off instantly. BAM, instant cruogenic sleep and wake cycles. 

I think a lot of people missed an important part of the question: The issue needs to persist for centuries. Nothing nuclear meets this criteria. Despite the anti-nuke hysteria it's not going to be dangerous that long even if you turn every bit of mined fissionables into dirty weapons. Biologicals might work but you need something that will persist harmlessly in some host and yet kill humans. That's probably beyond current tech to develop. Blasting the ozone layer won't persist long enough. I do see one approach that would work but it would be awfully slow. Bring down enough comets. Turn the Earth into a waterworld. 

So lets work on the Cost of launch. My favorite quote from one of the scrappy new rocketry pioneers was: 

My mother knew she had a terminal prognosis and a projected lifespan measured in months if not weeks, but of course the question wasn't: 

If you look like a sex kitten I'll underestimate you giving you the chance to tear my throat out. If you're hot a lot of the blood rushes out of my thinking equipment into... other equipment. Rendering me stupid and predictable. If I'm looking at your tits I'm not looking at the point of your sword, allowing you to thrust said point though my eye. As I'm winding up for the killing strike I might take a moment to peek up your skirt granting you the half second you need to put an armored boot on my throat. (which is also kinda hot, by the way) Oh and I think the Kurds are sending women into combat because ISIS thinks if you get killed by a woman you don't go to whatever magical warrior heaven they all want. Don't quote me on that, I heard it on the internet. These are all stupid reasons though. You gotta cover up or people will poke holes in your skin. 

This king is not the governor of his kingdom. I recommend that king to delegate the management of its kingdom to a Favorite as some kings did in the 16th and 17th century. 

War will be like modern warfare with planes and tanks. Powerful kingdoms may have an army composed of dozens of dragons. Land units will be only used for occupying cities once they have been attacked by dragons. Dragon riders look like pilots in the world wars: svelte and without vision problems. The armor is not important as fire will kill them. They may use bows to shoot accurately in the weak parts of enemy dragons or even its rider. However, medieval war values like honor do not fit with this kind of combat. There is no place for heroes, history will only remember the great strategists. Although some dragon rider may become famous as Manfred von Richthofen did in the first world war. Main fortifications should be dug in mountains as they offers more protections against air attacks, so becoming bunkers, and avoiding wooden buildings. 

Do you ever open the fridge and look around, close it and then immediately forget what you saw? The mind tricks itself all the time. I have this amazing ability to forget names. It's like magic. I've met people who I have to immediately ask to repeat their names because there's something in my brain that just instantly drops it. It's hilarious when I drop it a second time even though I'm ready and trying really hard. It probably has to do with attention limits and some sort of weird social thing I'm doing when I first meet people. An illusionist practices this technique to exclude things from your attention (look over here while I hide the ball). I can imagine someone with the natural ability to apply a face forgetting nudge. Someone with the natural talent might not even be able to explain how it works. It could even lead to interesting situations where it doesn't work perfectly on everyone, or came into play by accident.