By definition, an argument is valid if the premises and our accepted working of logical rules create a situation such that if all of the premises are true, then the conclusion cannot be false. From the detail in your question I assume you are aware of this much. Having redundant premises is not a problem. For example, I could make a simple argument: 

Firstly, I suggest that you make sure that we're talking about formal philosophy and not 'formal logic', 'formalism' or other areas of philosophy that might use the term in their title, as these likely have much more specific meanings. As far as I know, there is no real definition for what formal philosophy is. In my experience, most people and writers seem to use it as a distinction between philosophy that adheres to certain standards of rigour and explanatory completeness rather than simply asking questions and proposing ideas that seem relevant to a given philosophical concept. Analytic philosophy tries to adhere to this for the most part. Depending on the context, it might also refer to the way that philosophy is taught or learned - e.g. studying at a university under a philosophy professor might be called "studying philosophy in a formal way", etc., as opposed to, say, reading a few books and asking/answering questions on the internet - this might be called "informally studying philosophy" (though I am not saying that one is necessarily better than the other). 

To be able to answer the question, I have to start by defining what "free-will" is. My definition is: the freedom to change(or not), select(or not), any and all decisions. Without free-will, the ability to "change your mind" would not be possible. So, to answer your question, what free-will gives someone, is the ability to change their mind. 

The answer is obvious. The scientific mind has been advancing in/with time, and as it has advanced, it has had tremendous "side effects" on society (both good and bad). All you have to do, is study the history of science and or scientists. Copernicus, Galileo, Newton, Einstein, etc.. Advances in math, physics, cosmology, computers, communications, nuclear power, etc.. 

There was no confusion. It derives from the influence from the Old Testament Law - "an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth." Although this was modified by the New Testament, "if someone slaps your left cheek, put your right cheek", and "love your enemy," it has taken time for some of this attitude to get into our judicial system. Complying with the New Testament "mandate" requires the abolishing of capital punishment, but because a part of society feels it is a violence deterrent, it is retained. If we are interested in teaching our children that capital punishment is wrong, we as individuals, need to be satisfied with life imprisonment as the maximum "punishment." 

This question is difficult to answer because the idea of a "philosophical question" is very vague. The History of Philosophy Without Any Gaps podcast begins with Thales of Miletus (7th Century BCE), and a number of sources list him as the first identifiable philosopher in the Western tradition. However in a more general sense you would also be able to argue that philosophy has existed almost as long as society - any parent who has had to explain to their questioning child why it is important to treat other people well, for example, could be said to be "doing philosophy" in a broad sense. 

Now if you put these two ideas together and assert as your antecedent the assertion that W ∧ X ∧ Y, and make your consequent C. That is, 

Yes. In particular, the philosophy of the Australian moral philosopher Peter Singer takes this point of view in some cases. He does not argue that, for example, any given pidgeon has a higher 'value' than all human beings but instead that there is a sliding scale where it is possible in some cases for animals to have more worth than humans (essentially that there is nothing inherent in humans that makes us superior). This has lead to much controversy - Following this principle there may be cases where you should prioritize saving a very gifted chimpanzee from a burning house rather than a heavily disabled human, and this has been interpreted by some people as a complete devaluation (I can't think of a better word right now) of disabled people in general. EDIT: It really depends on what problems you are trying to cover, but if the above seems relevant to your interest then you might want to take a further look into the areas of (moral) utilitarianism, bioethics and discussions on the intrinsic value of animals/people. 

There are implications in your 1st statement that make it false! The only way to make it true, would be if all and only green frogs are poisonous. Then the second statement, poisonous only if green, would be true. An example of this would be if you put green poisonous frogs in a room, together with non-poisonous purple, orange, yellow, etc. frogs. Under these conditions, both statements: if green, then poisonous and poisonous only if green, would be true! 

They are called, statements accepted "on faith," "on trust," or "with reservations." An example of this, is the statement - good people go to heaven. The credibility of this statement depends more on the credibility of (trust on) the person making it, than on the statement itself. With respect to software programs/functions in particular, this is an entirely different thing. A program is made by a person(s), so whether a program will "always" work, under "all possible" conditions, is a function of how thoroughly the programmer covered all such error possibilities and how thoroughly the test department did their job. Obviously, the more thorough these activities were done, the less likely the program will fail. However, the high probability of "human errors" makes it impossible to guarantee that any particular program (or function) will always work under all conditions! Therefore, the statement "this function is error free," needs to be preceded by "so far, this...", to make it a "sensible" statement (a statement that makes sense). 

By the definition of validity, the conclusion must be true if all of the statements in the argument are true. In this case, we don't really care about the situations where W, X, or Y are not true - we can still call the argument valid. Consider the truth-table for a conditional. From this, we can see that any conditional statement is true except in the case where the antecedent (the part that follows 'if...') is true and the consequent (following 'then...') is false. 

Yes you will definitely be able to understand those texts, but that statement needs some qualification. Firstly, you need to understand that more of the work in reading texts is to do with how much mental work you put in to considering and challenging their ideas. Simply reading the text like a novel probably won't leave you too much more enlightened. This is much easier if the language of the work/translation you are reading is your first language, but of course that isn't 100% necessary. Secondly, you probably won't finish the text with quite the same depth of understanding of someone who has experience with other ideas that are related to the texts, (what the text is responding to and why, what common counter-arguments are, etc.). This is fine, and everyone starts out this way, but don't always expect to fully "get" a text the first time you read it (especially in the case of Nietzsche). Because of this, if you have a series of related texts I would normally suggest reading them in the order they were written unless you have a good reason to do otherwise. (EDIT: Something a lot of people do is to read the original text alongside an companion text that is meant to explain the ideas in a more plain-language manner, and I've heard a lot of people recommend it if you can find a decent companion text.) To answer your question at the end, Pythagoras was very influential but isn't necessary for any of the texts you listed, and Aristotle was Plato's student so Plato's ideas naturally wouldn't rely on that. 

Although I don't agree with Chomsky's arguments, I think I can clarify them. 1) Some people have used the results of some experiments to "prove" that we don't have free will. 2) the experiments show that prior to the time of making a decision, like grabbing a cup, there is activity in the motor areas of the brain a few milliseconds prior to making the decision to grab the cup. This is used as "evidence" that we don't have free will. 3) Chomsky thinks that the experiments only prove that decisions are made unconsciously, and since he agrees with that, then for him, the experiments prove nothing. This is his way of dismissing the results of the experiments. I find statements 2 & 3 false. Number 2 is false, because the decision to grab the cup started the activity in the motor areas of the brain in the interest of saving time in case of an affirmative decision. Number 3 is false, because Chomsky is confusing a reflex with a decision. I believe that decisions are made only when you are conscious. 

From the premise of the initial quote that the argument is valid there can be no case where you are posing the antecedent's statement (W ∧ X ∧ Y) as true and the consequent (C) false. Thus, it is a tautology as there is no case in which the statement itself is false. (Note that this necessitates that W,X,Y includes ALL premises of the argument we know to be valid, not just some subset of them.) 

In classical propositional logic, an argument is invalid iff. there is a situation in which the premises can be true and the conclusion false. So by that measure (assuming that you have premises that can possibly be all true at one time) your argument that concludes in a contradiction would be invalid. However, what is worth noting is that you didn't state was what kind of logic is being used to analyze this argument - Paraconsistent logics such as dialetheism accept that there can be true contradictions, which can throw a spanner in the works here. 

It all "boils down" to the definition of "exist"? From my perspective, if an object is not "detectable," directly or indirectly, by one or more of my 5 senses, it does not exist. Your thoughts do not exist to me unless you, some how, externalize them. 

The professor's statement is fairly accurate if you restrict physics to the "current known material universe. The current "real" universe is described as having 4 dimensions (3 spatial, 1 temporal). In contrast, with "pure" math, you can have an infinite number of universes, with an infinite number of dimensions - each! With the added advantage that one of these universes is the"real" universe that physics studies. It is also possible that what your professor was trying to tell you, was that majoring in math would give you a "broader" base than majoring in physics. With a math base, you could easily continue into chemistry, biology, engineering, or any other science. 

In order to come up with the "most useful" boundary on the definition of "thinking," a committee (as large as possible) should get together and 1)put forth their individual definitions of how "broad" the definition of "thinking" should be, and 2)obtain the best definition that includes as many of the definitions that are in "close" agreement with each other. In other words, the most useful boundary definition, is the one that is used the most, or by the largest group of people! 

Circular reasoning is generally used to refer to an argument (or part of one) where the conclusion is essentially one of the premises. In short, you could think of it as something like: , , ... , . Naturally this of often more subtle that the above line makes it look but the idea is the same - you're using the conclusion in a premise to prove the conclusion. A tautology is any argument where for any combination of truth values (true/false) assigned to the predicates within it, the logical flow of the argument is such that the conclusion will always turn out true. Part of the confusion between the two is that the term "tautology" is often used in everyday language to mean a statement of the kind . The reasoning for this, as far as I can tell, is to do with the fact that the statement cannot be false by the meaning of material implication (the problem is that a statement that is always true is somewhat different from an argument that always has a true conclusion). In this case, the 'tautology' is obviously circular, it's just not a Tautology in the way logicians use the term. 

To answer the questions, a distinction between Probability (a natural phenomena), and Probability Theory (a human invention/discovery), is necessary. As a natural phenomenon, Probability comes/existed way before the Scientific Method (before humans existed). The Probability Theory, on the other hand, is a "recent" human invention/discovery which helps humans understand probabilistic processes, in conjunction with the scientific method. Therefore, Probability Theory is a part/tool of the Scientific Method. 

There is no doubt that the "mental" affects the "physical"! I planed and built a tree-house for my grand children, and now a tree (a physical thing) has been affected by my plan (a mental process). However, non-mental processes (micro-organisms) can (and do) affect the physical, as well. 

The fallacy comes from using a true statement to give validity to an unrelated statement. Example: Had I not been born, I would not have married Alice (true statement), thus, it is my parents fault I married Alice (not true because I could have chosen to marry Peggy, or Rachel,or Sue, etc.). There is no legitimate connection between what I choose (or not) to do, and me being born! 

The question isn't particularly clear about what you mean by "what kind" of argument, however Modal Logic primarily deals with the possibility and necessity of statements like the one in the question. Probability is a different option that is used in various systems (such as multi-valued logics that assign each proposition a probability value such as 0.7, with computations from those). In modal logic, your argument would be written as follows: 

You are correct that the idea appears in Plato's Republic, though it may also appear elsewhere. I believe that section 521 is the reference you are looking for, though it may appear in other places in the text as well: 

Essentially, the main insight I would take from this passage is to realise that all arguments can be phrased as a conditional statement of the general form (if , then ). The fact that any logically valid argument forms a tautology when this is done is a result of this. 

This is perfectly valid (albeit trivial), and from that point of view there is nothing wrong with it. Introducing a premise that has nothing to do with the conclusion is not a sign of invalidity, but may be a sign that the argument has been lazily constructed (if the author does not realise that it is unrelated), that the argument has a secondary function other than proving the conclusion (an anecdote may contain evidence to a conclusion, but also contain irrelevant information to be entertaining at the same time), or because they are trying to underhandedly overcomplicate things or insert concepts that have no relevance in order to make the conclusion more palatable (see: politicians). None of this makes the argument invalid as far as logic goes. You could, however, make the point that because of this the person is arguing poorly (or at least sub-optimally), but the abstraction of language to logic and argumentation as we teach in philosophy classes is not one-to-one with the usage of language in real life.