Keep the tone light and non-confrontational as you want to reflect they fact that you are keen and enthusiastic rather than any negative connotations. 

Unless they are very enthusiastic about an ongoing percentage based deal I think this is a complete non-starter IMO 

In my experience companies/managers generally wouldn't object to employee X learning the skills necessary to cover the responsibilities of employee Y because this has the benefit of reducing the dreaded bus factor. Assuming the upskilling didn't impact on the ability of X to cover their function of course. Employee Y might object of course if they see it as threat to their position in the company and I've certainly seen that happen plenty of times - the "hoarders" you mention. Apart from in exceptional circumstances however it's bad management to indulge hoarders in perpetuating their ability to hold the company "hostage" to their skills or knowledge. That's not to say it doesn't happen though, it's just ultimately counterproductive. 

There's a distinct possibility here that the intern/junior is trying to avoid being seen as the person that can't handle any issues on their own and needs babysitting through everything and that they have simply gone too far. It's a difficult line to walk when you are new and inexperienced and them not quite getting that right needn't reflect on their overall quality. What I would suggest you need to do is ensure that they feel safe to bring any issues to you and that if they can't resolve an issue themselves within a reasonable timeframe (obviously this isn't a fixed number and will vary depending on the task) that it's absolutely the right thing to do to come to you and ask for assistance. Explain that yes you are busy and that sometimes you won't have a lot of time to spend helping them but that shouldn't prevent them asking and that even if you have to say you can't help right now you'd prefer them to raise the issue and ask so you are aware of it. 

They will likely try and impose a pattern on you, probably grumbling about how they "didn't want to have to do this" and so on. Basically making out it's all the employees' fault for not being "reasonable" or similar things like that - see my first paragraph! 

Have you spoken to your former employer about this at all? I ask because this sounds very much like a mistake rather than some sort of vindictive act, especially since telling HMRC that they had paid you for that month would have cost them money since they would have had to pay Employer's NI etc for that period. If the company won't respond or won't cooperate then I suggest ringing HMRC ASAP to discuss the issue, they aren't fast at sorting this sort of thing out (they are a government bureaucracy after all) but the sooner you start the sooner it's sorted. The Citizen's Advice Bureau is another good resource to contact. 

In many places in the world 30 days isn't an unusual amount of notice so I wouldn't worry - and you aren't at the point where you need to be giving notice yet (generally you do so after you have received a firm offer). It's pretty common to discuss what your notice period is at interview so it will probably come up then. 

is informative but it's not productive. It doesn't give them anywhere to go next and just dumps the problem in their lap, and regardless of whether the inability to meet Y date is your "fault" or not it's probably going to cause them to associate the negative consequences they experience as a result with you. If you instead say something like 

Hmm..I think as Jeroen says in his comment this is really a question for a lawyer - many jurisdictions have limitations on the ability of a contract (particularly employment contracts) to restrict you, but that's not something we can really answer here. In terms of whether this sort of all-encompassing clause is normal or not I would have to say no. Clauses restricting what you can do in a business sense are pretty common. Even ones restricting non-business activities that could potentially affect the company aren't unheard of - I've known of ones that restrict an employee from engaging in dangerous sports or hobbies that may result in them becoming injured and unable to fulfill their role for example, or the increasingly common terms preventing you from posting certain things on social media if they would be detrimental to the company's reputation, but any activity? That's a new one on me - and while I can't imagine something so broad would stand a chance of being enforceable I think most people would reject such a broad clause. It may be that they have a particular scope for the word "activity" in mind that narrows this to a more reasonable outlook but that's not clear from what you've said. I'd suggest putting the ball back in their court and asking them what they consider to be an "activity" under this term. EDIT: Following the update that this is in the UK I thought I'd add in that not only is such a broad term definitely unusual (I'm in the UK and have never seen one so broad) but also (with the usual disclaimer of IANL and this is not legal advice) they wouldn't stand a snowball's chance in hell of enforcing it. There's no hard and fast rule on what they are allowed to prohibit out of working hours (apart from anything protected by discrimination legislation such as religion, sexuality etc) but generally they have to convince the court that the activity harms the organisation's business or reputation (or the other staff as they have a duty of care) and these things get evaluated on a case-by-case basis. 

I imagine that your manager probably will feel betrayed, and I can't say I'd blame him. You were underpaid, negotiated a raise (which you claimed to be happy with) then decided that you weren't in fact happy with it and now you want another bite at the cherry. Obviously you are perfectly entitled to look for other jobs and to take one if you prefer the offer, and that's regardless of any informal agreements not to be job searching but trying to leverage an offer into another raise in less than 9 months because you messed up the negotiations last time is going to come off as massively unprofessional at best and downright unscrupulous at worst. If the jump in salary with the new offer is sufficient to make the difference then take it. There's nothing wrong with doing that and if your manager is a reasonable person then they will probably wish you all the best. If you want to soften the blow you can tell a bit of white lie and say that you weren't planning on leaving but that the opportunity was too good to pass up.