From a personal experience standpoint, I feel like a poll / survey that pops up that I am forced to take about my mood would probably negatively impact my mood. You are basically asking people to stop what they are doing, reflect on themselves, and then report. That is a good amount of brain power and energy you are asking for, even if the survey is short and quick. The act of reflecting on one's own mood in and of itself is extremely difficult and sometimes taxing to many people. On top of that, the results of such surveys are controversial at best. Many scientists feel that self-reported surveys about mood and "feelings" result in a data set that is not consistently accurate and possibly misleading. Also, polls/surveys inherently give forced answers. The idea that you must fit in to one of them 5-10 sets of moods about a specific scenario / topic is not very realistic. People are complex and moods are extremely complex. People can feel both excited and apprehensive about something but surveys might not even have "apprehensive" as an option so the survey taker checks off "nervous" which is read entirely differently by an analyst. Alternatively, if you are truly interested in trying to understand the happiness of your employees, create an anonymous suggestion box. The good old tried and true method of typing up a suggestion and placing it in a box is always a solid solution, but since you are in the tech sector you could also create your own version of the "WHISPER" app that allows employees to post thoughts and ideas anonymously. You would be surprised what people write in those boxes at their place of employment when they know it is anonymous! If you feel you must, once you have a solid user base actually using your suggestion box app, you can then start putting up "scenarios" and ask people to comment on those. For instance, you can push a "special notification" to the app users asking them to give their suggestions about a specific event that recently happened, or a made or scenario, or even a person. This allows the employees to communicate in their own words which is much easier to infer inflection in and understand the basis of the individual writing the comment and why they are writing it versus a cold, hard checkbox. Sources re: reliability and validity of self reported assesments of mood/emotion $URL$ $URL$ re: the taxing nature of recalling emotion or non-sensory experiences $URL$ 

Lead into the document explaining that this is an addendum to the original document and changes outlined in this document will be effective as soon as the contract or addendum is signed and agreed upon. A sample lead-in would read something like this: 

It sounds to me that you have not actually been demoted at all. A demotion typically results in being given a new title or official position that is lower than your current one along with a change in salary. What is unclear to me is wether or not your current position of authority or management responsibilities were officially given to you or if you simply slid into the role. 

You said yourself that the man who is moving in to this position was the "right hand" of your department head. That means that this person is technically more experienced in dealing with upper levels of management and has, in at least one way, held a higher position than you to start. If what is happening is more like the first scenario I listed, what actually seems to have happened is a new position was created and then filled immediately by another company employee. Some companies have a policy that when a new position opens or is created that they must make that position known first within the company and then to the public to solicit applications. You can certainly look for such a policy and go to your hiring manager and ask why you were not informed and given the opportunity to apply for the new position. If it is more like the second scenario, I would bite the bullet and start looking at yourself and how you relate to the company as a whole. It is great to have the respect and admiration of those who work directly for or with you, but it is a completely different thing when you start to look outward and upward. Those who work in a parallel position or advanced position could have an entirely different view of you. For example, a teacher who just turns on the TV and plays a movie and hands out candies to the kids might be beloved by those kids, but not the other teachers or parents in the school. Regardless of the scenario, the best advice that I can give you is to stop assuming that you know better than those making the decisions. Unless you are involved in the process, you really do not have enough information to be able to give an opinion on the topic. In all of these scenarios where an employee feels the wrong person was promoted or hired, the only thing you can and should do is go with the flow and allow the person to prove you wrong or right. Going in to it with a chip on your shoulder is certainly not the way to maintain a good environment in the workplace. 

This would entirely depend on the contract that you had with your employer. If your employment contract allowed you to maintain copyright of the works you created OR it allowed you to maintain "creation" claims then you are free and clear to go ahead and use the work in your portfolio. HOWEVER if your contract did not expressly grant you permission to do that, or worse, claimed ownership and copyright of works you did for them while under their employ, you will be violating that contract and possibly the copyright agreement. Your best course of action is to simply contact your boss and ask. In doing so I would make an offer that you list the work as having been done while working for his company as a collaborative work done by you and your coworkers (or the company owner). Even if you did all of the actual creation of the jobs, since you were working for someone else, it is somewhat of a collaboration. If you didn't mention the previous employer in your own portfolio it could cause a number of problems. Specifically it would be confusing for someone who saw your portfolio with your work listed as yours and then your employer's portfolio with the exact same work listed as theirs. Giving attribution to your employer for the client's work will alleviate those issues. 

Because you have some legal implications of working in-house on a schedule with the client, you have a bit of an easier "out". What I would suggest is that you email the client back and say the following: