What you have heard is not unreasonable. It is a teaching that desperately needs context. Linearity is a rational property (relationship or function) that represents directional succession of measurable intervals. Linearity is a concept present in math, art, science, logic, and music. In the broadest sense, for linearity to be rational, there must exist one of two conditions: 1) an origin and a destination or 2) an origin and a directional vector. In order for linearity to be captured or shared in any meaningful or actionable way, there must be rational measurement. Briefly, as to origin, it is generally safe to presume for argumentation in this context that the origin is the you of now. But this is not as trivial as it may appear. Because the you of now is not the same you of the now just a moment ago when you began this paragraph. "Is this you of the now more or less informed than a hypothetical you at another now?" Put another way, "How are the things unknown to you different now than at any other moment?" Or in the form of a koan, "What do I not know?" You are not static and thus neither is you as an origin. The now shatters the illusory origin and makes both destinations and vectors equally fantastic. All we have is now. There is also the notion that linearity is singular; that is, it cannot represent multiple measurements or states simultaneously. And briefly stipulating to quantum mechanics, it is certainly possible to argue the possibility of infinite, omni-directional linearity, but then if one has reached such a conclusion, such infinite linearity, when aggregated to now, is self-canceling; such that, linearity is again moot. 

To the first question, to go or not to go is a personal decision. Some may find little investigation in advance is necessary while others may need or desire awareness sufficient to overcome fears, uncertainty, or doubt. Others still may simply need enough facts to weigh cost/benefit or risk/reward. These value judgments are ultimately the responsibility of the interested person. You may share your experience, strength, and hope with those that welcome such. After which, your duty is exhausted. You may also share your fears, uncertainty, and doubt with others, if such is welcomed. However, ultimately the choice to act or not to act is upon them. And subsequently, their experience is their experience. To all those for whom you are not a teacher (that have not inquired or welcomed your guidance), you are imposing your values upon them. Such an act is proselytizing and the subject to an entirely different question. To the title question... 

The Path of Purification, Visuddhimagga 88-109 So, in conclusion, speaking to the spirit of your question: Cultivation and practice is both sufficient and necessary to (using your word) "make gains". Lack of effort may be a sufficient condition for unrisen unwholesomeness, but it is not a necessary condition. Can one lose or forget what one has learned? Certainly. But one may just as easily forget to apply/practice what one has learned without losing the learning. If one is judging outcomes, meditate on the difference between not knowledge and practice. 

Admittedly, I'm a beginner myself. However, it is my understanding that the Buddha took no position as to the existence/non-existence of a God who created everything we see, on the grounds that there is no way of knowing - at least within this life - for certain whether such a being exists. Instead, the Buddha tried to re-focus people on what they could do in this life to improve their circumstances. 

Stoic philosophy seems to share a lot with Buddhist wisdom. Since Zeno of Citium (generally credited as the founder of Stoicism) is said to have lived a couple hundred years after Siddhartha Gautama, it seems possible that some cross pollination of ideas may have influenced the development of Stoic philosphy. Is there any evidence (other than the similarities in philosophy) that this happened? 

Another site says that the first part of the gatha above is from Dogen, and suggests it is widely used in Zen. This gatha, suggested by Thich Nhat Hanh, is one possible alternative: 

It's my understanding that the belief in Tibetan Buddhism is that when a Lama is reborn he (not meaning to be sexist, but I know of no female Lamas - please let me know if I'm wrong) becomes that same Lama again. From a western viewpoint, it might be said his soul is put into a new body and he returns as the same Lama in the new body. However, recent comments by the Dalai Lama have me wondering about this. It seems he wants to be reborn in order to continue helping others, but without becoming the Dalai Lama again. (It has been speculated that there may be political motivation to this, as the Chinese want to designate the next Dalai Lama.) However, wouldn't the 14th Dalai Lama become the 15th Dalai Lama if he is reborn? Would a Lama be able to end a series of Lamas even though he is reborn? (I have heard of Lama lines ending, but it's my understanding that the belief is that the Lama chose not to reborn.) Or is my understanding here completed off base? 

Admittedly, I am not a well-versed student of Zen ... or Buddhism for that matter. However, I will offer my interpretation: Before you achieve enlightenment you will have to do chores associated with everyday living. Then, even after becoming enlightened, you will still have to do the same chores - becoming enlightened does remove the need to deal with everyday things. 

In the past, I had some success with a no kill mouse trap like this one. It allows you to catch the mouse and release it in an appropriate area outside. Now we share our home with 2 dogs and a cat. Mice don't seem to want to be here. 

No. The answer to this question can be found in Talaputa Sutta: To Talaputa the Actor (SN 42.2). The Blessed One said: 

"Being Nobody, Going Nowhere: The Foundation of Buddhist Thought", Volume 3, By Geshe Tashi Tsering, Ayya Khema 

As to gains, your premise begins with a fallacy -- that, "gains" (or progress, development, cultivation) are dependent on linearity. This premise does not withstand scrutiny because it presumes to the singular; that gains are not gains if they are do not fall within a specific succession of measurable intervals. Additionally, in this context forward and backward are value judgments. If we suspend judgment then "backwards" simply indicates gain of a different sort, which is entirely possible. However, it can not be substantiated that lack of effort results in regression (negative gains) simply because gains are correlated to effort. It is far more reasonable to assert that effort results in gain and non-effort results in non-gain. 

Beyond sharing your own experience, strength, and hope... the duty is upon your friend or relative to determine safety. Without being pedantic, safety in this context is ill-defined. Appropriateness is probably a better word and still the burden is upon them -- not you. That the experiences of others is not aligned with your experience and your desire to confront those differences is a teaching moment for you. What is the nature of the craving you feel to reconcile the differences in experience? Is such a craving rooted in the safety of your family or friends... or in yourself? Your best service to others is to deeply internalize good practice, model good practice, be good practice. You can only live your life. Channel the passion and enthusiasm you have discovered into enhancing the integrity of your practice and step away from the desire, clinging, and attachment you have toward the practice of others. 

While interesting for some, I respect this may be a bit mind-numbing for others. So what does this mean in a more doctrinal sense? The first time we sit, everything is new and we are confronted by the unknown. As we sit, we cultivate. What is cultivation? Cultivation is at the heart of "right effort" (Samma Vayama) and "right concentration" (Samma Samadhi). 

While your question appears rational, I will argue that it is not and conclude with an answer to the spirit of your question based on canonical sources. Your question is presented in two clauses. Therefore: First, I believe it is critical to suffer through a deconstruction of your reasoning. Second, as meditation is ill-defined here, this answer will presume the broadest non-technique specific definition inclusive of samatha and vipassana. Third, as I believe you have been exposed to a teaching out of context, I will attempt to rein in the exuberance of composition present in your question with some doctrine.