It's not terribly clear from the question what part of this story you doubt. Assuming it's the general effectiveness of ketogenic diet in treating epilepsy, there are several reviews in pubmed which affirm it: 

I think the Science take on this is noteworthy in that it didn't mention the extrapolation, but only 

The most shocking part to me there is that job experience came dead last among those predictors of job performance. Alas the graph is from a talk, so it won't be that easy to see exactly what it means by job experience; the HBR article does not detail that because its topic is mainly personality tests (which I don't want to get into this question). Obviously "job experience" could be measured in a silly way, like just having a prior job, say a as waiter, doesn't predict well job performance as a neurosurgeon. However this may turn out to be more or less how HR departments actually measure job experience, i.e. in an irrelevant way. So is there more research elaborating or refuting job experience measures as predictors for job performance? And if so, is there a difference between how job experience ought to be measured and how it is, i.e. are there any studies on this potential theory-practice discrepancy? 

And indeed while the North report mentions MM03 and MM05 on p.91, there's no mention of the minor issues found there in the summary of the report, which does have hokey sticks from multiple authors in its summary figure S1, including one from Mann & Jones 2003. 

The author went on say that the changes were insignificant in healthy individuals, but relevant in those with "borderline compensated oxygen delivery system such as congestive heart failure" and that "hypercapnia may be harmful in that carbon dioxide may induce cardiac arrhythmias or depress myocardial contractility in predisposed individuals." Also, I looked for studies on whether hypercapnia can cause sleep apnea, but I wasn't able to find that. What I did find was that some but not all people with obstructive sleep apnea also exhibit daytime hypercapnia. Moreover, 

And from the former letter, which has broader criticism of how Grandjean and Landrigan put together their list of "neurotoxicants": 

For those not well versed in psychological lingo, the first quote sentence makes reference to the trait theory of personality. What I want to ask here is if there's empirical evidence that skepticism is (significantly) more influenced by environment/nurture/milieu than other personality traits. 

without a clear reference, so I'm guessing it might be pointing to the highly cited (>1500 in GS) 2003 review of Faraone et al.. Here's the summary of findings (keep in mind that it predated DSM-5): 

Since in the US the criteria are the same, the difference can only come from training differences of the mental health professionals applying the diagnosis and/or variation in the pool of children that are screened in the first place... The CDC has some potential insight into the latter, with racial and insurance variation: 

Treat not cure. Ketamine is currently the most investigated [psychedelic] drug as a rapid anti-depressant. Several ketamine derivatives have been fast tracked by the FDA. As for the more classic hallucinogens (e.g. psilocybin and LSD), they do seem to act on various 5-HT receptor subtypes, so it's not outlandish they could work as well, but there are more serious side-effect to consider. 

(The source actually did that for us: 444 or 384 cells depending on pack model: 85kWh or 60kWh.) The same is true for Tesla Model 3 basically, although a slightly thicker and taller (custom) cell dubbed 2170 is used instead of the industry statndard 18650. The advantage claim is a bit more believable for moving parts (as covered in the other answer). Also Toyota says 

Note that the investigation still found run-of-the-mill security vulnerabilities, which could have been exploited by anyone who knew about them. And in fact were... In 2014 evidence leaked by Snowden showed that the NSA had gained access to Huawei source code by hacking their servers: 

I think there's a bit more recent evidence from the UK that Pigovian taxation does achieve the intended effect The UK has a £23 tax per tonne of carbon that "tops up" the £5 EU one (I'm oversimplifying that last part since the EU approach is a cap and trade scheme.) But anyway, the result in the UK: 

Likewise there is a (less often discussed in the press) catecholamine hypothesis of depression. And the result of simulating it via a similar method to ATD, namely acute phenylalanine/tyrosine depletion (APTD) or via a dissimilar method, namely blockade of catecholamine synthesis by administration of alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine (AMPT)... produce similarly confusing results: 

However this difference was better explained (in the authors' regression analysis) by the methodology used rather than by geography. The (sparse) data from Africa and the middle East however could not explained away by methodological variables alone. Hence the conclusion of the study that "geographic location plays a limited role". 

Are nuclear/EMP experts in agreement that a single nuclear EMP can destroy the electronics of a whole country? What are the conditions for such an event, given that enough nuclear tests have been performed in the atmosphere in the past, yet disruption/destruction of electronics was never that large? Ok, some are mentioned in the snippet. Is that all it would take? Wikipedia does mention a HEMP being more destructive, but without citations or much detail. The info/claims have also been reported in more mainstream media, but with less detail. 

Amusingly, this last paper is also from a German consultant for tobacco companies. The venue is a bit more respectable though. The data in these two graphs is entirely from the Chinese paper cited (I've checked it), whose authors' declare no conflict of interest... even though the all seem to work for either a US Big Tobacco company or an obscure institute belonging to CNTC. So while the exact quotients here aren't that certain (not just because of the source, but also because of the methodological limitations), it's interesting to see how the same substances now fly under a different flag. 

(bold in original) Since one author of the study (Swan) qualified PETA's conclusion as tenuous... we can probably bother no further. 

My answer is going to be wishy washy, so if it reads that way... it's not because I'm misexpressing myself. As user "anonymized" pointed out, it's not too clear what the premise of the proposed law is: to lessen the chance that healthcare personnel misses work because of flu, or that they protect their patients by not spreading the flu to them. Or maybe both. So, with the risk of making the answer a bit long, let's try to address both. On the first issue, whether flu vaccines protect the direct recipient, the CDC is firmly on the side of flu vaccination, even though the flu vaccines apparently has a substantial variability in effectiveness, ranged between 10% and 60% in a 2017 news piece in Science. The argument for seems to be that that's [far] better than nothing. The arguments against are more complicated involving potential long-term effects of the vaccine on the flu itself and/or receiver's immunity, which seem harder to weigh. These arguments are raised by reputable scientists in reputable venues, so it's not a case of crackpottery like the opposition to some other vaccines. E.g., one study cited by Friedman's opinion piece says: 

So, yeah, the number of reviews seems to exceed the number of actual RCTs on this (and even the number of observational studies). And they are all flogging the same evidence with a slightly different spin on the conclusion. 

The first quote refers mostly to McIntyre and McKitrick 2003 which was indeed published quickly in a pretty obscure venue and without giving Mann's team a chance to responnd prior to publication. It is also true that a 2007 paper by different authors (than either set of disputants) refuted MM03 (and MM05 [see below]) in the sense that Mann's results could be duplicated. Quoting Wikipedia, which has has well-referenced article on this 

Now if someone wants to make the case that Goebbels popularized it... good luck with that. And take this as you will, but one Belgian web site says it has contacted an expert in Nazi propaganda (Prof. Randall Bytwerk), and is quoting the reply as 

Women's Health magazine (might not be the best source, but not much else covered this) has an article explaining that PETA drew their own conclusion from the actual research on phthalates and penis size: 

Now let me say something about genetics; there are a few hints that inheritance alone could not explain the drastic recent trends in particular in East Asia: 

Is there more [recent] research on sex satisfaction (if not on orgasms explicitly) as they correlate with gene non-sharing in couples? 

This was for the July 10-20, 2016 period. Another aside: 110,000 Twitter incidents became 110,000 road accidents when the Daily Mail reported on this study. Of course extrapolating from that to other time periods would be problematic, and wasn't done by the authors. However, it seems safe to assume this period was during the peak Pokem GO, so if we use this study to extrapolate an upper bound for the number of Pokemon crashes in the US, we get 1.4/day x 148 (the number of days from the Indiana study) = 207 crashes. In contrast, the extrapolation based on the Indiana study was an "the increase in crashes attributable to the introduction of Pokémon GO is 145,632 with an associated increase in the number of injuries of 29,370 [...] over the period of July 6, 2016, through November 30, 2016" (nationwide). So this extrapolation is two or three orders of magnitude higher than I extrapolated from the JAMA study, depending which class of crashes we consider; perhaps fender-benders without any bodily injury were completely non-newsworthy. Of course, the tough question in this comparison is how well reported by the press were Pokemon crashes in that time period. Were they really underreported by a factor of 100? During a time when Pokemon GO was "hot" in the news? Perhaps we could use the UK for information/extrapolation, which apparently had tallied such Pokemon incidents nationwide "Robberies, thefts, assaults and driving offences were among 290 incidents recorded across England and Wales throughout July [2016]." Since the US population is about 5 times larger, that would give 1,450 incidents per month... or about 7,250 incidents in ~150 days, again as an upper bound (given that the game waned in popularity after launch). But this latter estimate would include much more than car crashes. (And I know I've underestimated this by 15% or so for the sake of a quick calculation, because the UK is more than England and Wales, so a more correct population factor would have been 5.76, giving an estimate of 8,363 US incidents. But at this level of ballpark estimates, it doesn't matter too much.)