It's important to note that your weight varies daily based on all sorts of factors, most notably water retention (can account for a significant weight difference - we are mostly water after all). It is also important to weight yourself at the same time each day, preferably in the morning. Still, some variance will happen so it might be a good idea to weight yourself daily but plot the eg. 7-day average and consider that your "real" weight. If you are doing everything right, it should be going down, even if some days are higher than others. Finally, depending on your weight lifting program, you will start putting on muscle mass, which weights more than fat (if you consider the same volume), but depending on how much fat you need to "shift", this effect can take a while to be noticeable. 

I currently work out 6 days a week. However, I'm not 'Pumping Iron'. I do mainly body-weight exercises. 'A' Days(upper body): 

When I'm working out with a new weight that i'm not used to (I actually do calisthenics, but I use a weight vest) towards the end of my work out, when I'm really feeling it, I notice that as I'm doing exercises like push-ups, I sometimes get a tingling feeling in my arms. As soon as it starts, it continues on every rep until I stop. It's not painful, it feels like tiny strings snapping almost. (I'm not very familiar with anatomy). Intuitively, since it's not painful I would assume it is good because the whole point is to break down muscle right? This literally feels like I'm breaking down my muscle, but I'm too naive to understand if this is actually what's happening or if there's some other cause. Does anyone else get this feeling? Is it normal? Edit: Sometimes I notice afterwards some slight pain in my arms, but I don't know if it is related. I usually stop around this point and I feel fine after a bit of rest 

I'm not sure which of the books is better. I think I managed to grab more useful information from the first, but the second is better written and should probably be your first choice. Now, neither of the two is an "exercise bible", but they do provide more than enough information to train yourself without weights. 

Do you have a pull-up bar or access to one (ie. in a park or a playground; you can hang off most things)? If not, you can invest in one of those doorframe pull-up bars - they cost about 20-30 dollars usually, which is not prohibitively expensive. If you do decide to head out to a playground, look for a place where you can do dips (you'll need two parallel bars at shoulder width and hip-height, approximately). The reason I suggest these is that you need to do these "hard", compound exercises if you want to gain muscle; push-ups will only get you so far (and that's not very far indeed). It is also relatively easy to progressively load them further if required - you can use a backpack and fill it with weight. These two exercises will work most of your upper-body and require minimal equipment. If you are concerned your abs aren't getting worked out, you can also invest in an ab-wheel, which costs about 10-20 bucks usually and is also a very good tool. For bodyweight exercises in general, the way to make the exercise more challenging is to decrease the leverage you have - eg. for pushups you can raise your legs on something, which'll stress your shoulders some more (and in general, you'll be lifting a higher weight) or you can try to push your arms more forward (ie. don't keep them bellow your shoulders but further up towards - or even beyond - your head), this will work your abs and lower back muscles more and is harder. Still, to answer your actual question, if you are determined to "make" your own weights, the best solution is probably bags filled with sand. Take some of those small bags which you use to pack stuff in the fridge, fill them with eg. 1 kg of sand (don't forget to double or triple wrap them, they can break and sand everywhere is not comfortable). You can then put as many as you need in a backpack or a bigger bag/container and easily calibrate the weight you need. Note that it's actually non-trivial to figure out how to add weight to bodyweight exercises (and doing something intended for dumbbells with homemade weights, you'll outgrow fairly quickly). If at all possible, I would try to assure access to at least a pull-up bar and exercise with it. 

I am currently taking a rest day on Tuesday, because Tuesdays are busy for me and I was under the impression that a rest day is necessary. However, I find it annoying to have to make the decision of which exercise to do on Wednesday and I am not totally sure it is necessary. I want to get results. 

Due to finals, I haven't been working out very much. I only worked out once this past week. Because of my schedule I was wondering what the effect would be if i did the same exercises on a different schedule. What would happen if I did one circuit every day? I might do like alternating shifts of one circuit/two circuits and take a rest day. I am looking for general info on how much workout spread matters for the following: 

I started indoor rock-climbing a few months ago, renting equipment from wherever I was climbing at. I've decided to take it a bit more seriously and invest in some equipment, and the first step are shoes. However, there's quite a lot to choose from and I'm not sure how to pick - the only difference I really notice is how they lace-up. What should I look for in a good shoe? To reiterate, I'm a beginner and I intend to climb just indoor (for the foreseeable future). 

How far along in the program are you? I suggest waiting about a month and re-evaluating. Novices can increase the weight quite fast on SS (I know I did) and very soon you won't be able to recover in time, thus hurting your goals. Pushing yourself too hard might result in more downtime down the road - focus on adding weight to the three exercises you do. It should be ok, though, to up the deadlifts to twice a week (so pull-ups just once). You'll probably manage this for a good while, and once you can no longer keep up, hopefully you'll be able to replace one day with power cleans. 

I am currently on the following schedule, or rather, this is what I aim for: (I used to do deal lifts, but its winter, so I cant unless I join a gym, which I might do.) 3 days a week: 

So, I have been doing workout routine for a while now. IDK exactly how effective it is, but it certainly seems effective for me and I like it because each exercise is something I can scale up(by either adding weight or changing my form in some way) as I get stronger and its nice and simple. For example, 15 pushups may seem easy, but I do them very slowly on the way down with a close grip and for now, that is definitely challenging enough. To understand why I do the exercises I do, you should understand that I am working out at home. I have a bar/weights but no bench, so currently, I am only using the bar for the deadlifts, and I can hold the weights them selves like a kettle bell for squats. 

You could try the Cooper test, which is basically "run at a steady pace for 12 minutes and look at the table". I've always found it sufficient for my purposes (to see how much I improved in a given time period). 

First of all, 20 pullups is quite a feat, good job! I assume you are doing them with proper form: chin over bar on top, elbows locked and body still at the bottom. If you are doing something else, or eg. kipping pullups (basically, using your momentum in any way), the first thing you should do is transition to strict form pullups. Doing 50 pullups is as much a matter of endurance as it is of strength. Personally, I've had a lot of good results doing weighted pullups, which build up strength. This will allow you to literally "fly" once the weight is off. What you want to do is to use a dip-belt and hang progressively bigger weights on it. You could also use a backpack (and fill it with eg. bags of sand) but it tends to hang awkwardly and it messes up your center of mass; because of this it also limits the amount of weight you can add. Using a dip belt takes care of all this. You should start low, a few kilograms added only (so as not to stress your joints too much). You should be able to add about 2 or 2.5 kgs every week. You can combine weighted pullups with any sort of program. As for the program itself, I've again had a lot of luck doing "ladders". Basically, do 1, then 2, then 3 up to as much as you can, and then all the way back. Add a final "max effort" series at the end. If the last series is close or above your maximum, increase the max next time. The idea is to completely slaughter yourself. Doing ladders is beneficial because it will help with both strength (low reps, especially on the way back) and endurance (the high reps). All that said, though, I don't think I know anyone who can do 50 strict form pullups, so this is all purely academic. Also, when you say you can do over a hundred with pauses, is this with hanging all the time or with letting go of the bar? If you are hanging through all this, then you are way beyond me and this advice might not apply to you at all. === Bonus: Most people will find chin-ups easiest (with mixed grip in the middle and pullups the hardest) but this depends on how well some specific muscles are developed and even your technique. They all target slightly different muscle groups, though, so for the best overall results you should probably try to use all grips (and even vary your grip width). If you must focus on one, the most popular choice are pullups. 

I do pullups and chinups in my garage all the time. I do them on a metal beam that runs across the ceiling and helps hold up the second floor. It is an I beam, so my grip isn't ever really ideal, but I don't have a problem with it. If I were to use a more conventional bar, would the amount of reps I can do increase? Just curious. 

I notice that when I plank, I can do a few different things. First of all, when I plank my elbows are together and slightly in front of my shoulders. I could choose to strongly engage my core (abs), and also engage what I will refer to as my "upper glutes" not sure if that makes sense or not. Contrarily, what I was doing yesterday was really focusing on contracting my glutes (entire). This activated a lot of muscles in the backs of my upper legs aswell. Which form of the exercise is the proper one? I feel more burn in my abs when doing the second one, and I find it harder to contract my abs as much when doing the second option, perhaps though the abs are getting worked just as hard, I just don't notice it as much because I'm focused on the other sensation aswell 

Rest is as important to your progress as the exercising itself (if not more). If you added in any extra workouts you'll just compromise your progress. This is even emphasized by Rippetoe in the book. 

Just take it easy, if it's easy the first week or two, it doesn't mean it's going to remain easy forever. The biggest mistake to make with SS is to hurry too much. Remember, you are still increasing linearly and this is amazing progress! Pushing yourself too hard at the start can set you back later on for weeks. Next time, just increase by the set weight. I guarantee that by week three or so it will stop feeling easy. Here's the relevant quote from Rippetoe: 

I find that when I really push myself, my body doesn't reward me. This occurs usually only when I am doing upper body workouts. I feel like I am pushing myself and I can really feel my arms burn. When this happens, I sometimes decide to cut my workout 1 or 2 sets short because, even though mentally I feel I can do it, which makes me want to do it for the sake of pushing myself, I have had enough of these experiences that I know to stop anyways. Then, about 1-2 minutes later, when I sit down and drink some water, I am thanking my lucky stars that I didn't do it, because I feel ridiculously tired and nauseous for 5-15 mins. Is this normal or am I dehydrated or something? Why is it that I feel like I can do anything as I am contemplating it, but its only afterwards that my workout catches up to me. Feel free to tell me if I'm just being a b**** and it's normal. I just don't want to inadvertently hurt myself as a result of trying to become strong.