The difference is that an ordinary free agent can sign whenever. An undrafted player who is in a college program can be signed if he is 20, and only after the final game of his college team's season.... and only after being undrafted two times. So the NHL can't bust a top contending college team apart by grabbing their star players in the middle of the championship playoffs, making the entire playoff tournament a farce in the process. NHL.com - Top college free agents who could sign with NHL teams Now, why does a player good enough to be a Hobey Baker finalist manage to be undrafted? We're talking about late teens to early 20s. That's a period of rapid physical, mental and emotional development/maturing for any young adult. He might not be the same type of player he was coming out of high school. It's the same reason why you might see a player who was not offered a football or basketball scholarship, then not drafted by a pro team go on to have successful careers. Sometimes their potential doesn't really get unlocked until they are in the right situation, and sometimes teams just miss when they evaluate. Also, since the very top talent usually go straight to top-tier minor league programs, being a very good college player does not translate into hockey success like being a top player in college football or basketball. Even looking at the list of Hobey Baker winners, let alone finalists, you don't see a lot of superstars. Spencer Foo doesn't seem to be, especially, considered to be a shoo-in for greatness, at this point, because of his fine college career. I'm not sure that this is really all that remarkable. 

If you mean - does that make them the only winning team never to lead during regulation time? While the play time stopped with the score, technically, the score happened at that time, so they were officially leading during game time (the last official second of the game), I believe. The answer is yes. Since no other Super Bowl game has ever gone to overtime before, that means all other winning teams led during regulation time. 

There is no immediate recourse, as mentioned by Mastermind_Ed, but, long term, if there is an issue, a team can let the league know they have concerns, and the officials are constantly having their work reviewed, graded and evaluated (as they are in all sports at almost all levels). If an umpire can't consistently call balls and strikes, they will be replaced and will not be assigned to those duties at that level. Letting the league know one has concerns, especially with today's technology in looking at where the ball crosses the plate in relation to the strike zone, can probably bring attention to and accelerate a review where necessary. 

The puck has to entirely cross the line. If it happens to be on edge, and all of the puck is across the line, how is that not entirely across the line? The disposition of whether it is a goal or not has nothing to do with it's final resting position. Many pucks entirely cross the line, strike the netting or a back post, and come back out. One that hit a part of the top frame, deep, might never touch the ice, at all, while across the goal. And yet, those goals all count. Why? There is nothing in the rule that specifies any eventual position on the ice as part of the criteria. All of the puck being physically across the line is just that. What it does after being entirely across the line is meaningless, because there is no requirement for anything else. 

Below, the statistics for each of the formats (Tests/ODIs/T20s) sorted both by wickets taken on debut and best economy. 1. ODIs 

Over the past couple of seasons, overtaking in Formula 1 has moved from sheer car power and driver skill to also include technology like KERS and DRS. 

No. this will not be a dismissal as it has neither touched the the batsman's bat nor the glove holding the bat. 

Free-hit delivery: The delivery that immediately follows the no-ball (overstepping) in limited overs cricket is a . This means that the batsman cannot be dismissed in any way apart from a run out, handling the ball, hitting the ball twice or obstructing the field. So, if the ball hits the stumps and goes to the boundary, the batsman is not-out. Instead the batting team get as for the ball reaching the boundary. If the batsman has nicked the ball before it hit the stumps on its way to the boundary, then all 4 runs are awarded added to the batsman's score. Long story short, if a batsman gets bowled off a free hit and the ball goes to boundary, then YES, 4 runs will be added to the batting side. 

Find below the current RCB Net Run Rate (0.47) and the break-up of how the figure has been arrived at considering all the games that they have played till now. 

No. There is no card system that is in place for cricket. Action is taken on players after the game and subsequent hearings by the match referee, in case they fail to follow the rules and ethics of the game. The examples that you provided might have been in jest and they, for sure, could not have been ejected from the game. The main reason for other sports to have cards and stricter discipline is that they are contact sports. There is hardly any physical contact with other players in cricket, which reduces the chances of violent behavior. Probably, this is why they call cricket a gentleman's game. 

Make them stand at the bowling crease and throw the ball consistently at the stumps. Once they are good enough at step 1, ask them to swing their arms, ala bowling action, before releasing the ball. Once they are comfortable with step 2, make them run in with a very short run up, jump, swing arms before releasing the ball. 

Basic level of fielding or batting is simpler for a newbie as it is just stopping + picking up the ball or swinging arms trying to make contact between the bat and the ball. However bowling which consists of a run-up, a leap with simultaneous swinging of arms just before releasing the ball makes is sound like a sequence straight out of a Bollywood song. Like with any other sport, technique is easier learnt and mastered as kids than with an adult trying it for the first time. However, with practice, anyone can learn to bowl with a decent level of competence. The trick is in not rushing things, instead taking it one step at a time. Maybe you can follow the below steps,