You're mis-stating Chaos theory. You said: "I understand that chaos theory states that any small event or choice determines the next set of events or actions." But actually you need to say that SOME systems are extremely sensitive to small changes in their starting point. Other systems are stable. So there can be no counterexample. If you have a system that's stable in a region around a point, that's an example of a system that doesn't happen to be chaotic. It's not a violation of chaos theory. That's like saying, Some animals are cats. Can there be a counterexample? A hippopotamus is an animal that's not a cat. But it's not a counterexample to the statement that SOME animals are cats. Some systems are highly sensitive to changes in their input. Some are not. Some systems are chaotic, some are not. And you can't "argue" against chaotic behavior. You can just "do the math," as they say. The points around the boundary of the Mandelbrot set exhibit chaotic behavior. Tiny changes in your starting point produces strikingly different behavior under iteration. That's a fact. You can't argue against it any more than you could argue against trees. 

The multiverse seems to be gaining traction of the scientific community, even becoming the prevalent worldview. It seems some types of the multiverse theory, such as the many-worlds interpretation, seem to go against basic theological principles. But are these really a problem? For example, if every possible universe existed, God would have no control, and presumably universes with infinite evil and suffering would exist, and everything in between. I guess one could argue that the many-world interpretation requires the universe to be logically valid, but going against God would not logically be possible (?). Some other quick arguments such as this universe is not truly God's only plan, we are not unique, we have no moral choices because everything happens, other God-like (who could contest God on his decisions) entities existing in some parallel universes, etc. could be made. Is this, and presumably many others, argument valid? 

Buridan's ass states a problem where a hypothetical donkey has to decide between two equal choices (food and water, an equal distance apart from the donkey). Since they are completely equal, neither is chosen and the donkey dies. This may be solved by randomness, but God is not random. Would this create a problem for God (God cannot choose either one), given that such situations where two equal choices can exist for him? 

You are correct that until we know there are numbers, we have a formal theory but not yet any domain where the theory can be interpreted. There are two ways to go with this. 1) It's clear that we all know what the natural numbers are. Even if we don't have a formal theory about them, it's clear that they satisfy PA and are therefore a domain in which we can interpret the axioms and theorems of PA. 2) We can formalize the axioms of set theory, say Zermelo-Fraenkel (ZF). Then the concept "exists" means "can be shown to exist from the axioms of ZF." Then we can say that the empty set stands for zero, and the set containing the empty set is 1, and so forth. The objects of this construction are known as the Von Neumann ordinals. $URL$ Now we can verify that the numbers 0, 1, 2, ... as defined by Von Neumann, satisfy PA; and therefore we have a set in ZF that can serve as a domain of interpretation for PA. The same thing is often done pedagogically with the real numbers. The usual procedure is to list the properties of the real numbers such as the commutativity of addition, the distributivity of multiplication over addition, and so forth. That's good enough for calculus class and lets you do everything you need to. In a math major class called Real Analysis, they'll show that you can start with the rational numbers, and construct a model of the real numbers using Dedekind cuts or Cauchy sequences. They show that to the students once, and from then on everyone forgets about it and just uses the properties of real numbers. In practice it turns out that most of the time nobody cares about the ontology of mathematical objects. All you need is their properties. But ultimately you're right, if we're going to be logically comprehensive it's not enough to write down the axioms of PA; we have to show that we can formalize something that satisfies them; and that's where the Von Neumann construction comes in. 

I don't get the part where he says talking about nothing makes it something. Sure, nothing exists as a word, but a word that means the non-existence of something. So, we are talking about the non-existence of something - here, the non-existence of everything. 

I don't really get the argument here - it simply seems to say God is not necessary to create the universe if there are laws in place that can create it by itself. However, even if this is true, it could still be possible that God exists - God could have created these laws - even if they have always been true - by an eternal expression of his will, given God is timeless. The last argument says that the idea that God created the universe out of nothing is false because if it was truly out of nothing, God would be included in that nothingness, and therefore cannot create the universe. But I think this rests on a misunderstanding of creation out of nothing. Creation out of nothing I think states God created the universe out of nothing, but that does not mean created the universe with nothing else in existence. So are my criticisms on these arguments valid? Since Scientific American is a trustworthy source, I doubt these arguments would have such obvious pitfalls. Thoughts? Edit: They posted the article online. It can be found here. 

All physical measurements in the real world are approximate. To the extent that calculus is used to model physical phenomena, it is an approximation to reality [if one believes in an underlying reality at all ... a separate question.] However, within the scope of mathematics, calculus is exact. That's because calculus is based on a logically rigorous theory of the real numbers, which are based on a logically rigorous account of set theory. That is, we can start from the Zermelo-Fraenkel axioms of set theory, published in the early 1920s, and we can then develop the theory of the real numbers and calculus from those axioms. In that respect, calculus is an exact theory of some imaginary or fictional entities; since (as far as we know) there are no real numbers in the physical universe. So, you are entirely correct that calculus is only an approximation to the real world, whatever that may be. But within the domain of pure mathematics, calculus is exact. That's because the real numbers and sets in general are only abstract mathematical entities. They do not necessarily have any analog in the physical world. 

A common idea of God is that he exists outside of time. Does this make sense? Here are some objects. Do any of them work? 

Assuming no argument for or against God is valid (hence we have nothing to dictate whether or not God exists), is it valid to say the chance that the Christian God exists is infinitesimal? It seems that there are infinite possible metaphysical realities (some with a God, some not), but only one has the Christian God. However, this reasoning may not be correct. First off, we have no idea what may or may not be possible in metaphysical realities. Also, what criteria can we use to differentiate between different metaphysical realities? So, is it valid to calculate the probability of different metaphysical realities, or do we just not know? 

The problem of animal suffering states that God wouldn't allow animal suffering because animal suffering is evil. Skeptical theism is the idea that God knows infinitely more than humans, and hence we cannot say what is good or bad for God because we do not know all that He knows. A skeptical theist typically responds to the human problem of evil by saying evil is for the greater happiness or overall betterment of that person either here or in heaven. These responses seem to not apply to animals. Since it is generally accepted God does not give animals heaven, the only argument left is for the greater happiness of the animals. This seems questionable, but I guess can be argued. So what is the skeptical theist's respond to this? Note: I'm mostly talking about natural evil for animals (i.e. forest fires), but human evil toward animals are also in the picture. 

You can always play pseudo-philosophical games. "I know the sun will rise tomorrow morning." "Oh no, you really don't KNOW that." "Yes I do." "No you don't." etc. Don't do that. Get real. Philosophy is first and foremost grounded in common sense. Yes, we do know the sun will come up tomorrow. We do know the Super Bowl is being played in New Jersey this weekend. (Niner fan here, no rooting interest). We do know Chris Christie is governor of New Jersey; and that instead of showing himself off to the nation this weekend in anticipation of a 2016 presidential run; he's currently mired in an ugly political scandal that might destroy his career. These things are facts. If you are doing philosophy you can not pretend you're a college freshman up way too late consuming mind-altering substances and talking about "The meaning of it all" with your buddies. Sorry, that is not philosophy. There are facts. There are facts that every sane person experiences and agrees with. What are those facts, and how we can know them, and how we can be certain that we are seeing facts and not just our interpretations of facts; are the legitimate questions of philosophy. But you can not do philosophy by saying, "Oh well maybe I'm just a brain in a vat and my programmers are giving me all these crazy ideas." That just doesn't lead anywhere useful. Now here is my key point. I maintain that solipcism isn't a useful philosophical point of view ... even if it's true. Yes. Because it's not useful. I am making a utilitarian argument. What I know and how I can know it are good philosophical questions, given the basic reality around me. But I have to start with common sense and reality. Maybe I really am a brain in a vat. Buy more likely I'm on planet Earth in the year 2014 by the Western, or Gregorian calendar. The Super Bowl's this Sunday. I'm typing my thoughts into a browser window on my computer. A browser is a program written by programmers in a programming language. I can drill down my reductionist viewpoint to the bits on the wire and the quarks in the atoms of that wire if I need to. Science is real, the Internet is real, my computer is real. To assume otherwise is pointless. Even if I am actually a brain in a vat, there is no point in assuming that ... because I can't then use my reason and logic and powers of observation to try to understand the world around me. Whereas if the things around us are facts; if I accept basic reality and I assume that it's understandable to my reason; that gives a much more fertile and interesting domain in which to do philosophy. Solipsism is therefore an idea that is wrong, even if it's right! Because it's useless as an organizing principle for my life. 

The SEP entry on perfect moral goodness states this argument against the possibility of a perfect moral goodness. Necessarily, God actualizes some world Necessarily, for each actualizable world w1, there is an actualizable world w2 such that from the moral point of view one would prefer w2 to w1 Necessarily, for whatever world that God actualizes, there is a morally better world that God does not actualize yet could have (from (2)) Necessarily, for whatever world that God actualizes, God's act of actualizing that world is not as morally good as some other act that God does not perform but could have (from (3)) Necessarily, for whatever world that God actualizes, God's agency is not as morally good as it could have been (from (4)) Necessarily, God's agency is not perfectly good (from (1), (5)) They seem to state the main discussion point is between (3) and (4), but I don't see why one must accept (2). What makes them think a best world isn't possible? 

Given a materialist view on things (the mind cannot exist separate from the body), it seems on the surface that an afterlife is possible. However, the SEP entry on afterlife seems to provide some pretty good objections to this idea. How can any of these problems be surmounted for a theist? One of the objections is this: if God created multiple beings the same as the one on Earth, how would our consciousness be preserved? This question is not asking if mind-body dualism is right or wrong, rather I'm asking whether afterlife is possible given materialism. Edit: When I say "materialist", I mean the idea that our bodies go to heaven with our minds, not just our minds "by themselves". And this question is mostly aimed from a Christian perspective. 

"Symbiosis (from Ancient Greek σύν "together" and βίωσις "living") is close and often long-term interaction between two or more different biological species." $URL$ Assuming these married people belong to the same species, their pair-bond is not an example of symbiosis, by definition. In order for your idea to work, you would need to change the accepted definition of symbiosis. You and your gut bacteria are in symbiosis. It's true that they don't cook you breakfast; but they do help you digest it. 

It's more interesting to consider the case of making two cloned copies. They each start with the same exact state, identical to you; but from that moment on, they're independent. They each have an I. Now, so do you. If you're then killed, you're dead. Two new I's come into existence; each initially feeling and thinking exactly as you at the moment of cloning; and for every moment thereafter, a separate human being. An I. A subjective consciousness. As it happens we have a real world model in common use. In computer programming, a process is a thread of control with its own private memory space. Typically a process is a running program, such as a copy of your browser or an instance of a word processing program Now, a process can create another subprocess. (In Unix-like systems this is called a fork, but other operating systems have analagous constructs.) At the moment of forking the subprocess inherits the entire memory space of the parent process. At that moment, these are two separate processes, or running programs, executing in that machine. They have the exact same state at that moment. But from the moment of cloning and onward, these are two separate processes. They are totally independent of each other (except for the relationship of "is the parent of" that the OS remembers). No programmer would ever think they're "the same process." They're two separate processes ... independent software entities running under the operating system. They do happen to a) Run the exact same code. They execute the same program. They have the same code. b) The subprocess is initialized to have the exact same state as the parent process at the moment of cloning. It seems to me that the field of computer programming already has a rich metaphor for the notion of cloning. A cloned human is a new human that runs the same code (DNA and basic brain wiring) and initially has its state set equal to the state of the parent human. From that moment on, the two humans function independently, have different life experiences, develop their separate minds independently, act independently in the world. Exactly like a parent and child process in a Unix-like operating system. And for that matter, exactly the way a human makes a new child now! You spawn a new human and initialize it to a new-born infant state. Everyone instinctively understand that the baby is a new human being. Likewise if you cloned yourself, your clone would be at that moment a brand new human being; just one whose initial state was set equal to your current state. But it's a different I. And if they kill you, you're dead. It's your clone who will live. This is conceptually no different than a human giving birth. It's merely a question of setting the initial state. [For that matter, why not clone me but make me a lot younger!! There would be a market for that :-)] Now, how strong is my analogy between operating system process cloning and human mind-cloning or Star Trek transporter technology? As a metaphor it's solid. I think it provides great clarity when thinking about what it would mean to transfer a human consciousness into a different substrate. Whether it's literally true in some way ... we have no way of knowing. The science of consciousness (the "hard problem," as they say) is a tough nut to crack. We shouldn't be deluded by the fact that we have cool computer technology, into thinking that we'll soon be uploading minds. We don't even know what a mind is. 

If time doesn't exist (this Wikipedia page and this SEP article provide some arguments for the non-existence of time), does that mean God doesn't? Given that it is impossible for God to exist completely outside any sort of time (how would he create anything if he can't change?), how could he exist if time can't? 

What to the Gettier Problems mean for God? Given my (limited) research, the Gettier Problems say if something is true (the T in JTB), one cannot always have knowledge that it is true. If God knows everything that is true, it seems that is impossible. Is this a sound argument? 

A Scientific American article I was reading (I couldn't find it online) has a one-page discussion about nothingness. Some of the discussion points seem a little questionable to me, and I'd like to ask people more knowledgeable about some of these. The first point I'd like to know about is his argument that nothing is actually something. He says, 

I suppose it is difficult to try to picture nothingness, but I think it is meaningful to discuss. It is simply the non-existence of everything, which seems perfectly coherent and meaningful to me.