Note that it's VERY easy to overinflate a bicycle tire with these car inflators as they commonly don't have a max pressure setting. I've blown a tire off a rim using a gasoline station quick chuck. So be very careful and fill using only short, quick spurts of air. 

tl;dr: Yes, you can pretty much buy any seat except some rare/expensive racing or classic leather seats. Explanation: As long as your seat attaches by two parallel rails that are 44mm apart (which is 95% of seats), then you can replace it with another seat that also attaches by the rails. In case you don't do metric, 44mm is just under 1.75 inches measured between the center of the rails. Here's a photo of a seat with standard rails from wikimedia commons: 

And finally about the motor selection. The tiny little motor you have in your photo only has sufficient power at very high RPMs (thousands of RPM). You'll have to figure out sufficient reduction gearing to get it to wheel speed (which are only a few hundred RPM). That's tough to do in a way that also allows the motor to safely freewheel. Generally, e-bikes tend to operate at higher voltages (36 volts or more) than RC models (which tend to operate at 6s or 24 volts max). This is because you generally want at least 250 watts of power -- if not 750 or beyond. Higher voltages mean less current for the same power. But it also means you have to select a motor that is wound for as few RPM/volts as you can. You also have to select your ESC (speed controller) carefully as very few can handle high voltage and high current. There are more options than when I did my project, but you'll also find that once you price a good brushless motor ($80-120) and a good high-power ESC ($100-150) and the necessary mechanical, electrical, and electronic hacking that you have to do, you're within spitting distance of a ready-made hub-motor or mid-drive motor that are designed specifically for e-bikes and are plug-and-play. Have fun! 

Are these wheel extenders available separately? I can't find them as a separate item on Kryptonite's website and don't see anyone else offering them either. Are they called generically something else? 

However, your description of the pedals only screwing in a few threads bothers me. If it's not because you're trying to screw the left pedal in the wrong direction and if it's not because you're cross-threading then ... 

Electric baseboard heaters are entirely resistive heat, so there should be no problem assuming the temperature isn't extreme. What becomes a problem is if you store the wheels near a DC electric motor that uses brushes. These produce a small amount of ozone, which contributes to the premature destruction of tire rubber. Most AC motors are brushless, so are fine. However, you should know that some air purifiers work by producing ozone. In addition, some office equipment such as older photocopiers also have DC motors that produce a lot of ozone. These have mostly been phased out because of health concerns but are responsible for the characteristic smell of copy machines. 

It depends. If an inexperienced person such as your regular consumer does it, it could take a few hours especially if you don't have the proper tools or preparation. If an experienced person at the shop does it with their tools, it could take half an hour if all the spokes are the right length, it's a standard lacing, or they've done the same wheel before. For example, in this youtube video, a skilled wheelbuilder only takes 7:30 seconds to built a new 32-spoke wheel up from scratch using pre-measured spokes. Dishing and tensioning the wheel would take perhaps another five to ten minutes. 

Looks like a low bridge / arch bridge warning. Strange, they usually have text indicating the minimum height. $URL$ 

Are you sure those hex bolts are cracked? They could instead just have peeling chrome. Hex bolts tend to accumulate water and grime and thus corrosion. It could just be surface peeling of the chrome. I'd poke at them with a sharp ice pick and see if it's just surface peeling of chrome or if the bolts are actually cracked. If it's the former you can ignore. If it's the latter, follow @criggie's suggestion. 

You can get puncture resistant inner tubes, liners, or just squeeze a bunch of Slime into the current inners. Or not worry about it, keep your tires properly inflated, and be a happy camper. 

Recumbent / trikes tend to use mountain-bike shifting equipment because they need the extra gear range. While there is a difference in cable pull between road and mountain sets, front shifters on the whole tend to be much less picky than rear shifters about chain width because essentially the limit for front shifting has stayed at 3 chainrings (aside from @Criggie with his 4 chainring setup). While it is optimal to try to match the chain width (speed), it is not a necessity. As always: Sheldon Brown That means you can use pretty much any (Shimano) mountain bike triple front derailleur that fits. The main consideration for you will be how to mount the front derailleur. If you're using a clamp mount, you have to have one that can fit the tube where the derailleur mounts (the 34.9mm in the examples below are the seat tube thickness but many times the derailleur will come with a variety of clamps and shims to match different tube sizes). If you have braze-ons, they need to fit the braze-ons. The other consideration is where the cable pull comes from (from the top or bottom of the derailleur as it would be normally mounted on a standard bicycle). Many front derailleurs allow for pull from either direction (dual pull) but some like the SRAM below are "top-pull only" or "bottom-pull only." 

The advantage of this design is that at the end of the day, you can separate the two bikes which retain the ability to operate separately. This also makes storing and transport much easier. It works on adult tricycles as well as delta trikes. Tadpole trikes require a little more work (a solid rear rack). 

Red-arrow: Chainstay-bottom bracket bridge mount: This is the traditional kickstand mounting place for many bikes -- and many bikes have a welded bracket for a kickstand here (the photo here is taken of the bottom of the bike): 

I'm surprised that suspension stems appear to have essentially disappeared. Why? They seemed a cheap and easy solution to give a bike front suspension. They could also be made lighter than suspension forks. What were the negatives? 

The most accurate way to do it would be with a pitot tube to measure wind velocity and then to contrast that against speed-over-ground from your GPS or wheel speed sensors. Before one laughs about the science-fiction nature of this, there's a product that does so: The PowerPod (link is to DC RainMaker's review of it). The Isaac software that comes with the PowerPod allows you to extract effective wind speed and direction amongst other things. 

This should help you considerably (along with old towels and maybe a moving blanket) to put the bike cleanly in the car with the rear wheel off. 

I haven't tested the breakaways in an accident (and don't hope to) but I can say that the light and battery have released when I've hit them on low ceilings in my garage, to my chagrin. 

Note that if that's the original AVA stem, you should immediately replace it. Google "AVA Peugeot Death Stem" if you want to know why (basically, it has a tendency to er... snap ... while riding). 

A crank-based motor such as a Bafang BBS-HD (these are usually called 'mid-drive' but this designation makes less sense for recumbent trikes). This would take advantage of the rear differential (if available). If the trike doesn't have a differential, it will pull in the same direction as when pedaled. With a powerful crank motor, this can be quite dangerous as it will either you pull you into traffic (left) or off the road (right). So I would suggest you use mid-drive crank motor on a trike only if you have a differential. A front hub-motor is better given the complexities of creating a differential for the two rear wheels. This has the advantage of not pulling to one side, but the disadvantage that you can easily lose traction, especially when going uphill (and especially if you have your batteries in the rear rack). 

tl;dr - You have a cheaply made bike which is why it's squirrelly, I’d return it and get a quality used bike. Your bike has an MSRP of ZAR3575 which equates to around US$285 or €240. Assuming that it’s sold for less than 80% of MSRP that means it’s a 200 eurodollar bike. 

Your hub has 3/8" (9.52mm) solid axles and most forks are set up for quick releases (9mm). There are some 10mm quick release dropouts as well as 12mm, but they seem to be exclusive to rear dropouts. The easiest solution would be to get a quick release hub. A new wheel is cheaper than most new forks. A used wheel can often be gotten for free or close to free from a bicycle coop. If you insist on using 9mm forks with your 3/8 axles, then you really want an engineer to look at your dropouts to tell you if you can dremel out 0.52mm of material in a safe enough way. If your fork tabs are flat BMX style tabs, it might be safe, but most forks these days are cast. I personally wouldn't risk it. 

Bike Blue book has the original tires on a 2012 model as 700c x 35: bluebook You could just go with any 700c x 35 tire. I've found that many local bike shops can order for a similar price as mail order and they'd be able to match your tread to the terrain and weather conditions in your area. As far as width, you might be able to go slightly wider with a 37mm (as you currently have) or 38. It all depends on your tire clearance, especially if you have fenders. 

Cottered Cranks The use of cottered cranks was popular on bikes until the mid to late 1970s until they were replaced by square taper and splined bottom bracket designs. Raleigh, for example, introduced square tapers on some models in 1973 and phased cotters out on all their models around 1978. Like many things, the shift to square tapered and splined brackets took some time so there were still some mainstream bike companies still using them in the early 1980s. However, a cottered crank is generally a good sign your bike is pre-1980. In some factories in China and India that are still working off old blueprints, cottered spindles may still be in use in the manufacture of new bikes. 

I think the question is too broad and too vague to be answerable. First, it’s unclear what you mean by components. Do you include the wheels, forks, handlebars, saddle, seatpost, and crankset? Essentially everything except the basic diamond frame? What component series are you talking about? Note that some if not many if not most high end components require the frame be designed to take them. So they are essentially un-upgradeable to. So you can’t take your grandfather’s road bike and put top tier components on it as they won’t fit. As far as the component discount between buying them on a frame and getting them individually, I’d figure around 50% but it’s more complex than that as it depends on the series level. 

You could drill out the rivets (and later replace them with button-head hex screws) so that you could take off the chainrings. But this would be more effort than its worth. And it's not like you could easily find replacement chainrings anyway. As @criggie notes, there's not nearly enough rust to make this worth it. Scrubbing the chainrings with chain cleaner and a brush should take off most of it. Those 'rust' marks are places where the chain abrades when the gears shift, any paint you put on them will be scraped off the next time you shift. 

Case studies: 1) Low-end fat ebike (Sondors fatbike, around US$700-1000, rear hubmotor). The battery compartment takes up the entire main triangle, which means you can't fit a front derailleur without some cutting and sawing. Not having a front derailleur also no doubt saves some money. Note that this is the fat Sondors but he regular Sondors has the same design. 

Even if they were heavily contaminated, pads should have enough grip to lock up against hand pressure. My first guess is that your pads are worn to nothing and you're trying to grip the rotor with the pad holders. New pads would be the first order of the day. The second thing would be that you've tightened up the slack adjustment too much or that you've clamped the brake line at the brake so high that you have no brake travel left. So you're essentially hitting the limit of the brake when you squeeze, rather than grabbing down with your caliper. I'd take it to your local bike shop. A one minute look over would tell them if you needed new shoes or brake cable adjustment. 

Stickers, skin, and tape can do a good job of #2 and #3. They might not do as good a job as powder coating in #1 (oxidation, water) protection especially in wet environments and around areas with complex shapes such as the bottom bracket. 

If this is your first long distance ride, then you should probably do a supported ride. Your friend /spouse in the van would carry spare tires, spare parts, a spare bike, medical supplies, and tools. And lunch or dinner as well as water. They can carry your tent and sleeping bags if you want to camp under the stars. They'd help ferry you to the next motel if you bonk in the middle of the Arizona desert and give you shelter in a sudden thunderstorm or tornado. They can hit the antique shops or casinos between segments while you're pedaling away. I can't think of a better (faster, safer) upgrade for a newbie long distance rider. 

You're right that most cycling shoe covers are made for clipless and only have a small cutout for the cleat. They'd get shredded by walking too much or using platform pedals. You could use hiking gaiters instead. Alternatively, these delightful DIY shoe covers are open on the bottom, waterproof, and made with things found around the house. 

However, to make sense of this data we'd also have to know what proportion of colors are the most popular amongst bike sales because if Black bikes make up 25% of the market but only 14% of thefts, then black bikes would be proportionately less likely to be stolen. So some further research is needed. 

Although your pocketbook won't like this solution, the Alfine Di2 wireless brifter from Shimano does have an 8-speed option. It's not as much an internal [shifter] cable solution as a wireless shifter and internal brake cable solution. As commenters have pointed out, the Alfine is for internal geared hubs. You might be able to bodge a solution with their Dura-Ace wireless brifters but it'll be similarly expensive and may not work. 

The main problem with them is that seatpost mount racks are only for light duty with a max capacity of around 10kg (or 22 American freedom units). The other (minor) problem is that it makes it harder to raise and lower your seat. As @criggie notes in comments, another option is P clips that use your wheel bolts to mount standard panniers. The only problem is the width of the rear wheel hub may make it hard to fit standard panniers. You might also consider getting a trailer for doing your shopping. 

They do sell a variety of bicycle hard panniers - and people have made their own using a variety of materials from ammo boxes to plastic tubs. 

Most ebike kits with hub motors are sized for 26" mountain bike tires and not the larger 700c road/hybrid tire. There are numerous reasons for this: 

Your brake pads are worn down. As a result, you've had to cinch down on the brake cable so much that there's almost no brake movement possible. 

Not directly. A sealed cartridge bearing needs a machined surface to mate to and your old bottom bracket has threads in the way. Furthermore, with an 80s Schwinn you might have problems finding the right threaded cartridge bottom bracket. You can, however, use a universal converter like the Velo Orange universal bottom bracket: 

For just wiping down the frame, dilute dishwashing detergent in water is fine. For tougher caked on grease, I find that any citrus based cleaner that you find in your local bike shop or auto parts store tends to work well. The only caution is that it shouldn't attack rubber tires - but anything in a bike shop or auto parts store usually won't. The usual cautions about not spraying the cleaning fluid directly into axles or bottom brackets apply. Best to spray it onto a rag first and then wipe. If it's too powerful, it might take off some decals so you can also dilute the cleaner. For polishing chrome and steel, I like Barkeeper's Friend after degreasing. It's not too abrasive and does the shiny. 

There are three parties involved: A. You (the bicyclist) B. The driver C. The local/city/state/federal agency responsible for road maintenance If the road was in good condition and the car was following too closely to you, then the car might be at fault. That being said, in the USA, many states require that windshields be covered under the 'no-fault' portion of the insurance, so the driver will have it replaced by their own insurance company. If you were riding in a manner either negligently or deliberately that might kick up rocks, then you might be responsible. If the road was poorly maintained and you and the driver were both acting responsibly, then the city/state/local agency may be responsible - although many times they have immunity. Which party is responsible is determined by the situation as well as the traffic laws of your country. Ultimately, a jury or administrative judge would figure out where to find fault if it came to that. In the case of a building, since it obviously can't move, you might be the responsible party unless you can blame the city/state for the poor conditions of the road (an argument which would be weakened if you commuted regularly on that section and thus knew that the conditions there were poor). Whether you are liable and for how much again depends on the laws of your country.