"Harriet will go if and only if Gloria goes" means the statements "Harriet will go" and "Gloria will go" have the same truth values; that is to say 

The statement (¬Y)→(¬X) is called the contrapositive of the statement X→Y. A statement and its contrapositive are always logically equivalent. 

A name that aptly describes the person or thing it refers to is an aptronym; one which describes the opposite attributes is an inaptronym. There is a hypothesis that when a person is named a certain way, they tend to behave in a way that fits their name; this is called nominative determinism. There does not seem to be a term describing the opposite idea; if you like, you might call it “nominative indeterminism”. 

For Kant, if the action has no moral worth, then it is morally neutral. In your example, as James Kingsbery pointed out, there may be hidden duties like that of honoring your parents, which would make it so you have an obvious right thing to do. But if we take the example at face value, in such a case you are merely acting on your desires, and your action therefore has no moral dimension. In this connection it may be worth remembering that actions that are performed merely from desire are not actually free actions for Kant. So in choosing your ice cream you are just like a rock rolling down a hill - totally causally determined and without any moral features. Final addendum points: Evil actions are also conditioned by desire, but in those cases one's desires actually contradict the moral law, as opposed to the ice cream case, where they do not impact it at all. Also, I should say that this answer is focused on Kant, and may not generalize to other deontologists. Thank you. 

If you have never heard differential equations talking to you while walking in the forest, it’s because you aren’t trying to analyse the forest on your walk and so you don’t need to hear anything mathematical. We can all contemplate and appreciate Nature, how beautiful it is, and while we do so we don’t need maths or anything technical. It is when we wish to study Nature, when we want to understand why a particular aspect of Nature behaves as it does, that we need some technical language – and maths is the language that has been developed throughout history for this purpose. Understanding Nature through mathematics in no way takes away our appreciation of Nature; on the contrary it compliments and enhances our love and respect for it. If we tried to analyse Nature without maths (as primitive humans did) it would be all too easy to slip into superstitions and false beliefs. 

Truth tables are used to define what validity is. For that reason, they cannot fail to be reliable indicators of validity. There may be cases in which what seems intuitively invalid comes out as valid according to the truth table. In these cases, you will likely want to examine your intuitions or make some clarifications as to your language. For example, this might happen if you treat a counterfactual conditional in the same way as a normal conditional. In this case, people considered the matter and decided that the intuitive problem was due to the counterfactual nature of the conditional, not to a problem with the truth table. Philosophers are very reluctant to conclude that truth tables are not guides to validity because they are definitional of what validity is, so challenging them would require a wholly new conception of validity (not that there aren't such conceptions around, but I assume that's outside the scope of this question). 

This is how you interpret the two propositions “intuitively”. When working with formal logic, however, it is important not to be distracted by intuition. Focus on the relations between statements and their truth values, not the meanings of the statements themselves. The two intuitive interpretations above look simiar and may even seem to be identical, but they are NOT identical. If you analyse them closely, you will find that, given that each of the statements A, B. C is false, Proposition 1 is false while Proposition 2 is true. Let us see why. The assertion A → B is true because A is false: it is an example of a vacuous truth. (Intuitively you might say that “if I have wings then I can fly” is a true assertion – but again I must warn you to leave intuition alone for now. The assertion is true not because I have wings but because I don’t!) Hence Proposition 1 ((A → B) → C) is of the form TRUE → FALSE, and such an implication is . What about Proposition 2 (A → (B → C))? Well, since A is false, the whole of the proposition is , whatever the rest of it may be (it is another example of a vacuous truth). Since I have no wings, any assertion conditional upon my having wings is automatically true. 

Kant discusses the ontological proof of God at around A597/B625... But his discussion of the analytic/synthetic distinction comes right at the beginning of the book - I'm willing to bet it's in the preface. As I'm sure you know though, Kant does think there is synthetic knowledge of a priori truths, though it's debatable whether or not truths about existence would qualify as a priori. 

I'm not aware of a formal definition of proposition, and the issue is highly contentious, but one way to think about them is as follows. Take a sentence like "Clarissa is a fish". You can believe this, as in the sentence, "I believe Clarissa is a fish". You can hope it: "I hope Clarissa is a fish." You can doubt it: "I doubt Clarissa is a fish". These are various different propositional attitudes you take toward the proposition, but through them all the proposition is one and the same. You can also say the sentence today and/or tomorrow. You can say it to your friend and/or to your teacher. You can write it down and/or say it. You can say it in English or translate it into German. The sentence is what changes in all these permutations but not the proposition. In sum, the proposition is in effect the idealized content of the sentence, which is constant through time, place, translation, and propositional attitude. In this sense you can understand it as an abstraction from the sentences in which it occurs.