Paper controls where these go, who owns them - same goes for something as essential as the house you live in. And yet: 

So: the poem can be read literally. The "rough beast" is the resurrection of a thousand dead gods in a single image. It is terrifying only because it will wipe out our Christianised, homogenised culture and return us to a primal state. That said, there is no doubt that Yeats was well aware of the symbolic values of his verse, because he talked about them himself. In a 1936 letter he wrote that the poem was: 

(I asked a more verbose version of this question on Sci Fi & Fantasy where it didn't go down well. It seemed to get bogged down in whether or not the Potterverse really is "inconsistent". But I feel it's an interesting topic which might go down better here.) The Harry Potter books are a ripping yarn, but the logical consistency of their setting tends to play second fiddle to the demands of character and story. It is hard to see how many aspects of Wizard society and economy might function and is the cause of many fan questions. Of course, there are no rules to say fantasy worlds have to make logical sense. The fashion, since Tolkien, is that they should. But prior to him (and a few later examples), wild flights of fancy were the norm. Kazuro Ishiguro is on record has saying he's not interested in whether his fantasy worlds make any sense, merely in whether they work to help examine his chosen themes. This makes me wonder whether these omissions may have been partially deliberate on the part of the author. What if Rowling intentionally made aspects of the wizarding world nonsensical in order to make points about modern society? Take Quidditch. It leaves much to be desired as a sport, yet many Wizards seem oblivious and remain fanatically devoted to it. Could this not be read as a wry commentary on the fanatical devotion shown by many sports fans to what are, after all, relatively inconsequential pursuits? And the "poor" nature of some Wizarding families in spite of the magic available to them. Again, perhaps a comment on how a rich western society still relegates some people to live in poverty, in spite of the wealth of the nation? Has Rowling ever intimated, or is there any additional evidence, that some or all of the logical inconsistency in her invented world should be read as allegory or metaphor? 

Why would Ishmael take the trouble to let us know that he's telling us a story in a given "style", rather than simply relating the story? This may be a stylistic flourish my Melville, but it may also be an indication that Ishmael isn't telling the whole truth when he relates his tale. 

This is a reference to media and politics. The "moving-pictures’ promise" is that on-screen, people do well if they work hard. It's not just cinema but a representation of the "American dream", which finds perhaps its clearest expression in Hollywood. The farmer is working hard, not wanting to fall back on charity or the state, but is not being rewarded. This is alluded to later in the poem: 

If we concentrate, we will find the tune - a metaphor for the a spiritual outcome - that we've been looking for. And in doing so we will become closer together - more like one - and that will bind us, cement us is place and in peace. It's significant this is the denouement of the song, since it goes out on this positive message after having wound cryptically along for much of its length. In summary then, the song was written deliberately to invite multiple, shifting interpretations, but one of those is certainly a message of hope and comfort since that's the tone on which it concludes. 

There's no great mystery to this: it literally means what it says. Newly-dug graves are often covered with canvas to protect them from the rain. Otherwise, the dug earth would turn to mud. This is especially true before the coffin is lowered into the hole. Not only is the expanse of bare earth greater, but making the hole blend in with the green grass makes it less frightening and worrying for the mourners to behold. Here's an example: 

Cú Chulainn is a famous character from Irish myth, and the accidental slaying of his son is part of the legend. On Baile's Strand is a retelling of parts of the myth, with some added subplots and comedy. Yeats, being Irish, would have presumed his audience was familiar with the rest of the story already. In the myth, the young Cú Chulainn travels to Scotland to train with the famed warrior-woman Scáthach. While there he fights against Scáthach's fierce rival Aífe and becomes the first person to beat her. He agrees to spare her life in exchange for her bearing him a son. When the son is 8, and already a fierce warrior, he travels to Ireland to find his father. In some versions of the tale he is sent by his mother to kill Cú Chulainn in revenge for his marrying another woman, and she tells him never to identify himself to his foes. For whatever reason, the boy fails to claim his identify and is slain by Cú Chulainn, who has never seen his son, as an invader. When Cú Chulainn finds out, he is grief stricken. There's a good Wikipedia page on Cú Chulainn. Here's what it says specifically about the death of his son: 

It's impossible to answer a question like this with a definitive no, and it's an interesting notion, but it seems unlikely. For starters, Lovecraft was never shy of naming his inspirations. 

I recently finished American Gods by Neil Gaiman. Among the criticisms I felt fair to level at it was that Shadow, the central protagonist, is very much a blank slate. We rarely get any insight to his inner thought processes, and his speech and actions don't seem to imbue him with much character at all. Reading around, it seems other people have picked up on this too. He is commonly described as "taciturn", which is a rather more charitable way of implying what I'm saying. This made me wonder whether it might be a deliberate choice on the part of the author. So: is there any given reason, or any literary or stylistic value to the lack of character in Shadow's character? 

This is a take on the nursery rhyme (originally a music hall song) A Frog He Would A-wooing Go which ends with the words "Heigh ho! says Anthony Rowley", a mere letter's difference from the book quote. It's a thin connection, but if Crowley's name is already used by the authors for one somewhere obscure reference, it seems likely that the much more obvious reference was also intentional. 

The essay Jesting in Earnest by Daniel Gabelman, included in the book Re-Embroidering the Robe: Faith, Myth and Literary Creation since 1850 seems to imply the pun in the name may be "Copy Kant". Here's the relevant passage. 

We learn that he is a sailor who has previously only served on merchant's vessels. This fails to explain how he seems to have an almost encyclopaedic knowledge of whaling. Far more, you would imagine, than a novice whaler could learn on their first and only voyage. Yet again, though, Melville wants to talk about whaling, in detail, so he has to furnish Ishmael with this knowledge in order to include the desired content. Finally, there are occasions when Ishmael makes some very odd narrative decisions. Take this, for example, from chapter 54: 

There are multiple purposes behind the novel structure of Moby-Dick. In the first instance the author was himself a whaleman, having spent 18 months as an ordinary seaman aboard the whaler Acushnet in 1841–42. In his experience the literature of the day, such as Miriam Coffin or The Whale-Fisherman by Joseph Hart, did not portray whaling accurately but rather sensationalised it. He wished to provide his readers with a more realistic account. In doing so, he also gave the reader the information necessary to better understand and appreciate the passages of whaling described in the novel. With the reader forewarned, he is able to keep the narrative passages tense and exciting. It is interesting that, early in the novel, the Pequod meets virutally no whales and that the chases become longer and more involved as the story progresses. This may be because Melville felt he needed to give the reader more and more technical information before they could fully appreicate these encounters, but understood the science would need to be spaced out among the narrative. In describing it to the reader, the science also serves another useful narrative function. It indicates that on whaling voyages, long periods of time pass when nothing much happens at all. By padding out of the story with scientific digressions serves as a useful narrative metaphor for waiting. The level of detail provided also mirrors one of the novel's central themes: obsession. Although Ishmael is the narrator and Ahab the obvious obsessive, the amount of science indicates that Ishmael is also an obsessive. His obsession is the business of whaling itself. Finally, Melville made good use of these passages in serving as metaphors for other themes of the novel where he felt it appropriate. For example in the chapter The Line, which describes how the whale line is stored and used in the boat, it ends by using the line as a metaphor. 

"Sweet" is a description you might use for a cute child, not a young adult. This association is strengthened because sweets (as in the confection) are associated with children. You might also use it to describe a pretty young girl, casting doubt on Rodolfo's sexuality. "An angel" is an interesting one because it is ostensibly a compliment on someone's virtue. But that is not the intention here, given the content. Angelic is, again, a phrase associated with the innocence of childhood and cherubim, literally angels in the form of a child. Innocence and virtue are also traditionally feminine qualities. "Kiss him" is, coming from a man, another dig at Rodolfo's sexuality. This rough man is insinuating that Rodolfo is girlish enough in looks and behaviour to arouse sexual feeling in other men. It's also stated passively, suggesting that Rodolfo might actually encourage and enjoy such attention. 

Spoilers abound in this question about this sci-fi horror short, so you might want to read it at Project Gutenberg first. 

If correct, it is possible to interpret this verse (and the wider song) as a metaphor for the way the US economy thrives by hawking low-quality products to the poor, represented by Highway 61, the road to the deep south. 

If this is correct, then the fact Blodeuwedd is pacified at the end of the book means it is not the end of the cycle and that she will come again. This means that Roger's victory is far less important than it first appears. He may have saved Alison or Gwyn, or he may not, but he has not laid Blodeuwedd to rest. 

The central point of this skit is, of course, to illustrate that the Colonels are ill-educated "fools": neither has heard of one of the most famous poets of the 20th century. But any famous poet would do for that: why Eliot? The biggest reason simply seems to be that Heller, the author of Catch-22, was a fan. Heller taught English at college, and Eliot would have been a common part of the curriculum. Letters sent by Heller quote Eliot as an inspiration, saying that The Waste Land was "always present in my awareness". Heller also quotes Eliot in interviews: