—source This is a theoretical calculation so take it with a grain of salt. These are relatively small currents, and correspond to a 15 milliWatts (&approx;1.5 × 10-5A × 10 ×3V) for every meter of ungrounded fence. Now, a house consumes about 100,000 times more power (kiloWatts). Is it possible? Yes, there is clearly a voltage gradient at which point how much energy can be harvested is a matter of size of the antenna we use. Is it feasible? No, because the size is likely to be a few kilometers of ungrounded wire, which is not exactly a cheap solution. It is in fact, potentially deadly, as anyone touching it would get a major shock, certainly illegal and very hard to hide. I will post more papers if I find them - most are IEEE papers behind a paywall :-( 

It's reported, but not conclusively demonstrated by experiment. Also, in some cases sex is known to cause migraine. I found absolutely no evidence for it being more than a temporary analgesic, let alone a cure. source Primary sexual headache This is a well known ailment which affects about 1% of the population. There are three main kinds: 

Egyptians at the time were known to use the six simple machines, known to humankind since almost the dawn of time: 

For people with secondary sleeping disorders Melatonin did not have a clinically significant effect in the reviewed moderate-to-high quality studies. 

This video which shows a Kindle safely going through an X-Ray machine at an airport without damage: $URL$ The expert opinion of Professor Daping Chu, Head of the Photonics & Sensors Group in the Electrical Engineering Division, Cambridge University Engineering Department. 

The passage is a paraphrase of "De Rerum Natura" by Lucretius. Note that, while he does propose natural selection and puts forth a non-creationist view of nature, he doesn't really propose a theory which is similar to evolution. He suggests that novel creatures are literally born out of Earth (in womb-like cavities). Earth was colonized by subsequent geni and races 

Male masturbation lubricants are fairly mainstream on Amazon.com. For example this personal lubricant is clearly marketed for male masturbation and it's one of the top 100 personal lubricants on Amazon.com: 

I think everybody heard this claim, and its opposite, a million times. Students or teachers commonly speak about having talents for a particular subject or another. The subject is debated, for example, here: 

Catholic News Agency is reporting quotes from a document correctly, yet the evidence the document presents does not support these conclusion and it's otherwise unconvincing. The news piece cites this report and uses quotation marks for the claim. In fact the report claims 

He very, very likely never did. I've traced that citation back to 2009 where it first appeared on the internet according to Google, in particular here: 

—DOCUMENTATION on Issues Regarding the installation of Smart Meters Is any of this supported by evidence? 

Happiness According to the 2013 World Happiness Report, commissioned by the United Nations, they also do pretty well: 

This is a "No true Scotsman" argument. For example there was the great famine in Ireland in the 1850s when it was part of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland which was clearly a democracy. Of course, this is explicitly excluded because it was not a "functioning" democracy. Another example would be the home fronts during World War II. Although many countries were not democratic, a few were, and famine and malnutrition was endemic in Europe. Of course, this was during a war, so it could be called a different case yet again. Wikipedia's list of famines clearly shows that famines have happened in many democratic countries, including the United States. My speculation is that this has much more to do with functioning economies than functioning democracies. Single-party states such as China, Vietnam or Eritrea have functioning economies but lack democracy, and as far as I know seem not to be having famines recently. So, a functioning democracy is not needed to have a functioning economy. Wikipedia has a section on the causes of famine: sure enough, government policy is a possible cause, but so are natural causes 

This, in a year, will statistically lead to around 10,000 more deaths than placebo per year, assuming that the dementia patient data can be extended to the whole set of olanzapine users, that a unit corresponds to a month's worth of medicine and that the figure is representative of a typical month. Olanzapine was released in 1996. This means 17 years of use, or 170,000 possible statistical deaths. This is probably an upper limit as it would be surprising to see a figure of 1 million units per month in the first year of sale, for example. That said, the effect measured is barely statistically significant, so we can't confidently conclude that there were any extra deaths. In any case the 200,000 figure doesn't seem to be justified by the numbers, as the best upper estimate I can come up with is 170,000, even though, if the effect was confirmed, it would mean that a substantial number of people died because of this molecule. 

No, but they sleep a lot Source Koalas have an extremely slow metabolism because they are herbivores that eat eucalyptus exclusively. Eucalyptus is a poor nutrient (high fibre, low protein). Because of this, they tend to sleep or rest a lot. 

However there is no effect for less than two hours at full brightness, which is clearly not how I would typically use an iPad before falling asleep: 

It's a human model. The act is a marketing stunt to promote the game "Detroit: become human" which features such androids as characters you play. You can clearly see less "androidy" androids in this other movie from the same expo: $URL$ In particular you can also see the clearly fictional slogans appearing, such as "Take one home today", and the game title. In other words, this is a game being presented, at a game expo, that features androids. They are actors. 

securedatarecovery.com—boasting high-profile customers, from Nasa to Microsoft—also gives the same advice: 

No it isn't, at least in UK in 2010. It's the best data I could find and it will require some calculations. I will try to err in favor of the claim in order to disprove it convincingly. 

—The electric chair Botched executions There's plenty of literature documenting botched execution with fire and burning due to poor sponges: 

Entire physical sciences need to be proven totally wrong before Y. E. C. is acceptable If the Earth were young, it would imply that: 

No, depression is not caused by an allergic reaction, that seems to be made up. According to the excellent NHS site 

No, he couldn't have been. He was born in 1936 and Black Sabbath was most famous in his 40's (1970's). In the picture he is wearing a cassock, which clearly does not normally have Black Sabbath images printed on top, and he's clearly in his late 20's or early 30's. In particular, the poster depicted as the t-shirt image shows the Master of Reality logo from 1971. The pope would have been 35 in that year. 

I've known for some time the joke about the American military ship insisting that another ship moves out of their way just to discover it was a lighthouse. I've always thought it was simply a joke, but today this video appeared in my Facebook feed. It's the same story, but it's seemingly an authentic radio recording of the event. Is this radio recording staged? Did the event take place? 

—The electric chair The brine increases conductivity Salt water is an excellent conductor of electricity. 

—Unlocking the Energy Dynamics of Executive Functioning: Linking Executive Functioning to Brain Glycogen - Perspectives on Psychological Science July 1, 2008 3: 245-263 

I've heard numerous times that eating1 a high quantity of sugar will give you a "sugar high" or "sugar buzz" 

I've heard claimed many times that reading an iPad in bed makes for worse sleep quality than reading a book or a Kindle with a bedside lamp, Possible explanations I've heard are because of the brightness level, the blue-rich light or the angle of lighting. Looking on wikipedia probably raised more questions than settled: 

Faúndes A, Hardy E. Illegal abortion: consequences for women's health and the health care system. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 1997 Jul;58(1):77-83. The article with regards to Chile might be this (unfortunately I can't find the body, and the abstract does not make the claims you mention): Foro Red de Salud y Derechos Sexuales y Reproductivos; .Red Salud de las Mujeres Latinoamericanas y del Caribe Humanized care of unsafe abortion in Chile: monitoring as practical women's citizenship: Santiago de Chile; Foro Red de Salud y Derechos Sexuales y Reproductivos­Chile; 2003. 26 p. tab. But I've also found this peer-reviewed criticism (emphasis mine): 

As a side note: in cryptography it is beneficial to be a bit paranoid or to have the mindset of a conspiracy theorist. In the world of cryptography, who did it effectively doesn't matter. If the algorithm is weak, you should assume the worst: that the NSA (or the bad guys) can crack it, and move to something else. 

A very good meta-analysis of ~2,000 studies has been performed by the US National Renewable Energy Laboratory. What they found is that recent PV systems are predicted to last over 25 years (maybe 30 or so), the older one are a litlle less reliable. The figure that follows is takend from the NREL study linked above and gives an idea of typical measured life times of panels in studies varying by the year the study was published. 

The disease is well studied and there are four known factors, two of which are related to the loss of high frequencies: 

—Dietary Guidelines for Americans The document has a large section dedicated to the effects of fats and references. 

Final report on the safety assessment of Calendula officinalis extract and Calendula officinalis, Int J Toxicol. 2001;20 Suppl 2:13-20. 

In Italy, we had the Beasts of Satan killing 4 people for "Satanic" reasons, of which at least two in a satanic ritual. 

As you can see, the top 20% (more or less) consumes about 50% of the alchool (more or less). It's very far away from 80%. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that the top 20% is the same people every week: if enough people have a sporadic wild night out once a year, they would appear as heavy drinkers in this table. This makes it either realistic or an over estimation in favor of the claim. Based on this I can conclude that the evidence points against the claim. 

Bob Altemeyer & Bruce Hunsberger, Authoritarianism, Religious Fundamentalism, Quest, and Prejudice, International Journal for the Psychology of Religion, Volume 2, Issue 2, 1992 Anti-Semitism 

This is to say: obviously it would be a very negative event, with consequences. That said, there's no evidential support for an apocalyptic scenario such as the one presented by the claimants. In fact, they have an appendix dedicated to "E1 HEMP Myths" and they openly call out apocalyptic scenarios as "not very believable": 

--Changes in back pain, sleep quality, and perceived stress after introduction of new bedding systems However, using a new mattress (possibly medium-firm) will result in better sleep, less back ache and less stress, than sleeping in an older bed: 

$URL$ I don't know if this quote is made up or not, but the most similar thing I could find is this image which is about "synergistic" toxicity. 

—She cannot sink, says official of White Star Line There is then the following image, reportedly from a White Star Line brochure: 

Surprisingly enough, these "branches" make energy companies more revenue than actually selling energy on the consumer market. 

That video is a part of episode 10: "The Edge of Forever" A copy of that episode can be found on DailyMotion, and that clip starts at 34m50s. Please note: the cosmology in the video is a bit dated (the episode is 35 years old!) 

There is no particular preference for cancer victims to go to Lourdes over victims of other illnesses, so we can estimate that at most 12-17% of the critically/terminally ill are there for cancer-related reasons (one of the preconditions for a "miraculous cure" is a diagnosed disease). Not all people go to Lourdes for a terminal illness though, so the more conservative 5% figure that Sagan provided potentially compensates for this. In other words, if 5% of people coming to Lourdes are there to cure cancer, then their number would amount to 10 million people. Out of a set of 10 million cancer victims, we should normally expect between 10 and 100 cases of spontaneous remission of the disease, statistically speaking. However, only 5 cases of "cancer miracles" are reported from Lourdes, making the healing powers of Lourdes statistically insignificant over pure chance. Most of the other alleged "cures" are pre-1970 and related to TBC and MS, which are now either curable or known to have high rates of temporary remission. Funnily enough, the number of alleged "cures" has diminished as medical science has learned to heal patients of the most common ailments and to properly diagnose common remissions.