As always, the uniform would differ from one school to another school. But in the Showa period (1920s-1985) school uniforms is highly characterized by a strong influence from the military - especially the navy. Japan had been in rigorous military transformation since the start of Meiji period (1868), and it is reflected in the education system it produced - on creating youth with a strong character. Gakuran is the standard uniform for boys. It has a clear militaristic influence from the design. It is still used by delinquent groups nowadays to replicate the past militaristic glory. While for the girls, the standard uniform is the nowadays popular sailor fuku (seifuku). It's a tad different from the contemporary imagery of seifuku though. It still has a clear navy influence. 

[Source (sic) given in Wikipedia is Franz Herre: Napoleon Bonaparte. Eine Biographie. München 2006, S. 12–18, Volker Ullrich: Napoleon. Reinbek bei Hamburg 2004, S. 16–22.] From the English Wikipedia on James MacPherson, a Scottish writer and politician: 

Over the centuries, the equipment has looked like this (there is also World War I British equipment displayed): 

Germany lost an army of 200.000 to 300.000 in Stalingrad, 6th Army, part of "Heeresgruppe Süd". The German field army had 4.000.000 personnel in 1942 [Creveld, Fighting Power, German and US Army Performance, 1939-1945], which made this a loss of manpower of 5%. 

The weight (an average) soldier carries has increased from World War I. If you look at the respective article for the equipment of a World War I soldier, you can ask yourself which items you consider dispensable. This article probably gives what an average British soldier carried in World War I: 

That he correctly portrayed Stalin (and his political enforcers) as someone who saw his own people as a resource to be used and wasted as he saw fit. He cared little for his own people and everything for his own image. In terms of human genocide he's right up there with the very worst of the 20th century alongside Mao and Hitler. It's no coincidence that the loss of Russian life was almost as much as the German and allied losses put together. No surprise then that the Russians don't think particularly highly of anyone who might criticise him. 

There were essentially 3 classes of Roman - Patrician, an elite wealthy group of families, who mostly formed the senate Plebeian, free land owning citizens, some with a right to vote, some without depending on whether they lived in Rome or outside it and Slaves, who were considered property and had no rights. Specialised workers therefore could have fallen into either of plebeian or slave. Plebeian if they worked for themselves and slave if they undertook the work on behalf of an owner. Privilege was earnt by right of status and/or wealth rather than what work you undertook. The wealthier you were the more status and influence you would have and this characteristically brought wealthy non-patrician plebeians into conflict with less wealthy patricians. 

Frederick II. was in opposition to the popes. Stories presenting him in bad light are nowadays attributed to the popes' propaganda. 

Germany and Austria are to mainly blame for the outbreak of World War I. The reasons are: (1) The "carte blanche" Germany gave to Austria for attacking Serbia. (2) The German "Schlieffen-Plan" - attacking France via neutral Belgium and Luxemburg, without declaring war on Belgium. (3) The German long-term economical and political aims that were to be achieved by the war. Austria is to blame for taking the murder of the successor to its throne by a Bosnian Serb as a welcome occasion to end the undermining of the multinational Austro-Hungarian state by starting a war. Source: Julikrise und Kriegsschuld, Bundeszentrale für politische Bildung 

It should be noted that from the 1920s to 1930s the girls school uniform is undergoing a transition from traditional Japanese clothing to a more European style. Some schools might still sport hakamas for girls in the 1930s. You could see the transition here: $URL$ And if interested, you may read a section from this book to read the social context: $URL$ 

I'm not sure it was military revolution that drives industrial revolution. There are several theories which try to explain the cause of industrial revolution. Barrington Moore, for example, proposed that it was the rise of the merchant class and the fall of feudalism which leads to mass production (which will lead again to three different political systems, but that's different story). But to answer your question, I suppose Martin van Creveld's theory may fit. He wrote in Technology and War: From 2000 B.C. to the Present (1991) and several journals. His basic assumption is: military revolution will always lead to a change in civilization. It is possible because a military revolution always involves military innovations: the change in organization (the way units is arranged, leadership, etc), the change in strategy and tactics, and the most important, the change in technology. Technological innovation is often firstly used for the need of the military. Like how railroad was used in the 19th century, and internet in contemporary times. Later then it would be adapted for civilians use (which explains the link). 

JFW I'm not sure what you're asking for here, 'the German perspective' in what sense? The German army made some serious strategic errors in their attempt to 'take' Stalingrad most of which I might add were fueled by Hitlers arrogance in his own military ability, a mistrust in his own Generals' ability and his petulance in wanting to take Stalingrad as quickly as possible to 'teach Stalin a lesson' and break the will of the Russian people. The Germans used their usual 'blitzkreig' tactics of hitting the city with Panzer divisions and infantry supported by the luftwaffe but made the fatal mistake of almost bombing the city into oblivion which hindered their later progress of clearing the city of Russian resistance which basically took too long. The Russians (what was left of them) dug in and fought a guerilla war in the bombed out remains of the city which meant that the two most powerful parts of the German military machine, the Panzers and Luftwaffe could not be deployed. The harsh winter weather played its part in effectively cutting off the German supply lines and they had to be increasingly resupplied by air which wasn't practical in terms of the weather. This allowed the Russians sufficient time to move other Russian armies into position to encircle the Germans both inside and outside Stalingrad thus cutting off any hope of the trapped German armies inside Stalingrad from being reinforced or evacuated. The Germans made too many mistakes and underestimated the resolve (and sheer quantity of potential reinforcements) of the Russian army. If you want any one particular reason it was Hitlers arrogance and over-confidence. 

Terminal train stations were built in continental Europe because many railroads connected only two cities in the early to mid 19th century. There were not many rail lines, and the stations built were terminal stations. As the railroad network increased, the terminal stations could not be converted to passthrough anymore. 

Germany was perceived as the aggressor and cause of World War I by the Allied powers. It gave a "carte blanche" to its ally Austria, which was about to declare war on Serbia just because the Austrian successor to the throne was killed by a Bosnian Serb. The Germans attacked France executing their "Schlieffen-Plan" which required they march through Belgium which was Allies with Great Britain. The German situation in late 1918 was rather hopeless on the front - Germany had no ways to counter the tanks, which made trench warfare obsolete, and the United States had brought fresh troops to the war. 

Speed with greater numbers and fear is the primary answer here. The marching columns main purpose was to simply get to the enemy as fast as possible and overwhelm them with superior numbers. The huge columns of soldiers marching to a rhythmic drumbeat would strike fear into the hearts of any opponent. The high casualty rate of this kind of tactic was justified by the speed of victory and was less significant for the French due to their superior numbers. Bottom line - it was a sledge hammmer to crack a nut. This of course didn't work particularly well against the British, despite their inferior numbers, due to their far higher discipline and better training (they didn't break and run so easily) and their greater volley firing rate. All British redcoats could fire 3 musket balls a minute - far better than any other army. 

You are correct. According to this site (unfortunately in German) about the Roman Empire there were many different types of dice in use by the Romans. Apart from the 6-sided cubes we know today there were also rod-shaped dice with four or six sides. The website reports: 

All one needed was a map of Europe and the German propaganda reports on the fighting (and maybe some pins to mark places). Official German radio reports about fighting included names of cities that lay in the vicinity of the combat and rivers that were crossed. The reports were heavy with propaganda-speak, blurring losses and denying defeat. But if one filtered out all the phraeseology and just concentrated on the cities that were mentioned, he could get a good overview of the back and forth motion of the general frontlines. Completely lying about the course of the frontline would have been impossible. Too many men were soldiers, and they went on home leave occasionally. Wikipedia says that approximately 18.000.000 men served in the Wehrmacht [Wikipedia]. It was impossible to prevent them from talking to people at home. I don't know how the reports differed with respect to information content between radio, on-screen, and the newspapers. 

Wiki Source It was just another contributing factor that led up to the French Revolution so it's worth researching the causes of that as well. Ironic that France in trying to weaken her old enemy Britain actually contributed to the downfall of her own monarchy. 

Firstly, the Zimmerman telegram was real and sent, he admitted so himself at a press conference. Secondly, it was a feint to turn Americas attention away from the war in Europe and towards a possible one against Mexico. Germany feared Americas involvement in the war and wanted to ensure they were more concerned with one closer to home. There was no serious plans from Germany at all to support a war between Mexico and America. Thirdly, The American government thought the telegram was fake when told about it by the British government and thought it was a ruse being used by the British to involve America in a war most of their population were against.