I'm about to teach my daughter how to use clipless pedals and got wondering if there were any advantages of pushing off from a start with the left leg or right leg. Is there any difference? To add a bit of context. She'll be mainly bunch riding with a school group using a road bike on sealed roads. We live in a country where traffic drives on the left hand side of the road. Edit: Thanks for the answers. A couple of my own thoughts are: 1) in athletics, there are analogs of "no right answers, whichever feels right". For sprint starting blocks, a simple test is: relax and push the person forward. Whichever leg is extended to arrest the fall is the back leg in the starting block. It's nice to have an informal test like that. 2) camber of the road: our roads have a reasonable camber, and I tend to ground my foot on the lower side of the camber: would it be better to ground the foot on the higher side of the camber?, 3) if most of the bunch uses one leg, would it be better to do the same so that you all lean toward the same direction when you stop at lights etc. 

A spoke of ideal length is such that it is flush with the head in a finished wheel. Then it engages all threads, maximising stability. However, from there you "only" have 1.5mm tolerance towards too long [for DT spokes and DT nipples, measured myself some time ago], then all the threads of the spoke is wound through the nipple and it binds, you cannot tension more. This is bad, insufficiently tensioned wheels are bound to fail. For this reason, spoke lengths are calculated with respect to the bottom of the slot in the head of the nipple, that is 1mm below to top of the head [DT standard]. So from there you get 2.5mm tolerance toward too long... if the calculator has the correct length. Try it, ask 5 different calculators and you will get 3 different answers. Too short is risky as well, but less easy to quantify. The threads in your average nipple are 4mm long, engaging just 3mm is ok, 2mm might also... That would be 1mm short of the ideal length. If you use aluminium nipples, however, 2mm will most likely not suffice. A frequent advise given is to round up to the next even number unless the difference to the lower even number is 0.5mm or less. So with 292.4 get 292mm spokes, with 292.8mm get 294mm. In essence, you will want to be pretty precise. 2mm too long might just be ok, 2mm short might be too short. Be sure to measure the ERD yourself (!) and as precise as you are able to. 

For your second and third questions: You don't need any stickers on your rims. So you can replace them if you want. Or peel them off completely. Or add some other sort of stickers, eg those RimSkins. Its just a matter of style - plain black rims can look nice, so can multi-coloured stickers. Or reflective stickers would help you get noticed at night, especially for side visibility. So long as they are kept clean, and not peeling off or looking messy. Just so long as you don't put any stickers on the braking surface. ie the flat bit of the rim, next to the tyre, where the brake pads should contact. If you put stickers on there, your brakes won't work very well. 

Note there may be drawbacks to this: A GPX track is just a list of points. So a single track needs to be in order, and continuous from the start to the end. So a single track would work for a single mountain bike path, or a continuous loop. But it wouldn't work if the paths splits into several alternative routes, or if you have several unconnected paths. Also there may be a limit on the length of a track you can load on the Edge, ie the number of trackpoints. I'm not familiar with that model, but some Garmins are limited to 10,000 points in a single track. Tracks in a GPX file can have names, but I don't think these will be shown on Garmin. Better solution Instead of loading GPX tracks on the Garmin, a better solution could be to produce a map, in Garmin IMG format. Probably the easiest way to do this is to use Javawa IMGfromGPX. You can give a number of GPX files as input, and it will create a map. Advantages of this are you can have as many paths as you want, they don't all have to be continuous or connected. And you can set different styles and colours for each. Then load this map onto the Edge. It can be used instead of any other maps you have loaded, or as a transparent overlay on top of other maps. OpenStreetMap You could also try OpenStreetMap. If your bike trails are not on OpenStreetMap, you can add them - using aerial imagery if available, or GPX tracks you have recorded. Then you can use OpenStreetMap data to produce maps in Garmin format, or download some ready made OSM Garmin maps. Then these can be loaded onto the Edge 1000, and it will show your trails. 

Socketed rims are still readily available. In fact, I just unwrapped one. Sockets might be impractical on very deep V-shaped rims. They would need very high sockets that probably would be not sufficiently sturdy, in particular as their material of choice seems to be stainless. 

Very deep aero rims exist for one reason: To minimise drag. The difference, however, between, say, 20mm and 40mm deep rims, is not that big. So if you are concerned about drag, loosing a few spokes gives another few points in air resistance (as does using aero (blade) spokes). To phrase it differently: You would not use the (much rarer) very deep rims unless you also save on drag by using less spokes. I figure you are in fact not that concerned about drag. You did not speak highly of aesthetics either. That lets me assume you believe that deep rims are more durable. This has been discussed on this site here. My recommendation would be a good, proven, durable rim with 36 spokes (they are in fact not that expensive) and, considering your budget, have your wheels build to your liking. Edit (based on your comment): You say you want your bike to be "fast during the week" for commuting. Bear in mind, though, that the clothing you would be most likely to wear or even panniers add considerable drag as well. The weight you will be carrying further limits the effectiveness. I can still recommend not being overly focussed on drag. If you fancy deep rims, go for them. But, unless you have a particularly long and exciting way to work, I am pretty sure you would be quite hard pressed to feel a difference between box rims with 36 spokes and very deep ones with 24 spokes, commuting. Any usual number of spokes is fine to carry you (at 80kg). However, if you plan to carry loads (eg. doing groceries regularly), I would err on the safe side. 

Had just this problem to the extent where when the chain was over the large cogs, front and rear, the derailleur was excessively stretched. The changes operated OK, but noticed that the changes weren't smooth when on the larger front cog. Changes on the rear derailleur operated with a bit of clicking and hesitation not dissimilar to an indexing problem. I added four links from a spare chain to lengthen it, and the changes become smooth again. Although technically chain tension should not affect gear changes, it does when the derailleur is excessively stretched. 

I've always used a lock nut with a presta valve, but I know others who don't use it and leave the valve stem to protrude through the rim hole without fastening. What, if any, are the advantages of not using a locking nut for a presta valve? 

You should most likely turn clockwise, viewed from the freehub side. If your allen (hex) key does not sufficiently fit (the small end should go in the freehub to provide enough leverage), your best bet is to get a better allen key. 

You should have no issues with your proposed Shimano-Shimano setup. You may confirm this using the Shimano technical documents si.shimano.com. 

You actually need to be a bit careful. With most hub dynamos the case is not neutral but carries the voltage of one of the wires, sometimes the hub shell together with the axe replace one wire. A notable counterexample (with isolated hub shells) are SON hub generators. You would also like to run the generators in parallel (after rectifying). Also some hub generators might also be voltage regulated - so as not to burn your old incandescent bulbs on steep descents. 

For plotting routes, to transfer to the GPS. Depends on what sort of maps you want to use, some options include 

It is possible to buy a basic new fork for about £20 to £30. eg Raleigh 700C 1 1/8" Threaded Fork from Evans. Or there's a variety of options on Ebay, either new or used. Or some cycling forums have classified sections, so you could post a wanted advert. Though there are several things to check to ensure a replacement fork is compatible: 

All Garmin Edge models can be used without any sort of online account. As can any of the outdoor models, eg the Etrex, Oregon etc. There is a handlebar mount available for these, so you can use them on your bike if you want. Newer Garmin models work as a USB mass storage device. ie you plug it into your computer, and it appears as a disk drive. So you can just copy files on and off, usually in FIT, TCX or GPX format. Some models also have the option of Bluetooth or wifi for uploading. These will require a Garmin Connect account, and the app on a phone or tablet. But you don't have to use this, you can just plug in a USB cable as above. There is a variety of free software you can use on your own computer for viewing rides etc, eg 

While breaking the chain, I pushed the pin too far and pushed it out completely. Now the chain is too short. How do I re-insert this pin, or should I look for other options. 

With equal power to weight ratio, why is a tandem bike harder to ride uphill? I have friends whose Cannondale tandem bike weighs the same as their single rider bikes combined. But they find it easier to climb hills (compared to the bunch) on single rider bikes than on the tandem. They are experienced tandem riders. 

What is the best way to lubricate gear and brake cables in their tubular housings? Up until now, I've used CRC/WD-40 with an extension tube and attempted to squirt the lubricant into the tube housings. However, I suspect that this is fairly ineffective because 1. WD-40 is not a great lubricant (judging by the other Q+A on this site), and 2. the lubrication doesn't travel very far into the tubes. So what is a good way of doing this? 

What you describe sound like a failure by fatigue, not due to overload. What caused the bolt to fatigue and ultimately crack? It can of course be the seat geometry with heightened stress to the back - however, this force compresses the saddle post joint that contains the bolt. If the bolt is tightened, the downward forces are dealt with by the joint and do not affect the bolt at all. If it came loose, the bolt would be compressed by downward forces. This is not a big issue, bolts do not compress willingly and also tolerate compression quite well. However, incorrectly tightened, there is also play in the joint (that you heard as creaking). This causes torsional forces on every pedal stroke. Bolts do not like and do not tolerate torsional forces. They get weak and snap: Just remember this ol' bugger that had its threads firmly stuck and stripped its head while you were trying to remove it... Re-tightening the bolt was likely thtorsionale correct fix, but came late: Now the part of the bolt that was already weakened by torsion was stressed by tension. Tension is not a problem normally, this is what bolts are designed for, but this bit of stretching in the already weakened part was quite likely leading to the bolt snapping. In essence, most saddles and seat posts out there should be fine for your weight. Just make sure everything is fixed tightly.