I don't think stellar parallax would directly help us as it (in the modern day) just tells us that we are in orbit around the sun and little about the Earth-Moon system itself. Let's look at how a Ptolemy equivalent on the Moon (call him Moon-Ptolemy) might see it. He would have no way of distinguishing the Earth-Moon system from his assumption that he is just sitting on a solid object at the center of creation. Of course he wouldn't see a "moon" in orbit around him, but he would see the Sun, stars and major planets. Stellar parallax (to him, the Sun "moving through the Zodiac) would just tell him that Sun is rotating around his Moon, as are the planets. The existence of planetary epicycles would be a curiosity required to make his model work - but it does work and he has no notion of the Earth Moon-Galileo might (or might not) be able to develop the heliocentric model - he misses out on one key insight that Earth-Galileo had: that the Earth wasn't special because other planets also had moons. Moon-Galileo would find the orbital system of Jupiter interesting but not a key insight, so he might not develop the new model. Even so, someone else would. Nevertheless, in a qualitative scientific world, there would still be nothing to help the Moon observer deduce the existence of the Earth behind the horizon. I suspect the truth would become unavoidable when orbital mechanics developed sufficiently to incorporate mass and gravity into calculation. It might have been around the time of Moon-Kepler. I'm not sure I agree with the comments looking at observations of the planets - I don't see how they help distinguish between an Earth-Moon system as opposed to a simple, very large, rotating Moon body with no co-orbiter (which would be a natural assumption to make). Even the monthly changes in parallax caused by the rotation of the Moon around the Earth might be waved away by suggesting the simple rotation of a much larger Moon body - though our hero might certainly question the compatibility of this with the apparent curvature and distance to their Moon horizon. 

(As pointed out in MartinV's answer, our astronomer might find it hard to distinguish between situations with an orbiting pair vs one single huge body. Thus, if convenient, you can assume that, via short ~100km forays from the dome, our astronomer is able to measure the lunar radius by measuring solar inclinations at different points with known distances between them, à la Erathostenes.) 

Suppose that you deposit an astronomer, armed with our current knowledge of orbital mechanics, on a dome on the far side of the Moon, so that the Earth is perpetually hidden from them. (And, of course, assume that this person has no specific knowledge about the system they're in beyond what they can glean from observations. If you will, imagine that they learned all our modern orbital mechanics and related physics in alpha centauri, and then got teleported to our Moon.) Now, it is reasonable to expect that this person should be able to deduce from observations of the sky that the body they are on is one half of a binary system, and they should be able to measure the orbital characteristics (semi-major axis, ellipticity, inclination) as well as the position of the barycentre (much closer to the other body, corresponding to a much more massive partner). What observations are needed to deduce this? What level of observational accuracy is needed for those observations, and to what historical epoch does it correspond to? (I.e. would Tycho Brahe's kit have been sufficient? Would Galileo's? Would the ancient Greeks'? Or would this require a late-19th-century (or even later) observatory?) 

By definition, gravity is a result of mass. Any body with a non-zero mass (even atoms) will have a gravitational field associated with it. The higher the mass the stronger will be the field. This is basic of classical mechanics. Until we reach quantum scale where the gravitational force is dominated by other 3 forces and the gravitational field becomes irrelevent. When it comes to graitational field of asteroids, it exists, but is very weak. However over a course of few million years these small asteroids combine together to form large masses of bodies that we now call planets. That is one of the prominent theory of Solar system formation, where the gravity of small dust particles from first our generation disintegrated star over a course of time accumulated to give us what we now know as our Solar system. Think of it like this, every planet that you see now would once have been an asteroid at some point during its evolution. Another proof to support this is the presence of numerous binary asteroids that orbit each other around a common center of mass, which requires gravitational attraction. 

We have no way of identifying where the Sun was born, what the surrounding environment was, or where the Sun's siblings are right now. This is easy to see from some bare numbers: the Sun's current orbital period around the Milky Way is some 250 million years, and it's been around for some 4.5 billion years, making for some 20 orbits around the galaxy since its birth. There's a lot of stellar-movement dynamics that can happen over those twenty orbits, and any siblings have long parted ways. Similarly, any stellar remnants that are close to us right now are close because we're passing by, not because we were born in their neighbourhood. As such, whatever the source of the heavy elements in the solar system, it's several billions of years too late to figure out any individual sources. 

This means that the Sun was not born out of the ashes of its neighbours. Instead, it was born out of the ashes of stars that might have died on the opposite side of the galaxy, several billion years before the Sun's birth, whose ashes then got thoroughly distributed by the mixing of the interstellar medium. 

Don't worry about only having one support rather than four. The key will be to identify your centre dot (you can just see it on Seronik's webpage, first picture ) and to see how it is centred when you look through the collimation cap onto the secondary. Maybe read this article: $URL$ Or search for Newtonian Collimation on Youtube? 

In theory, yes; in practice probably not ... i) It's perhaps helpful to take the Andromeda galaxy as a first working example. It is somewhat bigger than our own Milky Way galaxy but not so big as to be a problem. When we look at Andromeda, it appears to occupies an area about 3 degrees by 1 degree. By comparison, the Moon appear about 0.5 degree across. Andromeda is a good target to see, a little faint but it is just about visible with the naked eye on a good night. Andromeda is about 2.5 million light years away so, even travelling at the speed of light, it would take 2.5 million years to get far away enough from the Milky Way so we could look back and see our galaxy like we see Andromeda today. ( In Star Trek, the writers seemed broadly to limit themselves to adventures within our galaxy for the same reason: within the realms of sci-fi, perhaps they could justify getting around the Milky Way within a reasonable period of time - not so to travel between the galaxies ) ii) To reduce the apparent size of our galaxy to a dot would require travelling at least 10x further or probably more - depending on how you are observing. 50 million light years, anyone? 

bolides or upper atmospheric explosion, land impacts leading to local or regional devastation, ocean impacts leading to regional disasters, global ecological catastrophe, mass extinctions 

How ancient they are, I'd have to say as old as the solar system. Collision frequency: Collision amongst Asteroid Belts From ref 1 below: Based on the particle in a box model which assumes a homogeneous distribution in the interactive volume, the intrinsic collision probability is computed to be around $5 \times 10^{-18} km^{-2}yr^{-1}$. However Wetherill(ref below) have some modifications to Opik's formulation for collision between two elliptical orbits, suggests that the impact is nearly independent of the orbital elements of the test body and is nearly half of the value obatined from PIAB model. It also seems to suggest that intrafamily collisions are higher than collision amongst non family objects. Collision with the Earth Here it characterized in various classes: 

Orbits are conic sections therefore can be either circular, elliptical, parabolic or hyperbolic. Of these 4, only first two form a closed curve under 2 body hypothesis, while the later two extend to infinity. If you talk about planet, by definition it has to orbit a star which would require it to have a closed orbit hence circular or elliptical, with respect to the star. For any other kind of orbit the body will just fly away to infinity never to return back. Infact comets are considered to be parabolic, but in theory they have highly elliptical orbits with their aphelion lying near the edge of the solar system. But it is possible for a planet to have other kind of orbits if we consider their motion from a different reference frame such as with respect to another planet. So for an inertial frame of reference a planet will have a circular or elliptical orbit, even Pluto. 

Firstly, if you're planet spotting, don't worry too much about light pollution. The planets are some of the brightest objects in the sky and some (especially Jupiter) can easily be observed even with a full Moon - the full Moon (along with the Sun!) is the biggest contributor to light pollution! Take a look at the list of brightest stars ( $URL$ ), which also contains estimates for the brightness of the Sun, Moon and major planets. There aren't typically any stars brighter from Earth than Venus, Jupiter, Mars and Mercury and precious few brighter than Saturn. I'm going to suggest you probably have seen many of the planets - but just didn't recognise them. +1 for Stellarium ( $URL$ ). It's free, intuitive and very visual to use. You can put in your local viewing location and it gives you a view for any time of the night, future or past. At the time of writing (23 July 2017), Saturn and Jupiter should be looking good for the Southern Hemisphere. This rotates throughout the year, and Stellarium will help with this. Do a web search for "the sky at night in the southern hemisphere" and you'll find a number of examples of websites with highlights to look for when you get out. Couple of final suggestions: 

At lunar midnight (i.e. the new moon as seen from Earth), the Earth is in its full phase with its entire disk in sunlight, and it is the brightest object in the lunar sky. How bright is it, and how variable is its brightness? More precisely, I'm interested in specific figures for the magnitude and in comparisons to similar objects. Would I be able to read in that light? To drive? Would I notice the variations in brightness? What are the main variations due to? 

That said, it is important to emphasize that there is no such unique source to begin with. As explained in the answer you linked to, there are plenty of such predecessors: 

Most descriptions of the Oort cloud depict it as a mostly spherical distribution of planetesimals, with occasional allowance for an inner component that is more donut-shaped. This is slightly at odds with the fact that most protoplanetary clouds and their derivative objects - planets, asteroids, comets and dust - will collapse to a fairly well-defined plane relatively early in a stellar system's evolution. What evidence is used to postulate this? Does it come from numerical simulations of the solar system? Or does it help account for observed orbital inclinations of real comets? 

Are there stars - in our galaxy, as stars in other galaxies are not individually visible - that are 'dead' but still alight to us. The Slate article you linked is rather good in this respect: i) the lifespan of a given star is much longer than the time taken for light to reach us so it is unlikely that this is the case and ii) most stars have an extended extinction compared to the time taken for light to reach us, with few going out in a supernova flash. Hence it is pretty unlikely that this is the case at the moment - but it will happen on occasion If there is a specific star which is 'dead' but still alight to us - could we know? Not really, as no useful information will be travelling to us faster than the speed of light. The best we might do is to observe a supernova and then say "this event happened x years ago" 

The Gary Seronik website that you cite is a good one - it's not leading you astray! There are a couple of important things to look at: