Yes, if that is your wish, then your boss should respect that. Your boss might be the one who pay you and give you orders, but they are not really obliged to simply burst in to anyone's office just like that. Even if he\she can see you trough the window, and it might seem you are available, that might still not be the case. You could be writing an important mail, a mail where the content needs to be accurate. You can argue that a knock on the door will disturb the "flow" of mind at that point, and while this would be up to each individual, at least having the chance of finishing that one detail before letting people start a conversation, might help keep the peace of mind. I know for a fact, working in closed office too, that the difference between one who knocks, and one who just burst in, is quite different. Those who knock are polite and quite when allowed to enter, and those who burst in usually don't give a damn if you are busy. Even if I am obviously in the phone! You have the right of peace and quiet when working in an office like you do, your boss should know that. While privacy is generally not something you need or can expect at work, peace when working and general respect from your coworkers is. This is, in the end, more a matter of respect. 

Textbook answers are common, but everyone knows them, and thus it can lead to sneaky questions trying to peel the exact reason why you left to begin with. The cards you can play here heavily depend on what you carry to begin with. If you need to move house, and the new job is closer\more available, that's a start. Got kids? Maybe the area has better schools. See where I am going here? Just don't lie. 

As others have noted, you can't say this professionally, and you shouldn't try. Instead, try to figure out what motivated the outburst, and next time be ready to address that instead. Here are two likely areas for examination: Her perception of you How has your past work been received? Do you have accomplishments and known-strengths that you can build on? If not, now's the time to start establishing your credentials: no one has any reason to grant you respect until you've earned it. Consider: as an intern, your responsibilities are limited. It is understood by all that your time with the group is limited, and any repercussions for mistakes you make will be shouldered primarily by others. Many people who find themselves in such a role will tend to take a cavalier, short-sighted attitude towards the work, brushing off criticism and doing little to identify or address problems that might crop up in the long term. Whether or not this is your attitude toward the job, it is a stigma you'll have to overcome. Your response Make it clear that you're willing to follow through. Use responsive listening to demonstrate your willingness to understand the scope of the problem, and then calmly suggest your plan to correct it. Be open to input - if there's some aspect of the problem that you weren't aware of, admit that willingly and offer gratitude for the education. Don't try to downplay the severity of the problem - even if the problem is being blown out of proportion, such an attitude shows disrespect for the time others' must spend helping you correct it. Which brings me to... Her perception of herself What makes someone upset and bitter over small things? In the workplace, fatalism often comes from being overburdened. Your mistake may have been small, but she may see it as one more unwelcome test of her already-strained endurance. Again, your responsibilities are limited. Hers are a superset of yours and everyone else's on the team. What appears to be a small, easily-corrected problem for you may be holding up others while you're busy correcting it - and even if that's not the case, the time needed to help you identify and correct the problem is time that could have been spent elsewhere. Your response This should go without saying, but make sure you're stepping up to do whatever is necessary to correct the mistake. Even if it requires someone else's skill to resolve, volunteer to help them. Then ask if there's anything you can do to help out elsewhere on the team. Don't volunteer time you can't give, but make it clear you're not going to sit there playing 2048 while others clean up the mess. In closing: diplomacy in the workplace Don't expect to ever be able to operate in an environment populated solely by well-informed, perfectly-rationale actors. Even on a healthy team, you're much more likely to find yourself paired with distracted, over-worked, myopic and overly-emotional folk. And in most cases, that will all apply to you as well. The essence of diplomacy isn't figuring out how to issue harsh commands dressed up in polite language, but in understanding how to get past breakdowns in communication in order to arrive at a solution acceptable to all parties. Your tools for this task are: 

Yes, that's the idea. It's in fact not that uncommon. How much they can change will depend a bit on what else the contract states. Most likely this is to open up for changes that are required in the future. It's not like you'll sign a new contract if you're promoted, thus also given more\different tasks. This requires changes that would possibly go against points in contract, thus requiring new or changed contract. 

Working within IT, where sub departments work with different tasks, I can relate to this completely, and the answer I've got for you is this: Be honest, and provide all the information you can. There is no real way to avoid pissing of some people, there will always be those who just won't accept any answer not equal to what they wanted, and there is always those who try to play you by making you feel guilty or stupid. As long as you keep your cool and provide all the information you can in an honest way, you are doing your part. There is no shame sending them to other people you think can answer a subject better, that's how work synergy should be. Your job is primarily to send them in the right direction, a little detour here and there is bound to happen at times, so never feel bad for that. 

You must remember that you will always be you. You can try to change your views, but to drastically and you may end up just hurting yourself. Unless you are designated to be in control of a department, it's not your job to keep it "clean". Just avoid trouble and you usually end up fine. Sacrifices meant to better your career is a double edged sword. You need to make sacrifices to succeed, the question is what you want to sacrifice, and if you do the right ones.