The second class of provable things are the trivial truths of deductive logic. I'll divide this into two parts: 

These types of questions are very difficult to answer. Again from the analytic school, again someone that didn't publish much at all. I'm going to say Edmund Gettier. Gettier's paper, published in 1963, entitled "Is Justified True Belief Knowledge?" spawned an entire cottage industry of responses and re-ignited a great deal of interest in the field of epistemology. Entire volumes have been written in response to his three-page paper. One of the things that epistemology (or theory of knowledge) examines is, "What are the necessary and sufficient conditions of knowledge?" From the time of Plato it was thought that a knower S knows that a proposition p if and only if the following obtain: 

I'll cover these in turn, very briefly. I'll leave others to tear them down. The Laws of Thought as a collection are attributed, like so much in philosophy, to Aristotle. They are: 

I'm not sure why 5 + 7 = 12 should say anything new: I take it to be a shorthand notation to give a name to 5 + 7, which anyway is nothing but 5 times the unit + 7 times the unit, so there is not really anything "new" here. Or is there? If we see it the other way around, as 12 = 5 + 7, maybe 5 + 7 is not contained in 12: we have a set of 12 objects, and we say that we can see it as a subset of 5 objects + a subset of 7 objects, so we say that that subdivision of the original set of cardinality 12 exists. But is that really "new"? Of course, 5 + 7 = 12 is cited as an example at the beginning of Kant's Critique of Pure Reason, when he explains his view of analytic and synthetic knowledge. The question here though is not meant to criticize analytic judgments, but rather to criticize synthetic a priori judgments. I believe (for the sake of argument) that mathematics is composed entirely of analytic judgments, not synthetic ones, and I am trying to understand why Kant could argue at all that mathematics was in the synthetic camp. More precisely. To define analytic and synthetic judgments, Kant writes at the beginning of the Critique of Pure reason, 2nd ed (emphasis mine): 

Gettier demonstrated, by way of two counterexamples, that in order for something to qualify as knowledge, there must be an added something, X, added to the above tripartite. Gettier showed that the above tripartite is not sufficient for knowledge. We have yet to find what that extra X is, despite countless person-years of inquiry since 1963 to discover what it might be. Here is a link to the full-text of this milestone paper [PDF: 111 KB]. 

(Unfortunately he very quickly lost his way and went from this solid foundation to a very questionable argument for the existence of God.) Cogito ergo sum ("I think therefore I am") is the famous phrase from Descartes' Meditations. "I think therefore I am" is a stronger statement than "A thinking thing exists" so I have put the second forward for this answer. It is in the class of truths that are self-evident. Thinking about it proves its truth. In philosophy we can't do physical experiments to disprove our theories so we need to rely on thought experiments instead. This is an example of a thought experiment. I can't conceive of any logically possible way of this being self-contradictory, i.e. false. By simply doing that thinking I have proved the proposition's truth. 

I am aware of two major modes of reasoning used for justification of belief: deductive and inductive. Whereas physics relies on induction, mathematics seems to rely exclusively on deductive inference, which ensures the soundness of its conclusions. Is that correct? Are there other modes of inference used in mathematics? Also, to be precise, what I am after here are the admissible modes of inference used for justification in the final product of mathematics, not the types of inferences mathematicians use in their daily work to generate mathematics. For inductive reasoning, what I have in mind here is what is explaining in this entry of the SEP. (if there is nothing in mathematics but deduction, mathematics is an extension of logic, and there is no other way to see the situation) 

So my question is why does Kant further say that Der arithmetische Satz ist also jederzeit synthetisch (Arithmetical propositions are therefore always synthetical): what is ganz außer in 5 + 7 = 12, if we see 12 as just a convenient short name for 5 + 7? 

ANARCHISM: No regime is legitimate MARXISM: A regime is legitimate to the extent that it prevents the exploitation of its citizens. CONTRACTUALISM: A regime that has the consent of its citizens is thereby legitimized. DEMOCRACY: A regime is legitimate to the extent that it succeeds of being a true agent of its governed 

I agree with @Alexander S King that religions and their interpretations are impossible to separate. Yet, let me add a different angle mainly about Nazi case. 

EDIT: Not familiar enough with Eichmann's problem to throw light onto the particular question as to when the legitimacy of the Nazi regime might have ended in the moral sense you imply of. Interesting question though. 

I do not think there are any clear criteria by which one could test whether this or that tradition is truly philosophical. In the West we tend at least in academia to regard Western philosophy somewhat superior to Chinese and Indian philosophies - and maybe the reason for that has to do with implicit criterion you mentioned: how well a text is articulated, how logical it is (logical - in terms of what we Westerns consider logical), and so on. Nonetheless, having some familiarity with Chinese and Indian philosophical traditions, I can share that they deal too with fundamental questions concerning life, nature, art, and so on, and they are philosophical traditions in at least the sense that they do address philosophical problems. Of course, one can say that poets too as much as artists tackle philosophical problems yet would be reluctant to equate philosophy with either poetry or art. Within the Western tradition of philosophy the question how to do philosophy is a controversial question, and so one who regards philosophy as merely analytical and rational activity is probable to reject the idea of treating Chinese philosophy as real philosophy. 

If mathematics is concerned with deductive reasoning, and relies on logic to ensure the soundness of its derivations, if on the other hand, the derivations of mathematics, at least in a philosophical and modern view of the subject, start from arbitrary axioms, can mathematics be reduced to arbitrary axioms and logic? Note: arbitrary here means that mathematicians are a priori free to choose an initial set of axioms, as in e.g. Euclidean vs non-Euclidean geometries, that they are not constrained by observations of the natural world in the choice of axioms to derive theorems from. 

Maybe we want meaning, but Nature doesn't give us meaning - it is arbitrary, uncontrollable... That would be very unsettling and anxiety provoking, and would compel us to create a meaning for ourselves in this world that doesn't offer any. So, through the experience of being in a meaningless world, we experience the need for meaning. 

Here is a basic working definition of a law of physics from the point of view of a physicist. It does lead to several interesting philosophical questions, which I completely ignore (but am very well aware of). A law of physics is a provisional statement of an observed regularity in Nature. We formulate laws of physics to understand the world around us, and also to control it or act in it (not always: a good deal of astronomy for example deals with things that we will never control). A law of physics summarizes many instances of a given phenomenon in a convenient manner. For example, the law of gravitation summarizes in one formula how objects fall towards the ground as well as how planets go around the Sun. An observed regularity is something that holds in many, most or all observed instances of a phenomenon. A law is always provisional in the sense that a more encompassing or more precise statement of a regularity may have to be made later, given more observations. The laws of physics are usually numerical, holding between observable quantities that can be measured, so that the laws take a precise, mathematical form. However, there can be individual instances of measurements that do not exactly conform to the mathematical law at hand: there can be errors due to the measurement equipment or procedure, or fundamental uncertainty as in the case of quantum mechanics. This gives a statistical character to the laws of physics, and it is usually required to estimate the uncertainty in the measurements. A very basic example, but one that is IMHO worthwhile keeping in mind as a good image of a law of physics, would be the following picture, where we have observed a number of data points, and plotted the line (model/law) that bests fits these observations. It shows what the law/model is: the line, i.e. 2 coefficients a and b in a formula y = ax + b. This line summarizes the data points, it is the regularity/invariant underlying the phenomenon. It also allows interpolation and prediction to calculate unmeasured values of y for values of x. Finally, it shows the notion of error in measurement, as many actual points lie close to the line, but not exactly on it.