Under the banner of NATO, not that I'm aware of. However the forces of NATO nations under UN command have fought directly against Russian forces in the Korean War - specifically pilots flying MiG-15's against mostly American air forces. There have also been a number of incidents similar to today's shooting down of a Russian aircraft: see here for details of the US-USSR shooting down a variety of each others' aircraft between 1950 and 1970 $URL$ Note that this link is only describing USA-USSR interactions (not post-USSR Russia nor other non-US NATO members), in a specific timeframe (1950-1970), and only counts incidents where one aircraft was shot down by another aircraft (so doesn't include aircraft shot down from the ground, or any other land or sea incidents). I don't know off the top of my head if there are other incidents of any type. I would assume there were border tensions around the Berlin Wall (/Inner German Border) and other borders which probably let to some level of clashes at various stages, and there have almost certainly been incidents between submarines that we never hear full details of. 

Since I have little knowledge of the English longbow, I shall answer by turning the point upside down. The question: 

There were equivalent proclamations. By the end of the 13th century, king D. Dinis of Portugal had organised a body of crossbow archers in every town. All body able men were enlisted and forced to practice regularly. Fines would be paid if enlisted men failed to participate in those regular, public practice sessions. It so happens that Iberian kings were under the impression that the crossbow was superior to every other type of bow in impact power and precision, for as long as they could find well-trained people to do the job. Obviously, shooting arrows was not deemed a noble art so it was a job for the peasants. 

EDIT I'm sorry, but I may have been a bit off on the reasons for keeping the shutters 'alive'. It has since dawned on me that privacy might be one of the main reasons. In Portugal (and most of France) houses are pretty close by and, unless you want your neighbours to see what's going on inside your house (you don't want it), you'll need some form of protection: shutters and curtains. During the day, when shutters aren't used, windows are protected by a light curtain that allows homeowners to see what's happening outside but doesn't let the others look in. In the evening, when lights are on, people outside can see through the light curtains into the home. Therefore, you either add heavy curtains to the mix or you add shutters. One thing that I find extremely uncomfortable in 'anglophone' houses as seen in films and TV shows is how vulnerable the homeowners are in terms of privacy. Any curious neighbour will be able to spy them as they go about their private life since the houses in such films / shows never have shutters and rarely have curtains. It's unsettling. So perhaps keeping the shutters is also in direct relation to how many peeping-Toms a society expects to find amidst one's neighbours. 

It was fairly widely available in the 19th century as mass manufacturing started to branch out from military materiel and animal rights started to become an issue within society. It wasn't, however, used heavily for furniture until more recently. If it was described as leather in the 1940's, it was probably actual leather. As noted by KillingTime, the US had a huge cattle industry and there was no significant shortage of leather and it was reasonably cheap. Leather is only relatively expensive nowadays due to the massive increase of faux leather and the consequent reduced production of actual leather, and the perceived "luxury" tag attached to "real" leather. Even so, real leather is still prominent in furniture etc, where that perceived additional quality still counts for a lot. I have one item of faux leather furniture in my house, and the rest (and my car seats) are all real leather. It's not impossible the furniture in a motel was faux leather in the 1940s, but it's far more likely to be real. 

EDIT TO ADD MORE DETAILS (I'm using school History text books as source) By the 10th century, crossbows were already in use but only became regularised in 1299 with an edict by King D. Dinis requiring every town to have a militia of these men. By the mid 14th century the militia had become a force of elite. All men should be tested and the best of them (with the financial means to maintain the weapon in good state, which excluded the poorest peasants) would be part of this elite. If the financial means were above a certain level, they were also required to have a horse. However, most of these men would eventually be chosen amidst mercantile and craftsmen families, since farmers were often poorer and, on the other hand, their service on the land was essential to feeding the army and the population in general. This doesn't mean that, in rural areas, one wouldn't find a large portion of these men to be farmers. Training focused on developing speed recharging but especially on accuracy. The arrow could go 150-200 metres (164-218 yards) and was often poisoned with hellebore (known as 'erva dos besteiros' or 'herb of the crossbow archers'), although the church did not aprove of it. Crossbows were not often used in open battle but in sieges (there were plenty of those in the Iberian peninsula throughout the centuries, much more than field battles). An accurate crossbow archer was held in high regard as he could kill a person on a castle wall with a single shot, therefore making this class an elite amidst the infantry. 

Although arabs are official "semites" historically, "Anti-semitic" is really meant in this context as "anti-Jewish". That's slightly confusing, I know, but Hitler didn't dislike the historical semite people for a "the semitic people did xyz bad thing"... he "only" hated the Jews because he blamed them specifically for various problems in Germany at the time. It's equivalent to if I today chose to hate Germany because I think their flag is silly: that doesn't necessarily mean I hate Germanic people (including Austrians, who's flag I like)... it's a semantic difference. You might then say I was anti-Germanic, which sounds correct but isn't really. I'm anti-Germany, not anti-Germanic This is different from me saying "the historical Germanic people invaded my country and said mean things about my mother, so I hate both Germans, Austrians and anyone else descended from a Germanic tribe" in which case it would be true to say that I am anti-Germanic. In short, we should really say Hitler was anti-Jewish not anti-Semitic: but in recent years "Semite" and "Semitic" have been primarily used to refer to the Jewish people, rather than all Semite-descended peoples. 

I'm very much late for this "party", but Portuguese nobility wore doublets (or their precedents, as the doublet only hit full force in the last quarter of the 14th century and many men still wore the older surcoat) made of linen, silk or fabrics woven with both linen and silk. There were wool fabrics too, but that was more common for winter. Naturally, poor folks might have a single outfit to last them a whole year, which would mean a linen chemise and everything else wool. But Portuguese imagery show peasants working the fields in the summer wearing only white chemises as a way of dealing with wool vs. hot Portuguese summers. In conclusion, I am not so sure about the fabrics worn by the men in the lower ranks of an army, but nobles would have definitely worn linen (with or without silk depending on their social standing) doublets (and surcoats).