And as @armb has so cogently noted, SRAM does have a "Dual Drive" line that has a three-speed IGH combined with a rear derailleur. It's unclear if any bike manufacturers in the USA have adopted the DD-3, although @gschenk noted in chat that: 

Potentially more dangerous than hitting an animal is swerving to avoid hitting the animal and going off-road and crashing. This often causes significant damage to the bike and rider -- sometimes even more damage than if you had hit the animal in the first place. However, it does help with your overall karma to not unnecessarily kill animals. Fine print 1: I wish there were a way to not have to eat as many bugs as I do in the summer. Fine print 2:A close friend in college swerved in his car to miss an animal and drove off the road, flipped his car and died. While I love animals, I would love to have him still in the world. 

So it's less about a carbon frame and about having carbon or plastic wheels. One trick if the loop doesn't detect your bike is to tilt your bike so that the crank and pedals (which are mostly made of metal) are nearer to the loop and the ground. Some areas will paint the road with the location of where the loop is most sensitive to bicycles. 

I have a 1975 Peugeot UO18 that I turned into a commuter. I replaced the wheels with 700c contemporaries. The UO18 is the mixte version of your UO8 road bike, so almost all the components are almost the same. Like you, I found that the original Mafacs sucked so I replaced them with Tektro R559 Long Reach Brakes. These had the requisite 55-73mm reach that I needed to fit my smaller 700c wheels. You'll find that the main issue is that most contemporary road brakes don't have the right amount of reach so it's very slim pickings. A note about reach (from the comments): With my 700c wheels, I'm near the limit of 73mm required reach in the front and 70mm at the rear. With 27" you should be in the middle as the 700c is 8mm smaller than 27". You can measure your current reach quite easily with a ruler. I tossed my mafacs so can't help sorry. 

As a former and occasional landlord, I can see why folks would try to forbid bikes in building. They have a nasty habit of leaving gouges in hallways and doors right about the height at which pedals are when they're carried. But such things are really best handled under general prohibitions against damaging property and assessing damages against security deposits, etc. etc. In any case, private landlords have considerable leeway in terms of what we can forbid as long as it doesn't go against anti-discrimination laws. So you may run up against a lathed-plaster wall if you try to go the legal route. You might be most convincing if you show them your nice little Brompton, all folded up and in a slip cover, and thus not at all likely to bash a huge dent in the owner's 15th century, polished wooden bannisters. 

Style of Shifter (friction shifter, brifter, grip shifter) Downtube or handlebar mounted friction shifters were common on bicycles until the early 1980s when indexed shifting was introduced by Shimano in 1984 (see Indexed Shifting). Mountain bike trigger shifters were introduced by ... in ... The first Grip Shifters were introduced by SRAM in 1989 for mountain bikes. Brifters (combination brakes and shifters on road bikes) were introduced in 1990 with the Shimano Total Integration (STI) system. 

You already have the correct answer for you (tighten up the friction screw) but there's something else you should look at: balanced stem shifters. Regular stem shifters hold their place by friction -- that's why they are also called friction shifters. There's a fine line between not enough friction to hold the gear, and too much friction which makes shifting difficult. Especially if your derailleur springs are strong. Balanced shifters have a spring in them which counteracts the derailleur spring. So you don't need as much friction and shifting is as light as a feather. I got my pair from my local bike shop owner, who liked me. They're vintage Campagnolo but Shimano also made them. Ask around, your local bike shop might have a set in their vintage / old equipment cabinet. My set were put on my 1975 Peugeot UO-18. 

One solution in addition to @Willeke’s suggestion of different geometry is an e-assist or e-bike. These have a small electric motor in the hub or bottom bracket. The motor assist would help with starting when you need a lot of torque; with maintaining a constant speed because the motor can provide power during the half of the cycle that your leg can’t. Be sure to try out different ebikes and you might need to get a more expensive unit such as the ones with the Bosch mid-drive. It has a torque sensing pedal sensor which reacts much quicker than rotation based sensors. This can be very important for starting from a dead stop. 

So assuming your hands are on the tops of the bars when that car pulls out in front of you, you want the set of brakes that actually work to work when you squeeze them. The cons are that if you're a newbie, the front brake is harder to modulate. The easy solution is to gain more skills in that area. The other con is that Americans inexplicably have the front brake on their left hand. You can easily (on many bikes) flip the handedness so that your dominant hand (usually right) controls the front brake. I flip all my brakes (right-rear) because I'm used to riding a motorcycle. 

This can happen with any bike but hybrids have wider handlebars than many so they’re particularly easy to make crooked. Also, I hate to say this but hybrid bikes tend to attract people who are relatively newer to biking and so there’s more chance they’ll do things the bike isn’t designed to do, like run it into the ground. You can easily fix twisted handlebars by holding your front wheel between your knees and straightening or forcing the handlebars to be perpendicular to the bike and wheels. And you can ask your bike shop to tighten the fork bolts so that they’re tighter but a big enough spill will twist them — it’s better that it twists out of alignment given it’s so easy to fix — rather than the wheel bending out of shape. 

No, you can't just plop a larger front-wheel hub motor into a bike or trike willy-nilly. There are various considerations including wheelsize and drop-out width. For example, although it might be deadly obvious, you can't put a 100mm front ehub wheel in the rear of a tadpole because: 1) it will likely be the wrong dropout width; 2) it won't have a freehub for your chain (if applicable). Once you got that sorted out, changing the size of the front wheel in a delta or rear wheel in a tadpole depends on the frame. In most cases, you won't have enough frame or fork clearance to put in a larger wheel. Furthermore, you'll also run into problems with your brakes (unless you have disc brakes) as the brake bosses will be in the wrong place. Your rim and associated tires might be too thick for the frame. Finally, you'll also change the angle at which the seat sits in relation to the handlebars. So in general, thinking about changing wheel size is a Bad Idea® because it won't fit, let alone stability issues. 

Was this just purely for style reasons? I can't think of many advantages of a reverse brake lever (except style) and can think of major disadvantages (it will hook or catch on things as you move forward). What were the rationale for having brake levers like this originally? Period sources preferred. 

Of course an ebike will be less effort and leave you less sweaty. And of course the faster the bike, the shorter the commute. Class I: The key thing about this is that it's pedal assist only. The motor will only turn on while you're pedalling -- and it'll cut off at 20 mph -- so going faster than that will require you to pedal. Going downhill with a backwind and pedaling like a demon, you could feasibly go 40mph or faster. Class II: These bikes have a throttle (combined usually with a pedal sensor) so the motor can turn on without pedaling. So you can go from 0 to 19.9mph without pedaling. At 20mph, regardless of whether you're using the throttle or pedal-assist, the motor will cut out and you'll have to pedal to go any faster or to maintain speed -- note that these bikes are usually heavy so even pedaling you're more than likely to quickly lose speed back down to 19.9mph unless you are pretty buff or you're going downhill. Technically, Class II are limited to 20mph for electric assist but it's often possible to bypass that control with a firmware upgrade or setting in the control panel. 

Serial Numbers Bicycles (except children's bicycles) are almost always required to have a frame or serial number. Many manufacturers use a date-code as part of the serial number. 

My Light and Motion helmet light has two built-in weaknesses that seem designed to fail on impact, tearing the light away from my helmet and not allowing any impact torque to transmit through to my neck: 

A friction shifter won't care. I'm using a 5-speed vintage stem shifter with a 9 speed cassette. But indexed shifters unfortunately have to be matched to the same number derailleur and cassette. 

Sounds like your derailleur cable broke or got loose and so your derailleur is moving to its default outermost position, the smallest gear (assuming your shifter is labeled such that 6 is the highest gear). You might be able to find where it's loose and retension it. More likely, you'll need a new derailleur cable. About five to ten Eurodollars. However, in a situation where your bike toppled, you could have bent your derailleur hanger. It's worth just having the shop do the cable replacement and rear derailleur tuneup and realignment. It should be around half an hour of shop time labor. Note: another scenario if you have index shifters is that the crash yanked the derailleur with such force that it broke the index shifter internals such that they do nothing and the derailleur is reverting to default. Again, the shop should be able to tell. New shifters are only fifteen to thirty Eurodollars for the inexpensive lines. 

Actually, when you are running the motor near the top of the speed limiter, it's the happiest and most likely drawing the least current. If you had a CycleAnalyst or other amp gauge, you'd see it reduce current as it reaches the point where the controller is turning it off to reduce the speed. The motor will be cutting in and out due to the limiter, but will otherwise be just fine with this regimen as it's effectively operating on a reduced duty cycle at full speed - optimal conditions. This is quite unlike internal combustion engines which don't like to be operated at the highest end of their RPMs. Furthermore, when you're running at full speed, air cooling to the controller, battery, and the motor is at its maximum, so they're at their happiest thermally. The hardest thing on an electric motor, controller, and battery is starting up from a dead stop and going slowly up a hill. This is when the motor requires the most torque and thus draws the most amps - but also has the least airflow - which means everything heats up and potentially reduces their life. As I noted in my comments, though, the best way to extend the life of your (presumably) lithium batteries is to not drain them to 0% and to also not charge them to 100% -- but for the latter, you'll need a charger with an 80% or 90% cutoff. These are sold on the after-market. With careful dis/charging practice you can extend the number of charge cycles from 300 cycles to 900 or more. 

The electric parts of the dynamo hub don't care. They're an AC generator and there's no concept of reversing the flow with AC. However, the mechanical bits of the hub itself can be a problem. You don't indicate which manufacturer/model dynamo you have. The great majority of hubs are constructed such that they are expecting the wheel to turn in a certain direction in order to keep internal nuts and bolts tightened. Going in the opposite direction could lead to fiddly bits unscrewing themselves. Where possible, I'd try to respect the directionality of dynohubs that have directionality. It would just take an extra length of wire or some zipties to snake the power cable around to the other side, it's worth that for the peace of mind to know that the hub won't self-destruct when you're going down a long hill. Note: All Shimanos, all Sanyo, and older Schmidt/SON hubs are vulnerable to unscrewing if they are oriented with the power leads on the left (NDS) rather than the right (drive) side. Newer Schmidt SON hubs are flippable with the exception of the SON SL (below). When in doubt, ask your manufacturer/reseller. N.B.: Some special (and expensive) dynohubs such as the Schmidt Son SL pair with specially designed forks so that no external wires are needed, but it also means you can't flip the wheel around or it shorts to ground. Assuredly that's not the case with you. 

A cheap ring lock like the one pictured below can be defeated in less than one minute with a screwdriver. Furthermore, even a good ring lock (one that that isn't easily broken and might take a few minutes to defeat with a screwdriver) has a fundamental and fatal flaw - the thief can simply pick the bike up and put it in the back of their truck or van. 

Version 2 of my answer. If we want to assume different size left and right feet we have to do more stats. So ... assuming you have different size feet, that the shoes have to be bought in the same size, and that half sizes are available, I think the statistics would be 1- (50%*50%) = a 75% likelihood that one or both feet will be closer to a better fit when you have half sizes. This is compared to only a 50% likelihood when using integer sizes. There’s lots of false assumptions in v2 but the simplification (most notably the difference is size between two feet is assumed to be random) would lead to a lower likelihood and thus its likely that the actual improvement is greater than +25%. 

It may have just unscrewed itself. As @likeprogramming notes, the pedals screw in differently. The left pedal must be screwed in counter-clockwise ("left") while the right pedal screws in the normal clockwise ("right") way. It is easy to cross-thread the pedal by having them at a slight angle when screwing them in. I find it is helpful to rotate the pedal bolt in the "wrong" direction for one total revolution before then reversing it and screwing it in, this helps prevent a cross-thread. 

Yes, that's a proprietary system. That said, front racks and baskets that mount to the head tube are very stable. The rack basket doesn't flop around when parked and it doesn't affect steering when you're riding. Unfortunately there aren't standard head tube mounts (Brompton has one design for example). Until a standard emerges, this is the best we can do with. The only downside aside from the price is that you can't easily hang large front side panniers because they would interfere with steering. Most off the shelf front baskets and pannier racks mount either to the handlebars or to the pannier mounts on the front fork and suffer from said mentioned floppiness. Tldr: it's proprietary but worth shelling out for.