In the Introduction to Metaphysics, metaphysics is defined as "that science which claims to dispense with symbols." Bergson contends that the human mind operates discursively, or by taking snapshots of reality as frozen instances of time. The continuing flow and rhythm of duration can only be grasped intuitively, not intellectually—real becoming stifles our minds. While performing analysis through this “spatializing of time” as science does, it appears we have to rely upon diagrams or symbols as a “fixing of images.” Bergson contrasts this notion of science with “immediate knowledge” as an attempt to overcome the “contradictions and problems [that] are mainly the result of the symbolic diagrams which cover it up, diagrams which have for us become reality itself, and beyond which only an intense and unusual effort can succeed in penetrating” (Matter and Memory, 245). A similar sentiment is expressed about symbols in regards to the usual treatment of space as a medium between matter and perception, labeled the “prejudices of action.” If “homogeneous space” is taken in the traditional sense of standing “between the two terms like an insurmountable barrier, [it] is then seen to have no other reality than that of a diagram or a symbol” (MM, 293). So I am interested in this question and the related horizon of what is the task of philosophy given the symbolism that we create for ourselves? 

They are neither distinct nor useful! For Whitehead, only the concrete can explain the abstract in the same way the abstract derives from the concrete. Abstractions convey the determinateness of things, but their definiteness stems from the concrete. He is a radical empiricist and knowledge comes by way of contrasts as a process of working backwards from our experience to abstractions. Time and space are not necessary conditions of the “extensive continuum,” but as Whitehead explains, they are peculiar to our immediate experience. We cannot superimpose this cognitive feltness on to other possible universes, which tenet 5 assumes. Whitehead has a universal algebra or algebraic geometry which offers a theory of physical space as conditioned by cosmic epochs. He devoted himself to the problems of space for over forty years! He found that our notions of causation and possibility, commonly subscribed to, are not without qualifications. Tenet 6 fails because there “is no intelligible definition of rest and motion [or causation] that is possible for historic routes including them, because they correspond to no inherent spatialization† of the actual world” (PR, 177). A Nexus or causal link is what Whitehead calls “a public matter of fact” and results from any “particular fact of togetherness among actual entities . . . The ultimate facts of immediate actual experience are actual entities, prehensions, and nexūs. All else is, for our experience, derivative abstraction.” (Process and Reality, 20, 28). We do not deal with pure possibility as in the “primordial nature of God,” as the divine envisagement. We experience possibilities as “ingressions of actuality,” already negotiated through the positive and negative or inclusive and exclusive “prehensions” (relations) of selection or “objectivifications.” Our experience happens to be governed by temporal and spatial atomizations, this includes our abstractions and not the other way around. So, these tenets are not distinct they are governed by the parameters of concrete experience that abstract semantics falsely disregards! Whitehead eventually had to be persuaded why is it in our interest to ignore the interrelated concreteness of experience in order to play modal logic games--he thought it wasn't. 

We have often heard that human history compared to the geological or biological historical record is merely just a blip on the map of time. Compared with cultural agencies, processes, and aims, natural objects have a wider and deeper breadth of existence. “Natural science” according to A. N. Whitehead, “is exclusively concerned with homogeneous thoughts about nature” (Concept of Nature, 4). As David L. Hall writes in his superb study, A Civilization of Experience: A Whiteheadian Theory of Culture (1973, 73-4): “That is to say, natural science considers perceptual objects non-reflectively. A thinking about nature which includes a consideration of nature-as-thought-about is a heterogeneous thinking about nature. A speculative philosopher who seeks to promote the most general systematization of civilized thought must think heterogeneously about nature. Whereas the scientist’s subject matter is the object of perceptual experience qua object, the principle subject matter of the speculative philosopher considering nature would be the various theories and doctrines proposed by the scientists in order to explain perceptual objects” (see Process and Reality, 25-6). On the other hand, the philosophical orientations we find in the work of Wilhelm Dilthey emphasize hermeneutical historicity which seems at odds with the more naturalistic approach. Heidegger was influenced by Dilthey in his early lectures and phenomenology developing what he called a “hermeneutics of factical life.” His development of Geisteswissenschaften as the basis of all science derives from the finite human context—there has never been a physics or astronomy without either a physicist or astronomer. Hence, any intellectual principle refers to the individual’s life and concrete cultural setting as the embodiment for scientific “objective necessity.” This is the justification for his distinguishing between the “human” and “cultural” sciences. So my question concerns metaphysical speculation and the issue of whether nature is a product of culture or do cultural objects determine what we know or can say about nature, as a system of organized beings or self-organizing processes. What justifies holding either nature or culture derivative from the other? 

A.N. Whitehead warns in the introduction to Process and Reality, that the “chief error” of Western philosophy is “overstatement.” He states: “the aim at generalization is sound, but the estimate of success is exaggerated” (PR, 1978, 7). Further, Whitehead is quick to point out many instances in the history of science and philosophy in which public opinion was dominated by dogmas of “misplaced concreteness,” that is abstractions or hypothetical ideas mistaken as concrete actual entities. This appears to be the common practice of scientists who believe they are on to a Grand Unified Theory (GUT) or Theory of Everything (TOE), which involves equations of strong and weak nuclear force, gravity, and quantum physics. Unlike Whitehead, they claim to speak for all epochs rather than our “immediate” one. But this ignores the problem of measurement and the qualifications that guide our observations and data—for Whitehead, the mathematical order full of genuine possibilities is subordinated to the act of measuring. He writes: 

A concept is a thought-thing. It sacrifices the richness of inner-life by giving up meaning for the sake of refinement. This process of symbolization is 99% negation. Language involves a double refraction: we both hear the rhythm or melody and feel or perceive it as well! Concepts involve a secondary refraction we are impoverishing our inner-life—through the process of objectification—we are refining the sensory and internal restraint of our expressive life. The sensation is nothing but a projection of what’s already happened within the dynamic emotional (feeling) or gestalt structures according to Susanne Langer. Ernst Cassirer, one of her famous teachers, described this as the basic process of representation. Sure—the concept is one of the most stable things in the world after the double negation: first, taking in presentational symbolization then next, an inner symbolization involving the representation of perception and the sense-experience of the actual thing or being. We can develop or make new creative forms through space, time, and number. The concept will always be flexible according to the relations or dynamics between the representation and the object. Meaning is not the quality of a term, but a function of its use. This allows for variation. Logical validity not only works according to a method of ratiocinative processes, but Langer highlights that there is a “feeling of necessity” by which the entity is moved. Any failure to communicate is a failure of meaning, which stems from the lack of connecting the feeling of the argument, proof, etc. Language is a very highly developed, rationalistic structure of symbolism that helps us to attain meaning out of our present perceptions. Therefore, it would be incorrect to read our language structures into the non-human world and apply our levels of (ir)-rational patterns into these other modes of life. Langer is interested in the living world, including that of humans, and how it gets symbolized according to the interpretation of the presentational symbol, which are made of feelings which is more enduring than concepts themselves. How do I tell the story from signal (or symptom) to presentational immediacy, to a denotative language (which Cassirer calls pure significance like that found in science and mathematics). Feeling serves as the basis by which humans come to learn and think about things that have been named by us. We have a symbolic need that often times outrun the empirical needs we encounter in everyday experience