My current routine(barely 1 week in) its also by group of muscles but the difference is that each series consists of one exercise per muscle. This one has been the most tiring of all and for the first time in months I'm actually feeling DOMs(not hardcore ones but I feel them) 

This week I started doing the StrongLifts 5X5 program but I already have some questions regarding 2 situations. I know posting 2 questions is not very well received but I'd hate to post 2 questions back to back about the same program. 

A healthy diet means a healthy body, I'm not saying to start a diet, but to eat healthier, more greens, fruits, vegetables, less processed/fast foods. Hair loss can be related to stress, and judging by your work, study field I'm assuming you can be put under a lot of it, B-complex can help you out lowering down your stress levels, there's also some shampoos and conditioners that can help you making your hair roots stronger. I know this is gonna a long shot (judging by your field) but try to rest well, sleeping is a big factor in your overall health. A well rested body, means a well rested mind. As for your workouts, set a goal; do you want to lose weight? do you want to gain muscle? do you just wanna be fit? After setting your body goals is when you can actually draw a workout plan. 

My workouts consist of weight-lifting followed by a moderate cardio session. I'm pretty used to it, but I have a growing concern; I'm visiting my folks for the holidays and I plan to stay there for 11 days. And I won't have access to a gym while over there. Is pure cardio enough for these 11 days? Or should I use stuff around the house to have something to lift? 

What is it so special about this new approach that can get so tiring? I've been working out for a while, but I'm no expert so I can't explain it myself. Hope my question makes some sense. 

By groups of muscles and in series (leg, chest/triceps/shoulders, back/biceps/forearms) but the way I did it was one muscle at a time, so 3-4 exercises per muscle, jump onto next muscle. 

One muscle per day, this was a bit tiring since I was able to do around 5-6 exercises per muscle/area(chest, back, shoulders, arms, legs). After a month I switched to series, but still one muscle per day. 

I've always wanted to incorporate daily jogs to my schedule, but at first I would get tired very quickly, out of breath, and I could feel my ankles aching so I assumed it was due to the over weight. Then when I finally committed to working out and eating right back in 2014 I did a lot of lifting but oriented towards resistance(more reps than weight) and also every Wednesday was HIIT followed by a tabata session day(which was quite the cardio workout). During that time I still tried to incorporate the jogging but 10 min is as long as I could jog without stopping. Even at my lowest weight 218 lbs(from 250 ish) and I didn't understand why if I was able to workout for even 2 hours with me ending up drenched in sweat. I thought that with my routine I would boost up my overall resistance, but running has never been my thing, I can't do it for long like I would want to. Right now I'm 221lbs and I'm still considering incorporating jogging but I can already taste the failure. Does lifting(not heavy, just enough for me to do some effort, more focused into reps and short 30 sec breaks between sets) not help with developing a good/healthy lung capacity for jogging? 

Due to hormonal issues(hypothyroidism) I stopped working out around a week after my last post here (feb 17 2016). When the levels of the thyroid hormone are low, the person becomes more lethargic, always feeling tired, the metabolism slows down, and more prone to feel like a Debbie-Downer, although I wasn't too deep in this situation, recovering from it takes a while. I changed my dosage and I'm starting to feel better again, more energized and less tired. I put on a couple of pounds and I'm pretty sure my resistance has decreased as well. Now I don't want to wait any longer and I want to hit the gym again, so after all the background I've given you, I wanted to ask if its advisable to go straight back to my old routines(I mentally feel like I have the strength to do it, but I don't know if my muscles feel the same way) or should I tone it down the first weeks? 

Due to recently events back at my parents house, I decided to help with some of the expenses, this lead me to sacrificing my membership to the gym. I know there are at-home workouts, but I am unsure of which one to follow since I am so used to lifting weights. I kinda regret cancelling that payment, but family comes first. I really don't know for how long I am going to keep my account cancelled. Buying weights it's an option, but again I'm pretty tight budget wise and it would take time for me to get everything I would want to have. Any recommendations for an at-home workouts that can tire me as much as lifting? 

I recently restarted my gym lifestyle and as expected DOMS made their appearance, specially chest shoulder area, now my issue is not how to deal with them on a daily basis but specifically when I require those muscles to do another exercise in my case, squats; I've been trying to stretch my shoulders all day trying to reach a similar position as if I was holding the bar behind my neck(like for squatting) but the discomfort is really bad. I was wondering how can I deal with DOMs while working out, stretching, avoid movements that cause aching, or just suck it up and do the routine. 

I didn't know how to word the question to actually fit what I wanted to ask, so if you can reword it into a more fitting title, please do. Over the past couple of months I've done several weight-lifting approaches. 

Here's a barbell exercise that specifically works hypertrophy in your finger muscles, which are the only muscles in the wrist / lower forearm region of your arms: $URL$ I did them for sport specific purposes, and saw some improvement in my wrist thickness (as side effect). That being said, your wrists are like your calves from a body building standpoint - some people just won't be able to add much size. I went from finger curling 100lbs to 165lbs, and only had to wear my Timex maybe 1/4" wider, nothing crazy. But this is an exercise you can eventually go heavy at - finger curling your bodyweight for reps isnt an unreasonable goal. 

My experience from rock climbing is that there really isn't an issue with me rasping / cutting my calluses down too small. As long as I only cut / rasp away dead skin, and I stop as soon as I can begin to feel what I'm doing, I'm keeping my calluses about the right size. In climbing, at least, you don't really need a thick callus to protect your hands, the lower layers of skin seem to toughen up enough. Any visible / protruding callus will only get caught and rip off. That's my experience, at least. 

So I'd think that I'd want to train low bar backsquats. Thoughts? Am I overthinking ths? About me: I'm 180lbs, and I can low bar back squat 155lbs 3x5. My goal was to be able to squat 120% of my weight for 3x5, then start working in the skill work for pistols. I'm still in a very early phase of training squats, so I think this number should rise pretty quickly. 

When doing a (standing, overhead) press as described in Starting Strength, are your elbows supposed to stay in a vertical plane, under your hands and in front of your hands (more or less), staying at the same distance from each other as you press the bar up? Or should they travel out, away from each other some, during the movement? When I do it, my elbows tend to flare out some. I think this changes the muscle recruitment in the exercise. I'm not sure if this is a form error that I should correct (reducing the weight if needed), or if I should just ignore it. I didn't see this fully addressed in Starting Strength, but I may have missed it. Rippetoe talks at length about a proper vertical bar path, and all the photos of people doing the lifts are profile shots, never straight on. Thanks. 

Mobility / Flexibility work Starting Strength includes "low bar back squats" which take a decent amount of flexibility to pull off correctly - its a different position than the more common "high bar back squat". I started doing low bar squats about 6 months ago, and personally had trouble with the thorasic (upper spine) and shoulder flexibility to keep my hands close in behind me when I'm resting the bar on the lower part of my shoulder blades. Also, some people might have really tight hamstrings and have trouble getting good squat depth. In addition to the advice from others, you might want to double check that you have the range of motion to do a good low-bar back squat, and maybe use the month until you change gyms to do some flexibility work. (or you may not need to). 

When I look at different groups doing pullups some (military physical fitness tests, Mark Rippetoe's book) seem to think that just getting your chin above the bar is totally adequate. But if I wanted to perform a muscle up, I'd obviously need to get higher. This is sort of a theoretical question at the moment for me - I got some tendonitis in my elbows trying option B, and am on a long, slow road to recovery. But I'd like to understand better how I should have trained, for when I'm better. I feel like pulling explosively was working fine, and had been for a while, and that switching to option B was what injured me. But I'd like to understand how other people do it, for when I'm recovered. 

Agressive downturn shapes are very helpful if you're climbing intermediate / advanced routes (5.10 / V4 and up). The shape of the shoe will bunch your toes together, and also will fit tighter. This will improve your ability to stand on smaller holds. Also, a downturn makes it easier to hook your toes on holds on overhanging routes. But if you want to stick with a more comfortable shoe, that's OK to. Plenty of strong climbers will wear more comfortable shoes. If you find your toes slipping within the shoe as you try to stand on a hold, or you find the edge of the shoe flopping when you try to stand on a small hold, you'll know its time to switch to something more "agressive'. Velcro will be more convenient to take on and off when you're switching between climbing and belaying (which you'll do a lot in the gym). But, most velcro shoes tend to be at least a little agressive. Fit tends to be very personal, and most of the better shoes are made of leather, and actually stretch quite a bit, so even experienced climbers may have to buy more than one size if they switch brands. (The stretching tends to mold the shoe to your foot, so its really a desirable quality) EDIT: I didn't address your question very well. Most beginner / comfort shoes are either 1) Inexpensive entry level shoes 2) traditional climbing shoes I think that nearly all "comfort" shoes (and traditional ones) are lace ups. You'll want a lace up shoe where all your toes lay flat. Also, you'll want to avoid an asymmetric, downturned shoe. Those two things (asymetric, downturned toe boxes that force your toes to curl up) are signs on an uncomfortable, more agressive shoe. Good luck! 

There's a lot of good stuff in the other answers here. Pullups and rows are great. Grip training at home (with Rock Rings or grippers) is awesome. I'd also emphasize 2 other things: core work, and general fitness. Abs A strong core is what's going to let you control your legs, and drive power between you lower and upper body, especially on overhangs. You want to focus on abs exercises where your abs are supporting a significant percentage of your body weight. Crunches will have a minimal carryover - when you're doing a crunch most of your weight is resting on the ground, and you're isolating one muscle group of your abdominal system. I'd encourage you to look into exercises that engage your abs as a more complete unit, and put them under greater tension: