(The question about perpetual debt was covered by the link to the description of a perpetuity.) There are two sides to the "is it really possible"? 

At the time of writing this answer, the question is missing key information: the amount of capital needed, and the lifetime of the equipment bought. Based in the comments, the amount to be invested is \$150,000, and I will leave the equipment lifetime to be a free parameter. Initial comments. 

A standard ("vanilla") interest rate swap is a contract in which one party pays a fixed rate of interest, and the other pays a floating rate (typically LiBOR, but it depends upon the market convention in the currency). (There are a lot of interest rates that deviate from this formula, but they have the same "system risk" characteristics as standard swaps.) As a simplification, assume that the floating rate of interest is paid annually. If you receive fixed, each year, you would net receive: Net receipt = (contracted rate of interest - the "swap rate") - (latest 1-year floating rate). There is no notion of "default" in the contractual payments, unlike a credit default swap. From a risk perspective, this can be viewed as owning a fixed rate bond, and borrowing 100% against it at the floating rate. There is obviously leverage, which poses risks (see below). The only way a default can affect you is if your counterparty fails. All that you lose is: 

The quote from Leeper is a discussion of "Regime F." Within the analysis of the paper, monetising of debt has nothing to do with determination of the price level. The paper, the price level in regime F is given in equation (14), which is described: 

If you dig into the regulator’s documentation (obviously depends on the bank’s jurisdiction), they should publish the risk limits for interest rates that they allow. Obviously, the bank’s internal models will give a number within the limits, as even the most incompetent regulator would notice a deviation. It may be that the bank has some exotic interest rate risk that does not show up on those stress tests, but you would never know by looking at public information anyway. 

My interpretation of the argument is that real GDP is also supposed to rise, not just inflation. Increased growth makes US dollar assets more attractive, hence drawing portfolio inflows. The rise in inflation is a side-effect of the scenario, and not the cause. 

The format varies. Many firms just charge a straight fee as a percentage of assets, and/or as a percentage of in/outflows e.g., mutual funds. For fund managers that are not hedge funds, returns are compared to index returns if there are any incentive bonuses. Individual fund manager’s bonuses are often based on this relative performance, even if the client is not charged. Better returns presumably brings in more clients for the fund, and so the fund firm is more profitable, even if it does not charge performance fees. The hedge fund 2/20 model was 2% of net asset value, plus 20% of returns in excess of some target (discussed next). There would be other mechanisms, such as a “high water mark” rule, which would means that the variable compensation would not be paid until any losses are recovered. The 2% fixed fee always needed to be charged to keep the expensive hedge fund operation going. Since hedge funds typically used leverage, the 2% would have been smaller as a percentage of assets. The exact terms would be negotiated, the stories that I have seen is that typical terms are now less generous than the 2/20 numbers, but that varies from fund to fund. Very popular hedge funds might charge more. Hedge funds were supposed to diversify from equity market risk, so the return target was often either fixed (e.g., 8%), or a money market rate plus a spread (e.g. Treasury bill returns plus 5%). That would change based on the structure of the fund. As an example, if the target rate of return is 8%, and the fund returned 13% (5% more), the fund would get 20% of the 5%, which is 1%. 

The title of this question currently is "How is Money Created?" This question does not appear to reflect the intent of the question, I think it should be "How are profits created?" "Money" has a technical meaning in economics, and the usage in the question does not reflect that technical meaning. (There are other questions on banking and reserves creation on this site that discuss how money is created.) In a monetary economy, there is an accounting identity (Kalecki profit equation, from Michal Kalecki) which states: Gross profits net of taxes = (Gross investment) + (Export surplus) + (Governmental budget deficit) - (Workers' savings) + (Capitalist consumption). (Taken from "Profits: The Views of Jerome Levy and Michal Kalecki", by S. Jay Levy, link to Levy Institute web page.) The accounting identity is simplified relative to the full national accounts, and can be rearranged in various ways. Importantly, an accounting identity is a statement that is true by definition, it is not based on a model that reflects assumptions which may or may not reflect reality. Under normal circumstances, the economy is growing in nominal terms, and there are large contributions to this equation from gross investment and the budget deficit. Export-led growth countries, like China now, get large contributions from a trade surplus. Your questions: 

Until you have cash flows, or the asset purchased with the \$150,000 holds its value (very unlikely) debt finance is not an option. If you have a proven revenue pipeline, you will have an easier time. So you are looking at equity finance. You effectively own 100% of the business, what percentage of the firm’s equity do you give up in exchange for the \$150,000 investment? That is going to depend on what you can negotiate. If you are not putting in any of your own capital, the starting position is that you get 0% of the equity. There has to be some reason why you are getting a bigger piece. That’s for your business case to explain. However, you need to offer a return to the investor that is greater than the his/her hurdle rate. Small businesses are risky, and so the hurdle rate is very high. The minimal ownership percentage is: Ownership % $\geq$ (Target \$ return)/(Expected total firm profit). Note that if the investor expects a lower profit than you, the percentage of the frm demanded woukd increase. Your numbers indicate that you will have an annual net profit of 12*100*\$100 = \$120,000. The simplest hurdle rate technique is that the investor wants to be paid back in a fixed time, often 2-3 years. So that would imply an annual return of \$75,000 - \$50,000. If the investor accepts your profit projection, that would imply getting around half of the equity (at the minimum). The next way would be to use a discounted cash flow technique. In Microsoft Excel, this can be done with the PMT() (payment) function. (Presumably other spreadsheet packages have the same function; it is built into financial calculators.) You can experiment with the parameters. The most generous valuation I could come up with is a target return of \$55,800, using parameters: 

In the real world (and more complex models) certainly - otherwise bond trading would be rather boring. During the day, bond traders exchange bonds at various prices, and the yield is essentially the implied internal rate of return (modulo quote convention effects) corresponding to those prices if the bond is held to maturity. That is, if you hold to maturity, you are guaranteed that internal rate of return (IRR) - absent default - although total return depends upon coupon reinvestment. Otherwise, your profit/loss depends upon what price you sell at (and coupon income during your holding period). Dynamic economic models quite often diverge from this reality in two ways. 

The same principle works for longer-dated debt: you have twice the principal repayments if you roll over a 5-year bond instead of issuing a 10-year bond. So all principal payments tell us about is the debt management strategy of the government. If you want to know how government debt is out there, you just look at the debt stock. 

This question is somewhat political, and runs into the area of “opinion-based,” which this site has to avoid. I am only going to attempt to discuss part of it. There’s some long-running economic debates involved, so I will try to describe the debates. I obviously have my own opinions. One side issue: it is unclear in what sense is an “enormous” debt a “problem”, other than the technical issue of the European treaties? But since those treaties exist, I will put that aside. As background information, we normally think about the size of the government as a percentage of GDP. So if nominal GDP is growing in steady state, so would government spending. Therefore, a “freeze” in euro terms, although that might be interpreted as unchanged, would be thought of as shrinking government spending relative to trend. In commonly used terms, it would be viewed by many as a mild austerity policy. This leads us to the debate about expansionary austerity. Alberto Alesina is the economist most associated with the revival of this policy. I am not familiar with the more recent literature, but this paper by the IMF was critical of idea of expansionary austerity - IMF paper link. I would summarise the conclusions that there was a mild depressing effect on growth (“contractionary” versus “expansionary”), but one may note that this is just reducing the growth rate of an already growing economy. I am not going to claim to give the “correct” answer, but the debate is this: will the cut in spending reduce growth, so that the effect on the denominator of the debt/GDP ratio of reduced spending is cancelled out? Realistically, it probably depends on the state of the cycle. Cutting spending right after a crisis when confidence is low may have a more dampending effect than when the economy is starting to grow more rapidly. In Italy’s case, one would need to do a detailed forecasting exercise to see how large the margin of safety is. However, freezing spending would only reduce the deficit if the tax take rises along with nominal GDP. The suggested policy is to cut tax rates. That enters into another bitter debate in economics, the supply side effect of tax cuts. (As an immdiate disclaimer, it is possible to redesign the tax system so that a lower tax rate will imply a higher tax take; for example, eliminate a popular deduction. It does not sound like that is the case here.) The original supply side debate was very strong in the era of Ronald Reagan, the “Laffer Curve” (an idea of economist Art Laffer) was that very high tax rates were counter-productive. Cutting taxes would raise incomes through growth, and so revenues would increase. In 2018, I do not know of anyone who would argue that this would happen right now in the short term (one or two years, say). I believe the consensus is that the improved growth will appear on a longer horizon. In the United States, there is a debate about “dynamic scoring” that discusses this. There are plenty of resources for dynamic scoring on the internet, this is a recent presentation by the CBO - link to CBO presentation. So one could expect that such a policy might result in a higher deficit in the short term (1-2 years), but will the tax cut lead stimulate enouh new activity on a longer horizon - that leads to a falling debt-to-GDP ratio? That question would either require analysis by experts on the Italian economy, or it would be largely opinion-based. 

This is saying that the investor wants an internal rate of return of 25%, and paid back over 5 years (which is assumed to be shorter than the lifetime of the equipment). Once again, these are the minimal profits levels needed to even start negotiations, Unless you can find an understanding investor, the easiest course of action might be to clamp down on your personal expenses and build up a stock of financial assets to put into the business.