The error would indicate that the password is the same as the previous, but we've tested several different passwords, and still get the same error. I can't find anything special common between the accounts that have problems and those who don't. The users are created with this Powershell line: 

I can't find a disk enclosure which I like, so I'm going to build a custom one (if nothing else, that'll teach me to be picky...). I've got a few HP SAS backplanes lying about, but I'm wondering if they would require the "right" (ie HP branded) controller to work? They've got regular SFF-8484 connectors, so I should be ok, right? EDIT: Found a mention about HP having standard connectors to their backplanes, but wiring them up differently. This sounds like exactly the thing I was worried about. Does anyone have more information regarding this? (Reference) 

We have a OU design in our domain in which each "system" (web services and similar) has it's own OU, under which is nested the servers and accounts that it uses: 

I'm running a pfSense firewall which runs syslog and can forward it's logs to a remote syslog server. I'd like to be able to view these on my SBS 2011 server's event viewer, via a subscription. I assume there has to be some middleware which translates syslog messages to windows events, but I cannot find such a program. There are lots of programs for sending windows events to a unix syslog server, but that is the opposite of what I want... 

EDIT 2: I rearranged the file to fallback to the server itself on failure, and now it is slowly but surely (700 MHz Celeron, woo!) processing the mail queue. I'm not certain for how long it has been commented out, but maybe someone else has been asked to have a look recently... Anyway, why would it only work when using it's own DNS? 

I'm building an virtual environment for a small business. It is based around a single ESXi 5.1 host, which will host half a dozen or so VMs. I'm having some doubts regarding how to implement the storage though. I naturally want the datastore to be fault tolerant, but I can't get the funds for a separate storage machine, nor expensive hardware RAID solutions, so I would like to use some software RAID (lvm/mdadm, most likely). How can this be implemented? My only idea so far would be to create a VM which has the storage adapter as passthrough, puts some software RAID on top of the disks and then presents the resulting volumes "back" to the ESXi host which then creates a datastore from which other VMs get their storage presented. This does seem kind of round-about, do I have any better options? From my research, passthrough seems to come with quite a few drawbacks, such as no suspend/resume etc. 

We've got a few internal applications (such as RAID, UPS, Firewall, etc) that want to send monitoring mails. We have a Exchange 2010 on the SBS 2011 server, Outlook and ActiveSync and such business email related stuff work fine. However, I have been unable to make any of them send mail through Exchange. They all offer settings for smtp, so I figured it should be pretty simple. But alas, no. None of the applications feature an informative error about why sending of mail failed, so I get no help there. I have tried adding verbose logging to the send connector in exchange, but I don't get any events in that log at all. So: Are there any settings that need to be specified for letting applications send mail using exchange as smtp server? And how can I debug this when the send connector does not see anything? 

We're joining our Linux machines to our Active Directory using . Now we start doing this as part of our saltstack setup, but we cannot figure out how to determine if the machine is already joined to the domain? It seems nothing breaks by doing multiple joins, but it does take some time and seems a bit unclean. What can we look at to find if the machine is already joined? Nothing in the suite seems to do the trick. Linux distro used is CentOS (both 6.6 and 7), domain is 2008R2 functional level. EDIT: I've seen some people checking for the existence of , but it seems to me that that is only indicative if the machine has ever been joined. If I remove the machine account from the AD, the file will still be there, but the machine is in fact no longer joined. 

I'm seeing a strange problem with the ADFS updatepassword page. We're batch-creating users, and they are trying to change their passwords. However, roughly 50% of the accounts can't change their password, the following event is logged: 

I'm trying to set up Windows Network Policy Server to allow RADIUS authentication in a multiple forest scenario with one-way trusts. We have several domains (each in a single domain-forest) containing user accounts, and one domain "OPS" with servers and services. OPS trusts the other domains, but they do not trust OPS. I have configured NPS with a policy which grants access when the users is in a specific group in the OPS domain. This works fine for domain local users, such as , but when I try to use an account from another domain such as , I get an error logged with event id 4402 and description 

I have a setup where there are multiple HAProxy instances involved within a request. I have set the directive on the "outermost" HAProxy configuration, and it is now propagated through to the application over all the hops. However, the intermediate instances do not seem to understand that it could pick up the header, so the log format variable is not populated. If I set again on those HAProxy instances, they add their own, new, header in addition to the existing one. Is there some way to solve this? I could capture the header and have a different log-format on the other instances, but I'd prefer not to, if possible. 

We're having a reboot issue with services (Tomcat and IIS AppPools) that are running as domain accounts, that are not able to start due to not yet having access to the domain controllers. The underlaying issue seems to be NIC teaming that takes a fair time to initialize. The way forward seems to be adding service dependencies on IIS and Tomcat, but what should I depend on? The service (Network Connections) seems like a likely candidate, but it is not apparent to me if this "guarantees" connectivity to the AD? Would be better? Any other, better ways? We've had discussions about using Delayed Start, but we've seen cases where some automatic start services took a very long time to finish, and thus delaying the Delayed Start. 

However, I can contact several domain controllers from EXTAD. I've tried both and Microsofts tool which does a lot of connection tests. When using a domain local account, this is logged: 

I'm having a problem with NPS connection policies in combination with forwarded RADIUS requests - the connection policy does not seem to be evaluated? Our domain has several one-way trusts. I have a network policy stating that only members of a given (domain local) security group can connect. I then have several Connection Request Policies forwarding to NPS servers in the remote domains, with conditions on user name . The forwarding works fine, but it seems that the group membership part is not evaluated? It works fine for users in the local domain, but for all others simply having valid credentials is enough. I've tried setting the "Ignore user account dial-in properties" since it was suggested elsewhere, but it did not seem to make any difference. 

I've setup a shared mailbox on our Exchange 2010/SBS2011 server. I've added some users as Full permission-users on this mailbox, and when they open Outlook/login to OWA the mailbox is automatically opened. Great stuff. However, only the Inbox folder is visible, and the alternative to create a folder is grayed out. If they open the mailbox explicitly (for instance in OWA by clicking open other user's mailbox) they can see other folders, as well as create new ones. What configuration is needed to be able to view and create subfolders directly? 

Is there really such a thing as a benign error? Then why is it reported? I'm concerned that since for instance I have about 10 VSS warnings every hour that are supposedly not really warnings, I will not notice if an error condition acually arises. How do you handle logged errors which cannot be "fixed"? 

I've just installed SBS 2011 and every 30 minutes this is logged (note: it's a swedish server, this is my translation, might not be phrased identically on english systems): 

VD 0 is a RAID mirror containing the system disk. I have searched and read, but cannot find any trace of how to actually do anything about this. I tried running a scandisk but that did not find anything (as I expected, since scandisk reads the disks as exposed by the controller, right?). The MegaRAID Storage Manager does not as far as I can see have any options for checking or fixing physical disks. The program claims the VD is "healty", and both disks have Error count 0. Also a bit strange is the System details in the message... The IP address is associated with the RAS (dial in) interface, and the OS should be Windows Server 2011 SBS. Has anyone else experienced this before? What can be done? 

We have DNS servers hosted on our Windows domain controllers, 2012R2. Currently we have a conditional forwarder for , which is working fine. We'd like to also forward PTR queries for their IP range, so I created a conditional forwarder to their DNS servers. However, it seems it doesn't work. When I do I get . If I point it to their server, it works: returns the name of the machine. Is there anything special needed when forwarding reverse domains? All the documentation and forum posts/blogs etc I've read while troubleshooting indicates that there shouldn't be any magic involved. 

I was asked to have a look at an old RedHat server (with old as in giving ) which is having problem with . The server was set up 2003 and hasn't really been touched since then from what I've learned. After a power failure it needed a to boot, and since then the users aren't getting their mail. I had a look at , and there are tons of lines like these: 

We have an AD with two sites, two DCs in each. One of the sites is being rebuilt, and all machines except the domain controllers were shut down. Five days ago, due to a firewall upgrade misfortune, we lost the VPN between the sites. We are now about to reestablish the tunnel, and I'm getting a bit worried about if there could be issues with conflict resolution when the domain controllers can communicate again. There have been a set of changes on the domain controllers in the "live" datacenter, including joining member servers. I haven't been able to find any advice about such situations, and MSDN/TechNet only details the conflict resolution algorithm. Is there anything I should ensure before opening the tunnel again? Anything specific to look out for? I didn't anticipate losing contact, and all the FSMO roles resided on one of the domain controllers in the "lost site", does that make any difference?