Another reason why it couldn't be is that one side could go total war beyond what it would be possible in the real world. For example, one could mobilize the full civilian population into the machine of war: all workshops and factories are reconverted to produce tanks, all food goes to the military, and every other able body is issued a gun and put in the front. This can easily overwhelm an enemy virtual army, but it cannot be done in real life because it would damage intensely the economy of the country; but since the war is virtual, every machine is kept, etc. Another problem is the scorched earth tactics taken to a superlative. You want my oil fields? I'll let your army get close, and then virtually nuke them. And every time you put boots on it, I'll nuke it again, until you give up, and I get them back, intact and productive. The same can be true for the attacker: nuke a enemy factory, wiping all defences, and take over the ruins. The intact factory and its production now belongs to you. The rules may prevent you from using it for this war, but nothing stops you from using it in the next one or during peace time. In real life, taking an industrial complex is much more risky if you want to also keep it functional. Finally, remember that winning a war is more about logistics than combat. You need to keep supply lines, produce equipment and ammunitions, provide food... and all this without taking so much damage that you'll collapse after the war. 

I don't mean to disappoint you but planets are already charged - all bodies in space have a voltage that depends on their immediate environment to the degree that they interact with it through the interplanetary medium, which transfers charge to an extent. Being isolated most of the time, they develop a potential compared to other objects due to the balances within their immediate environment being satisfied but by not having contact with other objects, their relative potential doesn't balance because their charges don't interact. This is why in electronics and electrical engineering, two points cannot be compared in terms of their voltage, unless they share a point, usually ground. An example would be two batteries - while the voltage between their ends can be approximately the same (lets say 5V), if they're isolated from each other completely and you place a wire near them with a high enough voltage to overcome air resistance (say, 50 kV), against one there might be a spark, but not against the other, at the same distance (provided you kept the wire at a constant voltage). While this is unlikely to happen in the same room, due to the air balancing out charges through interaction and friction, it is possible to observe this difference experimentally. The ground in England is not the same ground as in Italy - but the voltage between the ends of batteries will be. In much the same way, if two celestial objects where to pass close enough to each other to interact electrically, there would be huge lightning bolts. You don't see this often with asteroids because they don't often pass close enough to other objects and because given enough time in the same environment, their effective potential balances out. But to answer the question, a planet can and does have a net charge - it's not something exotic, it would be exotic if it didn't. 

Candles Jim could use fat from a kill, heat it with stones from the fire till it runs, and pour it into a hollowed out bone "end" or raw mud pottery cup. Even a shell of an orange or a hollowed out root vegetable or tree nut shell would do. Suspend a wick in the liquid, perhaps a few strands of cotton cloth from his clothes, and once the fat has cooled and solidified then its a candle. Maybe keeping the source of the wicks secret is his way of stopping others from duplicating his candles. Further info $URL$ 

Pay your guards very well, so much so that significant bribes are insufficient to make them risk a long and valuable income stream as their regular job. Make the guards a corps, rather than just employment. Care for your guards - feed them, arm/equip them well with current arms and armour. Care for their families - any guard injured or killed and their spouse is covered for life, and children till age of maturity. 

Based on what we know about planetary formation and geology, the mantle and liquid core provide us with a magnetic field. Without one, we'd have no protection from the solar wind: 

Celestial objects are too far from each other to interact electrically this way, although they do interact through the interplanetary medium, albeit at a much smaller degree Electricity and gravity don't interact the same way with matter. If a planet had a net charge, everything on it would share that net charge. Unless we're talking about a huge volcano (where events are violent enough to cause lightning), a thunderstorm, a tornado or an earthquake (where separations are again violent and there's a lot of friction involved), you wouldn't see much of a difference. Also magnetism is not electricity - they're related but not the same effect - unless the magnetic poles shifted dramatically (which does happen but never abruptly), you wouldn't notice much changing. It would have as much an effect as it has now, on other bodies - the Sun controls most of what happens with charge within the solar system as it has the most powerful charge flows and emissions. It's hard to imagine a planet having a stronger effect on the charge of its surroundings than the star they orbit. Even if it were to happen, only the planet would face the consequences, not even moons. Life would be no different - in fact, lightning is considered to be part of the necessary ingredients to get life and in the primordial Earth, we probably got tons of it all the time. With time, life adapts, the atmosphere stabilizes and things work out fine. The elements would also be the same, chemistry would be the same. If the spacecraft entered the planet's environment too fast, it could get struck by lightning when it enters the higher (near space) layers of the atmosphere. But that would be easy to mitigate by just slowly adjusting its orbit until the potential is equalized, provided the pilot was prepared for this case. 

This person legal status, for all practical purposes, will be pretty much like an illegal immigrant in your country. He has no papers, no official recognition; and he shouldn't make the authorities aware he is there. His only advantage is that his accent is probably indistinguishable from the locals, so people will likely think a priori that he is a citizen. Enrolling at the University is out of the question, as it requires ID and money. But that doesn't mean he cannot pretend to be a student, attend lectures, study on his own, and take on mini jobs targeted for college students. These are commonly unofficial, so he won't need documents nor leave a paper trail. Again, people won¡t think he is an illegal alien, so they won't get suspicious when he doesn't provide official papers. He won't be able to take exams, but he can make up a backstory saying he comes from a very poor family that cannot afford tuition (if there is such a thing in your country), but he is there for the knowledge. 

All this engenders a loyalty amongst the guards who will then put in th extra effort. Compare this with mall renta-cops who don't really care once they clock-out. 

Magic or at least sleight of hand. Danger here is it might get him rejected, not accepted, if its perceived badly. 

Answer: the Oxygen molecule O3, known as Ozone. I live in New Zealand and between us and the Australians we have a high level of UV compared to other places in the world. I get sunburned through my clothes, and I can get sunburned on a cloudy day. Some of this is because of the Ozone hole over the antarctic, allowing more ulta-violet in sunlight to come though. So your planet could have a naturally higher level of ozone, or could be actively adding ozone to the atmosphere somehow. Perhaps there are a lot of shorelines, because Ozone is generated by wave action. Or a heap of electrical activity, again oxygen is converted to ozone in proximity of electrical discharges. Ozone is damaged by chloroflorocarbons, aka CFCs, that were used in spray cans for years, as well as refrigerents like Freon and fire suppressent like Halon. Your planet should never have any of this. Links: 

If by this time you get a lot of overlap or a very low population size, especially if it's low compared to technological level, you have too little space. But at least you can work backwards from how large your world is and how many different habitats are available (don't forget planetary tilt and rotation) using some real numbers to help. 

Given that it's hard to base an answer on interracial relations, the distribution of the other races, the treatment of elves etc. since all of those can have many kinds of effects, I'm going to base my argument on the elves themselves. For the hasty, I'm going to argue that they will not reject technology at all. The "facts" From what we know of them definitively: 

Would it be possible for a planet to have a geometry that allows relatively stable orbits beneath the surface? I understand an artificial object could achieve this just fine, given the technology, but could a naturally formed planet either have the structure to allow for this or be carved out in such a way that it remains stable while allowing this? By "relatively stable orbit" I don't mean a circular one nor one that doesn't require periodic corrections, simply one that could count as stable enough that a modern satellite could use its thrusters to correct it for its operational lifetime (10-20 years). Obviously this would require the planet to lack an atmosphere. However, I'm wondering if specifically, an atmosphere-less planet with a vast subterranean cave that spans its underground would allow for this. Would it require rocky columns? If there was no physical connection between the underground and surface would it hold together? 

Physical Actions - perhaps Jim can juggle? Bowling or catch or dodgeball or knucklebones - nothing that requires keeping score more than "one at a time" or "taking turns" Music/Rhythm - noone knows what kind of song or music early man had. But there's a high chance birds were singing back then and early humans might have emulated them for pleasure. They might appreciate a rendition of "Yellow Submarine", without understanding it at all. A sling might be feasible - needs some cord and a cup, and a bunch of smooth pebbles. He may not have the ability to sling it himself, but a tribe of people who live by their hands could see the benefit. 

One specific idea - separate breathing from eating. As humans we have to stop breathing for a moment to drink or swallow. Evolutionarily-speaking, its probably to make the best use of a complex system of the mouth for speaking as well as chewing rather than duplicating things. If the beings had separate eating orifaces from their breathing ones, then efficiency rises and multitasking becomes more possible. Downside, the human nose depends on air movement to smell things, and having no air movement there would impact on the sense of taste. On the positive side, there's zero danger of choking on food, or inhaling vomit into the lungs because of the partitioning of systems. 

The "4f" arrangement seems nice. Just make it spin really fast on all axes. Physical dome A probably preferable mechanical solution could be accomplished by having a deployable dome, that forms a mesh when deployed - then it fills the gaps with matter somehow. I'm thinking of something like this: 

Now how long can we expect a car to work until it breaks down? Lets assume cars last for miles on average (half of what they're expected to if maintenance is available[11]) and they're already half-way there, so about miles left on each car on average. Based on the average daily consumption of gasoline and the average fuel efficiency[7] we get about miles per day which is very low, so lets assume a highest bound of miles per day. That gives us about days average life for each car, a bit over a year. If the average usage is half that much, we get days, which is a bit over 2 years. Obviously, people skilled with car maintenance, with available parts or scrap to turn into parts and a bit of creativity will get them working for longer, but I doubt you'll get cars older than 5-6 years still in working condition. Of course, that's speculation. So I'd say, as a rule of thumb, halve the amount of working cars every 2 years after the apocalypse. After a decade, you're left with about cars in the US, most of them hosts to parts of their fallen brethren. In 20 years, you have about a thousand cars left. This further removes fuel as an issue - it will never run out by car usage alone, but the cars will run out pretty soon.