ST Debt & Current Portion LT Debt 25.23M 25.94M 6.45M 7.06M 7.53M Short Term Debt - - - - - Current Portion of Long Term Debt 25.23M 25.94M 6.45M 7.06M 7.53M Accounts Payable 79.48M 69.45M 109.87M 162M 251.98M Income Tax Payable - 2.52M - - - Other Current Liabilities 111.6M 110.91M 111.11M 157.49M 198.4M Dividends Payable - - - - - Accrued Payroll 49.42M 49.4M 51.19M 68.99M 84.74M Miscellaneous Current Liabilities 62.19M 61.52M 59.91M 88.49M 113.67M 

No, because money can be destroyed and counterfeited. For example, I have a shop, and you buy something from me. I could burn the money. The number of goods have not changed, but money has. Similarly, evildoers can counterfait money, adding it to circulation, without changing the amount of goods available in the economy. 

Money has to be used in all transaction. So Q refers to all transactions. In the early literature Q refered to commodities. This includes everything, from inputs to outputs. So you should include not only GDP but also intermediate transactions. Using only GDP is like thinking that only final goods were bought using money! This is plainly wrong. 

I doubt 1 and 2 that feels too absolutely certain. (They're also restated, but rephrased, on pp 683 and 705.) Why must 1 and 2 be true? Abbreviate Prior Money as PM, i.e. consumers' money held 'in their pockets and bank accounts' before the price rise. Suppose that higher prices $\implies$ more money needed for each typical transaction. But even facing a higher price level, consumers may already possess enough PM to transact, and so needn't more money. Moreover, even with enough PM for their regular purchases, the price rise may cause consumers to spend less. Then money demand would DEcrease. 

Foreword: I ask NOT about the whole question; so I quote only the following part of the answer. Source: p 153, Question 7c, Principles of Microeconomics, 7 Ed, 2014, by NG Mankiw = Chapter 7, Question 6c, Principles of Microeconomics, 4 Ed, 2008, by NG Mankiw 

1. How does excessive consumption in local institutions cause a $\color{darkred} { \text { downward trend in taxation } }$? Excessive consumption ought to be boost tax revenue? 2. The last sentence seems to contradict the anti-growth ideology. Please clarify? I am guessing that the anti-growth ideologues want to avoid $\color{green} { \text { greater fiscal expenditure } }$; so why do they reject a growth (or overgrowth) in consumption? 

Thank you Brian for the suggestion, and the others too. It took me a long time to find it in the Coca-Cola report, and it was under Current Liabilities: 

Page 75 of document: $URL$ I see, as Alecos suggested, that debt includes both loans and bonds. Itwas my mistake to assume debt is only bonds. 

Your idea was proposed more than 100 years ago by Silvio Gesell ($URL$ He wanted to create a National Currency Office, in charge of money. No private banks. Money would be created in accordance with amount of wealth available. It would also depreciate, to make people spend it. Read his book "Natural Economic Order". It is online. You might be interested also in Social Credit ($URL$ I am reading about this at the moment. Very interesting. 

The "common man" conception of money is not helpful to think about these issues. Money is not ONLY currency and notes anymore. These are just a TOKEN used to distribute goods and provide exchanges. They are not the real stuff. For example, when you make a bank account transfer, you are not moving TOKENS. Why would you? Banks are given these tokens by the central bank in order to keep a smooth movement of payments. So Apple does not have 80% of all tokens of the US economy in a vault somewhere. Why would they? It's dangerous! They have such ownership of wealth, but in the form of a current account and other assets. So you need to think differently between a claim on wealth, WHICH CAN BE TURNED INTO TOKENS, and the TOKENS THEMSELVES. 

A cynic would attribute the disparity (and the failures to gentrify) to indifference or inattention, (or worse) disdaining neglect or ignoring, by the politicians and rich of the poor in the poor areas. I exemplify with cities whose disparities I have witnessed, followed by links to the maps overlaying location with income, but I exclude downtown areas which always appear rich: New York: (Lower) Manhattan vs. The Bronx and Brooklyn (e.g. Bedford-Stuyvesant, Bushwick) <Google search: 1, 2> London (Boroughs): Hammersmith & Fulham, Kensington & Chelsea, Westminster vs. Hackney, Tower Hamlets, and the southern boroughs like Lewisham, Croydon. <Google search: 3, 4, 5> Toronto: Midtown (along Yonge St. subway line, like Lawrence Park) vs. Jane & Finch, Rexdale <Google search: 6> Vancouver: West & North Vancouver, West Side, South Vancouver vs. Downtown East Side, Surrey <Google search: the Vancouver Sun has many maps.> 

Sources: p 289, Principles of Microeconomics (7 Ed, 2014) by N G Mankiw p 259, Modern Principles of Economics (2 ed, 2011) by Tyler Cowen, Alex Tabarrok 

Would someone please explain the bolded? It sounds too imperious and presumptuous: how MUST a rise in interest rate increase consumers' level of income? Eg, employers can still refuse to increase salary. Then income would NOT increase? 

I think this is because of liquidity. If I am a poor household, and I own stocks (maybe via my pension?), if the price of those stocks go up, I cannot consume such extra income. Actually, if the stock market crashes, my capital gains can be wiped out! So in a sense, this is not "actual purchasing power", as it is the case with direct income like wages or transfers. So, to the day to day interest of a household, capital gains should not be relevant for their wellbeing. 

But debt is bonds, accounts payable refer to money owed to suppliers ($URL$ Is it under "Other Current Liabilities"?. How can I know? Anyone has experience looking at balance sheets? I'm learning this. 

I am looking at the balance sheet of Coca-Cola ($URL$ but I cannot guess where loans with banks are. These liabilities accounts are: 

I have a question. A company is worth 1 million dollars, in terms of present value of revenues, discounted at rate R. Can I borrow 1 million dollars from a bank and buy the company? If the bank charges me R, I am indifferent? Or, can I issue a bond for 1 million, with coupon R? Am I indifferent too? Do these things happen? Do businesses ask for credit or issue bonds in order to buy companies? 

Please help me dig deeper than the maths, which I already understand and so ask NOT about. Accordingly, I ellipted the mathematical proof with the ellipsis above. What's the intuition behind the last (reddened) equation for profit? I ask only for intuition; please omit any formal arguments or math proofs. 

From the graph, I see that perfectly elastic supply $\iff$ a flat supply curve $\iff$ producer surplus := Amount received by sellers $-$ Cost to sellers $\qquad = 0$. But please help me dig deeper than the graph, which I already understand and so ask NOT about. Intuitively, why is the above true? I seek only intuition; no maths arguments or formal proofs please. 

Is 1 intended to convey that RC's issuing bonds to pay for its repurchasing RC's stocks? What's wrong with 2? Did Cravath intend to convey that a RC ought shun bonds that require payment and interest to bondholders? Because if the RC goes bankrupt, at least it owes nothing to shareholders? 

Please explain the last sentence (that I bolded). I don't understand the significance of the 10% and −4%. The foregoing discusses NEGATIVE interest rates, the maximum of which must be 0%. So why bound the interest rate above, with a POSITIVE number (10%)? 

Risk is important. A bond (or even a credit) is backed up by the company's assets. Companies go bankrupt because of a mismatch between assets and liabilities maturities (e.g. cannot pay a bond of a loan), but not because they are unsustainable in the long run. If a company goes bankrupt, debtholders are the first on the list (after workers, in some countries) to receive compensation. Sometimes they do assume losses, when the debt is negotiated at a lower value. The shareholder is the last one to get any money out of the assets of the company. So being a shareholder is more risky than being a bondholder. 

The theory of present value states that the price of a stock is the discounted value of the infinite stream of future income of the company. Several countries have had very very low interest rates, very close to zero. Yet, stock prices have not gone to very very high values, or even infinity. Why is this the case? Is this a proof that the theory of present value is incorrect? Or maybe investors think companies will not last "forever" (which they cannot, as earth's lifespawn is finite)?