Windows can be configured to not show UAC prompts, but i believe thats a system wide config (ie youd see the same thing at the console as you would over RDP). They can definitely show up though, so it sounds like your servers have some configuration differences. heres a technet article about the various keys: $URL$ 

in putting together a new installation, one of the requirements is that we use fiber to the desktop. we are going to use multimode, but im not sure which connector. is there a material (ie cost) difference between SC and LC? what about durability? It would seem to me that the fragile part (the fiber) doesnt benefit much from either connector, so is either OK? any other advice or things that seem obvious in hindsight would also be appreciated. edited: also, if anyone has some insight as to which 1000baseSX nics one should avoid (if any) that would be most appreciated. 

We're deploying a simple newsletter webapp on a stand-alone LAMP platform in the company DMZ. There is some discussion as to whether the MySQL server should be removed from the DMZ and put in the internal network. The server is behind a firewall with only port 80 open and MySql will be attached to a non-standard port. The database contains customer email addresses. Is this a secure setup (or secure enough)? How much more secure would it be by placing the data behind a second firewall? (I'm more of a developer so I'm not really aware of all the security aspects here - can someone enlighten me!) Update Just for clarification and to attact more comment here is our current setup: internet - firewall1 - http server - firewall2 - appserver - firewall3 - enterprise resources This new application was supposed to go completely within the DMZ between firewalls 1 and 2. We're currently discussing pulling the MySQL server in behind the 2nd firewall. 

How in sync do you want them to be, and how much downtime can you tolerate? If you created an NTBackup image of the entire system, including system state, and then restored it, that should be an identical image of the system at a given point in time, so youll have to deal with UIDs conflicting and so on. it does handle open file copy though, so at least you wont have to take the systems down to use it. note that im assuming youre using 2003 or older, 2008 has system backup which is similar, but not identical. the disk duplication idea isnt a bad one, but its going to suffer from the same flaw as backup/restore where youll have duplicate IDs. agreed with previous posters that rsync might not be the best solution due to windows. 

Our IT department has around 90 people. We manage systems and create applications. The systems are of varying size from SAP to Lotus Notes to Tivoli Access Manager (TAM). Increasingly, the applications we create connect to these systems via web services, LDAP queries etc. As time goes by it is easy to forget what connects where so, that when changes are made, service connections can become disrupted. Example: The TAM system contains an LDAP with user information including which applications they are authorised to view. An unrelated application fetches this user information to build a dynamic web-based menu containing personalised links. The TAM crew are told to tighten their security and so close all the ports. They have long forgotten about the mini web app that builds its menu every night. The next morning the production boss is in a rage because his people cannot start their applications because the menu is half empty. Question What kind of systems could be introduced to help remind all concerned which services are in use? 

I have an ASA5520 that is set up to send logs to a splunk syslog server. the setup works for a while, usually around 24 hours or so, but then stops until either the logging is reconfigured (twiddling the ports) or the ASA is restarted. what should i be looking at to resolve this issue? im not sure if its the splunk syslog daemon ignoring connections or the ASA that gets messed up and stops sending. id like to enable the 'dont pass traffic without logging working' option, but without a stable connection to syslog, thats a non starter. tried so far: TCP and UDP, different ports, changing the logging level 

80/20 rule is probably your best bet. see: $URL$ get the windows server up and serving with the correct settings, then swap the proportions after most of the leases have renewed on the windows server. 

I am currently investigating an instability problem in my customer's web site. While looking through the access log I noticed a sudden burst of activity from one particular IP. It started off requesting normal URLs but at a high rate - 8 hits/sec. For most of the time the same URL (actually a directory) was requested but interspersed with these were URLs which started off as valid but always ended with a random 11-character value like this: 

Has anyone seen this kind of behaviour before? I can't figure out what might lie behind this. I'd be interested to hear anyone's opinion on this. Paul 

I have just installed WS 7 on our stage server. The test server was done some months ago. I have deployed the same applications to stage as on test. One application is causing me problems. I call the login servlet but the result is an 'Internal Server Error' message. From my logs I can see that the servlet processed the log in successfully and redirects to a JSP. That is the last message. I can find no further info in any of the other standard out/err logs. I have tried creating a simple JSP containing only HTML - same error. If I rename the file to test.html, it displays correctly. The plugin configuration appears to be identical with the one on the test server (where everything works) Ideas anyone? 

We recently had a full power outage and had to shut down basically all devices in the server room. Being a smaller org, we still have some very small business practices im working to change over time, like having a bunch of external disks in production use. In this case, all those disks needed to be powered down, but some of them were connected to the primary rack PDUs and had to be unplugged manually, and then replugged later. What would have been very nice would be to have some/most of these types of devices on their on plugstrip for easy control. Does anyone know of plugstrips (bonus points for ones that do a good job managing wallwarts) that have covered switches, to prevent accidental switching? 

When using apache to reverse proxy, is it possible to forward $URL$ and $URL$ to different servers? Say one goes to $URL$ and the other goes to $URL$ I can obviously just drop further down the path (ie $URL$ but its not desirable.