If the Fed paid paid 0% on excess reserves, banks holding excess reserves would immediately try to buy Treasury bills that paid more than the 0% paid by excess reserves. This would drive Treasury bill (and other short-term risk-free rates) to 0%. The Fed pays interest on excess reserves to allow short-term market rates to be near their target (which is now above 0%). 

These operations are neutral for Acme itself. It loses an asset (the reserves), but also loses a liability (Betty’s deposit). That is, bank reserves are just deposits by banks at the Federal Reserve. A central bank is called a central bank for a reason - most banks have deposits there. It’s just that in American banking jargon, these deposits are called “reserves”. Other countries (like Canada) have abolished resserve requirements, and these deposits are just called “settlement balances.” Reserves are destroyed by anyone transferring money to the Federal Reserve. The only way a bank could stop it is by not transferring the money, which would be a breach of some law or another. The only way that quantitative tightening could be stopped is if nobody was willing to buy Treasury bonds at any price. Unless the Treasury was on the verge of default, we normally do not see such behaviour. 

Turning to bank deposits, they are created by the act of bank lending. This is discussed in this article from Bank of England researchers. Therefore, the amount of (bank) money goes up and down with the amount of loans outstanding, which varies across the cycle. 

It’s simpler if you start with a bond. If the yield increases (expected return), the price goes down. Future returns are higher, but if you were holding it before the price change, you get a capital loss. Your return to maturity will still be the previous (lower) yield; the capital loss acts as a drag on the future expected returns. If we assume that the only thing that changes in the stock valuation, an increased discount rate causes a fall in price, with a higher expected return later. However, the situation for equities is more complicated. The fair value is the discounted value of future cash flows. If expected inflation is higher, why are not the cash flows also higher? Therefore, you need to model the relationship between cash flows and inflation. 

"Money" in this case is a liability of the Federal Reserve - mainly reserve balances held at the Fed, but also curency in circulation (which was largely stable). Like any other entity, the Fed creates liabilities by issuing them. It did this by buying bonds in the open market (mainly Treasury and mortgage securities). 

The normal procedure is that the net NPV exposure is covered by collateral; an entity would have have to be in a weak bargaining positiom (or badly informed) to enter into derivatives trading without a collateral agreement. During the Financial Crisis of 2007-2008, I believe that it is safe to say that there was very little NPV losses that were incurred by inadequate collateral. That is, losses due to "defaults" was a very small number (compared to the other types of losses). The losses that were associated with interest rate swap trading was the result of needing to replace hedges that were lost when Lehman (and others) defaulted. (Not all of the problems that occurred during the Financial Crisis were documented, but I am unaware of issues in the interest rates swap market being a trigger. Once the crisis was underway, the swaps markets were dislocated, like most other ones.) Otherwise, the movements in interest rates were not enough to trigger a crisis in 2007-2008. The source of the crisis was funding/credit risks. You would need to go back to the 1994 bond bear market, or the LTCM Crisis of 1998 to have a historical event where interest rate swaps were a factor in the crisis. In the case of 1994, there were very large movements in interest rates, coupled with risk management systems that did not really know how to measure interest rate risk. Since 1994, interest rate risk measurement is much better understood at any credibly managed investment firm or bank. (The comments about risk management are based on my knowledge of interest rate risk management that I gained from working in fixed income from 1998-2013. They are the result of my discussions with market participants who were involved with investment management during 1994. You would need to track down a paper on the evolution of interest rate risk management to get a formal reference.) Whether a situation similar to 1998 or 1994 could happen again is an open question that could not expected to be answered here. Regulators are certainly aware of what happened then, so they could be expected to take actions that would prevent an exact repeat. 

If all else were equal, then using more equity financing would reduce return on equity. (This is assuming a normal situation where the return on assets is greater than the cost of interest. If the interest cost is greater than the return on assets, using debt for financing reduces profits. In this case, there are less profits, and a smaller equity base. The net effect on the return on equity depends upon the exact numbers.) However, this tells us nothing about observed data during an expansion, it just tells us about the difference between two hypothetical scenarios (the scenarios being defined by the level of equity financing). Aggregate profits are determined by many factors. The effects of those factors change every cycle, and may be unrelated to businesses' financing decisions. For example, if the wage cost per unit of output (unit labour cost) is rising faster than selling prices, business profit margins will tend to fall (wages will represent a greater share of total income). Conversely, the profit share will generally rise if unit labour costs increase slower than selling prices. There is no law of economics that says which outcome will occur, and so we cannot be sure what is happening to profit margins. Therefore, we have no way of answering the question of what happens to ROE during expansion, without pinning down what else is happening at the same time. 

For every buyer, there is a seller. The price of the transactions on the current day is lower than the previous day. 

As a statement about human behaviour in general, it is a question of philosophy and psychology. However, economics is generally viewed as a study of decision-making, and not generic human behaviour. Since you can always rationalise any economic decision as being "your will," the statement appears to be true, but has little predictive power. Alternatively, since any decision can be portrayed as reflecting conscious will, it cannot be falsified (following Popper's notion of falsifiability). As an analogy, you can imagine an "axiom" about oxygen: All humans need access oxygen to take part in transactions. This statement appears to be true, but how does it help us analyse economies on Earth? There's not a lot of information in there that can help us build better models. In other words, most economists try to avoid cluttering arguments with irrelevant yet true statements. In order for economist to have anything useful to say about Mises' Axiom, it needs to be strengthened so that it has some predictive power. (Certain possible decisions have to be ruled out.) For example, it could be restated to be equivalent to the classical nation of rationality - where it immediately is covered by decades of critiques (as seen in the work on behavioural economics). 

The duration of a bond fund changes over time, so how do you define the holding time versus a fixed start date? Most bond funds track an index. If new long-duration bonds are added to the index and lose money, those losses could be larger than the pull-to-par effect on existing bonds. So yes, it is possible to generate capital losses. (Admittedly, the odds are low of such sequence of events.) And as noted by Ubiquitous, credit losses will reduce returns. Additional issues: 

In the countries that I am familiar with (such as Canada), using barter to avoid taxes is definitely illegal. You are required to report the dollar value of the exchange as revenue. It is treated as an implicit trade of cash along with the trade of goods. Since I am not going to give tax advice to random strangers on the internet, please consult the tax laws of your jurisdiction. Canada Revenue Agency guidance on barter: link to CRA page There are exemptions, such as for little kids trading cards on the playground. The idea is that you cannot be earning a livelihood. The authorities can detect this activity the same ways that they can detect people working for cash. It’s not easy, but it can be done. They can have undercover agents, get tips from whistleblowers (e.g., a bitter divorce), or just show that a person is living a lifestyle that is not in line with their declared income. Advertising that you accept barter is a pretty good method to ensure that you will eventually get a visit from an undercover inspector, or just a tax official who sees your advertisement. Since tax evasion this way has to be hidden, an outsider cannot tell if it is going on. So it is obviously hard to judge its extent, other than by looking at successfully prosecuted cases. Since businesses need to pay taxes (and most expenses) with money, barter does not help them meet those obligations. However, it has its uses. For example, a new firm will likely not be profitable for some time, so it will have no tax payments due. It might use barter transactions to preserve cash. Established suppliers might agree, as they want a new potential customer to succeed. But since retail firms have to pay value-added taxes (sales taxes) with money, they have no incentive to offer customers the ability to barter. Furthermore, those customers could be tax inspectors. A value-added-tax (VAT) also does a good job of providing a disencentive for such activity. An intermediary firm can get a refund on the VAT it paid for inputs by matching the inputs to the VAT paid on outputs. (That is why it is called a value-added tax.) Your ability to match the taxes is eliminated by tax evasion. And inspectors can tell whether retail firms (the usual end of the value-added chain) are charging households VAT. (In Quebec, the authorities made restaurants install new cash register systems that made it extremely difficult to run two sets of books, which was a common practice.) Some added points on incentives.