According to Wiktionary the ultimate origin of the Armenian word for to be "լինել" (linel) is unknown. Old Armenian had such forms as լինիմ, լինենամ, and back to the earliest known *լէնիմ (lēnim) - which looks to be a hypothetical form from its asterisk. If you follow links around the Armenian and Old Armenian entries you will find some other words. "To be" is a pretty fuzzy word over time in most languages and can float around concepts such as existence on one hand, a mere syntactic copular on another hand, and then there are can be senses like "there is" which can blur into words that also mean "stand", "lie", etc. 

"Abjad" is a technical term for a kind of writing system which is used when contrasting them with other writing system types such as alphabets, abugidas, and syllabaries. There is also an Arabic word "أبجد". In reading various sources on the Internet some say the term was coined by Peter T. Daniels, which would imply that it's originally an English word which was borrowed into English. Other sources merely say that it's an Arabic word formed by the first four letters of the traditional Arabic alphabetical (abjadical?) order. This would imply that Daniels didn't coin it but was merely was responsible for borrowing it into English. Of course even the stories about Daniels coining the term give the reason for his invention being the traditional Arabic order of the letters. So is it a word used in Arabic since before Daniels started using it in English or has Arabic only used the word after he coined it as an English word? 

English makes a difference between count nouns (also known as countable nouns) and mass nouns (also known as uncountable nouns). 

I'm not a linguist but a language enthusiast and I read lots of stuff about all languages mostly on the internet in blogs but also in accessible books and sometimes attempt to read some things not aimed at a general audience. I'm sure I've read either grammatical analyses, opinions of linguists, or opinions of Chinese native speakers, that Chinese words can mostly be used as any part of speech. So despite Chinese dictionaries (at least bilingual ones aimed at foreigners) usually listing a part of speech for each entry, can it be that they way Chinese words function depends to a greater degree on how they are used in a sentence than any property they inherently posses (word class)? Is this a fairly accepted view amongst linguists or a known but unaccepted view (like Hebrew being a European language or Proto World etc) or is it a view held only by some native speakers of Chinese who lack enough linguistic knowledge to realize it's not right? (I realize Chinese covers many languages but this should cover them broadly) 

Asomtavruli was the original form, Mkhedruli is the current form, with Nuskhuri occupying an intermediate place in history. This is only a bit more complicated than how the Latin alphabet evolved the "uppercase" letters at one stage of history with the "lowercase" letters evolving much later. Only later still were the two actually used together as true upper and lower cases. Before this Latin script was unicameral. Even though Georgian has been mostly unicameral through history, there have been bicameral uses too: 

Albanian has a digraph letter "ll" which is described as being similar to English "dark l". But how similar is it and how different? My native Australian English has dark l and to me it tends to turn into a "w" or "u" sound at the end of words and I'm not sure it's the same, maybe it varies a lot. Then there are some more or less exotic sounds I know of but imperfectly in other languages, some which are also spelled with a version of "l" or "ll". Polish also has a "w-ish l" that is spelled with the letter "ł". But my hunch is that this one maybe used to be a kind of "l" but is now firmly a "w". I also speak Spanish but learned in Mexico where "ll" mostly sounds the same as "y" so that's also difficult to compare. Welsh also has a special letter they spelled with an "ll" digraph. It's said to be unique though and the way I produce it is very raspy so it would seem the least likely to be similar. But maybe I'm not doing it right since most Welsh people I meet can't speak Welsh anyway and are probably just humouring me. So which if any of these is Albanian "ll" most like? 

There's plenty of good resources on Chinese character frequency available. But I'm wondering about syllable frequency independent of characters, and also tone frequency both separate and in combination with syllable frequency. It's not possible to properly derive this data from the character frequency due to characters having multiple readings. 

I'm soon crossing the Lao/China border and after gaining some familiarity with Lao in my capacity as an "armchair linguist on the road" I'm very interested in experiencing some Zhuang language before I head further north in China. Wikipedia has some articles on the Zhuang languages generally, and on specific Zhuang languages including a Standard Zhuang. But what I'm ideally looking for is some kind of introduction to Zhuang intended for people with some knowledge of the better known Tai national languages of Thailand and Laos. I'd prefer something based on the Lao language but perhaps something comparing to the Thai language is more likely and this would also be acceptable to me. 

We've had questions about inflected languages moving towards analytic morphology and about isolating languages moving to agglutinating morphology but we haven't yet investigated the third case. In the typological cycle theory languages slowly move from one morphological type to the next in a fixed cycle. What are some examples of agglutinating languages such as Finnish, Hungarian, or Turkish merging some agglutinations into inflections? If not in these, other agglutinative languages or partially agglutinative ones like Japanese verbs. Also if I'm a bit off in the kinds of changes, correcting me on that would also be interesting (-: 

So what is an "adjectival article"? Where can I read more about them? What other languages have them? (Wikipedia doesn't have a separate grammar article for Albanian and doesn't have an article on adjectival articles) 

This is part of a set of three related questions but note they are each specific and distinct, they are not duplicates. In all the languages I'm familiar with that have an indefinite article, the word is related to the word for "one". In fact in English it's more opaque than for most languages I know: "a" / "an" vs "one". But are there languages which have the indefinite article but in which it is not related to the word for "one"? Perhaps one word or the other has been borrowed from another language, or perhaps the two words evolved from separate roots? Is this known to be possible? N.B. Louis Rhys has pointed out that some languages have various kinds of indefinite articles but this question is only concerned with the "main" indefinite article despite my inability to express that succinctly is a single sentence. For instance if French or one of its dialects or creoles were to lose the words "un" and "une", and "des" assumed their role it would be an example of the affirmative. 

The English Wiktionary is a pretty decent source for this kind of thing, at least to get you started. There are all kinds of etymology categories of which these are relevant to your question: 

In fact there is such a term, but as far as I know it might only be used in Kartvelian linguistics! The similarities are very striking due to a couple of coincidences that I'm assuming don't reveal anything deeper in Universal Grammar, but you never know... The Georgian language in fact has a whole class of verbs that reveal the exact same thing, despite being utterly unrelated to Spanish: Georgian "class IV" verbs are described with the two terms indirect verbs or inversion verbs: 

Or is this perhaps a false impression I get just because these words stand out more? I'll add some more examples if I remember some. (I'm not immersed in Romanian anymore) 

The Lao script was originally used as an abugida (consonants have implied vowels) for the Lao language, just as most of the writing systems related to it. The Lao script is now used as an alphabet for the Lao language. There are now ways to spell all vowels and there are no implied vowels. Apparently these changes were the result of a series of language/script reforms which also included removing many letters (which have still not been added to Unicode). The last reform was by the communist Pathet Lao after they took control of the country. Some of this may be wrong. I'm looking for detailed sources on how many reforms they were, when each reform occured, and what the specific changes of each were. An Internet source in English would be best but French, Lao, or Russian might exist too. I'm also interested in finding a dictionary using any of the former spellings. 

I'm in Cambodia and trying to learn what I can of the Khmer language without a teacher. I've noticed some inconsistencies in the Wikipedia articles as I try to get better at both the writing system and the vowel system. The vowels section of the Wikipedia article on the language lists several symbols for which there are no counterparts I can find in the vowels section of the Wikipedia article on the Khmer alphabet: 

I was just listening to some Mongolian and it struck me that the word for "language", хэл, is quite similar to the Estonian word for "language", keel. I know it's not accepted that these languages are related, but some linguists accept various hypotheses that they are, along with Turkic, Japonic, Korean, etc. I'm also aware that coincidences are especially common in single-syllable words. However I'm interested to know if anyone remotely credible includes these terms in their higher-order protolanguage reconstructions, etc. Conversely I'd be interested to see if known sound changes in these languages/families rule out any relationship. 

I'm looking for some correct terminology to use within the fields of phonology and acoustics (I assume). In spoken language there is generally some kind of very brief pauses, changes of intonation, etc which give audible cues which roughly indicate where one word ends and the next begins. This is roughly analogous to spaces between words in written language but there is rarely a direct 1:1 mapping even though speakers without linguistics training may intuitively feel that there is. The terms which keep popping into my head are "phonotactics" and "prosody" but I'm sure those are not really what I'm talking about. Which term or terms really are pertinent to what I have described? 

I always think of the Spanish verb "ser" being related to "essence", which can be contrasted with the verb "estar", which is related to "state". "Ser" is also a noun with various meanings including "being" as in "ser humano" = "human being", and "essence". There is also another Spanish word "esencia" meaning "essence". But am I actually correct in thinking "ser" is related to "esencia", "essence", "essential", etc? Or is it just one more linguistic coincidence after all? (I've checked Wiktionary and the Dicc. RAE but didn't find a full answer so I bring it here to the experts.) 

Being in Albania I decided to sit down with a word frequency list of the language and look each up so I would know some of the common words I see around me. The second most common word in Albanian is "të", which Wiktionary describes as an "adjectival article". (A neat coincidence after my recent question asking what other kinds of articles exist). Here are Wiktionary's senses: 

It's proving quite difficult to learn some of the facts about written Korean before hangul was given official status by the government. 

At least going by dictionaries without much language knowledge or context there are a bunch of other words for "want" in both languages, but these are the simple ones I've been taught in each. I've looked for the Zhuang equivalent but no luck so far. I have found a Lao cognate though: 

It seems that all the things which reflect grammatical gender in languages have to do with inflectional (presumably also agglutinative) morphology, such as agreement. But is that just coincidence, it seems the same kind of thing could be reflected in particles in an isolating language. But does it ever happen? Are there isolating/analytic languages with the concept of grammatical gender in nouns (not just natural gender in pronouns)? 

Actually I had believed we had fully debunked this theory here some time ago. I thought we had found that the theory was posited by a certain individual linguist but was never accepted. I just had a look around the site looking the name of this linguist, but it seems my memory has deceived me and I can find no such thing. But I did find what I had not been able to find when I first asked some questions on this topic here. I found a Wikipedia article which covers the topic and includes a list of linguists who contributed to the development of the theory! The Wikipedia article, Drift (linguistics), contains a section titled Long-term cyclic drift. 

I'm currently in Thailand and a bit frustrated with the difficult writing system here. Normally after a week in a country I can learn the writing system to a functional degree (except Han characters of course). I can draw the characters just fine but many characters look alike and many characters represent the same sound, but the two sets of "alikeness" are totally independent and unrelated! Therefore I'd like to learn the most frequent letters first. But short of wandering around in the heat and humidity with a notepad and building a frequency table myself, I'm sure there must be a letter frequency list out there for Thai already. Can somebody point me to it? 

But I think tone sandhi is going to change it again so I'll provide an update when I have one... And the answer is in. Check the new English Wiktionary entries for 做错 and 做錯: 

Part of what we think of as our hearing faculty is in our ears and part is in our brains. We here all noise with our ears and then our brains do all kinds of filtering and analyses: 

(The third case is the least clear though since it seems ambiguous to people not familiar with the concept so we shouldn't dwell on it for this question.) But I haven't come across this in the other languages in which I've dabbled other than seeing some mention of it with regard to Swedish on Wiktionary where I couldn't tell if it was established Swedish grammar or one editor overextending similarities between Swedish and English. How common is noun countability in Indo-European languages, how common is it in other language families? 

Please note I'm trying to make value judgements about individual languages, just looking for the best way to describe these two culturally and/or linguistically different approaches to number. 

The first sentence is grammatical so "an" was a preposition. The second sentence is ungrammatical, indicated by the * symbol, so "an" was an article. 

WALS has this information available in Chapter 30. I'm not an expert at WALS I think the map from this link will show all languages with grammatical gender but you can narrow the list down by choosing from a dropdown menu, though that doesn't hide the other languages form the map: 

It's generally accepted that languages go through a cycle of changes to their morphological type. English is losing its inflectional endings and becoming more isolating/analytic. But what about the big well known isolating/analytic languages, are any of them showing signs of moving to the next stage in the cycle? Adopting something like endings that might be counted as agglutination or inflection? I'm talking about languages like Mandarin, Cantonese, Vietnamese, and Thai. Is there some research about this or is it maybe that changes at this point in the cycle are not so easy to spot as the changes happening at the point in the cycle where English lies? 

In Thai there are particles which can be used at the end of many sentences to make them more polite. Different particles are used by male and female speakers: 

I was just looking at a Zulu word entry in Wiktionary that implied it was made from a prefix and a suffix, but there was nothing between them. Now this could just be sloppy editing of Wiktionary but either way it got me thinking about whether this is a valid word-formation strategy used by any languages. When I first asked this question I didn't word it in a way that clarified I was asking about word formation. It turns out there are words in several languages which can be analysed on the furface into only affixes, but the examples so far were not originally formed that way, but my more complex processes of adding and dropping morphemes at various stages. So is this affix-only manner of word formation known to occur? Is it widespread amongst languages?