The mass of an average galaxy appears to be totally dominated by dark matter, so your calculation would not give the galaxy mass. Even if all you wanted was the baryonic (non dark matter) mass then what you suggest will be very much a lower limit. For example you can look at this paper by Chabrier (2001), who estimates that gas forms less than half the baryonic mass in the Milky Way. This fraction will be even lower in elliptical galaxies that are largely gas-free. I am no expert, but I also think that even the gas component is dominated by ionised and atomic gas where you wouldn't expect to see CO emission and which are better traced by recombination lines or 21cm radiation respectively. In other words, the molecular gas is a fraction of the gas, which is a fraction of the baryonic mass, which is a small fraction of the total mass. There is an extensive review of the "CO method" by Bolatto et al. (2013). The conclusion appears to be that the molecular gas mass can be estimated to around 30%, but that the conversion factor can depend on the star forming environment and on the metallicty of the gas in poorly understood ways. 

The total light of a galaxy is the sum of perhaps billions of stars, each with their own line of sight velocity. You can characterise this distribution with a mean and a standard deviation (dispersion), and this will be reflected in the absorption line profiles of that galaxy. Equally you might choose to measure this distribution as a function of position in a galaxy, if you are able to spatially resolve different regions. For instance one could put a spectrograph slit across a galaxy and get the velocity dispersion as a function of position along the slit. When you are talking about nearby stars, you can measure the 3D velocities individually, providing you can measure the radial velocity, proper motion and distance of each star. You can then find the mean and standard deviation for this group of measurements in each velocity coordinate. 

The best estimates at the moment are that the Universe is "flat". By that we mean that a pair of parallel laser beams will travel as far as you like and they will always remain the same distance apart and parallel. Ironically, the best evidence for this comes from detailed measurements of the cosmic microwave background by the WMAP and now Planck satellites. The problem you are having is you (I think) are imagining that the big bang happened at a point in space 13.7 billion years ago, and that radiation has been travelling outwards from that point. This is incorrect. Every point in space that we see now was, about 13.7 billion years ago, part of the big bang. As the space in the Universe expanded, its contents cooled and due to the trapping of free electrons by positively charged protons to form hydrogen atoms, the light that was emitted by the hot gas everywhere in the Universe at a time about 400,000 years after the big-bang was able to travel unabsorbed and unscattered. This radiation has travelled (at the speed of light) in all directions. Now, when we observed the microwave background, we are seeing light that has been travelling in a straight line for just short of 13.7 billion years. That light was in the near infrared and visible part of the spectrum when it was emitted, but because of the expansion of space, the wavelength has also been stretched by a factor of 1100 to the microwave/short-wave radio part of the spectrum. 

Well, given that we can see the stars and that the Oort "cloud" is closer than the nearest star, then the answer to your main question is obviously that the "cloud" is not opaque. I think it is called a cloud because it consists of many individual, small "particles" that don't interact with each other. Also, the term cloud avoids giving the impression that the Oort objects are arranged in any disk-like configuration - they should be much more spherically symmetric. The word cloud also avoids giving the impression that the objects fall between two relatively tight orbital radius limits. i.e. The Oort cloud is not like the Kuiper belt. 

Radio telescopes are frequently used to observe the births of stars and their planetary systems. The longer wavelengths are able to penetrate from beneath the envelope of gas and dust that shrouds any attempts to view these events at optical or infrared wavelengths. Unfortunately, the smallest angular resolution of a telescope goes as $\lambda/D$, where $D$ is the telescope diameter and $\lambda$ the observation wavelength. As radio waves are $10^5$ to $10^{6}$ times longer than optical waves, then one needs enormous telescopes to get similar resolving power. This is attempted/accomplished by constructing arrays that can act as a single aperture. Whilst interferometric techniques to gain spatial resolution are certainly possible, if one wants to directly image exoplanets then optical/IR is still the way to go because this is where most of the intrinsic light from an exoplanet is found. It is possible that planets orbiting stars may emit radio waves in their own right, through charged particles accelerated in their magnetospheres. Jupiter, for instance, is a strong source of radio waves in our solar system, but would be very difficult to spot at the distances of exoplanets. Some searches have been attempted, but nothing yet found (e.g. George & Stevens 2007). Of course transit observations do not require superb angular resolution, but they do require lots of signal and precision. Levels of precision that are routinely achieved by optical telescopes (especially in space - e.g. Kepler) are not possible with radio telescopes, and the parent stars themselves are weak, variable radio sources, which makes studying any transit signature very difficult. In fact the main use of transits has been the other way around - to search for intrinsic planetary emission by looking for a drop in flux when the planet is eclipsed by the star (e.g. Lecavelier Des Etangs et al. 2011). Radio emission might be enhanced in hot Jupiters if the exoplanetary magnetic field interacts with the stellar magnetic field. This paper does claim to have detected a weak exoplanetary signal from a hot Jupiter, identified by its disappearance when eclipsed by the parent star. However, the result was not repeatable. The SETI programme targeted a set of Kepler stars with evidence for a planet (or planet candidate) in the "habitable zone". The initial searches for narrow-band radio emission (at 1.1-1.9 Hz) appears to have concentrated on those systems containing multiple planets. The (null) results for $\sim 100$ system were published by Siemion et al. (2013). The observations were not sensitive enough to detect the sort of "radio chatter" emitted from our planet, but might have detected some sort of deliberate signalling beacon. A slightly more imaginative approach is to observe Kepler multiple planet systems when two planets are in conjunction as seen from the Earth. There is then the chance of seeing communications from one planet to the other. (e.g. $URL$ ). 

Seeing (or not) the "light from the big bang" has little to do with how fast we can travel. The cosmic microwave background is here and now; you can pick it up as short wave radio interference. This light was emitted when the universe had cooled to about 3000 degrees, some 400,000 years after the big bang. The problem is that before that time the Universe was opaque to radiation. That is, light that was emitted was quickly reabsorbed or scattered before it could travel very far. If that were not the case then we would be able to see light from an even earlier epoch. It would be red shifted because of the expansion of the universe by factors of well over a thousand. In fact there is (or is predicted to be) "radiation" all around us from the first second after the big bang, in the form of low energy neutrinos. Neutrinos interact extremely weakly, so the universe became transparent to them at much higher densities than it did for light. These particles have been travelling the universe since, in all directions, gradually losing energy to the expanding space. Efforts are underway to detect these neutrinos, which would be a superb vindication of the big bang model. 

A paper by Wie et al. (2016) uses the coincidence between gamma rays from Gamma ray bursts and individual 3-30 TeV neutrinos to estimate the difference in propagation speed between neutrinos and photons. They find $$ \frac{|v-c|}{c} < 2.5 \times 10^{-18} $$ They say this is about 7 orders of magnitude more precise than any previously published limit. However, it does rely on the genuine coincidencce between the GRBs and these individual neutrino events, which does seem to be in question or even doubtful in some cases. The mass limit this places on the neutrinos appears to be a rather uninteresting $<6.8$ keV, but it is a direct measurement of speed rather than an extrapolation of the speed from a mass limit and special relativity.