▻ TRIPARTITE SOUL 1 The just soul is tripartite : this you already know. The three parts (mere) are reason (to logistikon) by which we learn, know, calculate, the spirited part (to thumos) which is the emotional part and in particular the seat of anger and indignation and motivates self-defence, and the appetitive part (to epithumetikon) to which a miscellany of sense-based desires and cravings belong. ▻ ORDER IN THE SOUL 2 The just soul is more specifically the soul in which the three parts are correctly ordered, with reason (the rational part) directing the appetitive part with the assistance of the spirited part. In more detail reason rules; the spirited part is angry or indignant at whatever disturbs or threatens reason's rule; and the appetites are kept in check, exercised with a moderation induced or exerted by reason. 3 In correctly ordered souls different parts may provide the strongest motivation. In some souls, reason provides the strongest, in others the spirited part, and in yet others the appetitive part. But they all are governed by reason in the measure to which reason has been apportioned to them by nature. Reason in the souls in which the appetitive part provides the strongest motivation takes the controlling form of moderation. Where the spirited part most strongly motivates, reason controls in the form of courage or bravery as opposed to foolhardiness or quarrelsomeness. ▻ SUPREMACY OF REASON 4 The three parts are not 'equal' : and this is so in a dual sense. First, reason must be in overall control and, secondly, the spirited part is 'nobler' than the appetitive ▻ VIRTUES IN THE SOUL 5 The soul is in a just state when the correct order obtains. Under this correct ordering the soul will exhibit three virtues; and their harmony will constitute justice. When reason is in control, the soul has the virtue of wisdom (sophia). When the spirited part assists the rational part, it exhibits the virtue of courage (andreia). When the appetitive part exercises moderation, the soul has the virtue of temperance or moderation (sophrosune). Reason's control is justified in terms of its 'knowing ... what is best for each of the three elements [parts] and for the whole made up of them' (Rep. IV.442e : Lee, Penguin tr.). 6 When each part of the soul (psuche) harmonises with the others in this way, it performs its proper work (ergon). It fulfils its proper role or function in the economy of the soul. ▻ JUSTICE AS THE HEALTH OF THE SOUL 7 A soul which is correctly ordered, and therefore just, is also in its natural state. Justice (dikaiosune) is the health of the soul (Rep.IV 444c-e). A correctly ordered soul is in other words in a condition of well-being or eudaimonia - of human flourishing. These terms, 'well-being' and 'flourishing' are only approximate to the Greek but they are more accurate than the traditional translation, 'happiness'. ▻ PROVISIONALITY OF TRIPARTITION 8 We should note a provisionality about Plato's view of the just soul in the Republic. The idea of the three parts of the soul had been prefigured mythically in the Phaedrus (246) and readily appears to be a firm analysis in Rep. IV but in Rep. X Plato expresses doubt whether the analysis of the soul as composed of parts would survive a deeper inquiry (611b). ▻ TRIPARTITION NOT PURE DIVISION 9 Plato recognises that each part of the soul will also have elements of the others. For instance, the rational part is motivated by a desire to know and will will under the education described in Rep. III & VIII lead them up from an epistemological state of mere ordinary belief (doxa) through the higher intellectual stages of dianoia (mathematical reasoning) to dialectic (noesis) at the end of which they will apprehend the ultimate source of reality, the Form of the Good (to auto to agathon). So reason is not purely separate from desire. ▻ CITY/ SOUL ANALOGY 10 Plato adopts the investigative device of looking first for justice in the city (polis). If we can define what makes or would make a city just we may have a clue to what makes or would make the individual just (Rep. II.368c-369a). We need to be careful about the sense in which an analogy holds here. It is not that justice in the city is or might be analogous to justice in the individual. Justice in the individual is identical with justice in the city. It is one and the same quality. The analogy will turn turn on the tripartition of classes in the city and the tripartition of parts of the soul. ('Class' is an anachronistic term in some respects, too suggestive of modern sociology; and Plato uses in any case a variety of terms which can be translated as e.g.'groups' or 'kinds'. ▻ JUSTICE : PSYCHIC AND VULGAR 11 It is not immediately obvious that Plato's psychic justice (justice as the correct ordering of the three parts of the psuche or soul) will equate with ordinary or vulgar justice. Ordinary justice requires us not to embezzle money or to steal - examples Plato gives. The details cannot be gone into here but Plato makes an attempt to show that there is at least a close resemblance between the requirements of psychic and ordinary justice (Rep.IV.441c-443b). ▻ REFERENCES Any standard translation of Plato's Republic. Terence Irwin, 'Plato's Ethics', Oxford : Oxford University Press, 1995. B. Mitchell & J.R. Lucas, 'An Engagement with Plato's Republic', Aldershot : Ashgate, 2003. 

▻ THE BACKGROUND PICTURE Hume is an empiricist - let's state the obvious. This means in his case that the basis of all knowledge is perception - not just visual perception but sense-based experience. You cannot have any concept or belief (idea) unless you have had a preceding sense experience (impression). Given impressions, our ideas can take indefinitely many varieties of forms. I can form the concept of a centaur, for instance, but only because I have previously had an impression (a perception) of a man and a horse. What I cannot do, Hume believes, is to form a belief or a concept that has no link, however, tenuous with sense-based experience. (A Treatise of Human Nature, I.1.1.) ▻ THE CONCEPT OF CAUSE ☛ Standard When he considers what he takes to be the standard or prevailing concept of causation he thinks of it as involving a necessary connexion between cause and effect. Causes necessitate their effects; given the cause the effect cannot but occur. This presents him with an immediate problem, namely that we cannot in his view perceive necessity. I can see the kettle; I can see the flame beneath it; I can see or feel the water heating and eventually boiling. I perceive this sequence of events but I cannot perceive the necessity for the kettle to boil; I perceive only that it does boil in these circumstances. ☛ Hume's alternative Hume's alternative view of causation is that we apply the concept of causation when three conditions apply : A causes B (we say and think) when (i) A is prior to B (occurs before B); (ii) A and B are 'contiguous' (close) in space and time, and (iii) A-type events are regularly, in a 'constant conjunction', followed by B-type events. In his own language, 'WE may define a CAUSE to be "An object precedent and contiguous to another, and where all the objects resembling the former are placed in like relations of precedency and contiguity to those objects, that resemble the latter." (A Treatise of Human Nature, I.3.14.) He does offer immediately afterwards a second definition : 'A CAUSE is an object precedent and contiguous to another, and so united with it, that the idea of the one determines the mibd to form the idea of the other, and the impression of the oe to form a more lively idea of the other.' The first definition is the one Hume mainly works with; also the second seems to involve circularity since 'determines' suggests causation. ▻ A PROBLEM FOR HUME'S ANALYSIS The problem that faces Hume, or one of the problems, is that if the standard or prevailing concept of causation involves the belief in a necessary connexion between cause and effect, this idea should be impossible to form on Hume's account of impressions and ideas. We have no impression - experience - of necessary connexion, and if all ideas derive from impressions there is no impression of necessity for the idea of necessary connexion to derive from. Yet we have, Hume admits, this very idea. He does not deal satisfactorily with the problem, which is in fact an insuperable difficulty for him. He handles it by suggesting that the constant conjunction of A-type events and B-type events makes a 'customary transition' (Treatise, I.3.14) from the idea of one to the other so smooth and automatic that it seems that a necessary connexion is involved. This is an illusion of necessary connexion but he still has to explain, which he can't, where the idea of necessary connexion comes from. How can we entertain the belief in a necessary connexion, even if it is an illusory one, if we have never had an impression, or perception, of necessity ? ▻ OTHER EMPIRICISTS You refer to 'empiricists in general'. I am not sure that the views about causation of empiricists in general can really be stated; there is so much variation as well as dispute about who counts as an empiricist. If you have in mind Locke and Berkeley, there is a chapter on causation in Locke's 'Essay concerning Human Understanding', II.26. The key word is 'power'. Berkeley's ideas about causation are principally given in his Philosophical Commentaries but there is material in the second of the Three Dialogues between Hylas and Philonous. ▻ REFERENCES Hume, A Treatise of Human Nature, I.iii.1-14; IV, 7. Donald C. Ainslee, Hume's True Scepticism, Oxford : OUP, 2015. G. Dicker, Hume's Epistemology and Metaphysics, London : Routledge, 1998,ch. 3-5. D. Applebaum, The Vision of David Hume, Rockport, MA : Element, 1996 ('The Illusion of Causation', 21-4).