Possible alternative- heart disease leads to root canals: The idea that root canal procedures lead to heart attacks is mainly based on inconclusive, anecdotal evidence that people who underwent a root canal is potentially more likely to have a heart attack. Although there is no evidence to support that root canals cause heart attacks, heart disease certainly leads to heart attacks, and through, well regarded, thorough research suggests a link between heart disease and what causes the need for endodontic therapy. The Veterans Administration Longitudinal Study of Oral Health and Disease was a study conducted over 30 years which examined the medical health 708 males who were decently healthy at the beginning of the study. Every three years, participants in the study were given complete medical and dental examination in order to find potential links between oral health and diseases. The relevant data for this question is examined in this study, which determined the following: 

Isotopes of 7 elements could be found in small amounts 26,000 years after use of nuclear weapons, so it would be pretty easy to figure out if they were used in pre-historic Pennsylvania. Furthermore, radon is produced by decaying uranium or thorium, which just means that it's a good place to mine for large amounts of uranium (such as eastern Pennsylvania) and doesn't in any way indicate that there are small amounts of uranium waste there from weapons use. 

Most of the deaths in the source did not include ages, however the simple fact that three children under five were confirmed in the source means we can assume more than three actually have died from smallpox. Regardless, the 'under five' requirement is completely arbitrary and only used to make it seem more correct. 

Yes, according to Health Canada, Canada's department of public health, lyssin/lyssinnum is sourced from the saliva of rabid dogs, and seems to be intended for pets and not people. Thankfully for everyone involved, it seems like it is just as ineffective as any other homeopathic product. 

The results for the 5-year-olds provided additional evidence for the 'better mood->better performance' hypothesis, as listening to songs they enjoyed resulted in longer concentration on a task than either type of classical music. Size of the Effect: Regardless of the reason behind the effect(direct from music or indirect from mood), the results are quite small. This (unfortunately paywalled and terribly named) meta-analysis examines nearly 40 studies related to the original 1993 Mozart experiment. Their analysis concluded that the effect was both minor and resulted from multiple types of music: 

In short, research has shown that in certain circumstance lobbying results in large benefits for the lobbier, and allows corporations to know the details of upcoming regulations so they may prepare for them. 

This paper details the chemical composition of rainwater collected in India. They found traces of ammonium nitrate, ammonium sulfate, calcium, magnesium, and several other elements and minerals. This paper details an investigation into elevated lead levels being found in rainwater collection tanks in Australia, and although the lead didn't actually come from atmospheric dust as was at first believed, the fact that the word 'elevated' was used implies some amount of lead in rainwater is expected. Finally, This paper details attempts at purifying rainwater in China, and that they were testing the removal of lead, zinc, and ammonium nitrogen from the rainwater. If they wanted a process to remove those elements from rainwater, then presumably they are common elements in atmospheric water. 

Most likely not, at least not to the extent that the article is claiming. Timeline.com's claim: As was said in the question, the linked article references a '1942 government decree', and further on in the article the author states "March 27, 1942, was the day the first train of Jews left Paris for Auschwitz, and also the day of the barbershop decree." March 27, 1942, was indeed the first deportation of Jews from Paris to Auschwitz, however I have been unable to find any information regarding 'government decrees' happening on that day. If the author either read the decree itself or read a notable source that mentioned it, they would have no reason to not either be more specific about what it was called or add a link to their source. This, coupled with the fact that historical government records are usually well document, means that source of the claim is likely fabricated entirely or heavily distorted, and thus the claim itself is likely not true. Possible origin of the 'decree' claim: While searching for the decree source, the only similar reference I found was this libcom.org article from 2006, which seems to be the source of a good amount of text on the original 2007 zazou Wikipedia page. The libcom.org article has the following line: 

Many agnostics / atheists are isolated for one reason or another. Many are not. I think there is a correlation to attending community events, such as a church, and not. I do not think church itself is any sort of causation. In the article linked to there, a Daniel Hall, resident surgeon reviewed studies and suggest essentially this: 

Obviously not scientific, as it is only one of many stories like this. But even if only a handful of thieves can not drive stick that is at least a tiny bit safer for American manuals. It is not a single event either, maybe not common but it does happen somewhat frequently and here is another example 

I did my own table to review pure numbers. I took the top 11, and bottom 11 nations by "religiosity" and referenced numbers from Wikipedia's religious numbers and also added murder rates (most available crime data it seems) and then added in poverty My own chart, once complete looked like this: 

I have heard this, and several other stories much the same... I believe what it really boils down to is this: 

Also, this story has been reused dozens of times, Carinsurance.com, MSN, and here is FOX The best information I can see is anecdotal from the police force: 

Although there is a lot of speculation, we will never know for sure. What evidence there is, is pure speculation, but it does make a decent circumstantial case: I think this is a good setup: 

I think if we took church goers and another similar group, an agnostic club who met weekly and were able to provide similar levels of camaraderie that the difference between lifespans would be immaterial. This assumes everything else the same. Everything else the same brings up MANY even better questions though. How many non-church goers do not attend not because they do not believe but because they cannot. Perhaps they are incarcerated, mentally ill, too old, too sick, in the armed services stationed where regular attendance is not possible. A few, non primary sources: Optimists live longer; this could give us some alternative explanations. In short, I think the "findings" might be accurate only in that there is a difference. I do not believe it implies that church is actually the cause, and it asks more questions than it answers. Another interesting tidbit 

Note Religious in my graph is percentage of the population who are in the majority religion. I then made this chart, sorted by highest homicide rate, and added in poverty for the sake of seeing other possible ideas / solutions: 

In the top 5 most homicidal countries, Muslim is on the list twice. In the top 11 (half), Muslim slots in 5 times, and 4 times in the bottom 11. This seems pretty even handed to me. Although Buddhism has 100% of its representation in the top 11! And finally, for the sake of mentioning it, unaffiliated is 75% in the least homicidal half of the chart. 

So maybe that "tiny fraction" means %.001 or ~5% inline with the manual sales. I think the best we can do for an answer though is either it depends or it is unknown: 

The sodomy case does not appear to be disputed, but why Leonardo was arrested for it is. Perhaps it was as much about politics as it was about his sexuality. Freud also believed Da Vinci was homosexual, and although he tended to think every man and woman had an obsession with phallic objects, it is worth reading some of his reasoning. 

My conclusion is that Islam does not lead to higher crime rates. At least not as the sole predictor. If there was a good predictor, from what I gathered above it is poverty. Most likely though, in my opinion the nations with the highest crime rates have a very complex explanation that includes poverty, diversity (or lack thereof), region and religion. 

Yes, atmospheric water does contain small amounts of elements and minerals, and the types and amounts of minerals vary based on location. Unfortunately, since Scalene Aquaria's claim doesn't seem to address which minerals it is balancing or what 'balanced amounts' of those minerals are, so we can't be sure one way or the other whether their claim of 'balanced amounts' of minerals is actually true. 

California/Los Angeles: If the opening statistics were referring to only Los Angeles or California and not the US, which might make sense given the setting(I haven't actually seen the movie), then it would also be wrong: 

Unfortunately, the paper is behind a paywall. Luckily, my old university credentials still work, so I was able to view the full paper. The paper performs statistical analysis which, even if I fully understood it, could not be adequately examined in a StackExchange answer. So, this answer will just focus on what data was used, and what conclusions were reached. Data Examined: In the paper's own words: 

In short, this paper wanted to see which research was more correct, using a wide range of techniques. 

2016 FBI statistics US Totals: According to official FBI statistics, there were a total of 4,251 crimes which were in violation of the Federal Bank Robbery and Incidental Crimes Statue. As can be seen in the below image from the paper, no part of the statistics could possibly be interpreted as 2,400 as claimed by the movie. 

Simple summary: among older men (>40 years old), there is no definitive link between 'lesions of endodontic origin', i.e. problems that can be treated by endodontic therapy, and coronary heart disease. However, among younger men, endodntic lesions 'were significantly associated with time to CHD diagnosis'. In other words, among younger men there is a statistically significant change of getting endodontic lesions and needing a root canal after being diagnosed with coronary heart disease. 

Positive Music -> Positive Mood -> Improved Performance: Although the impressive results of the original Mozart experiment cannot be reliably replicated, there still seems to be some positive effects of listening to classical music. This paper sought an explanation for the apparent effect, and concluded that cognitive improvements are related to improved mood. They compared the previously mentioned Mozart piece, a 'sadder' piece (Albinoni’s Adagio in G Minor), and no music. The paper had the following results: 

Material Produced By Nuclear Weapons: All nuclear weapons derive at least part of their energy from nuclear fission. Without getting too technical, this essentially means you whack an element with a large nucleus, like uranium, hard enough for it to split into other elements. These elements are called fission products, and most are too unstable to stick around for more than a couple hundred years. So, they would likely not be detectable 26,000 years later. There are 7 long-lived fission products that have half-lives between 200,000 and several million years and would definitely be detectable if produced 26,000 years ago. These elements can occur naturally, as natural nuclear reactors are possible, although they are very rare. If these fission products were found in any abnormal amount outside of such a natural reactor they would indicate that nuclear weapons were used in the area. I can't find any information regarding large amounts of them being found in Pennsylvania, so there doesn't seem to be any evidence of nuclear weapon use as the books suggests. 

This is an analysis of studies concerning low power EMF effects on the permeability of the blood-brain barrier. Unfortunately it's paywalled, but thankfully my old university credentials still work so I could get the full article. The article's abstract gives some background on how EMF could affect the blood-brain barrier: 

Nope, they're Albanians in 1991. The ship in that image is the Vlora, or at least the back half of it, full of Albanian refugees going to (or arriving in) Bari, Italy in the summer of 1991. The early 90's were a bit rough for Albania. The fall of communism, economic collapse, food shortages, unrest; all the usual causes of a refugee crisis. Apparently, Albanians had a pretty rosy view of Italy at the time, as previous crossings had been (relatively) successful for the migrants who made it. This crossing however was less successful, and the refugees lived in pretty poor conditions until authorities got control of the situation. Shortly after, Italy offered financial aid and food relief to Albania in exchange for taking the refugees back. The situation in Albania improved after this event due to international/Italian aid.