No matter which mammal you are talking about, be it a rodent or a bat or a cat or an elephant or a whale, all have the same lung size--7% of the entire body volume. In this alternate scenario, there is a regional population of men who have two anatomical anomalies that are advantageous in a mountainous environment: 

As you can see, they were lankier and more streamlined than their penguin upstarts, which raises the question. In an alternate Earth where penguins never existed or have yet to exist, colonies of hesperorns can be found in coastlines all around the world. (Wouldn't nip the existence of the pinnipeds in the bud, but they would be confined to the shadows.) There are hesperorns in Antarctica, a continent buried under a mile of steep, slippery ice. With that in mind, would the Antarctic hesperorns keep their ancestral sleekness, or would they have to shorten their body designs to make them more penguin-like? 

Anytime one thinks "flightless bird" and "aquatic bird" put together, one would immediately think of Sphenisciformes, the penguins. But during the Late Cretaceous, there swam a different kind of flightless aquatic bird, one with a greater distribution than the penguins' cold southern waters. They were the hesperorns, the "western birds". 

It had traditionally been assumed that the Caucasian, or White, race developed fair skin, flaxen hair and bright eyes as adaptations against the low-light areas of Pleistocene Europe. However, recent evidence has found that these characteristics were actually accidental mutations that activated after the last ice age ended, which meant that Cro-Magnon man, at the height of the ice age, may have been as dark as their brethren back in Africa. Where did these mutations come from? Why did they activate in the time that they did and not sooner? And without these mutations, would the seven billion people currently living on Earth be uniformly black-skinned? 

I have just found out that the Milankovitch Cycle, a machination responsible for the creation of the Pleistocene ice ages, has its part played partly by orbit from the entire solar system. As a result of the orbit we already have back home, the cycles--on average--work as follows: 

Here, heavy oceanic rock sinks beneath the lighter continental rock. The result--coastal mountain ranges like the Andes, the Aleutians, the Japanese and the Southern Alps. But look closer... 

As you can see, (nearly) all of the continents had joined together to create one massive landmass called Pangaea. To the sharp eye, there was only one major mountain range at the time. Now this is the map of a Permian from an alternate Earth, from 250 to 200 million years ago: 

So, after a few places try to setup their own supermarkets and they disappear people would rely on either food only shops(Butchers and the like) to get food/get food directly from a supplier/looting from other people (Doubt that this would happen but some people may do it) The initial shock would have worn off by then and people would start going back to work (most would do this reluctantly as they need money). The disapperance of supermarkets wouldnt impact too many jobs, but if you are working in a supermarket you better fire up that CV as you are going to need it. (I was going to list a % of the job in the UK that are directly related to supermarkets but a quick search brought nothing up, if anyone has this please link in the comments) A week after the event (maybe a bit longer, its your time scale) People are resigned to the fact they no longer have supermarkets for convenience. The Government would have issued a statment (several of them proberly) stating what is going on and how people can get food/clothing and all manner of items supplied by suppermarkets. Suppliers would have a huge increase price (their demand would be abount the same but it would be thousands of individual orders rather than 1 big one, their logistics will have a headache for a while) 

After it all life would continue as normal, we have lived for a few thousand years without them, if they just change form it wouldnt cause any long lasting damage (suppermarket to Supplier) 

There is a few methods the hero can take, I will outline as best I can tl;dr - basically when defending the hero wants to use the counter of the magic the necromancer has used so less energy is wasted (wood > fire, fire > earth kind of thing) hit-and-run tatics would be best as the hero can attack without being attack (at least not easily done right) Defensive Scenario 1 - Hero has the advantage In this situation the hero has the upper hand of a supprise "attack" Now I know you are wanting defensive approaches however @dot_Sp0T "A Good Defense is a Good Offense" would likely be the best way for your hero regardless of how the fight comes to be. But In the willing of the question I shall explain how a supprise "attack" can bt used for defensive means. A stun/paralysis attack, this could be an eletrical attack or a gas based attack. If the necromance cannot do anything then your hero (and party if he has one) will be unscathed, no better out come in my opinion. Defensive Scenario 2 - Hero and Necromancer meet head-on In this case the Hero and Necromancer will have a nice chat, realise they cant come to an agreement and then begin throwing magic at each other. At this point it becomes vital we know what arsenal the hero and necro have, if there is too large a gap in their power the fight becomes one sided but for arguments sake lets say they evenly matched (with the hero slightly less powerful but is willing to go further to save humanity or whatever he is doing). So the hero is fighting an upwards battle, best thing he can do is use guerrilla tatics/hit-and-run, conserve his own energy and make the necro waste his. For his defensive magic if it is just manipulating real world material (Wood/stone/water/fire/air etc etc) then he will need to know each elements counter, IE dont use wood agaisnt fire, he can then either deflect the attack away from himself (or back to the necro if possible) using the least amount of energy possible. Once the necro is sufficently worn our then the hero can move in for the "finishing blow" Defensive Scenario 3.1 - The hero is caught off guard The evil necro has used a underhanded, sly and cheap technique and the hero is in a ... well lets call is a bad situation. So the hero is wounded, its not fatal but he could have done without the injury agaisnt such a foe. 

There was evidence that as much as 75,000 years ago, the human population experienced a sudden drop in genetic population, a "bottleneck" catastrophe. Was the supereruption of the volcano Toba to blame? Or did different shifts in climate, those that gave Africa repeated periods of drought, really do the job? Whatever the culprit, this bottleneck changed the destiny of human history. As a result, one race of people has a far smaller genetic distinction from another than two chimpanzees in one same troop. Let us assume that, in an alternate timeline, the bottleneck catastrophe happened at a later date, preferably during the Younger Dryas climate chaos 11,000 years ago. At that time, there was a four-to-thirteen-degree-Fahrenheit drop in global temperature at a span of 1200 years, too quick for ice age plant and animal species to deal with. It most certainly brought an end to the Clovis culture. Delay the bottleneck to the Younger Dryas, and how much of a population growth would we have seen between 75,000 and 11,000 years ago? Would human history, preferably history taking place during the Bronze Age, be reset on an earlier date? Would a higher genetic diversity give humans significant differences in their appearances and anatomies? 

Trichromacy, having three color receptors, is pretty common among the whole animal kingdom--for example, we have recently found the "red" gene in turtles--but when talking mammals, exclusive to only one order--the primates. Regardless, reports have been popping up in recent years of humans possessing the gene that results in tetrachromacy, FOUR color receptors. As proof, just Google up Concetta Antico, an Australian artist who has been getting quite a popularity for letting her genetic condition inspire her paintings. In Antico's case, tetrachromacy is a mutation that is not routine in the human genetic structure. But in this alternate scenario, tetrachromacy is a genetic normality among all primates and trichromacy among all non-primate mammals. Among humans, would this improve our night vision? 

Where was Russia in all this time? Since the Dark Ages, Russia had undergone a cultural stagnation. It took no part in this post-Plague advance and luxuriousness. It was simply stuck in the Dark Ages. Westernization had to wait until Tsar Peter the Great changed Russian culture and made his empire as European as the rest of Europe. But this still proves that Russia was pretty slow on the history track. But did it have to be the case? Would Russian history be less bloody (Nicholas I, Lenin, Stalin, to take into consideration) if Russia simply tagged along with the rest of Europe and had its Enlightenment in sync with the other nations? 

Unless the nature of politics has changed drastically, in the 22nd terrorism is still a problem, and a hijacked interplanetary spaceship would be an extremely effective weapon for such purposes. A self-destruct mechanism would make sense as a last resort to prevent a 9/11 on a grand scale. 

Energy considerations aside, it would be an operational nightmare. A balloon ascent will take hours, with a fully-fueled bird boiling off liquid oxygen or hydrogen. And any balloon-phase countdown glitches are unrecoverable - if you can't launch you lose the bird. Plus, of course, for manned flights an abort requires bailing out at an unknown altitude. Like I say, an operations nightmare. 

Your packs are too big, and Detroit is too small, and the dogs will starve if they aren't hunted down. African wild dogs need about 3 kg of meat per day, and grey wolves about 5 kg per day. Increased brain function requires considerable increased food intake, but let's split the difference and call it 4 kg/day. That implies about 20,000 kg of meat per day for the entire population. Even if you assume the dogs will be able to consume the entire carcasses of their prey, within a day or so all the pets will be gone, and then it's on to humans. Without leisure on their prey, the dogs will not be able to consume the entirety of an unlucky human, so let's take a rough number of about 50 kg of meat and organs per person. This implies a hunting rate of 400 people per day. You should keep in mind that, while Detroit has what most consider an appalling crime rate, it's less than 300 homicides per year. So you'd start losing more people per day than are ordinarily lost in a year, and this is not the sort of loss rate which will go unnoticed. With numbers increased to 30,000, the numbers above indicate they need to kill about 2400 people per day. The city proper (143 square miles) only has a population of 680,000, which will last the community about 280 days, and that's if everybody stays put, doesn't fight back, and gets hunted. How likely do you think that is? Within 3 days a state of emergency will be declared. There will be sightings of the dogs - they must get out to hunt, and do so only in the darkest hours of the night - say, 2 AM to 6 AM. During these hours, the vast majority of folks are safe behind closed doors, so after a few days the pickings will get very slim. There just aren't that many hookers and drug dealers available. Hollywood likes to show remorseless night hunters making silent kills, but it generally doesn't work that way. People getting killed by dogs will scream bloody murder. This will alert the neighbors, at least a few of whom will dial 911. The existence of blood pools and the occasional scrap of clothing and flesh will be a dead giveaway that something very, very bad is going on. The dogs simply will not be able to hide their presence for a year while they expand to 30,000. But let's say they somehow do. Once discovered, the dogs are in a very bad situation. Humans have this tendency to gang up on any perceived threat. Humans ganging up on a threat while carrying automatic weapons (the military will get called in rather quickly) are very bad news. The dogs may well be good at hiding during the day, and for a few weeks or perhaps months would be a real threat to civilians, but ultimately they would starve. With people either fleeing the city or barricading themselves in at night there is simply nothing to eat. 8-year-old intelligence does not imply an attention span greater than an 8-year-old, so there is no reason to invoke some exceptional strategic planning abilities. 

There are many more scenarios which would take into account terrain, additional party members, what can and cannot be done with magic and so forth but as you havent mentioned anything to do with that I have left it purely about the combat, there is alot of offensive manoeuvre but that is because its alot harder to fight if you soly defend yourself 

I am thinking about having multiple races in my story but I also want them to have relationship (Love/Mating). For the moment lets go with generic types, Humans, Elfs, Dwarfs and Orcs. How could these species remain as they are without them mixing to the point where they are just one species? FYI - Each species can mate with each other and have their own offspring with little to no trouble Just to let people know who read this, all of the answers in this post could have been accepted however the one that was accepted was just a better fit to the question. I recommend you read them all as each person gives a great answer 

I'll break this down a bit as there will be stages to an event like this happening. I will be placing this in the UK as no country was specified A few hours after the supermarkets disappear Media cover would be all over the place, when people see this they will rush to the nearest place that sells food (go for the canned food, it lasts longer) and raid it, nearly all small stores would be looted and a large amount of damaged caused to the store in the process. The public services, Police/NHS (possibly fire brigade but unlikely, they are more likely to help with helping locals with minor issues) will be bombarded with calls, either about "why this is happening?", "Where can I get food/supplies?" etc etc. A day after the event The Government would do nothing for a few days till people came banging on their doors pitch-fork-in-hand likely have local police (possibly the army if things get real bad) handing out rations and to keep peace best they can. Police would have to be more lenient with people as the lost of an immediate food souce would scare people and they wouldnt be thinking straite. There would be a few deaths but they would be few and most wouldnt be caused directly by the supermarkets disappearing A few more days after the event Google defines a supermarket as: