The case of main clause open interrogatives (Whoever would agree to that, Bob won't.) is quite interesting. As a pro-drop language, Thai seems to allow main clause open interrogatives to be used as subordinate closed interrogative clauses almost freely, if not always. This can roughly be categorized into two main groups, i.e., yes-no questions (which works quite like English whether when it's embedded in a subordinate clause), and wh-questions (which works quite like English wh-ever words in subordinate clauses). Here are a couple examples: 

I cannot answer this as a linguist. However, being a native Thai speaker, and being someone who educated himself about linguistics much enough to have some idea on stress-timed vs. syllable-timed (acoustic phonetics is one of my particular interests), I believe that I can provide some good information on Thai's prosody (specifically stress and rhythm). To summarize, in my opinion, Thai language is neither syllable-timed nor stressed-timed. A good metaphor for understanding this is a "rounded rectangle". A rounded rectangle is neither a rectangle nor a circle. Having said that, I do believe that Thai language is more syllable-timed than stressed-timed. 

Russian ⟨ы⟩ can be a little difficult to master, especially if one wishes for a native-like pronunciation. When stressed, the vowel in question is a : IPA . But, as with all "hard vowels" in Russian, it strongly velarizes any preceding consonant, which manifests as a noticeable glide after the consonant and before ⟨ы⟩. So, ты comes out phonetically as , where is the IPA symbol for the velar approximant – a ⟨w⟩ (as in water) without rounding the lips. This gives ⟨ы⟩ a diphthong-like quality distinct from in many other languages. One thing to note is that Russian speakers maintain the velar approximant before even when pronouncing ⟨ы⟩ in isolation (without any consonant before it to velarize), e.g., when reciting the alphabet. To make , try following the instructions in this video: $URL$ For an English speaker, one way may be to start with something like 'woo', and get rid of the lip-rounding. 

May be this doesn't exactly answer the question, but pure dental consonants are cross-linguistically rare. Ladefoged and Maddieson discuss in detail how stops which are generally labeled dental, are actually denti-alveolar, with the bulk of the articulation at the alveolar ridge. They also state that for languages that distinguish different types of coronal stops, the actual difference in articulation is caused by tongue shape (laminal versus apical) as opposed to tongue position (dental versus alveolar). The answer by @user6726 notes the Australian aboriginal languages as having distinct dental consonants. Now, I don't know much about Australian languages, in general, but from this Wikipedia article, it seems they too use a laminal and apical distinction. I can, however, vouch for this fact --- as a native speaker --- about the Indo-Aryan languages which have a similar distinction. The so-called retroflexes actually involve curling the tongue back (retroflexing) only in careful and slow speech, or in artificially learned speech (for example, a lot of people learn this careful retroflexed articulation in school, and therefore may have retroflexes in English --- signature Indo-Pakistani accent --- but completely lack retroflexes in their first languages). At least for me, the "retroflexes" 〈ṭ, ṭh, ḍ, ḍh〉 are always apical alveolar (with zero affrication, so they sound quite different from English) and are post-alveolar only inter-vocalically, while "dental" 〈t〉 and 〈th〉 are laminal denti-alveolar and "dental" 〈d〉 and 〈dh〉 are actually laminal alveolar! My point of saying all this is to point out that "dental" is often a placeholder for laminal, and in this sense, I can't imagine a "dental" trill, because I find laminal trills impossible, even though an apical trill is easy to make (regardless of whether its dental or alveolar). The other interpretation of dental consonants may be inter-dental, like English 〈th〉, which are also cross-linguistically rare. The hyperlinked Wikipedia page and this page says it occurs in careful pronunciation for plosives in Australian languages. I can make an inter-dental trill, with the tip of my tongue sticking out and trilling against the sharp edge of the upper incisors, but this doesn't seem to be a very natural (for want of a better word) thing to do. Again (as the other answer mentions), Russian and Hungarian (and Rumanian, which I know very little about) have been claimed to have dental trills (for Russian it is the palatized r), but in both these languages the said trills (at least in my experience) are very often taps, and even then are denti-alveolar. 

As someone has already pointed out in the comments above, Thais pronounce every word in syllables, because that is what we were taught since the primary school (equivalent to Grade 1 in the US). This is also strengthened by our poems. There are many sub-types of classical Thai poems. Each and every one of these sub-types will have a set of specific rules for the rhymes and number of syllables in each verse. This can explain why no one would label someone who speak Thai in a very syllable-oriented manner as incorrect. He will be perfectly understandable; he just might sound a little too stiff and might sound unnatural. But that's all. This is quite similar to when a native English speaker speaks in monotone. No one would accuse him for speaking sub-standard English; he just sounds uninteresting. However, Thai natural speech (informal speech) can sound quite close to a stress-timed language, to the point that it might be mistaken as a true stress-timed language. It is also true that if you observe native Thai speakers carefully in their natural speech, they will group words into two or three or four or five or even more syllables, and each group will have one or more quasi-stressed syllables. (I use the term quasi-stressed because those stressed syllables are generally not very dominant.) And, having all that said is still a very simplification at best. There are no exact rules for stressing in Thai. However, without any explicit rules, Thai people can nonetheless speak approximately the same way somehow. One way to understand Thai's stressing system is to compare it to English's intonation system. It can vary very widely from one person to another, or one region to another. And, except for those obvious rules (such as, in English's intonation: end questions with rising tone, or end declarative sentences with low tone--which are not particularly true in real English speech), you can confidently say that there is no definite rule at all. 

A lot. All Turkic languages (Turkish, Qazaq, Tatar, O'zbek, Sakha etc.), all Uralic languages (Finnish, Sami, Hungarian, Komi, Mari, Nenets etc.), a lot of Indo-Iranian langages (Persian, Sorani Kurdish, Bengali, Ossetic etc.), and many more. All the languages mentioned so far don't have grammatical gender, but even some languages with grammatical gender may fail to have gendered pronouns, for instance, Hindi-Urdu, and Kurmancî Kurdish in the absolutive case. 

How people "feel" (regardless of their first language) can be quite subjective, and in a linguistic context even the word "feel" can have multiple interpretations. As such, a single English-speaker, picked at random, may associate with any of these geographical names a particular gender based on analogy with similar/familiar terms. For example, names of female individuals often (of course, not always) end in (orthographically ⟨a⟩), e.g., Andrea, Antonia, Erica etc., and this may cause some individuals to build a feminine association with names like California or America. [In North Carolina, where I live, I have often heard of people refer to the state as a 'she' or 'her'.] But this should not be taken to imply that such words have a particular gender, since English definitely lacks grammatical gender, except in pronouns, which the answer by @fdb addresses. Now, I don't identify as a native English-speaker, but I do speak English like a native, and more importantly, my first language is genderless (more so than English; we even lack gendered pronouns), and I can vouch for the fact that while I may sometimes refer to a geographical/political location as masculine or feminine, I certainly do not associate with these any notion of actually possessing any biologically female or male attributes, the way I would for human beings or even some animals – at least, not in the way a Russian- or German-speaker would. 

Hungarian toponyms can be grouped grammatically according to whether they take the "interior" cases (inessive, illative, and elative) or the "surface" cases (superessive, sublative, and delative) to express static position, movement towards, and movement away, respectively. The general rule is that words denoting places within Hungary take the surface cases, whereas places outside Hungary take the interior cases. However, there are a number of exceptions. For example: 

I'm looking for resources, either print or online, which compile lists of examples of linguistic phenomena, be they phonological, morphological, syntactic, or semantic. (My main purpose for these would be for teaching linguistic principles and theories, and designing exercises.) I suppose the canonical example of such a resource would be the Source Book for Linguistics by William Cowan and Jaromira Rakušan, which tabulates examples from many different languages and dialects. Can anyone point me to any similar books or online resources? 

Sometimes when a word is borrowed from one language to another, what is an inflected form in the source language becomes an uninflected form in the target language. Examples of this are the Italian words "salame", "panino", and "zucchino", whose plural forms "salami", "panini", and "zucchini" got borrowed into English as unmarked singular forms. Is there a term for this kind of borrowing? I'm tempted to call it a "reanalytic borrowing" but that term doesn't appear to be in general use, and besides which probably covers a greater range of phenomena than what I've described above. 

Lateral (egressive) consonants are made by obstructing the path of the airstream using some part of the tongue and directing it to escape the along the sides of the mouth. This gives lateral approximants like , , etc. their distinctive sound, different than the corresponding central approximants , etc. Of course, the same principle applies to lateral fricatives, affricates and taps, which find use in a lot of languages. However, I have never seen a mention of lateral plosives. To me, it seems that they should exist – at least in principle. In fact, I think I can make what seem to be lateral plosives and even ejectives! So, is there really some physiological reason that makes lateral plosives impossible (i.e., what I am producing are something else), or are they never mentioned because no (living, known, attested, well-documented) language uses them? Along the same lines, I have seen some stuff on laterally released (IPA ) plosives, such as the -ddle in middle . Is this what I am calling a lateral plosive?