Exploration Palenque is considered a medium-sized site. It was surveyed and mapped in 2000 through a project called the Palenque Mapping Project (PMP): 

Findings are suggestive of a neurotoxic effect of cannabis on the adolescent brain. As DrugAbuse points out, this loss seems to also be consistent with findings in animal studies. The length of the study, publication, number of participants and variables considered show good methodology. The difference between the two studies mentioned in the question is that the second had a large enough sample to account for socioeconomical differences, and found no direct correlation them and IQ loss associated with cannabis use. 

The ratio of bust-to-waist may predict hormone levels, so women with larger breasts are thought to be more fertile, and more attractive. This is believed to be the main reason why humans have permanently enlarged breasts. 

Both the inbreeding and the coancestry coefficients can be defined for specific individuals or as average population values, but they assume no selection or are limited to neutral alleles, so the numbers are a simple statistical calculation. If you want to know how inbred a population is, you can use the effective population size. You can note how the average inbreeding coefficient changes from one generation to the next, and then define Ne as the size of the idealized population that has the same change in average inbreeding coefficient as the population under consideration. 

Current research by Jeff Pettis [1] shows that the most widely used pesticide, imidacloprid, compromises bees’ immune system even when present in sub-lethal doses. Bees thus weakened are very susceptible to infection with other pathogens. 

Spontaneous Human Combustion does not exist. Mark Benecke, a forensic biologist, has researched this topic extensively. His remarks have been published in National Geographic, The Daily Telegraph and BBC, among others. He has written a lengthy, well-sourced report for the Skeptic Inquirer which seems to cover the topic conclusively. To quote the relevant bits (emphasis mine): 

The other answers contain some examples of secret research and it’s well worth keeping in mind that secret research exists – notably for military projects, but often also in privately funded research, where premature publication would harm patentability and marketing. On the other hand, you need to realise that most publicly funded research is, by its very nature, open. Public funding almost always1) entails that results be published (in peer-reviewed journals). This is one of the fundamental rules of “good scientific practice”, as universally understood [1, 2]. 

Roasting meat graph $URL$ Wired Magazine offers the explanation – albeit without giving any references – that the perceived juiciness in seared meat comes from our saliva since it looks juicier to us and we salivate more in anticipation. Well … I take that with a grain of salt. And maybe some pepper. 

The study followed 1,037 individuals from birth (1972/1973) to age 38. Each person was interviewed at age 18, 21, 26, 32, and 38 and took IQ tests at 13 and 38. The results are in line with what the article you linked mentions: 

If you break it down by the numbers, it seems to be closer to the 3K than 4,5K, but the variation can be huge depending on what drinks and snacks there are. 

Since the original article wasn't mentioned in the question, here's a link with abstract: MEIER MH, et. al. Persistent cannabis users show neuropsychological decline from childhood to midlife. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2012 Oct 2;109(40):E2657-64. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1206820109. Epub 2012 Aug 27. The purpose of the study, published in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, was to 

Yes. Homo sapiens is, as far as we know, the only species that has permanently enlarged breasts. In the rest of the primates, plump breasts last only as long as breastfeeding does: 

The main reason for larger breasts existence (which would explain their evolutionary presence) seems to be not lactation -pre-pregnancy size is no indication of a woman's ability to produce milk-, but because they are a signal of a woman's ability to store fat - and therefore be considered more fertile (Mascia-Lees et al., 1986, Pawlowski, 1999, Pawlowski et al., 2004). Women with hourglass figures have been proven to be more likely to become pregnant: 

Let’s have a look at the list of drugs approved in the USA in 2011 alone – particularly at the active ingredients, since presumably this is what the professor meant because it’s what “makes the cure tick”. 

Y. Sun, J. Campisi & al., Treatment-induced damage to the tumor microenvironment promotes prostate cancer therapy resistance through WNT16B, Nature medicine (2012) 

He also mentions the multiple wick effect to account for the partial burning of just the clothed parts of a body: 

Mario Balotelli, another iconic taper, at the EM 2012. Websites that sell the tapes are very stingy when it comes to defining which precise effects the tape is supposed to have. However, there seem to be claims that taping stabilises muscles, increase blood circulation and support the lymphatic system. Supposed explanations aren’t detailed, and don’t sound scientifically plausible. It may be worth noting that the original inventor, Dr Kase, admits to a lack of studies. But this doesn’t deter vendors from claiming effectiveness. Which, if any, proven benefits does taping have? 

Proponents of SHC distort the evidence. It is also worth noting that many SHC reports are false or incomplete: 

About the first point, life expectancy in ancient Egypt was around 25 years, and even in the middle ages no more than 30 years. Compare that to today’s 67 years. Granted, once you take infant mortality out of the equation life expectancy grows – but it still was much less than today, and more importantly, it was often less than 50 years. The second point is due to a number of factors but it all boils down to cell aging and accumulating effects of detriment mutations. There are occurrences of cancer in young people and even in children, but mostly, it is “a disease found in people over the age of 50”: according to SEER data, just 95 people below 50 get cancer for 1449 incidences above 50. Combined, it isn’t surprising to see that cancer is much more common now than it was then. Superficially, no further reasons are needed to explain this phenomenon. Furthermore, animals (e.g. chimpanzees) and even plants can get cancer, too – so this isn’t a problem that is partial to humans (though that doesn’t preclude new environmental causes). Apart from that, the quote is complete nonsense: 

If you double all the dimensions of a stone building supported on stone pillars, the weights are all increased eightfold, but the supporting capacities only go up fourfold. This all applies to animals and humans too: 

Excavation Not all areas that were charted have been excavated. Excavations are invasive and destructive, not to mention really expensive when done in the jungle, as trees keep growing and burying structures each year. It's rare to find completely excavated cities, though, especially when newer structures have been built on top of old ones, and the land is in private hands. Maintenance can also be a big issue for these sort of sites. The biggest structures in Palenque have been explored to detail from 1922, however, and those can be considered representative of the city as a whole. You can see the full list of excavations and investigations in the Palenque Project website. Also, the map is impressive, so here's a smaller version: 

Greek bronze statue of boxer at rest | © Joseph Uj/Flickr The relative length of the big and second toes varies continuously, so there aren't just two categories of toe length. The mechanisms that determine how Morton's toe is inherited are determined by more than one gene, or by a combination of genetics and the environment. These mechanisms haven't proven to be specific to a geographic area, as referenced by Kaplan. 

I want to know: is this claim true? Have these experiments any scientific value whatsoever (were they performed rigorously, did they test hypotheses, did they result in new insights?), and are they used in modern medicine. The second, stronger claim might not be falsifiable (too conspiracy-ey?) so feel free to disregard that in your answer, though if somebody does have a definitive answer here, I’d appreciate that. 

No. This result is a blatant misrepresentation of what the study1 actually did, namely cataloguing changes in behaviour in the cells surrounding a tumour when exposed to anticancer treatment, and how those changes affect the resistance of the tumour to the treatment. Cancer Research UK calls the headlines “misleading” and warns not to take them seriously. They go on to say that, 

Proponents of SHC have the facts wrong. He also debunks some of the claims made by proponents of SHC which try to undermine conventional explanations (again, emphasis mine): 

We sometimes hear claims that the results from those experiments have fundamentally influenced our modern understanding of human physiology. For instance, the data from the Nazi experiments on hypothermia are sometimes cited in medical literature [2, 3], although it’s been deemed “unscientific” by others. A stronger claim is that in fact, all modern text books on physiology incorporate fundamental facts which were gained through these experiments. That is, modern physiology is, at least in some regards, fundamentally dependent on these experiments (since they cannot be repeated). For instance: