This happens so much that Grey at razzball even has a term for it. The "Disgraceful List." The problem with regulating this is that the MLB is very concerned about protecting their players. If the office of the commissioner incorrectly rejected a DL stint for someone that was actually hurt and the Player's Union could prove that there was indeed an injury, there would be hell to pay. There is no doubt that the disabled list is abused from time to time, but keep in mind that putting a player on the 15-day DL doesn't add an additional spot to the 40 man roster, it only allows for a player on the 40-man roster to be called up to the active 25-man roster. It adds to that player's arbitration/FA clock and uses an option year if they haven't been called up yet. Basically, it benefits both parties, the MLB and the MLBPA to turn a blind eye to players landing on the Disgraceful List. 

I doubt that this would be public. The Umpire's Association is typically quiet about this kind of thing. They don't want to throw their members under the bus. If they came out this year and said "2012 is better than 2011" but then don't say anything in 2013, it's safe to assume that there was a decline, but the Umpire's Association doesn't want to hurt their members publicly. Umpire discipline and performance review has always been pretty tight-lipped. AFAIK, this is no different. 

Yes, it is still counted for his career stats. Just because a match is called off doesn't mean that the stats wont be recorded for that match. It will be still recorded as "abandoned due to rain" and any runs scored or wicket taken will be added to the stats of corresponding players. The proof can be seen in this stat page of Lumb. You can see that in the innings by innings list, his score of 2 is also added and the total scored by him in that series is shown here as 31(29 + 2) at an average of 15.50. If it was not included, his average would have been 29 from the first match. The same applies for your second scenario as well. If a batsman scores 250, he will get the credit for it and it will be added in his career stats. 

This is how overrate is calculated for different formats: ODI: In ODI, 50 overs should be completed in 210 min as per the rules and out of this 10 min is provided for Drinks breaks. So the total time allotted for an over is 200/50 = 4 min. By considering this, the over rate per hour is 15 overs. T20: For T20, the total time is 75 min and 20 overs has to be completed in 75 mins(Drinks breaks are included in this). Test: For every test match 90 overs has to be bowled in 6 hours and team can get an additional half an hour at the end of the day if requested. Again 15 overs should be bowled in an hour and 7 overs in half an hour. 

tl;dr - It's not worth it for the Commissioner's Office to battle the MLBPA over it, especially when some of the "injuries" are things like "arm fatigue" or other conditions that can't be accurately measured by a doctor. 

The sign-and-trade is relatively common when stars leave a team that they've been with for a long time. I don't understand why this practice exists. Take Lebron going to the Heat, for example. He was a free agent. He could have gone anywhere, but he chose to re-sign with the Cavs so that they could trade him to the Heat and get draft picks in return. Seemingly, this weakens the team that Lebron had just signed with, as they had weaker drafts in his first (two?) seasons there than they likely would have if he had signed with them outright. Why does this practice exist? 

As far as I am aware, there is no provision in the CBA or official rules that allows for a player to be banned from playing a specific position. It's either they are suspended, or they aren't. 

I've seen some managers bat their pitchers 8th. Tony LaRussa was one of the more noticeable ones. Is this move statistically sound? Why or why not? Ignore cases like Dontrelle Willis early in his career or Michah Owings, both of whom are good hitters anyway. I'm talking about run-of-the-mill, bad at hitting, pitchers. 

The short answer is NO. Home team is not supposed to set the boundary as they wish. Some rules are applied for boundary setting as well. Even though the home team is responsible for setting up the ground. As per ICC Standard Playing Conditions, the minimum and maximum size of the playing surface. Law 19.1 of ICC Test Match Playing Conditions states: 

Theoretically it is possible to score as many runs as possible since none of the cricket laws are putting a limit on that. So the answer is infinity. And yes, what you have mentioned is possible. But if a fielder throws the ball after picking from the ground it won't be a six, but a four. So it will be 9 runs. 

Play Schedule is basically decided by the cricket boards of both countries. However ICC has to approve this. The hosting country will decide on the venue in which play should happen, but ICC has to approve this as well. If they feel that pitch is dangerous for play, they can ask hosting team to change venue. Only countries with test status given by ICC can play official test matches. Otherwise it won't be considered as an official international match. 

I doubt there is one single reason although the overlap of the IPL and the English domestic season has been a major contributing factor. Many higher profile (centrally contracted) English players would not be available for the whole tournament. Its likely that other players such as Alex Hales and Samit Patel who would be available for the whole tournament were not viewed as good value for money as their county sides would only release them from the domestic contract if they achieved a certain price in the auction. 

With your action, go back to whatever feels natural. Don't think about what your doing too much just bowl, you'll need to practice it for a while to get it consistent. For your run up, I'd experiment to find something that works for you. You want to be comfortable and balanced when you reach the crease so try different lengths of run up until you find the one that suits you. Ideally, you have to find these things for yourself, other people can advise on how to find it or fine tune what you have but you should try and work your own basic action and run up out for yourself as this will help you throughout your cricket career. Good Luck and have patience with the process! 

The amount paid to the players are based on their availability for the matches. If a player was available for all the IPL matches, then that player is eligible for the full amount. If the players were not available for some matches, then they are paid on a pro-rata basis. In the above case, Ponting and Maxwell were available for the entire season. Missing a match due to injury or benching is not considered as unavailability and hence they should be getting the full amount. There was a rule that if a player was available for a certain no of matches and misses only a certain no of games, they should be paid the full amount. Not sure if this rule is still there. Also note that the amount offered to the players vary based on certain other criteria as well. For eg:- if the team didn't qualify for CL, players will get only 80% of the auction rate. Players also might get some % of amount if their team wins the IPL or finishes at 2/3/4. However there is no clarity on this and it depends on the team. Players also have to pay the income tax in India for the money they earned. Source: News, read somewhere