Grand Absorber needs fuel: Grand Absorber can absorb another item to acquire new effects OR you can use it to gain more magical fuel to power the magic the Grand Absorber already has access to Grand Absorber has limited versatility: Grand Absorber can only remember a few spells or one spell at a time or only the most few recent spells absorbed or Grand Absorber memory is bounded by tiers of magic it is storing. Grand Absorber time limit: After your Grand Absorber has eaten a new item, there is only a limited number of time (you can spam a spell 24/7 for a month for example) or the spell can only be cast X number of times Grand Absorber is intelligent and greedy: Grand Absorber isn't too fond of freely handing you a crap ton of magic that it has absorbed. You're going to need to pay a price (this could be anything from your memories/gold/lives of loved ones) as tribute if you wish to use the magic Grand Absorber is TYPE limited: Your Grand Absorber can only take in spells of certain schools at a time. For instance your Grand Absorber can only eat magical items that are part of the evocation school. If a user wants to store a new type of magic (like swapping to abjuration/transmutation), the user has to drop all the spells the Grand Absorber uses. 

use glass arrowhead to contain the liquid and have them shatter on contact spraying the liquid nitrogen on the enemy use a hollow metal arrowhead that contains the liquid and have a small explosion on contact that will spread the liquid nitrogen onto the enemy. 

Most modern techniques for improving code quality won't work with magic. Unit testing does not prevent errors from happening; it only prevents errors happening in production. With magic there is no test environment that could burst into flames without anybody caring too much. Carefully designing provably correct code also has limitations. You can make nuclear weapons that don't go off the first time someone looks at them funny, and you can give students spells that teach the concepts without doing anything dangerous, but the ability to write machine code that bypasses all that still exists. A typical student would never be allowed to do that on a computer that controls nuclear weapons, but with magic there is only one environment. To prevent anything too disastrous from happening will require active defense - a group of highly experienced wizards who can install protective spells and deal with any less predictable incidents that come up. Much of this could be automated - for example a spell that detects and disrupts anything using too much magical energy within city limits. Magical barriers set up on property boundaries could let careless wizards eliminate themselves without causing too much trouble for anyone else. With these defenses the city is kept safe, but there is still plenty of scope for causing trouble. An infinite looping spell that summons a live frog twice a second uses an almost undetectable amount of magical energy, so may go unnoticed until you have several thousand of them to deal with. Since defending against all magic takes a significant effort, there would be little if any protection between cities. Something that detects planet-melting levels off energy is probably worthwhile, but generally the first time you cast a spell outside the bubble you are on your own and have hopefully learned to be careful. 

Morally, this is going to be horrifying, but I think it would work. You don't assimilate the tribe. You assimilate the children of the tribe (the younger the better). Make the situation such that children don't have the possibility of learning about their "primitive" culture. Once your Midwestern Empire encounters a new culture the steps should be fairly simple. 

You always win!: Your speedster can play almost any skill game and either be amazing (playing FPS/ any traditional sport/martial arts) or cheat to victory (playing poker and peeking at opponents hands/move an opponents darts midair if playing darts/get the answers to test by running around a room) etc... This might contribute to confidence in many social events such as bars, carnivals, street pickup games allowing your speedster to shine in many areas while putting in a lot less effort than normal folk. Ring of Gyges: There is an argument to be made that your speedster might have to deal with a lot of moral issues. Assuming your speedster is the only one she can steal, kill, commit petty acts such as putting individuals in awkward position (trip/draw on someone's face/undress a coworker at work until they are fired) without impunity. She couldn't even be perceived. Having the speed ability is a burden or a vice. Dealing with the cost of time: Your speedster can interact with many people face to face with basically no lag time in terms of getting to an individual. Your speedster has also had a life where most of the time she can ask herself "Oh if I want X task to be done, I'll just do it really quickly and I still have my whole day ahead of me". Cleaning/traveling/maintenance/possibly her job can all be optimized by going faster. It might be frustrating that hanging out with people consumes so much of her time when she can be doing other things. Consider going out on a date to the movies. She is probably accustomed to speeding up all movies and then perceives everything normally at relative speed so she can watch an entire movie in seconds. NOW when she goes on a date to the movies it's a huge time sink. In this way the power makes her very selective of the people/places/events she interacts with and perhaps even a bit impatient. Even hanging out with someone that speaks to slow can be a huge burden of time on the speedster. Anxiety/Guilt: Just because she can think faster does not make her think better. There may be some circumstances where she sees a problem, but is helpless to solve it. Panicking while the world is in slow motion. Worse yet, a circumstance where she could have solved the problem but only thought of the way in hindsight. For instance, if in the speedster's past a helicopter fell nearby her and only after it fell to the ground exploding she realizes she could have spun her hands real fast and lowered the helicopter to the ground slowly. Or perhaps some sort of Gwen Stacy situation Food: OK so here's how she should eat. She will typically eat a cheeseburger when she is hungry 3 * a day (cheeseburger is example, substitute for meals). So that is 1 cheeseburger every 28800 seconds. Every day she goes into super speed mode, run the following calculation (keep adding while doing it per day)=> **(relative seconds spent in speed * power level (0%-100%) * 86400) ** Whenever she breaks 28800 that's another cheeseburger she needs to eat. example 60 seconds * 100% power * 86400 = 5184000 => 5184000/28800 = 180 cheeseburgers consumed that day. She may need to eat a lot depending on power usage. There could be some social pressure to not eat around others. Your speedster could be seen to pig out all the time yet never gain any weight. Might cause suspicion rumors or contempt to arise. Self taught: Literally no one can keep up with your speedster. Even if the person knows a wealth of knowledge, the best thing a teacher can do is to just throw books at your speedster. Your speedster probably knows an insane amount of information at subjects she is interested in. The rate of speed that she can acquire info will quickly allow her to become a specialist in any field she desires. 

Changing the alien digestive system to break everything down to a level where chirality is not an issue may be possible, though is going to be quite complex compared to our approach of just dissolving the food and using whatever we find in it fairly directly. The main thing you will need is a way to synthesize all those complex proteins more or less from raw materials. Using bacteria is probably the easiest approach, rather than adding a bunch of new organs. The conditions for forming new proteins would be quite different to what you need to break down the old, possibly incompatible ones, so the aliens will need multiple stomachs. Ideally the usable proteins would get filtered out at some point so they don't have to be recreated, but I don't see a way that could have evolved - breaking down everything could be useful since absolutely anything they can find will be a balanced diet, but they have no reason to expect minor variations that only exist on another planet. I don't have the math to confirm it, but I suspect this approach is going to have some energy efficiency problems - there is a reason we let plants produce most of what we need. At least some of the food will need to be usable as is to power the complex digestive system. It seems a little unlikely that something this inefficient would end up dominating the planet, but it's not completely implausible, and it gets you a creature that can eat absolutely anything as long as it eats massive amounts of it. For a simpler approach, make the basics completely compatible, and add some poison. There are plenty of examples of plants evolving poison and the animals that eat them evolving a resistance to that poison. No reason it couldn't end up happening with pretty much every life form on the planet. Even if the animals are not affected by the poison, it may make the alien plants taste awful - given a choice, they will always eat something from earth. 

Plasma Breath If you're looking for something quick, hot, and with pinpoint accuracy, look no further than good old plasma my friend. Instead of using weak dragon lungs to propel breath weapon, the illustrious Marksmen Dragon uses naturally evolved magnets (birds have magnets so why not dragons right?) to propel the burning plasma at the weaker dragons. How hot can you get? As long as the Marksman Dragon can get the energy, your dragon could breathe (is shoot more appropriate?) plasma at temperatures hotter than the sun. Even fulfills the cohesive beam requirement, here's a simple google image search for plasma jet 

You place one flying humanoid that acts as a guard and enforcer. Then put a money funnel on the top of the bus. The funnel drops the coins into the proper receptacle. Alternatively, you could have the driver sit on the top rear of the bus much like how a firetruck is driven. Your driver is here 

Polycoria Not sure about how this would affect an alien, but in humans this is a medical condition with the following side effects: 

First Question:Yes, as Samuel and RonJon points out, Io is a moon orbiting a gas giant that is tidally locked to a gas giant Jupiter. Second Question: As for the effects to the moon that is tidally locked (like Io is to Jupiter). As far as I can tell, heat! Neil Degrasse Tyson wrote a piece about Tidal Forces which are responsible for Tidal Locking and should shed some light on what we can expect as side effects. 

Avoid other languages Languages don't change that much on their own. Modern English is completely different from Britonnic not because two thousand years have passed, but because in that time England was invaded by people speaking Latin, German and French. Therefore, avoiding language changes means either complete isolation for both groups or everyone on the planet starting out speaking exactly the same language. Neither situation has occurred in human history, but if your apocalypse is sufficiently complete or happened at the right time, you can probably get away with the two groups only having strong, near incomprehensible accents. 

Not having insects would be a big problem - a lot of plants rely on them for pollination for example. That can be worked around, but plant life would be very different - definitely no flowers. For anything big enough for humans to really interact with, you just need to fill those roles with humans. A human slave isn't as strong as a horse, but enough of them will get the job done. Actually caring what happens to animals (or most other humans for that matter) is a very recent innovation in our society. 

Plants are out. Even if you increased the efficiency of photosynthesis to the point that a plant could think and run around, there would be no reason for it to. Sunlight is the same everywhere within reasonable walking distance, so there is little incentive to move, especially when you have to be huge to expose enough area to the sun. Chemotrophs could work though. With the right conditions they could behave much like regular animals - they just happen to eat rocks instead of plants or other animals. Single celled life Start with the necessary chemicals bubbling up from underground. When this happens, small organisms reproduce rapidly, feeding until there is no usable energy left and the rock has been reduced to a fine dust. Wind picks up the surface layer of dust, and a few survive long enough to be blown to a new deposit, where the cycle repeats. Early evolution Mobility would be an advantage in this environment - first to simply move to denser energy sources faster than the competition, but also to make it to the next food source. Some would grow wings to more easily catch the wind and be carried further. Others would grow legs and store enough energy to be able to walk a useful distance into the desert. Most would still die, but the slightest advantage is enough to get evolution going. You could also have trees, extending roots down to get at chemicals deep underground. The bacteria can't do that if the reaction also requires something from the air. Complex organisms Walking around works best with an internal digestive system, so these creatures would probably lose the ability to simply sit on a rock and absorb it. There are a couple of ways it could work. 

Closer the moon is to the planet -> MORE HEAT Smaller the moon, the more the gas giant will affect the moon via gravity -> MORE HEAT 

There is a research paper about this subject although if you want more than the abstract, you'll have to pay for it. Although I am not a doctor, from my understanding, you Link to Article 

blurred vision in the affected eye poor, dim, or double vision in the affected eye oblong shape of one or all additional pupils issues with glare a bridge of iris tissue between the pupils 

As your speedster is activating powers 0(human)-100%(86400x), just slow down time by that much. You don't need to slam your fingers as hard as you possibly can while typing. I don't see any reason why this power would be treated any differently than using a muscle. Now that is not to say that using the speed muscle exerts effort (my heart is pumping blood and that costs me no effort). With that being said, some psychological effects of such a power would be... 

If you want to focus more on the psychology of having the speed power, your speedster should be able to use the power (both movement/speed perception) in a similar way that you use your muscles. 

Although, Pliny the elder wrote that it may give you magic powers, but that has yet to be determined 

For more conversions (if your aliens want to speed up time in a different manner) here is a handy chart to show you Percent Speed of Light and how many days/years that would be if you spent 1 day going at that percent speed. For example 0.99999999999999 c, for every day on board the alien ship, 19380.535 years have passed on the planet.