Naturally NO, Once a object is sufficiently large enough (300 km, 511 Davida), given enough time, the gravitational forces will optimize the shape to make it spherical. Most objects are slightly ellipsoid, to balance out its rotation. There are a few hypothetical objects like a neutron star spinning at a very high speed, causing it be ellipsoid, elongated, almost like an egg. Artificial/Man-made objects can be square, this would also include stars, planets, and satellites. For a species to achieve this it has to be above Kardashev scale 2.0. You can manipulate electromagnetism to create a thin layer of plasma around an object and force it to conform to that shape, or perhaps use swarms of nanobots made of carbon tubes to create a artificially box, similar to what @Durakken mentioned. But science of any of this artificial structures is beyond the scope of my imagination. 

Maybe Yes Man running on water has been the subject of several scientific papers. In particular Google for papers by J. W. Glasheen and T. A. McMahon. They studied the basilisk lizard, but their results can be extrapolated to humans. It's debatable how reliable such a large extrapolation is, but the result is that the required speed is so far beyond human ability that we can safely conclude it's impossible without some artificial aid. There's a summary of the results from the papers in this article and a more general summary here. The conclusions are that you have to run at a speed of 30m/sec, almost 3 times as fast as Usain Blot (10.4 m/sec). Which doesn't sound too bad, but you'd need to generate a mechanical power of 12kW to do it. Trained athletes can just about manage half a kW, and most of us would struggle to generate 200W. If you generate 12kW, you would probably be roasted from within. You can reduce this by having wider feet, webbed feet, stronger muscles, some way to dissipating heat, the most ideal way would be to reduce its height and weight. Even then it would hard for a being to keep it up for a more than a few seconds time. 

Meditation, or Mindfulness, this can be achieved through genetic mutation, by increase few brain chemicals for alerts and decreasing or eliminating flight or fight responses. This could happen through lack of predators, easy accessible resources, but some reason to be in present. In our world when the practitioner attains certain level of mastery in meditation and mindfulness, their sleep acquires a character of meditation. It's not like they don't sleep at all, but they do retain certain level of deep awareness during their sleep. Specifically, when they see a dream, they know it's a dream. They remain aware of their body lying down on the bed. They remain aware of the content of their consciousness no matter how disjointed it gets during a deep sleep. If something happens around them, they wake up easily to provide their help if needed. Mediators also have been know to sleep less, more like 2hours a day. And here is a old BBC article about monks who sleep upright. Something similar but more genetic/biochemistry in nature, so it happens to all members the species. Culturally it would more like spirit walk than a dream because they can if necessary return to real world. Due to it being genetic it would more prominent, it would be really interesting society. 

The use of the word "stealing" imply to deprive it's original owner of something. I think that incorporating some fragment of DNA material from one organism to another do not impact in any way the donor. I start by clarifying this idea with an example. I will then give my opinion as to why borrowing some fragment of genetic code to incorporate in an adult is unlikely to give any visible result. An example where that word would qualify could be: If I publish a book in which I copy a few pages from a popular author, such as Shakespeare. If my book appeal more than the original, if these few pages add value to my work and if these few pages are sufficient to convince some people to not buy the original source, depriving the original author of revenue that she would otherwise get, then this is clearly stealing. This example is purposely exaggerated. An author can be considered as dishonest even if the source of the few pages was not from a well known author. A law suit in such case would help the original author to be discovered. To answer to the important part of the question, I think that incorporating fragment of DNA from other organism is unlikely to help in most cases. For example, if a mammal would dream to get wings like a bird, such change can not happen on an already fully grown animal. A mammals would probably prefer to use the genes from another mammals, such as the bats, instead of using those of birds. Because the closest common ancestor between birds and mammals is much farther in time (possibly more than 300 millions year), the portions of the genetic code which are similar enough to be compatible and work in a meaningful way are very small. The specific genes needed to change, for a large scale modification such as replacing the arms and legs with a wing system similar to bats, would need to affect the growth rate of early cells, soon after they start to differentiate. The way the cells carefully orchestrate the rate of division, migration and pre-programmed cell death to create a viable miniature copy of an adult is an incredible amount of finely tuned apparently useless portion of DNA which actually may act as timers and other part of the genetic code controlling specific chemical triggers which act as equivalent to a decision making entity when described as an algorithm. To give an comprehensible example, suppose you would try to build a machine which reproduce the symphony of Beethoven using thousands of coo-coo clocks, each one preprogranned to hit a bell at the right time. Let's say that you could group some of these mechanical clocks in clusters which would play the part of the music that repeat. A master clock would trigger each groups, onne by one, manage to rewind the clocks that already ding one time, to allow them to be ready to replay that portion of the song later. Basically, a large part of the genetic code which appear to be useless for an adult is needed to build this complex 3 dimensional organism made of trillions of cells, like all pluri-cellular living organism do. Once this structure is built, it can not morph to another one. Take the example of caterpillar. The metamorphosis to become a butterfly is done by demolishing the house and building a brand new one. Every organ is dissolved and a brand new set is developed from scratch. It is like if these two phases in the lives were two distinct creature encoded in the DNA. Half of the genetic sequence knows how to develop from egg to caterpillar. Then, all the food accumulated by the caterpillar as fat reserve is used, similar to the yellow and white of a chicken egg, to restart the growth of a single cell inside the cocoon. That cell in the dying caterpillar restart developing like a freshly fertilized egg do, starting with a few divisions, probably 5, creating 32 identical copies. Then, starting to differentiate, each cell getting an almost identical copy of all the DNA, except small parts that account for cell specialization. The only cell that get a fully intact DNA sequence, the entire instruction to start the next generation, are the sperm and egg. Every other cell get a copy with tiny difference, some parts of the code acting as lock to prevent the neuron cell to create the same protein as the liver cell, for example. *Bad example as I learned last week that the cells in the liver have mode than one nucleus). 

I will assume that there exists a centralized semi-autocratic government which can enforce all these ideas, at the cost few civil liberties, and has sufficient basic resources. The best possible situation is when you see humans as resources to optimize and invest in. Cities and Buildings City designs and building designs would be completely different, most building would consist of both residential, retail, entertainment, school/university and work. Most people will work, reside and be capable of living in the same building drastically reducing travel time. All buildings would conserve space, resources and be utilitarian, rather than a status symbol. Even things inside the houses would be utilitarian all costly decorative things would be discouraged. Some devices or objects would communal for maximum efficiency and usage. Travel Cars/Vehicles would be fully automated, the reason it is hard to make a self driving car is that AI has to compensate for human errors. By enforcing mandatory automated vehicles, you can bypass the problem increasing efficiency and speed. Air Travel would be very limited, a rare luxury, same for Cruises, and any form of recreational vacations. Most transport vehicles/ships used for inter-city trade would be limited to essential raw materials. Any objects which adds to transport would a luxury, this includes but not limited to artisan products, crops/plants/animals which do not get cultivated locally, ornamental objects. Energy We currently have technology to make 100% safe nuclear reactors with no radiation leakage, which automatically shuts down to avert possible catastrophe, without the stigma associated most of energy will come from nuclear with some renewable. Centralized energy efficiency would lead to automated factories shutting down at evening to accommodate the increase in usage due to people returning homes. Energy intensive systems would work nights and afternoons. Unused public lights, house lights would automatically and if necessary remotely shut down. Refrigerators, ACs, heater would be forced to run at limited near optimal range of temperatures. Computer Computers will always be connected to decentralized system which will be used to spy, delegate excess computational capabilities, information from people will be used help them psychological and used to assign optimal jobs. Blockchain and other better technology will be used to optimize all possible resources. Centralized education to enforce ideas and culture of conservation. Others Standardized components, limited choice, mass producible objects, a system similar to decentralized communism. Having a hobby would become a luxury. Outdoor entertainment would be replaced by online games. Guns, weapons and military would be limited to bare essentials. Religion would be non existent, or be forced to spread the values of optimization and cooperativeness. Spying would allow easy detection crime and fraud. Even forcing only genetically better hand picked in-vitro babies. Democracy and free media would be banned/restricted as it starts propaganda warfare, all jobs/positions would be merit based. There would be a lot cultural changes forced upon people.