We can certainly speculate. There are dozens of moons in our own Solar System. I've done some preliminary calculations of their apparent size as seen from the planet vs. the apparent size of the Sun at that distance. The large moons (Jupiter's 4 Galilean satellites, Saturn's Titan, Neptune's Triton) are all substantially larger in the sky than the Sun is. I think there are some satellites that are fairly close to the apparent size of the Sun, but I haven't done all the calculations. The apparent size of our Moon has changed over time, as the Moon has gradually moved farther away. We are coincidentally in a period of history in which it happens to be very nearly the same apparent size as the Sun. The criterion for an exoplanet to have solar eclipses like the spectacular ones we have here on Earth is a moon that happens to have an angular size large enough to cover the photosphere, but not so large that it also hides the corona. For a larger moon, you'd have eclipses in which the corona is visible, but not all the way around the moon. For a smaller moon, you'd only have annular eclipses. (It could also get interesting if you consider eclipses as seen from other moons.) So given the distribution of sizes and distances of moons in our Solar System, we can guess that situations where the apparent size of a moon and sun closely match is fairly rare, but since there are moons whose apparent size is smaller than the Sun and others whose apparent size is larger than the Sun, it probably happens sometimes. The one piece of the puzzle that we're still missing, I think, is the typical sizes and distances of satellites of Earth-like planets. Moons the size of ours orbiting habitable planets might be common or very rare. If they're rare (say, if Mars-like moon systems are far more common), then Earth/Moon style eclipses might be very rare for habitable planets. 

As has already been mentioned, stars within a galaxy do not generally expand. The stars in a galaxy are gravitationally bound together. But as you observe more and more distant galaxies, you see a general trend that distant galaxies are moving away from us at a speed that's proportional to their distance. (There are some small variations due to the random motion of individual galaxies; for example, the Andromeda galaxy is approaching us, and will collide with the Milky Way in about 4 billion years.) This does not indicate that everything is expanding from some central point. An observer in a galaxy a billion light-years away would see the same thing, all other galaxies receding at a speed proportional to the distance from the observer. This can be interpreted as space itself expanding. Going into more detail would require General Relativity, which I'm not competent to explain. Your question is about the rate of expansion. The answer to that is what's called the Hubble Constant, which describes the ratio between a galaxy's speed of recession and its distance from us. The current best estimate of this ratio is 67 kilometers per second per megaparsec. A parsec is about 3.26 light-years; a galaxy one million parsecs away will be moving away from us at about 67 kilometers per second. Source: $URL$ 

I'll assume you mean the lit side of the Moon (this wasn't clear from the original question, but I've edited it). Suppose there's a crescent Moon visible in the sky during the day. Plot a straight line between the tips of the crescent, then plot a perpendicular straight line across its center across the sky. Intuitively, that line should pass through the Sun. You're saying it doesn't, and you're asking why. In fact, that line does pass through the Sun, and what you're seeing is an optical illusion. If you imagine the sky as a perfect hemisphere, with you at the center, the geometry will match up. But we we tend to imagine it as a flattened dome, probably because the horizon is obviously far away, but we have no reference points for the zenith so we imagine it being closer. This is (part of) the source of the "Moon illusion", where the Moon appears bigger when it's close to the horizon. In fact, it's very nearly the same angular size, but since we imagine it being farther away it must be "bigger". The same mention distortion of the sky's geometry makes it look like the axis of the Moon's lit side doesn't point directly to the Sun. Next time you see this, try holding up a straight rod intersecting both the Sun and the Moon. I think you'll find that the rod passes directly across the axis of the Moon's lit side. 

In my own case, if I see fewer stars than I did when I was younger, it's partly because my eyes have deteriorated with age. I don't know whether that applies to you. The most likely explanation is increased light pollution. If you can manage to get to an area far enough away from city lights, on a cloudless and moonless night, you should see just as many stars as you did when you were younger. 

That's nothing more than a long way of saying that they're dark. A brown dwarf is a body that's more massive than a planet but less massive than a star. It's dark simply because it's not massive enough to sustain the same kind of nuclear fusion as our Sun, the process by which stars generate light and heat. (Some may be able to fuse deuterium or lithium.) That just tells us that they don't glow; it doesn't say anything about how they would look in reflected light. But we don't see brown dwarfs in reflected light, because there don't happen to be any close enough to the Sun or to another nearby star. The trajectory of any body that massive is not going to be significantly affected by light pressure or by magnetic fields, whether it's hot enough to generate its own light or not. The same is true for much smaller bodies, down to the size of moons or asteroids. (Some smaller bodies in our Solar System have their rotation influenced by the Yarkovsky effect, but it's not significant for anything the size of a planet or star.) If it were close enough to a star, a brown dwarf might look similar to Jupiter. See $URL$ 

That sounds very much like a 22° halo. It's not an astrophysical phenomenon; it results from the refraction of light by ice crystals in Earth's atmosphere. If this is what it is, it should be a fuzzy but regular circle centered on the Moon, with a radius of about 22 degrees. If you hold your fist out at arm's length with the thumb extended, the angular distance between the base of your fist and the tip of your thumb is typically close to 15 degrees; you can use that for visual comparison. Remember that 22° is the radius of the halo; the diameter is 44°, close to three time the width of your fist+thumb. 

The concept of a "year" has no meaning for the Sun. For Earth, a year is the time it takes to complete one orbit around the Sun. Since the Sun doesn't orbit around the Sun, it doesn't have a year. But the Sun does orbit around the core of the Milky Way Galaxy. One orbit takes from 225 million to 250 million years. (Current estimates are uncertain, and the chaotic nature of star motions is likely to cause it to vary a bit.) This is called a "galactic year" or "cosmic year". Reference: $URL$ 

I'll use YYYY-MM-DD notation. You were born 1983-02-06 07:00. Your friend was born 1984-02-07 01:00. There was no leap day between your birthdays, which makes the calculation a little simpler. The most recent leap day before your birthday was 1980-02-29; the earliest leap day after your friend's birthday was 1984-02-29. (No, 1982 was not a leap year, and even if it had been that leap day still wouldn't have been between your birthdays). The moment exactly one calendar year after your birthday was 1984-02-06 07:00; that calendar year is exactly 365 days. Your friend was born 1 day minus 6 hours after that moment. So the difference between your births is 365 days plus 1 day minus 6 hours, or 365 days, 18 hours (365.75 days). And here's a bash script that computes the results: 

The length of a solar day is very close to 24 hours. A solar day is the time it takes the Sun to return to the same position in the sky. The exact length varies slightly over the course of the year, because the Earth's orbit around the Sun is not perfectly circular; the tilt of the Earth's axis with respect to its orbit also has an effect. See the linked article for details. A sidereal day is slightly shorter. It's the time it takes for a distant star to return to the same position in the sky, and it differs from the solar day because the Earth revolves around the Sun as it rotates on its own axis; there is one more sidereal day than solar day each year. A sidereal day is approximately 23 hours, 56 minutes, 4.0916 seconds. Weather can actually have a minuscule effect on the Earth's rotation, as the mass of the atmosphere is distributed differently. This effect is barely measurable. I don't think that's the kind of "weather changes" you were asking about; can you clarify? Obviously it gets colder at night, and that's controlled by the length of the solar day. 

No. The stars do move relative to each other, but not quickly enough for the motion to be visible over a human lifetime. Barnard's Star has the fastest proper motion of any star in the sky, but it only moves at about 10 arcseconds per year; it would take it nearly 2 centuries to move the width of a full Moon. And Barnard's star isn't even naked-eye visible. The stars you see in the night sky are in very nearly the same apparent positions as they were thousands of years ago. 

As Wayfaring Stranger's answer says, during a lunar eclipse seen from Earth, an observer on the Moon would see a solar eclipse. Earth is about 4 times the apparent diameter of the Sun. You can see a photo of such an eclipse, taken by Japan's Kaguya spacecraft in lunar orbit, here. 

Yes, spacecraft do it all the time by using air resistance (and sometimes rockets) to slow down. Meteorites enter the atmosphere at high speed, typically 10-70 km/sec, but the smaller ones are slowed by air resistance, so they typically hit the surface at just a few hundred kilometers per hour. Reference: $URL$ Larger bodies are not affected nearly as much by the atmosphere. For any such body, the velocity at impact is going to be at least several kilometers per second. A body moving obliquely in the same direction as the Earth's rotation would have a slightly lower speed at impact, but the impact still could not be described as "gentle"; the Earth's rotational speed is still a small fraction of orbital or escape velocity. Here's one way to think of it. Freefall trajectories are reversible. If you watch a movie of an incoming body in reverse, it still makes physical sense (ignoring air resistance). Any meteorite hitting the surface has to have been in deep space at some point before the impact. If there were a trajectory that allowed such a body to have a "gentle" impact speed, then it would be possible to start with the same body near the surface at the same "gentle" speed, but in the opposite direction, and have it reach deep space. Unless the meteorite has its own propulsion system, that's just not going to happen. You can get to space with a lower starting speed by moving along with the Earth's rotation - which is why most rockets are launched to the east, to take advantage of that. Reversing such a trajectory can result in a slightly slower impact, but only slightly. 

No, I don't believe there's any meaningful distinction. A planet's axial tilt can be thought of as a 2-dimensional quantity: its angle relative to the ecliptic (or to whatever baseline you're using), and the direction in which it's tilted. When we talk about a planet's axial tilt as a number of degrees, we're only talking about the first component. A planet whose rotation axis is perpendicular to the ecliptic would have a tilt of 0°. If its rotation axis is parallel to the ecliptic (rotating "on its side"), its tilt is 90°. If its axis is "vertical" but it's spinning backwards, its tilt is 180°. The range from 0° to 180° is enough to express all possible tilts, both prograde and retrograde. Consider taking a planet with a 0° tilt and tilting its axis by 270°. The result is exactly the same as tilting it 90° in the opposite direction. Since the axial tilt is usually expressed as just the magnitude of the tilt, and not its direction, the distinction between 90° and 270° can be ignored. And if we want to express the direction as well, we'll just say that it's tilted 90° in some specified direction. We could have had a convention where the tilt ranges from 0° to just under 360°, with the direction specified more narrowly, but that would be less useful; the particular direction of a planet's axial tilt is less interesting than its magnitude. Also, the direction varies over time due to precession. We could also have had a convention where the tilt ranges from 0° to 90°, and we also specify whether it's retrograde or not; then Venus would have a tilt of 3° rather than 177°. 

Whether an object is a black hole is not just determined by its mass. It's determined by whether that mass is entirely within its Schwarzschild radius. In principle, any object can be a black hole if all its mass is concentrated into a sufficiently small volume. For example, the Sun's Schwarzschild radius is about 3.0 km -- but its actual radius is about 700,000 km. It could become a black hole only if it were compressed down to a radius of 3.0 km. 

Contracting objects can and do exhibit a measurable red shift, and this has actually been measured. For example, Cepheid variable are stars that expand on contract in a cycle lasting days to months. This paper by R. Paul Butler discusses the measurement of Doppler shifts in Cepheid variables. According to the paper, radial velocities as small as 3 meters/second have been measured. Cepheids have been measured to have Doppler velocities of 30 to 1000 meters/second. The paper was published in 1997. It says that the precision of such measurements had improved by more than two orders of magnitude (a factor of 100) in the preceding decade. I presume the technology has continued to improve in the nearly two decades since then.