Excess energy can be stored for later use, in a device like the niling d-sinks of Peter F. Hamilton's Commonwealth Saga. What I want to know is, would this actually be a good drive system for a spaceship? Would this be more efficient than a matter-antimatter drive? What would happen if, say, due to a computer error, someone accidentally piloted their ship into a planet? 

When I think of a creature with multiple eating mouths, I tend to think of a creature like the Lernaean Hydra, which has multiple heads sprouting from a common body. Such a creature, in my opinion, is likely to evolve in an evironment where there are a lot of creatures that "steal" kills from predators, making quick, efficient eating of your kill highly advantageous. Here's my idea on how such a creature could evolve. Imagine our proto-hydra: a small, reptilian creature, with the unusual adaptation that the brain is located within the body, instead of the head. This makes the proto-hydras head little more than a highly-mobile sense organ with a mouth attached to it. It obtains food through scavenging the kills of larger predators, usually darting in while it is distracted and stealing a few bites before scurrying of. Then, a proto-hydra is born with a birth defect: due to a genetic mutation, this proto-hydra has a second head and neck! Since the brain is within the main body cavity instead of the head, this second head does not develop its own desires or plans, like with two-headed versions of other species*. Thus, this proto-hydra has an advantage: it can eat twice as much food in the same amount of time! In its well-fed state, it is better able to compete for mates, and while some potential mates reject it due to its difference, enough are impressed with its size and strength, and allow it to mate with them. Thus, the gene for multiple heads is passed on, causing a new species of proto-hydra to diverge from the first, this second species having two heads! This process can happen repeatedly throughout the eons, causing the proto-hydras to develop more heads. At the same time, the larger size given to them by their scavenging success eventually allows them to graduate from scavengers to predators. First with small prey, them, when they continue to grow larger, bigger prey. Then, the multiple heads allow the proto-hydra to quickly devour its kill, leaving nothing for the scavengers, along with possibly leaving a head up to watch for and predators that might try to eat it. After some more evolution, adding other hydra traits like spitting venom and the ability to regenerate lost heads, you would have the hydra, a creature with multiple eating mouths, because of the need to leave no leftovers for anyone else. *In cases of a carnivorous species developing a second head, like snakes, there have been known cases of one head trying to eat the other! 

Failure Rates: The more moving parts you have, the more likely things are to break. Why is this? Well, if you have a part that works 99.99% of the time, and have a thousand of them, then your final product works only 90% of the time. Adding a pulley and moving the cable increase the probability of catastrophic failure thousands of times (can the cable even bend? Will it fatigue?). For every bolt you add, you both increase the strength requirements for the cable and you add another potential failure point..... That's just the way it is. In the case of a failure for a space elevator, your station slings off into space and you have to catch it a week or so later when it returns (yay - orbits), not to mention the expense of replacing the line. As a result, nearly everyone assumes we will see a single cable supporting the structure (very simple), and anything else will clamp on/around it (failure is non catastrophic for the station). This likely has a near-zero failure rate if your material is strong/durable enough. Strength As hinted at before, every gram of weight turns into tensile strength at geostationary orbit. Thus, we want everything to be as light as possible. Any station you add will require a bigger counterweight and stronger (or a higher count of) cables. If you have some cable material that is far far stronger than required (which is far far far far stronger than currently possible), then engineers may start considering something as you describe. A weight anywhere other than geostationary increases the load on the cable, and we can't currently produce a material that will work for a space elevator, let along one strong enough to hang other equipment off. Money What is the most expensive part of a space elevator? Probably either: 

So if you can hand-wave a good powersource that isn't more destructive by itself, then you can have your particle guns. (Is a fusion reactor powered particle accelerator more destructive than a fusion warhead? How about an antimatter reactor vs antimatter warhead?) So where might a particle accelerator be useable even on the large scale? A large space station will have several large reactors powering it's internal systems (eg heating). In a period of combat, the life support can be turned off (everyone get's into their spacesuits), and they power up some particle accelerators. 

Leave. I'm assuming the fairies can't just make a fake dragon egg and give it to the king. One can theoretically see around 208 miles from the top of Mount Everest. If we ignore the added height flying fairies would get, this is the earliest warning they would have of an invasion. We can cut that distance in half so the fairies can be absolutely certain it's an army (and also to give a fairy time to look in the right direction). This gives them some time to plan and prepare. Unfortunately, given their isolation, the fairies probably don't know what the army is for. You don't give a flight speed for your fairies, but going off the lifting data each fairy can fly (carrying 1/100 of a tennis net) about 4.5 miles in a 12-hour period before requiring rest. If we assume fairies don't like to camp out, then the army will be a little over 2 miles away from Mt. Everest by the time they're close enough for a fairy to visit them and fly back without rest. Assuming the humans and fairies speak a common language, it seems like a fairy would quickly discover why the humans had come, probably by being questioned at the point of a sword about "the dragon egg of immortality". Since he doesn't know, relations would ... quickly sour. Luckily, due to his relatively small size and flying skill, dodging arrows and the like should be pretty easy. There's a potential subplot in here about rescuing other fairies who set out when the army was 4.5 miles away and were captured while resting, which could be used even if the fairies don't end up fleeing, but I digress. It's surprisingly difficult to find a source on the weight of tennis nets, but this listing says one net weighs 20 pounds (there's also a 'championship' version that weighs 22 pounds, but I'll stick to 20 for the purposes of round numbers and skewing numbers against the fairies). If 100 fairies can easily carry 20 pounds, that gives the entire population of 50,000 fairies a total lifting capability of 10,000 pounds, or 5 tons. Tennis balls are around 2 inches in diameter (and I'm assuming fairies can fold up their wings, or have architecture that's flatter and wider than human housing to leave space for the wings). In any case, they would comfortably fit into a 1:24 scale dollhouse. Again, it's difficult to find a weight for a dollhouse, but most sources seem to indicate a full-sized house at this scale is around 10 pounds. These are the ones meant for serious collectors, so they include furniture and presumably are made out of sturdy wood (I was also able to find dollhouses that were 2 pounds, but those were flimsy). If we assume 4 fairies can live comfortably in a single dollhouse equivalent, that's 12,500 fairy households. That's a total weight of 125,000 pounds, or 12 and a half trips for the fairies. They can relocate to pretty much any mountain peak, but the closer they settle the more time they'll have to carry things from their old home. Let's assume they choose a spot 12 hour's flight away. This would take them 14 days to do, including rest and the flight back. On the last trip, since only half the fairies are needed, the other fairies could perform some of the other actions suggested here to slow the advance of the army if necessary. In fact, it should be possible to split the difference between all required trips so that a group of fairies is constantly harassing the army. Obviously, this should be done such that nobody has any idea it isn't just bad luck, since the king wouldn't take kindly to sabotage. Assuming the army takes 20 days to reach the summit (a gross exaggeration), the fairies still have enough time to make 5 more trips, carrying an additional 25 tons of assorted food, medicine, seeds, livestock, and/or pets to their new home, where they can wait for the king to get tired of searching around in the oxygen-low, freezing cold mountain for a dragon egg that doesn't exist. And in all likelihood, the fairies don't have nearly that much stuff, their new home would be much closer, and the army would take way longer to scale the mountain. 

When Atlantis was sinking, the residents knew about it only slightly in advance. Being sensible people, they rushed into their basements and shut the doors. One atlantis had sunk, they dug between the basements to form a network of underwater/underground rooms. They somehow figured out how to get air down there (and how to build airlocks), and decided there was no reason for them to move. Over the past thousand years, the sea gradually destroyed all of the buildings. If you know what to look for the doors aren't hard to find, but the lack of above-sea-floor structures make it almost impossible to locate on sonar. 

On the left we have a boiler. It's roughly based on a fire-tube boiler where the flame/exhaust passes through tubes in the boiler itself. This is more expensive to produce, but reduces the amount of time for your gun to "get steamed up." I'm not too concerned about the source of the fire. Perhaps it's coal-gas, perhaps propane, perhaps white spirits. I'd go for gas as there's less to go wrong if you drop your gun. Just for safety I've put a pressure gauge on there - so you don't end up firing half-charged shots without knowing about it, and you know if your gin is about to explode. Despite drawing the boiler in a position that looks like it may be a hand-grip, do not build it into the hand-grip. During operation it will exceed 100 degrees (pressure raises boiling temperature), so gripping it is a terribly bad idea. Old steam engines got up to about 250PSI, but because we have a small projectile we'll may need more than that. For reference the chamber pressure of a modern 9mm round is in the 34,000 PSI region. There's no chance we can get that high, but I hope your metallurgy is good enough to get to several hundred PSI. (the lower the PSI the longer your barrel will need to be, or the wider the round). In the middle we have a rotary valve. The D-shaped part rotates until the steam can flow from the boiler into the barrel. THe timing of this is quite important. If it's too short you lose power. If it's too long you waste water. This gives a way for the user to regulate the shot, providing a solution for the first part of your #8. I'd suggest an escapement mechanism for driving the valve, possibly with a spring to provide the rotation. The trigger just releases the escapement, it does a single turn and returns to it's original position. After the shot the same clockwork mechanism can rotate the chamber. This could provide a very consistent shot-to-shot power. The valve releases steam into the barrel, where it pushes the bullet along, and hopefully towards the enemy.