While there are a lot of methods one can think of, like computing the ratio of profits to assets or profits to sales, apparently it is a difficult problem. It would be useful to know how effectively are firms using their inputs in a marginal or an average sense, say by looking at the cost of labor, capital inputs, electricity, etc, and comparing that with the output of a plant or a firm. Some methods assume a Cobb'Douglas function and also assume which factors are fixed and which are variable over which periods, etc. Is there a typically accepted method yet? 

[Edited to reflect @denesp comments] In asset pricing, the present value of an asset depends on expectations about the future. If you are sure asset A will be worth 100 tomorrow, it is likely to be worth 100/(1+r) today. If you think it might be worth 100 in scenario I or 0 in scenario II with a 1/2 probability each, then its worth [(1/2)*(100) + (1/2)(0)]/(1+r) = 50/(1+r) today. But, now add the following twist: what if even though the chances of scenarios I and II are 1/2 each, you observe that the asset is worth more than 50/(1+r). Why could this be? 

It seems that there are some circumstances, say when the government foresees a financial crisis, where it would like firms to hedge, take less riesk etc. However, leveraged agents benefit from risk, and so they don;t benefit from risk eduction expenses. Is there some theory or idea, out ther eon how to design a mechanism that incetivizes firms to reduce their riskiness? Maybe subsidize financial hedging? Maybe tax profits very progressively/convexly? 

@winterflags above has some of the main ideas. Also: A) Although compared with a year or two ago, the GDP per capita doesn't look low, if you compare it with the value if it had continued the trend it had before 2008, then it looks low, particularly in southern Europe. Also, they don't look so much at GDP per capita, but at the 'slack' in the economy which they measure with some measure of unemployment. Unemployment is positively enormous in Spain, Greece, Portugal, etc. B) Inflation is very low in Japan and Europe, and economic growth is very low in both. Moreover, inflation has stayed low in Japan despite its ever-looser monetary policy, so they want to do something extreme to see if that brings about some inflation! C) Inflation at or below 2% looked like a reasonable target before the crisis. However, now that we know that big recessions are still possible, it seems necessary to keep inflation at 2% or a bit higher. This seems a good idea because when inflation is higher, then it's easier to create large negative real rates by setting nominal rates to zero. D) It seems also that they want to make sure that banks don't have a liquidity problem. During the financial crisis, there seemed to be times when liquidity was in high demand. Treasury bonds paid negative interest rates for a period. One way to interpret this is that the market has a high demand for safe assets and so the central banks, by buying bonds with reserves, increase the supply of very safe assets, ie. reserves. Potentially they also create a 'search for yield' phenomenon, which can create bubbles, but that's another matter. E) The last reason is that probably because of particularly dogmatic, nearsighted politics both in the US and European Union, both economies failed to engage in strong expansionary fiscal policies. They did increase fiscal deficits, but not too much. The crisis was thus not resolved and their debt burdens increased anyway, they increased a lot through the accumulation of many not-so-large deficits! A few years later, we still have sort of a crisis, but we have very little fiscal 'margin': most large countries have a lot of debt relative to historical norms. Therefore the only policy available seems to be monetary policy, so central bankers keep pushing and pushing rates down. People call it "pushing on a string" at this point, but its still seems politically impossible, in Europe at least, to increase spending. 

While change causes anxiety, and there's definitely some jobs that are going to go away, its easy to imagine, water carriers getting anxious with the invention of pipes, scribes with the invention of the print, farmers with the invention of the tractor, weavers with the invention of automatic weavers, etc. we're not at the cusp of one momentous revolution, its just one incremental step of slow technical advance that has been happening for centuries. Some people think of these things like this: A) In principle, technology and automation are beneficial to an economy and its citizens. The idea is basically that technology lets you produce more goods with less effort. For example, instead of planting an acre in a day by hand, you plant 10 acres in a day with a tractor. You get lots of free time after using the tractor! We have had about three or four hundred years of fantastically rapid technological change in the planet, and we are doing much better than we were before this happened: people live longer, easier lives, have more fun, face less pain and sickness and hunger, feel less cold, spend more time with family and friends, etc. B) Another useful paradigm is the "ciclical flow": somebody's consumption is somebody else's income and vice-versa: The workers get fired, the CEOs produce without workers and then the CEOs have to ... sell the output to somebody. The CEOs don't get rich unless there is somebody to buy the goods, so automation only enriches the CEOs if on average the workers have income to buy with. Similarly the CEOs are only rich in the sense that he can purchase services from the workers. The CEO's consumption is the workers income... C) However, it is clear that if you are currently employed in a job that disappears because of technical change, that individual technical change will not be good for you. It will be good for the owner and designer of the machine. It will be good for everybody else that benefits from the lower costs of production. But it won't be good for you. It will require that you find a another job, that you learn a new technology, that you become the machinist of the machine that substituted your work, or something like that. D) This feature of the labor market, that some jobs disappear for no fault of the worker, but because of technical change, is mostly an accepted situation in most modern societies. In principle, we accept this cost because it lets us all have a dynamic economy that adapts to change and embraces progress. Unemployment insurance partly helps in reducing the risks to individuals of this continuous "churning" of jobs. States and nations often have retraining programs that help people displaced by technology (or by trade). E) However, it is still a very risky job market out there and everybody that wishes to stay constantly employed needs to invest time in acquiring new skills and anticipating the effects of technical change. 

The basic idea is simple. If you grow 1% each year for five years you end up with a GDP that is (1.01)^5 of what you started: the 1% growth of each year accumulates over time. 

In any case, if you observe the price to be 75/(1+r) then the numbers 3/4 and 1/4, which look like probabilities, are called the "risk-neutral probabilities". They are "weights" that look like probabilities, that describe two things: investor's subjective assessment of the likelihood of the two scenarios, plus the "importance" they put on different future states of nature, beyond the likelihood of their realization. These risk neutral probabilities are at the core of the paradigm that economists use to model asset prices . 

In some models there are times when there are many entrepreneurs, and others when there are not. Is this a stylized fact of some kind? Are there any statistics about how entrepreneurial a particular generation is? 

In theory, it is bad because its inefficient. You protect your inefficient industries, I protect mine, we all end up consuming less. We would all be better off with totally free trade... But of course, there are many complications to this. It might be that an industry needs time to become efficient and you want to protect it in the meanwhile. Or it might be that the other country is not more efficient, but is just dumping their products o your economy until your firms close, after which they will raise their prices and extract a handsome surplus... 

One way to look at this is through the idea of "fixed costs". It only makes sense to pay the fixed cost if the market is big enough. There is very likely a large a fixed cost of entering a market. You have to establish a network of retailers or at least distribution channels, a way for the customers to return the defective units, partners that will also supply the covers, the software, the adapters, etc. Often you have to register the devices with the local regulators, they have to approve them for sale in that country, etc. From the marketing perspective there are also fixed costs. You make a single advertisement campaign per country, and you use it everywhere in that country. I suppose there is a minimum word of mouth effect that needs to take place for any marketing to be available, so I suppose a small marketing campaign is unlikely to be efficient. Also, sometimes products are sold or presented basically as flagship products, or loss-leaders, to call attention to the technological prowess of a firm, but not because they are all profitable. So, if a brand does not face a lot of competition in a country, it might not introduce these products as selling them, might actually represent a marketing expenditure. 

An important issue in deciding how to specify an time-series econometric model is deciding whether to use series in levels or in differences (or second differences!). However, to decide this, you often have to find out if the series are integrated or order 1 or not (I1). What are the current accepted tests to find out? Are there trade-offs between the tests? It seems hard to know whether interest rates for example are I1 or not! 

A good example from finance is the CAY variable. Lettau-Ludvigson. They claim that consumption and aggregate wealth are cointegrated, and that deviations of these from their long run relationship are good predictors of asset returns. The econometrics are somewhat tricky in the sense that the tests that prove that there is or is not a cointegration relationship are not very powerful. 

There are many risks in the economy that agents could hedge. For example, house prices can go up or down, healthcare costs canchange, gas prices constantly change in fact, food prices,etc. They all change in somewhat unpredictable ways. Therefore, you would think that most firms are exposed to some of these price shifts, but it doesn't seem like most of these firms are buying insurance or hedging against the risks. People also don't hedge. For example, a person that drives an hour to work should hedge gas price risk. Otherwise his net income after gas expenses is quite unpredictable! So, my question is, why do you think most agents don't hedge most of their risks? Are the transaction costs too high? Are people not financially sophisticated enough? Are financial markets not developed enough? Maybe there's a business model where the local bank branch should sell this kind of insurance/hedging and after some education everybody would be using it! We could all hedge all kinds of risks, which would actually make everybody else we trade with have more predictable incomes! In fact it makes sense to thing that the government aught to require any agents exposed to big risks to hedge themselves.! Anything wrong with my thinking? :)