There is a particular area where people often do seek partners different from themselves, that's hot in the field of evolutionary psychology, and is extensively researched — that would the major histocompatability complex, or MHC, in human mate choice. The MHC is a genomic region which codes for protein receptors, MHC proteins, which are heavily involved in the immune system and autoimmunity; the body uses them as antigens so that T cells and NK-cells, our immune's system "policemen", can recognize foreign elements and differentiate them from "self". To protect against the great diversity of bacterial and viral invaders, the MHC genome region needs to be highly polymorphic; that means inbreeding at those loci (by mating with a "more-alike" partner) would be deleterious and evolutionarily disfavored because inbreeding homogenizes alleles, which in turns means that mating with an "alike" individual would decrease the recognition ability of their offspring to detect pathogens. Thus, research often finds that humans often favor dissimilar MHC alleles in their mates, which some researchers have hypothesized is mediated through olfaction. Here is the abstract of one such study finding these preferences: 

Not all brain regions are equal in contributing to this relationship however; the size of certain tracts, grey-matter tracts in the frontal cortex IIRC (it's been a while since I studied this myself) are the primary determiner of intelligence, as determined by IQ. Allometric scaling probably contributes to this correlation; for example, if a gene unleashes checks on brain growth to enable greater intelligence, it might have a pleiotropic effect on other regions, so that they have to grow bigger as well, though they don't directly contribute to the intelligence of the person whose brain they make up. 

The answer to your question is, for the most part, no: Opposites do not attract. Like-minded people attract; that is, the relationships they form are fuller and longer-lasting than when paired with an opposite-minded partner. This is despite the fact that people often claim, in surveys and when asked directly by interviewers, that they would like someone with personality characteristics different from their own; revealed preference and lived experience show that they really don't know what they want. The article, Do People Know What They Want: A Similar or Complementary Partner?, by a certain Pieternel Dijkstra, reviews the hypotheses, and the research, better than I could give myself: 

No, there is a substantial correlation between brain size and intelligence. The most current citation I know of is a paper from McDaniel 2005, titled: Big-brained people are smarter: A meta-analysis of the relationship between in vivo brain volume and intelligence The abstract reads: 

I was reading about the recent horrific I-95 bus crash when I came across a sentence that made me realize how much I dislike the way newspapers and TV journalists use the word "shock". I should explain: This feeling comes from my remembrance of vaguely hearing or reading somewhere that "going into shock" has a very precise use in medicine, to wit, that it is a term having to deal with the rapid loss of blood pressure, or an extreme infection, or something or the other that is at the very least scientifically quantifiable. But often I find that journalists and reporters seem to conflate what I remember to be that precise medical term with the ordinary English sense of the word "shock", as in stunned or left speechless. In the above article, for example, a doctor describes the driver, who almost singularly amongst the survivors was not left dead or critically injured -- hence could not have suffered much blood loss? -- as being "[put] into shock." Even if that story isn't directly applicable here, I have seen plenty of stories describing unharmed witnesses of some huge tragedy as "going into shock", as opposed to say, being described as "shell-shocked", a word that I think is more apt. Am I remembering what I heard correctly? Is the article using the term "shock" in a medically kosher sense? Is it a precise term, or a "catch-all" that can be used by doctors and journalists alike? 

Clearly he is at least as biased as the Christians, just with the opposite bent! He treats Saturn, Jupiter and Isis as real in his Histories, and about Vespasians siege of Jerusalem he writes: 

Almost all reputable historians believe that Jesus did exist. Why they believe this I will explain below. To be absolutely clear, when we say Jesus did live, we are not saying that everything or even most of the things said about him in the Bible is true. Even ignoring the supernatural elements, the gospels contain internal contradictions, so we are absolutely sure they are not 100% reliable. What we say is that the myth of Jesus originated from real historical person. Kind of like the myth of Santa Claus originated with a real person, the bishop Nicolaus of Smyrna which was later sactified as Sct. Nicolaus. Compare this this to say Jupiter which we consider a purely mythological figure. The outlandish claims regarding Jesus (walked on water, resurrected the dead etc.) cannot be taken as evidence that he is fictional. If we take Alexander the Great, multiple legends grew up around him - he was the son of Zeus, his sister was a mermaid etc. This just shows that when a figure becomes revered, legends will form. No historians in their right mind would deny that Alexander was historical. Stripping away all the legends around Alexander there is still a historical core which is more likely to be true than to be made up. I'm going to explain why historians consider the same to be the case for Jesus. So what evidence is there for Jesus as a historical person? We have no first-hand or contemporary sources to the life of Jesus and we have no archaeological remains to prove his existence. And this is not surprising - this is the case for the vast majority of pre-modern historical figures, including people who was much more famous in their own time than Jesus. Take someone Alexander the Great again, one of the most important figures in History. We have no first-hand sources and no remains. The best sources we have are written hundreds of years after his death. Even then, given the available historical evidence we assume Alexander existed, since a lot history is impossible to explain otherwise (and his invention would have required a vast conspiracy among historians in antiquity). There are a few references to Jesus by historians independent of the Bible, but they are not first-hand accounts, and basically just states what the Christians of the time believed. The most important is the Jewish-Roman historian Josephus which have two passages mentioning Jesus, although one of them is generally agreed to be a fabrication inserted by later Christian scribes. The other passage (which is generally assumed to be authentic) states: 

Bottom line: People throughout history have been able to perceive and distinguish colors we would call blue. But they would not necessary have a word directly translatable to "blue". 

Regarding claim 3, this seem to be a misunderstanding of the hypothesis that languages evolve words for colors gradually and in a universal order. The claim is not that on a specific day, languages around the world invented a word for "blue", but rather that "blue" will typically be the sixth color term to appear in a language (after dark, light, red, green and yellow). This hypothesis is controversial and some counterexamples have been found, but it is not totally ridiculous. The answer by March Ho examines this in more detail. 

Regarding claim 4, that the Himba people not being able to distinguish between blue and green, the claim is much weaker in the wikipedia page you link to. It just states that: 

Now, not only does Jesus bravely accept his fate, it actually turns out it was part of the big plan all along! And the sponge-guy is not taunting Jesus anymore, but rather offering the sponge as an act of grace. The whole scene is just so much more dignified and meaningful. It is quite easy to see how the narrative could have developed like this. First the crucifixion and the pitiful death of Jesus is an embarrassing fact. But over the following decades (it is assumed to be about 40 years between Mark and John) it is re-interpreted (or spun as we would say today) to actually becoming a meaningful event which shows the greatness of Jesus, and was planned all along. Now consider if it was a fictional account. it makes no sense to make up such an embarrassing end for Jesus (which the Christians later had to spin heavily), if the point of the story was to convince people that this guy was God! The case for the purely fictional Jesus simply does not make sense. Tl;dr: Jesus most likely were a real person. 

The same myth is cited for heroin and occasionally caffeine, that "sweating out the toxins" will make the withdrawal process easier. Your body naturally metabolizes these substances just fine. It is the absence of having them in your body, when you are accustomed to having a constant blood level, that causes discomfort. The process of withdrawal and recovery can't be accelerated by using a sauna, or by sweating: 

The most authoritative study cited by the CoE website, Overview of the Nature and Extent of Child Sexual Abuse in Europe (2010) (full text, uploaded by the authors, Kevin Lalor & Rosaleen McElvaney) reported prevalence rates of child sexual abuse with very wide variation bands, and significant differences by gender and by European country. 

No, the CIA did not secretly fund abstract artists to draw attention away from Social Realism. In fact, the CIA secretly funded abstract artists to contrast the difference between American and western European abstract expressionism and Socialist Realism. Social Realism is characterized by: 

The CIA did not fund abstrast expressionism to "take attention away" from Social Realism, nor to take attention away from Socialist Realism, but for the following reason: 

Miller repeats a much less cogent version of that statement at the 11:15 minute mark, which is the passage quoted in the question. Miller is referring to MS-13, an organized crime cartel from El Salvador and Honduras. Yes, there are communities in the United States that have experienced horrific violence from MS-13 gang members. There are communities in 

The summary-level definition of childhood sexual violence provided by the CoE is the following (via Is it really ONE in FIVE?): 

What is the definition used by the Council of Europe (CoE), in determining whether a child is a victim of sexual violence? Is "child victim of sexual violence" synonymous with criminal sexual abuse of children, i.e. is consensual sexual activity between two 16 year old's counted as a form of sexual violence and abuse if the legal age of adulthood is 18? Is the prevalence of such abuse stationary over time, especially as demographics in Europe have changed? Specifically, the most recent study referenced by the CoE website was published in 2010 and others dated back to 2003. 

Such a program, with or without psychological help, is not offered to Sweden’s own national forces upon their return from duty. There are about 500 soldiers from Sweden serving with NATO, fighting the Taliban in Afghanistan. This disparity in benefits between returning jihadis and returning Swedish soldiers is the subject of controversy. 

This myth may or may not have originated from Scientology in the early 1970s, but Scientology certainly perpetuated it. Carnegie Mellon University has an entire website devoted to L. Ron Hubbard's junk science, with a section about the pseudoscience of sweating out toxins. 

There was an interview on Sveriges Radio on October 18, 2016, which described a government program (administered by the municipal coordinator against violent extremism in Lund) to rehabilitate former ISIS fighters with housing, employment, education, and financial support: 

Abstract expressionist painting by Jackson Pollack, Summertime #9 reproduced by Art Crimes on Flickr under CreativeCommons/by-nc-nd 

The remaining Articles cover everything else: child prostitution, child pornography, participation of a child in pornographic performances, and solicitation of children for sexual purposes (e.g. through the Internet, SMS and so forth). Issue 3 mentioned above is relevant due to recently changing demographics (especially due to migration to Europe as a result of EU policy changes from 2015 onward) and the impact on attitudes about consent, including children. It is a moot point though, if we cannot establish whether the "one in five" statistic was an evidence-based finding as of 2007-2010. In other words, we can't determine if the prevalence is increasing over time without a benchmark to confirm that 1 in 5 is accurate, an under-estimate, or an (unlikely but possible) over-estimate. Based on this document, 1 in 5 Fact Argumentation [PDF] published by CoE, it appears that the "one in five" statistic was intended as a starting point, to begin collecting data, rather than as a final result, emphasis mine: