I exercise frequently: running, cycling, football at least 5 days a week. However, I have a sizable gut. This is due to a few factors: I sit all day at work, high calorie intake from soft drink and other junk food (usually on the weekends for lunch, not every day), Aussie love of beer. I think I only need to lose about 5 - 8 kg. In the past week or so I have cut out the soft drink, beer and cut out junk food on weekends. However, from day one that I stopped drinking soft drink and my daily beer with my evening meal I noticed that I am voraciously hungry. I have been eating almost two evening meals because I am so hungry. I may be way off the mark, but my assumption is the body is trying to compensate for the calories it is loosing from me dropping the soft drinks. Now I'm confused as to what I should be doing. It seems counterproductive for me to eat more food while I am trying to lose weight, but I'm just so damn hungry. Here is a typical before and after of what I have removed and what I have added to give you some indication of what I am eating to compensate: Before: 

Zumba, like any physical activity will have benefit in weight-loss and toning. It just depends on how long and how hard you go at it. The idea is to keep up your heart rate and keep moving. As long as you do this you will be burning calories. As wikipedia says: 

This page has a number of good quality exercises for eye strain. It is important to look after your eyes and not just your body as looking at a computer all day puts strain on your eyes and not just on your body. 

The number of push-ups I can do is dismal. I have tried over the years to increase the number and have received to pieces of advice. 

Ok, that's it. I've read about how dehydration can "slow down" our metabolism one time too many, so I decided to conduct my own research - and find out once and for all, whether or not that's just another one of the many weight loss myths in existence. If you do a quick search on Google, you can find plenty of weight loss articles explaining how proper hydration of the body is a must - which is something I definitely agree with for health reasons - but when it comes to the effect of dehydration on our energy expenditure, I have yet to find any scientific proof that dehydration does indeed cause our bodies to start burning less calories. I will keep searching for conclusive evidence, but in the meanwhile, I'd like to ask all the incredibly smart people here if one of you already knows the answer to my burning question (pun intended)? 

Green tea contains caffeine, that has been proven to increase your metabolic rate ($URL$ and to help with the release of fat from your body fat reserves ($URL$ - but bear in mind that you still have to burn away those released fatty acids, or they will simply return to where they came from. So the first thing you need to decide, is whether or not you're even ok with consuming caffeine - which is a substance classified as a drug. Another study ($URL$ has confirmed green tea has an additional effect on the rate at which we burn our body fat when compared to caffeine alone. The chemicals in green tea that are believed to boost the calorie-burn rate are called polyphenols. All-in-all they measured a 4% increase in a 24-hour energy expenditure...so if you normally spend 2000 calories throughout the day, you can count on green tea to add another 80 to that (roughly). And as far as the safety is concerned, some cases of liver damage have been reported ($URL$ but the evidence on that does not seem to be conclusive. 

This will widely vary person to person and most claims that you will lose x number of kilos in a certain period of time are unfounded. You should consult your GP or a dietician if you want a definitive answer. You should set your exercise goals based on fitness milestones and have your weight milestones as a consequence of that. Depending on your current fitness level you could set yourself a goal for either distance or time with either walking, jogging or running. Swimming is also a great for setting goals as it can be done by people of all fitness levels. You can also apply similar goals to your eating habits. 

As it heads towards winter and our swimming pool becomes unbearably cold, what is a good daily exercise I can do to replace my daily swimming? The aim is something low impact, works out most of the body and can be done almost daily without too much strain. 

My diet is otherwise pretty healthy: plenty of fruit, veg and water It seems I have just replaced calorie for calorie with better options, but am I going to lose weight in this way? Is there anything that can be described as high energy low calorie food that I would be better eating instead? I prefer something non-processed (no shakes, energy bars etc.) 

After a week of extensive exercising involving cycling, running, swimming and soccer I woke up Sunday morning with a sharp pain in what I think is my soleus muscle. Definitely not an achilles, but lower than the calf and on the outer-side of my leg. I don't remember a point during exercising when I noticed it happened, I just woke up that way. I can put pressure on the foot, I can also walk on it and did some very light jogging on it yesterday as my 4 year old was hassling me to play soccer with him. The pain is sharp and goes from mid way behind the shin up to the bottom of the calf. 

I've seen professional Muay Thai fighters complete 2hour+ morning sessions that included running, sparring/bag work and strength training - so yes, it's quite possible to do what you described - or even endure much longer training sessions on a daily basis...but like other people mentioned, your level of fitness will decide whether you're over-training or not. 

I'd definitely need to read the whole article to be 100% this proves bigger muscles are more resistant to stretching, but judging only from the abstract of this review ($URL$ this seems to be the case: "...passive extensibility is influenced by the size (mass) and length of muscle fibers...resistance to passive lengthening is influenced by the readily adaptable amount of muscle tissue..." 

While I can't provide you with a sortable "fullness factor" database - here's exactly how I would get a list of the foods you're looking for... First, you need a sortable list - and you can download the USDA nutrient database in excel here: $URL$ You can begin with sorting all the foods ascending by calories - and you'll quickly realize you can chew through pound after pound of different vegetables & fruits every day (while easily staying well within your calorie limits). Now, since fiber ($URL$ and proteins ($URL$ have been proven to increase satiety... You could also try sorting by fiber or protein columns or even make a calculated column, like fiber/calories or protein/calories and sort by those columns - to come up with a list of "highly-filling foods" (that only bring a few calories to the table). 

I'd say because most of the (non-scientific) advice I've seen around the web is "endurance" stuff. So start with x squeezes every day and build up to 600 per day or whatever. If you exercise like that you're not really gaining strength (at least after a certain point), but simply building up endurance. So it's kinda like running longer and longer every day (at roughly the same pace) instead of weight lifting with progressing difficulty for strength/mass gains. To bring my point home, the way most people exercise their PC muscle can be done on a daily basis. But if you truly trained your PC muscle to reach peak strength (which is definitely what you need if you're after the male multi-orgasm thing), then you'd get better results with longer recovery periods. Because, at least to my knowledge, the PC muscle responds to training no differently than any other muscle in our body. 

You have to be careful with running and hydration and having a cold a lack of water can exacerbate your cold. Also, if your body is still fighting the virus you need sufficient amount of rest. So if running is going to make you feel exhausted this is a sign that your body still needs more rest. That being said, if I am on the mend I prefer to do regular exercise even if I feel bad. So I usually call it based on whether I am on a downward spiral or in recovery mode. If I'm recovering I usually prefer to do some exercise. It may not be likely that you can make your goal, but maybe you can ease yourself back into it. I wouldn't start exactly where you left off, but drop off and see how you go over a shorter distance. 

I think the problem is you are doing a large amount of repetitions on a limited number of exercises. It sounds like you are only doing two exercises. Bodies are designed to adapt, if you just do the same two exercises over and over again you are only focusing on a limited number of muscles and they will easily adapt to this limited set of exercises and you will only get a very limited benefit. The other thing is, once your body adapts it is going to plateau because you are not increase the weight or resistance. I am guessing once you could do a 100 standard push-ups your body adapted and you saw no further benefit. I'm happy for other people's input, but my suggestion is you shouldn't be doing more than 2 or 3 reps of the same exercise, say (2 or 3) x 10. You can then use your remaining strength and energy doing a different exercise. There are different types of push-ups you can do, so maybe you could do 3 sets of 10 with 3 different types of push-up then move onto another exercise. You can also increase weight while doing push-ups and pull-ups by using a weighted backpack. I also suggest you look at doing some sort of weights training. If you don't want a trainer or go to a gym, go online you can search for a wide variety of exercises for specific muscle groups and mix it up. 

Measure the circumference of your waist at a horizontal level around the navel for men, and at the level with the least width for women. Don't pull your stomach in. Measure the circumference of the neck. Start below the larynx with the tape sloping slightly downward to the front. Avoid flaring your neck out. For women only: Measure the circumference of the hips, at the largest horizontal measure. 

body fat calculator formula for man: 495/(1.0324-0.19077(LOG(waist-neck))+0.15456(LOG(height)))-450 body fat calculator formula for woman: 495/(1.29579-0.35004(LOG(waist+hip-neck))+0.22100(LOG(height)))-450 All you'd have to do, is convert centimeters into inches (inches = centimeters / 2.54) and use those values in those equations...or just use the calculator here (just switch it over to the "metric" tab) Hope this is what you're looking for. 

If anything, I'd definitely avoid cardio in your case. Here's a study ($URL$ where people, who exercised after their glycogen reserves were already wiped out, burned away 13.7 grams of proteins per hour of exercise (that was measured through sweat alone), which is an equivalent of a little below 70 grams of muscle mass. Your training performance will also drop once your glycogen reserves are depleted ($URL$ As far as muscle preservation (or even hypertrophy) is concerned, strength training shouldn't be as much of a problem IF you keep your protein intake high enough and don't interrupt ketosis with carbs. But studies on nitrogen balance while strength training in ketosis (especially with powerlifting) aren't exactly plentiful...at least not to my knowledge. 

The only thing I have been able to find is that the squat depth could affect your vertical jump ability - but I have no idea if you even remotely care about that. Anyway, this study ($URL$ proved that parallel squat has a higher postactivation potentiation (PAP) than a quarter squat - meaning that less-than-parallel squats could negatively affect your vertical jumping ability. And while the study did prove a significant advantage of doing parallel squats when they are done right before preforming the jumps - the evidence on long term connection between PAP and enhanced athletic performance seems to be limited ($URL$