Was he right? No. Has the situation changed since 2002? Yes, there are lots more journals, and much higher diversity of publishing. Sadly, that also means there are also a lot more venues that publish at the bottom of the quality scale: one even shares a name with you. Are there decent economic journals which are keen to publish puzzling empirical observations? No, generally they'll look for something well-written, novel, intelligent, and within the journal's scope. Just being a puzzling empirical observation simply isn't enough for any decent venue. You'll want a blog for that. As for a slice of historical publishing of puzzling empirical observations, why not try a Google Scholar search for "productivity puzzle"? 

To derive the uncovered interest parity (UIP) condition we assume, among other things, that there is free movement of capital across countries. But this cannot be directly applied to India because of capital controls. While foreigners are relatively free to hold Indian assets, Indians are in general forbidden to hold foreign assets. Is there a variant of the UIP that we can expect to hold (given the other assumptions) under such asymmetric restrictions on asset holding? 

Loeb spaces have been used to model situations with a continuum of agents. See $URL$ and the chapters by Sun on economic applications in the book Nonstandard Analysis for the Working Mathematician. 

A pigouvian tax is on goods or services that are known to have negative externalities, and for which some estimation of the economic value of those negative externalities can be made, and is there to correct the market failure. Its goal is to improve economic efficiency. A sin tax is on goods or services judged to be morally negative. Its goal is to reduce consumption and/or appease the moralists and/or raise revenue in a way that is less likely to be successfully opposed. 

Yes, if there are non-zero fixed costs, and constant marginal cost, then average cost decreases strictly monotonically with quantity, asymptotic to the marginal cost. 

We can try to apply this theorem to our problem by taking $x$ to be $i$, $c$ to be $y$, $F(i,c,c')=c^\theta$ and $G(i,c,c')=pc$. Then the final differential equation in the theorem becomes $$\theta c_i^{\theta-1} + \lambda p_i=0$$ which is precisely what we need. Is the theorem applicable? Our $K[y]$ is linear, so cannot have an extremal, so the requirement of not having an extremal is easily satisfied. The boundary conditions on $y(a)$ and $y(b)$ do not matter since if a path of $c$, say $c^*(i)$, is extremal without any boundary conditions then it is extremal within the set $c(0)=c^*(0), c(1)=c^*(1)$. The only catch is in the nature of the theorem itself. It gives necessary conditions for an optimum. Given that in our case the necessary condition gives a unique result, all that we need to make it sufficient is to argue that our problem has a solution. The proofs in Kolmogorov-Fomin assume that the functions we are dealing with have continuous first derivatives. So we still need to show that the consumer's problem has an optimal in this class of functions but given that the problem is solved. 

the government will have to keep paying interest on the bond, to the central bank, and will have to redeem it if it's not a perpetual. Remember, some governments are completely distinct entities from central banks, with no guaranteed way to move money between them in a consequence-free manner: the Eurozone governments are a good example. The central bank can sell that bond when it wants to, giving it an extra means of contracting the money supply. Currency speculators are less likely to start circulating around the currency like vultures that have spotted dying prey. 

With just one producer my guess would have been that the producer would always like a retail price war since a more competitive retail sector would reduce the double-marginalization problem and hence allow the producer to capture more profits. Is this intuition right? And how does moving from monopoly to oligopoly in production change things? This question comes from a real-world observation. This Diwali (which is to Indian retailers what Christmas is to western ones) there was an intense price war among online retailers in India. In response to this price war, many producers of consumer durables like TVs and cameras made public statements against this price war and actively discouraged consumers from buying from these online retailers by measures such as offering longer warranties for products bought from brick-and-mortar stores. A simple explanation for this behavior is that this was just to appease the brick-and-mortar stores which still dominate Indian retail. But could there be a deeper explanation? One story I could think of was as follows: suppose that the price charged by producers to retailers is not directly observed. Then a retailer price war can make it harder to detect a cut in the producer-to-retailer price. This can cause any implicit price collusion between the producers to break down, something which none of the producers would like to happen. But I'm sure this is not the only possible explanation. 

As there is no practical limit on the number of cryptocurrencies that can be created, and as no one crpytocurrency has a unique advantage over any other, and as no cryptocurrencies are legal tender anywhere, the theoretical market cap of any one cryptocurrency has zero underlying value. What its actual market cap is, will depend on how many suckers can be lured into purchasing it, and what their combined purchasing power is. Furthermore, even if all your incorrect assumptions were correct, your conclusion would not be: the total capitalisation of all existing sovereign currencies is finite. If they were all to be replaced by a cryptocurrency, then its capitalisation would be much less than the existing total capitalisation of all sovereign currencies, because economic activity would have taken a huge downturn. That's because the world is not an Optimal Currency Area. This is not to say that cryptocurrencies will never have any value. But at time of writing, there is no visible legitimate application that gives them value. 

There are a number of online booksellers that are popular in India right now. The prices they charge for the same book often differ by as much as 10% (See this price comparison site to check $URL$ Since these are homogenous goods and anyone who can access one of the stores can as easily assess another I wonder how we might explain this price dispersion. I have not done a systematic study but it is my impression that it is not the case that there is an ordering of prices between stores which is the same for different books. I was wondering whether there are any economic models which can explain this dispersion. In particular are there models which can be tested by using panels of price data. [I confess I am fishing for a research topic.]