Standard Anglo-cultures use the direct adoption method. I take my father's surname, as he took his father's surname etc. Just to note; traditionally, Anglo-culture is patrilineal, which is why we take our father's surname. In modern times there is the accepted practice of ambilineal naming, wherein we apply a double-barrel surname (mother's & father's combined with a hyphen). Traditional Norse, Hebrew & Arabic cultures make use of the gender classification method. Here are some examples: Norse: father's given name + -son, -dottir appended. (Still used in Iceland I believe) Karl Magnusson. Hebrew: father's given name + ben prepended. Simon ben Gabriel Arabic: father;s given name + ibn prepended. Ahmed ibn Mohammed 

So to round up, even though your two cultures speak the same language, their naming conventions could be completely (or partially) different. It would make sense to try to apply the naming convention of Culture B to the people of Culture A if they are interacting in Culture B and are from the weaker culture. Here's some examples for you: Norse -> Arabic: Karl Magnusson -> Karl ibn Magnus Arabic -> Nore: Hafiz ibn Rashid -> Hafiz Rashidson (sounds a bit weird, but that's what bastardising is all about) Arabic -> Anglo: Hafiz ibn Rashid -> Hafiz Rashid (most likely just drop the ibn) Hebrew -> Arabic: Simon ben Gabriel -> Simon ibn Gabriel (note both cultures are semitic, so the similarity is not surprising) EDIT: since you mention the word believable, I'll add this. Believable isn't always about people thinking it's realistic. Get your characters to alight on the weird bastardisation of names from one culture to the other even though they speak the same language. This provides audience with the needed level of believability because their subconscious concerns are shown to have been considered by the author as well. And on the reason why lineage is the most common now, it's possibly to do with number of social interactions. More people you meet, the higher the probability of meeting someone else with the same name. Therefore the lineage concept comes to mind as a quantifier. This is Bob & that is Bob, but this is Bob son of Greg and that is Bob son of Dave. 

Some material does survive from the bigger ships falling from space. When Skylab went down, debris were found on the ground. Or Columbia. Mir space station required deorbiting into uninhabited area of the ocean, and it is known that parts of Hubble may survive reentry. Of course, depends on the spacecraft and depends on the planet, but generally possible. You may assume that the ship has completed some part of the landing sequence to make this more realistic. 

A tester, for developing a new product for humans that must be tested on human as an emotional or biological being. Is this sequence of sounds a good music? Does this election candidate speech sound impressive? Are these controls of the new device convenient? A machine could produce some test music, test text and test controls, but without human trying and evaluating, the result may be bearable but will be inferior. So at least human tester is required. A human creator has benefit over machine because an artist can create and try many things in imagination only, saving lots of time that would be required to create a real specimen and present it for others to evaluate. There is already an answer that the art may be such a job, but does not actually explain why and the current answer does not cover exclusively art. 

If you live in a village in Saxon Britain you are all three of those definitions, but you don't define yourself as Saxon when aliens invade, and defining yourself as human when the Vikings come along won't do you much good because they're human too. 

I think you're indirectly asking about scope. Any world deals with levels of encapsulation. The lower down the levels the bigger the frequency. As with anything the higher the frequency of something the more time it takes to develop it so therefore the more likely a person is to create quick methods of applying detail to it. Lucas vs. Tolkien The model for each franchise is identical, the scope is not. Lucas' top-level encapsulation is a universe, Tolkien chose a planet. Lucas' universe has many planets, Tolkien's planet has many regions. Lucas' universe has swamp planets, Tolkien's planet has swamp regions. It all comes down to how many examples of a specific level of encapsulation you have. If you're doing a universe like Lucas, you most likely don't have the time to describe all of your planets to the same level of detail as Tolkien did with Arda. 

The simple answer is to determine which is the stronger of the two cultures, and bastardise the names from the weaker into the stronger. The theory here is that people from the weaker culture will feel the need to assimilate into the stronger to survive, which will probably require them to change their names to fit in with the acceptable concepts of naming convention. How do you Anglicise the Hungarian name Istvan? Steven (Stephen). Sharing the same language doesn't mean they share the same culture. Language and culture are completely different things. Language is a communication tool, culture is an expression of communal identity. Naming conventions themselves are pretty fascinating. There's generally 3 known conventions, of which one is now pretty much universally used in modern societies. It's important to understand that a naming convention is how we determine someone's name. There is a second layer to them which I will explain in a bit. 

Regardless how hot or cold the star is, you can always place a planet into acceptable climate conditions by just putting it into the right distance. This will impact the duration of the year: for the small cold star, the planet must be closer so the year will be shorter (see orbital period). This depends much less on the mass of the planet as it is very light in comparison to the star anyway. As the life takes long time to evolve, it should probably be a stable star from the main sequence, burning hydrogen, not helium or anything the like. Other stages of stellar evolution (like red giants or cooling dwarfs) may be too short for creating life "from scratch" but would still fit if the planet has been colonized later. 

Museum of science and industry could provide suitable machines. Some old diesel engines were capable of running on crude oil. Such engines could probably still be found in some "Museum of science and industry" in a running condition. If the museum actually runs the engine, it should be some maintenance tools in its workshop. 

Insects are sometimes viewed as currently dominant taxonomic group. They may have social behavior, hierarchies, bees can communicate each other the location and build relatively complex structures like honeycomb. These families may be superior to human families as they consist of big number of adult, fully capable individuals, not just of two adults and children who cannot do much. The only problem is the small size (so limited size of the brain), but say Hercules beetle may be 17 cm long so the brain need not be very small. Titan beetle is slightly shorter but has more massive body. The problem is probably that social insects are not as big as these beetles. Also, it may possible to have distributed brain built from brains of multiple individuals, using sound or electromagnetic waves to communicate. A bee brain contains about 950 000 neurons, human has about 100 billion. 105 000 bees would be required to have the same number of neural cells. That much can easily live in just two hives standing nearby (60 000 per hive) - fully realistic. It may be only a question of time before the nature hits that opportunity. 

The point in time when the mirror was created would be a unique identifier. Using it would fit with believing in the medieval concept of astrology. 

If you would have a political tests on the powers of the president it might have a question like: Constiutionally declaring war is the prerogative of congress but in practice US presidents do have the power to start war. A person creating the test could decide on what happens to be the right answer based on their own political beliefs. That means they can filter who's allowed to vote based on the political beliefs of the person. You can't have a test without a person writting the test. Thinking of the test being unbaised is like thinking of Supreme Court Justices being unbaised. The human element is always present and can't be simply removed. 

Currently states like the US and Canada are willing to give up sovereignty and subject themselves to courts that precide over Investor-State-Dispute-Settlements (ISDS). The German supreme court did rule that agreeing to the Lisbon treaty means giving up sovereignty and therefore needed a change in the German constiution. It's not guranteed that the trend of putting more power into bigger institutions continues. In state where there's the rule of law the state can gradually give more and more of it's sovereinity to more global instiutions. 

Amerindians (perhaps this is a stereotype) traditionally use the 3rd option. They are given names that have no bearing on who their parents are or which community they come from. The Occupational convention was prevalent in early medieval England, which gave us surnames such as Thatcher, Cooper, Shearer, Baker, Miller etc. The lineage convention (most prevalent), has been around as long as any others. It consists of adding an extra name to a person's given name to define their heritage. A simple example of this is by taking your father's surname as your own surname. The Second Layer Once the convention has been chosen, we would need to know how to apply it. Let's work with lineage here because it has the most variables. First define lineage. 

Define what their collective enemy is. Every person places themselves into a myriad of different categories at different times to help identify themselves. Different situations require them to define themselves in these different ways. Examples: 

That depends on how close to the time of the split you are asking from. The closer to the time, the more likely it is to be visible. Once a river finds a new route it will flow in that direction. Over time the majority of water will continue on this new route eroding more material, making it even easier for more water to choose the new route. Eventually the new route of the river would be made deep enough to accommodate the full watershed making the original route obsolete. It would become a dry-river bed. Think about gorges or creeks in this regard. It is very unlikely that both possible routes for the river to reach the sea will erode material at similar enough speeds to keep them completely equal. EDIT: To answer more fully, the speed of the shift from one route to another depends on the comparison of the erodibility of the material that the two routes flow through/over. Old route stone vs. new route stone the process will be slower. Old route stone vs. new route clay the process will be much quicker. 

There is no need to assume that water creatures cannot use processes or technologies that require air environment. Some manufacturing processes do require vacuum, or have required in the past (vacuum tubes, for instance). Humans live in the air but were capable of making vacuum when needed. And, for sure, they create water environment when needed (most of the chemistry). Aquatic creatures could make air environment, or even vacuum environment in they laboratories as required. For instance, diving bell may be possible to make from some shell or water plant, allowing to experiment with air technologies to discover lots of amazing things. In the Earth, spiders create air environment under water without any intelligence. 

The species must be different enough to take the ecological niches so non overlapping that they would not compete significantly with each other. For instance, they must be adapted to the climate conditions so different, that area occupied by another species would not look more attractive than Antarctica for us. Species with similar niches do not co exist. One is always slightly stronger and pushes another out. This is true for all species, so should be true for thinking species as well. The only exception is if the environment has some stable variations, say humans would be stronger in summer and neanderthals in winter (probably was not the case). Geographical separation may work for some time, but as civilization evolves it soon takes over the whole planet even with rather primitive means of transportation. 

If all words in the language match 1-to-1 to English words, it's basically simply a code for English. Pitjantjatjara for example doesn't have a word that means what the English word means. Even European languages differ in the contexts the have. If I want to translate the German word Polish offers me one choice with according to Leo. On the other hand English offers me 8 choices: , , , , , and . English allows to make much more distinctions then Polish when talking about probabilities. On the other hand the English languages uses words like or in lot's of different ways. To be essentially serves the purpose of four terms of the Natural Semantic Metalanguage location, existence, specification and possession. Letting 4 of the 56 most important concepts of a language be represented by the same word seems very wasteful and yet English works fine. This means that your language can also reuse words if you don't have enough words. Depending on the purpose of your language you don't have to add all the word at the start. When you find that you currently can't talk about something that would be important you can just add new words. 

China's one-child policy didn't result in a different demographic development than a country like Thailand without such a policy. As a result it wouldn't be the policy to focus on. Current trends mean that many developed countries achieve a children/woman ratio substantially lower than 2. That means over the long-term the population would shrink. A population engineer would therefore do whatever they can to repeat to develop other countries as well. Reducing childhood deaths is especially important. Which trends could still produce long-term population growth? Growing religions such as the Mormons demand it's adherents to have many children. Taking actions to deconvert those groups and let them shrink instead of grow over time could be another area for policies.