In addition to Pilates and FMS, and here are some ideas of assessment methods that you can consider: 

Timex Ironman Race Trainer Pro lets you sync with your computer and is compatable with either a PC or a Mac. I don't know if it meets your needs otherwise. It does have a strap and I don't know if you can recharge it. 

As far as increasing the bone growth (size and density), bones respond to stress loads with weight bearing or resistance exercise. Assuming you have adequate nutrition including calcium and vitamin D, by gradually increasing the amount of stress to your wrist bones with increasing weight bearing or resistance loads the small wrist and arm bones will adapt by increasing bone density. Body weight exercises such as Yoga's downward dog apply body weight thru your arms and wrists with your wrist in good alignment. 

So, bicep curls would not be the most efficient exercise to increase your ability to hold heavy grocery bags because not only are they targeting a different type of contraction (isotonic vs isometric), but they also do not emphasize the primary muscle needed to hold groceries isometrically, and they do not address the shoulder/scapular muscles. Specific Position Needed: - Holding bags of groceries requires that the arms are abducted (lifted out away from the body). Biceps curls, shoulder shruggs, farmer's walks etc., are performed with the arm/shoulder/scapula positioned with the arms in neutral. Specific Type of Muscle Contraction Needed: When you set up an exercise program with a specific goal in mind, you are right to consider the type of muscle contraction. To add to @Grohlier's answer, using the example of a bicep curl from full extension to 90 degrees, here are some of the limitations of each type of exercise: 

Since you asked for the "bible of bodyweight exercises", check out Mark Lauren's You Are Your Own Gym: The Bible of Bodyweight Exercises. The book has over 100 bodyweight exercises. 

The first is done with the knee straight and the Second is done with the knee bent. When doing these stretches make sure that your heel is aligned with the toes so that you are actually stretching your calf, not just collapsing your arch. Questions and answers that have good heel cord and calf muscle stretching exercises for squatting include: 

Yes, Tai Chi can provide health and fitness benefits to anyone who practices it regularly. Elderly people find that it is well suited to their physical capabilities. Tai Chi can help improve balance, mucscle strength, joint range of motion, relaxation, breathing and concentration. Elderly people often have joint problems that are painful and can prevent them from doing other types of exercise. Tai Chi is a non-impact exercise. The slow repetitive movements are easy on the joints. The Harvard Medical School’s Health Publication describes health benefits and references published studies. They cite studies showing improved: 

Having a detached retina will affect the quality of your life more. It may be wise to have an eye exam and get clarification from your eye doctor as to whether or not you are at risk. If you are at risk, ask your eye doctor for recommendations and learn the signs and symptoms. Then if you do experience any symptoms you will know to get immediate care. With this knowledge you can make a more informed decision as to what activities you are willing to risk. 

Yes, it is time to get serious about creating and living a healthy lifestyle. The way you look is the least concern of excess weight. 

You already have lots of good suggestions, so I’ll just add a caution. Since your wife’s primary language is not English, make sure she has clearance from her doctor for exercise and understands whether or not she has any restrictions. Depending on the type of delivery and her level of activity during pregnancy, her doctor may have specific recommendations. In the first few months for example, she may need to be careful of high impact activities like jogging. And doing abdominal exercises will depend on the amount of separation or gap between her abs. Also, her exercise program should include specific pelvic floor muscles exercises. You say she only has one window of opportunity to exercise, but with a baby carrier or a stroller, she can strap the baby on her, or put the baby in the stroller and go for a walk which is something she can do everyday. Also, a lot of postpartum exercise classes are baby friendly. Your wife can take a class geared to new moms, meet other moms and have a safe environment for the baby all at the same time. These classes may not be at your gym, but may be offered thru the YMCA or yoga studios. Holly Rigsby, CPT has a good online program for busy moms that is home based 15 minute workouts comprised primarily of compound resistance circuit training. Your wife’s language limitation may not work for the forum and support, but the video workouts should be easy to follow. By doing the walking and a home based workout on a regular basis, she can go to the gym once a week and enjoy whatever she feels like doing! As for the 12 hour work days, that is something else to think about :) 

Because you say you have shoulder symptoms, a small towel roll between your chest wall and your humerus will reduce shoulder joint stress when doing the above exercises in the neutral or sidelying position. Stretching - When the teres minor is tight it limits shoulder internal rotation. You can stretch the teres minor and infraspinatus with a broomstick stretch. Or this video gives some nice rotator cuff stretches with different ways to target the external rotators. You can also release the muscles using a tennis ball or theracane to massage the muscle. If you haven't already, getting a full evaluation by a physical therapist or physio would be helpful to check for other contributing factors and stabilization of the scapula. 

Examples of exercises targeting other large muscles with dumbbells are the: chest press, rows, and pullovers