Flight MH370 went down, and no trace was found for months, in spite of intense efforts. But that was over water. "Fairly remote area" to me suggests a location where nobody has any reason to go most of the time. For the government to catch on quickly, the craft would have to be (a) detected, and (b) recognized for what it is. For a remote area, neither of these are certain by any means. Remember that even if it is detected by radar, a crashing space ship's motion will be closer to vertical than the usual craft of interest to radar. It will be in the range of radar (most especially, the vertical range) for a very short period of time; the transition from too high to be detectable, to impact, will be relatively brief, such that the ship appears on only one sweep of the radar, and be easily dismissed as some sort of signal noise. 

The rapid mobility of space forces means that the enemy can bring everything that can float to any place in space. Your home-world can go from all-clear to a sky full of battle-wagons in a minute. If your own space forces cannot meet the enemy with enough force to make the engagement too expensive for the enemy, then you are best off not having any military assets on your planets at all. No factories, no supply depots, and certainly no C3 assets; when the hammer goes down, it will go down on planet-bound military assets first. The only exceptions are concerned with accession (recruiters and the guys who process new recruits, and maybe your boot camp), and then only if the planet has a substantial population from which to recruit. Everything else will be in orbit around otherwise uninhabited systems, and in deep space. This all assumes that your enemy prefers to avoid civilian casualties; if that isn't near the top of their priorities, then your planetary presence has to consist of people who are prepared to bug out at a moment's notice, and people who don't mind a Tsar Bomba landing on their heads. So the reason you won't have extensive ground forces is because you will have arranged your affairs so that you don't need them. 

Another dimension to morality, aside from the good-evil and law-chaos that have been done to death, consists of the axis of positions regarding when the use of force is justified. Some hold that the use of force is never justified. Others hold that it is justified only in retaliation against those who initiate it. Others think that differences of opinion in religion or of relative wealth justify it. Others believe that force requires no justification at all. Each of these viewpoints is either evil or stupid in the eyes of the others, but none of them regard themselves as evil or stupid, but as good or smart, relative to the others. 

It turns out that national borders are the result of political action, and not the cause. The borders are undefined because nobody can conclusively prevail long enough for the marker stones to get built. So either the world's denizens despise all non-local governance, such that things like regional and national authorities get put out of business as soon as they make their ambitions known, or the place is so chaotic that nothing can get organized above the local level. 

A rogue black hole is rather far-fetched, but a rogue planet is not. Hence: A post-graduate student among the Sloor (kind of like a squid, breathes a hydrogen atmosphere, most comfortable around 15 Kelvin), does a more refined calculation of the trajectory of a known rogue planet that is headed towards the Sol system. He (well, that's the closest word for the student) concludes that there is a 10% chance of an actual collision with the third planet, and a 99% chance of throwing it into a radically different orbit. You won't believe how long it takes this matter to get through the Galactic Congress' Committee for Pre-Member Worlds (when they finally took up the matter, that is; it took seven months just to resolve the turf war with the Committee for Cosmological Incident Relief). 

Go out to the system's Oort cloud, find all of the objects which have substantial amounts of water ice, and send them inward so that they collide with the planet you wish to terraform. They will be hitting the planet with a kinetic energy that is not different from escape velocity, which is much higher than the amount of energy required to turn ice into water vapor. I strongly recommend that this be the first stage of your terraforming project, because nothing you have done up to this point will survive adding the water. The Earth's oceans contain 1.3 x 10^9 cubic kilometers of water, so that will give you an idea of how many ice balls you need to find. 

We currently can't even predict 550 hours in the future with take-it-to-the-bank certainty. Make the global climate whatever it needs to be for the purposes of your narrative. Do keep it plausible, as the marching orders dictate, which means that: 

Just have a commandment that enshrines envy. Turn your society into a crab pot, such that anyone who climbs one inch above the others is immediately dragged down by the rest. "On the first day of the first month, thou mayest kill he who is richest among you." 

The best gift we could give to prosperity, as far as their energy needs go, is to develop ways to live prosperous lives that consume even less energy i.e., making things more energy-efficient. As far as storage goes, turning atmospheric CO2 into lumps of carbon is a solution that requires only the know-how of doing it. Elemental carbon doesn't rot (AFAWK), and isn't damaged by anything other than fire. Makes bricks of the stuff and put them someplace out-of-the-way, in small enough quantities that a single fire doesn't take out too much of the supply. 

The novel Atlas Shrugged had motors that ran without fuel. The in-novel explanation was that they ran off of the static electricity which is generated in Earth's atmosphere (which otherwise slowly accumulates to give forth lightning). In the the novels The Magic Goes Away and The Magic May Return, magic's source of energy was a phenomenon named mana in the novels, which was generated by the sun, so that the Earth slowly accumulated mana over time. At one point a being wanted to cut off this avenue of replenishment, and created a screen that admitted light, but kept the mana out. Earth's mana eventually ran so low that it led to the catastrophic collapse of Atlantis and other societies, although a small quantity of mana could be obtained by killing living things. 

Remembering that the setting has to match what you're trying to accomplish: Inhabited by whom? You want three or four habitable worlds orbiting the same star. Do they all have to be inhabitable by humans? If so, then the bounds are much tighter; your planet has to have water in its liquid phase on the surface at some point during the year, and have an atmosphere breathable by humans and a gravity that humans can withstand. Will ab-humans work for your story (allows you to discuss the inter-racial issues as a metaphor for real-life racial issues)? If so, then you can get away with a somewhat broader gravity range, allowing for more variability in the other parameters. Will completely unrelated intelligent species work? If you can have races that don't breathe oxygen, or don't breathe at all, then the goldilock zone extends out much farther. You can simply hand-wave an alien metabolism (which breaths ammonia and for whom oxygen gas is horribly poisonous), necessitating environmental suits for anyone visiting a planet with a different environment. This last option can be adapted to serve your narrative. Maybe a system in which race A (humans), race B (an insect-like species that prefers a 55C environment), race C (ammonia breathers), and race D (non-breathing frigid species that prefer temperatures in the single-digit Kelvin range) can all live at once in relative comfort, makes it an ideal location for the headquarters of your galactic empire (in which these four races are predominant). How fast is travel from place to place? If you only want to have three or four planets in the same system because you want humans to travel from one planet to another in the space of time measured by hours or days instead of by years or generations, remember that you don't really need this for a fictional tale. You can put the planets in three star systems that are close to each other, and simply hand-wave a drive system that gets from one star to the other as quickly as you need for your narrative. And added bonus is that by author's fiat you can establish that three closely-located star systems, with an inhabitable planet or two in each, is a rare occurrence in the galaxy, and that this makes the three systems strategically important. More grist for your plot. 

Where land taxes exist, they are generally set as a fixed percentage of the land's value. There is an official—named the assessor in most of the U.S.—whose job it is to establish these values. In most jurisdictions he simply rubber-stamps the price of the most recent sale, although in many jurisdictions he is allowed to "adjust" this value at specific intervals (usually once per year). Every year, the owner pays a fixes percentage of the assessed value. This avoids the problems raised in the other answers (namely, the problem that levying a fixed amount per unit area will make farming uneconomical without raising very much from high-value skyrise apartments). Most places also have a homestead exemption, which reduces the taxable amount by a fixed value if the property is the primary residence of the owner. This reduces the immoral and unpopular occurrence of widows being turned out of the house she's lived in for 50 years because she is not able to pay the tax bill. Such a system also gives the government a vested interest in maintaining the overall desirability of living and working in the area; if nobody wants to live there, property taxes dwindle, leaving them with less money. It also leads to abuses; Google "Kelo decision" if you want a few pagefuls of stuff about this. 

If by possible you mean that we're not aware of any physical law being broken by such an occurrence, then yes, life evolving on planets without water is possible. If by possible you mean that we have identified a specific series of reactions that can naturally occur that lead to the development of life, then the answer is no. (Yes, I'm in a bit of a pedantic mood.) 

Since you said that the smaller, brighter star has a habitability zone, the red giant is not preventing that. The two stars therefore orbit each other at a much greater distance than the planet and the brighter star. If the exoplanet's magnetic field is sufficient to protect it from the nearer, hotter star, all is well as far as the larger and more distant star is concerned. 

Get someone who is disliked by the mainstream culture to publicly come out against. Tie robot opposition to their other unpopular views. Percolate this throughout society so that "everyone" knows that opposition to robots is backwards and bigoted. Roll out the 'bots. 

It is a very common fallacy that there is only so much work to do, and that any additional workers only hurt. The soldiers-now-civilians need food, shelter, and clothing, so by their existence they create the need for more work to be done. The soldiers have the capacity for ordinary civilian work. Anyone who has worn the uniform of any military service can tell you that the bulk of any soldier's duty hours, when not in actual combat operations, are consumed by duties that are similar (if not identical) to work done in the civilian sector. There are ditches to dig, papers to push, machinery to maintain, etc. The Army doesn't care how fearless you are or how well you can shoot. There are 1,001 peacetime functions that soldiers do every day, and if you can't do them, the Army most definitely does not have a uniform in your size. So it's an issue of matching ex-soldiers to jobs for which they are suited, and providing education for the rest to fill openings in the economy of your fictitious world; unless you have wished away the laws of economics, your fictional world has many, many labor positions for which no suitable candidate has applied. It is true that some of your clones have PTSD issues that preclude an immediate return to civilian life. However, these are in the minority (or else American society would have self-destructed in 1946); if you have the resources to field all of those guys, you have the resources to provide treatment for the minority who need it. 

Since his lifespan is taken care of, all he needs is to prevent being overthrown. He can rule in a way that produces contentment among his people, so that the disgruntled few who oppose his rule are such a small minority that uprisings are rare and futile. Or, He can rule as most kings in history have (as a selfish prat), with a big enough army/secret police to keep the plebes down. I know these are vague answers, but there are many things he could do or not do, which fall into these categories. 

Ever throw a banana to a group of monkeys? The monkey who catches the banana doesn't have a friend in the world. It's every monkey for himself. It's rather hilarious entertainment. At the end of the first week, the people who make it to the shore will be in the same condition. After the first time they are robbed of their catch and left with nothing, the survivalists make sure to eat their fill before bringing anything back. Then when they bring back less than the last time, the self-appointed leaders of the community will accuse them of hoarding. This will lead to quarrels and manslaughter. The survivalists who aren't killed in this will say, "forget this noise," and leave, taking with them the most attractive member of their preferred sex who agrees to go with them. Everyone else either learns what the survivalists already knew, or they starve. Your million people will be around a thousand by the end of the second month. 

Other respondents have pointed out that communism works reasonably well in families and clans, but breaks down in larger societies. The reason for this is that in larger societies, delegation becomes necessary for any governing to get done. In a family or a clan, the decision-making class consists of those adults who have achieved a certain status in the group. Having proven themselves, their opinions are at least given a fair hearing, and their grievances are not so casually dismissed, and they will know why each course of action was chosen. There may still be a single authority whose decisions are final (Dad or the Chief), but if such people are wise they exercise their authority only when consensus cannot be reached. The concentration of power is limited, because the number of people who have proven themselves will be a more-or-less fixed portion of the society. The young people will not always be satisfied with the decisions that are made, but they have the assurance that when they have proven themselves (in whatever way is required), they will be in the group that makes the decisions. If the elders have any wisdom at all, they will be preparing the younger people for the day that they will be in charge. The motivation for the young generation to forcibly overthrow the older generation is greatly reduced under such a system; why fight your parents and their friends for something that you can acquire by peaceable means with no opposition? Furthermore, the decision-makers have a great interest in being careful in their decisions, because the consequences of mistakes will fall upon themselves, their families, and their friends; and when the harvest isn't as good as it needs to be, everyone is more readily able to accept the privations that are necessary, because they see their friends and loved ones suffering just as badly. And since everybody knows everybody, the level of trust that is necessary to keep communism going is much easier to maintain. This all changes when the society grows beyond a certain point. When there are so many people that it becomes impossible for everybody to know everybody, the decision-making generation becomes too large for rule by consensus, and in order to get anything done at all, a degree of delegation is necessary. This has several effects: First, the number of decision-makers no longer scales with the size of the community. More power is vested in the hands of fewer people. Second, the amount of information necessary to make the correct decision has grown. You can know the needs of a hundred or so people. You cannot know the needs of a thousand people or a million. This leads to more mistakes. Third, as the concentration of power increases, the sort of people who want that power for the wrong reasons increases, and soon you have people in charge whose only skills are political rather than managerial. This leads not only to more mistakes (i.e., when 1,000 tractors are needed, the Ministry of Tractors produces either 100 tractors or 10,000 of them) but corruption as well (instead of producing tractors, the Ministry produces limousines for party brass). Fourth, there's less negative feedback for bad decisions. The consequences of bad decisions can be pushed off onto strangers. Fifth, and most fatally to the system, trust becomes difficult if not impossible. You don't have access to the harvest data, nor were you at the meeting where the potato ration was calculated, and you simply don't know most people, so you have only the commissar's word that the potato harvest really was bad this year, or that everyone's potato ration is really being cut by the same amount as yours, or that any variances from the standard ration are based on genuine need. It takes only one rumor of a feast at the commissar's house to shatter your faith in the system. So your real challenge in keeping communism stable is the challenge of maintaining the people's faith in the system. To this end, you either have to ensure that the decision-makers continue to act in good faith, or that the people remain willing to believe the propaganda in the face of mounting evidence to the contrary.