Bolbitius titubans Also known as Bolbitius vitellinus, that there looks to be a young Yellow Field Cap. They're quite small when they're yellow, but they quickly mature into taller, flatter, brownish mushroom. 

View the Leave No Trace Principles: Minimize Campfire Impacts page to learn several different methods for building a leave no trace campfire. 

There's a now-popular climbing area close to where I live that used to be closed to climbing. The Town of Frank in Alberta used to prohibit people from climbing on the millions of boulders which were the result of the worlds largest rock avalanche, that buried most of the Town early in the 20th century. I remember when signs used to be posted on the side of the road telling you that climbing on the rocks was prohibited. Today it's a renowned bouldering area with thousands of established problems, with more new problems being established almost weekly. Access was granted after it became clear to the municipality that bouldering was a huge tourist attraction, and promoting the area attracts a lot of tourism and benefits local businesses. Frank Slide (Gripped Magazine) 

Food waste does not impact the environment negatively (with perhaps meats being the exception). What's food for you is also food for all the little critters out in the woods. Rodents will eagerly clean up all the burnt oats, the flour will quickly turn to soil, and all other ruined food will attract the attention of one animal or another. Herein is where the real problem lies, feeding wild animals creates problems for humans down the road. When animals become accustomed to finding food near human recreation sites (backcountry campgrounds for example) then they eventually lose their natural fear of humans, and become more comfortable approaching these sites in search of something to eat. With small critters this isn't a big problem, more of an annoyance to future hikers really, getting your camp site raided by squirrels and packrats in the middle of the night. The problem is when you start attracting the larger animals, the ones who are looking for meat scraps. Whether or not you have to pack your food waste out will depend on what the local rules are. You could bury your food scraps, this leaves the area more sightly, but you aren't going to do any harm leaving little bits in the woods. As far as a whole ruined meal, as long as it's vegetable waste, I'd carry it a good distance away from the trail and fling it out, it'll disappear quickly enough. Burnt meat, I'd either toss into the fire and burn it to ash, or I'd stuff it down a hole. Most holes around here are gopher holes, and gophers are cannibalistic, so they will drag the meat down deeper in their holes. 

Screens are the best solution, and the only solution guaranteed to keep your room 100% bug free (as long as people are careful not to let them in at the door). Other preventative methods include using mosquito deterrents or repellents like citronella candles, torches, lanterns, etc. There are brands devoted to mosquito control like Thermacell who provide a plethora of products. Your next best solution is to control the mosquito population in your yard. Preventative methods work the best, by either eliminating breeding areas such as anything that can collect water (spare tires, buckets or pails, ditches that perpetually puddle, swampy areas, etc.), mosquitoes will breed wherever there is standing water. Some mosquitos lay eggs in grass too, keep your grass cut and don't let any areas of you yard get overgrown. Long grass is a haven for mosquitos because they can fly down where they have protection from sun and heat, and also often find water. Finally, you can treat your yard and kill all the mosquitos before they become a problem. Larvicide any pools, fountains, or ponds that you have in your yard. This kills 99% of the larvae before they mature. Malathion is most popular for killing mature mosquitos in your yard. You can get a bottle with a hose attachment and spray your yard, or you can get a fogger from pretty much any hardware store and fog your yard. Do this the morning of or the night before your event and you're pretty much guaranteed to not have any bug problems that night. 

Core exercises. Your abs are the bowstring to your back, if you have weak abs, you'll feel it in your back first. Wearing a heavy bag puts added stress on you back, which engages you abs, but we as homo-sapiens are lazy by nature (which is why we evolved to walk upright), so when we put extra stress on our backs, we tend to compensate by adjusting our posture so our frame takes most of the load, instead of the muscles, this is especially true when we're tired from hiking all day. When you go on your hike, make sure your bag is adjusted properly for starters, then while you hike, just be conscious of keeping you abs engaged. Don't over do it, don't flex like crazy, just a little tummy tuck will be enough to spare your low back a lot of grief. Planks and pushups are good exercises to help build core strength. Posture. If you're suffering from upper back pain, then your posture is usually to blame. Being hunched over watching the ground while the straps of your bag pull on your shoulders is one way to get a serious ache between your shoulder blades. Again, make sure you bag is properly adjusted and that most of the weight is being carried by your hip belt, and ensure your bag is properly balanced so it isn't pulling you over backwards. 

Itches Hides ticks well, allowing them to go undiscovered Good nest for lice, fleas, etc. Mosquitoes can't get through (but since you're not ape-man this doesn't really help, they'll just bite you elsewhere). Catches food and grossness. 

What you are left with is a small assortment of dove, pheasant, quail, etc. However even with legal game, there are often strict limits on when, where, and what you can kill. In most of the southeast for instance, killing a female turkey is a VERY expensive mistake. This information is based on my experience in the United States. 

Possibly the most common injury I see when hiking with groups is when someone turns or rolls their ankle. Assuming that access to a vehicle is not feasible, what is the best way to deal with the injury to make it several miles out without causing further damage to the joint? 

The simple answer is - no. Safely igniting a fire relies on controlled combustion. Improvising ignition out of a device like this is not going to create the sort of controlled combustion I associate with safety. If you can ignite the hydrogen byproduct you are more likely to get an explosive reaction that is both unsafe and unlikely to light your tinder (more likely to just blow it around). Salvaging the magnesium is safer, but you are unlikely to be able to salvage enough to start a fire (it takes more than you'd think). 

I know that some of this may sound obvious, but these really are mistakes that we've seen on trips we've led. Unless you are going with an experienced partner, then a long hike your first time out is (imo) a serious mistake. You have to ramp up not just your body, but your experience. If you build up for distance, then don't worry about the distance limit. Remember to train some with the weight and gear you will actually carry. I would still recommend not being more than a day from civilization as a "first" outing, just due to experience. You really don't want to be 2-3 days from civilization when you first learn that what you planned for (insert something vital) isn't going to work. 

In the picture given: The brown spot beneath the arm is a gut shot. If sitting just like this you'd have to shoot through the arm for a chest shot (and waste most of that meat). In general: Rifle hunting (.22) just shoot for the head. The head is just as big as the chest target area and damages the meat less. Generally though squirrels are not very tough, unlike deer and larger herbivores If you hit them anywhere, they won't make it far and will slow down so much you can probably shoot again if you were off a bit. If you are hunting with a shotgun, it doesn't matter. 

Is that an extreme end result? Yes. It never happens really because "walking through the pain" at that point would be nigh impossible and take an extreme level of willful disregard for your health. Regarding long term effects, you could have long term effects from even your 30km walk. At about stage three (direct friction to raw skin) you could easily get scarring. I have a scar on a toe from a blister I ignored on a shorter walk. It's a permanent annoyance because it now causes blisters on the adjacent toe very easily. 

If carrying a three person tent when backpacking, what's the recommended way to split it up so that the weight is balanced out among all three people going? 

We've all been on hikes that pass close by a good lookout. A rock or ledge sticking out with a good view. Sometimes these are heavily maintained by park rangers, but often not. If I'm on a trail and see a lookout, how can I go about making sure it won't fall/collapse if I walk out onto it? 

Songbirds are practically always off limits Raptors also off limits Migratory birds (duck, goose, etc.) will require a special permit. 

I'll caveat this with -- I've never vomited in my gear, nor do I know anyone who has. But I did sit and figure out how I'd try to solve this if it happened to me. 

USGS: $URL$ National Weather Service Map: $URL$ This is an easy to read table for GA, but I can't figure out how to navigate to other states on their site: $URL$ More NOAA for the Colorado Basin: $URL$ And (with thanks to MaskedPlant): $URL$ 

Beam spread -- Wide, narrow, adjustable? (depending on what you want) Angle (generally up/down) -= Can you direct it where you want? Ease of turning on/off and changing settings -- I personally hate lamps that make me cycle through strobe to get to another setting (yes a few do) Strap & Comfort -- Is your head going to ache after wearing it for hours? Red light -- It's not supposed to bother your nightvision, but I've never found it to be a critical feature. I just dim mine with white light and do fine. Weight -- Ounces make pounds, as they say. Batteries -- As others have pointed out, the compatibility with other power sources is important so that you can carry fewer types of batteries.