Before the deciphering Egyptian hieroglyphs, the Ancient Egyptian culture and history was known though the writings of the Hellenistic Greeks who conquered Egypt under Alexander. (Some information comes from earlier Greek writings, like Herodotus.) These Hellenistic Greeks were not very interested in the history of Egypt, indeed the first Hellenistic ruler who learned Egyptian language was also the last of them (Cleopatra VII). But there was an Egyptian writer, Manethon in the Ptolemaic Egypt who wrote Egyptian history in Greek. Most later Greek and Roman writers re-told the Egyptian history from Manethon, or from secondary sources, based on Manethon. 

Roman Empire did not fall suddenly. This was a slow process which lasted centuries. And there is no sharp edge between antiquity and dark ages. The period of decline was much longer than a normal service life of any arms. And there is no sharp distinction between the forces of the Empire and "Dark age forces". Many barbarians who destroyed the empire were formally on the Empire's service. EDIT. There are many good books describing this slow and complicated process in detail, beginning with Gibbons' classics which is still not too out of date. Of the modern books I can recommend B. Ward-Perkins, The fall of Rome and the end of civilization, Adrian Goldthworthy, Fall of the West. Slow death of the Roman superpower. The Fall of the Roman Empire: A New History of Rome and the Barbarians by Peter Heather The Roman empire started hiring barbarians long before its decline. Not only individuals but whole tribes were hired. The arrangements for settling barbarian tribes on its territory also began long before the final fall. In 212 AD Roman citizenship was extended to the whole population of the Empire. Gradually the sharp distinction between the Romans and barbarians disappeared. 

The number of great scientists in a country strongly correlates with periods of vigorous economic development of the nation. Examples: England since 17th century and later. Netherlands in 17th century. France in 18th and early 19th centuries. Japan and US in 20th century. Germany unified (and thus became a nation) in the second part of 19th century and a period of vigorous economic development followed. Very quickly it reached the level of England and passed it on many economic criteria. The same period was the golden age of German science. 

Remark. Interestingly, there was a British Empire but there was never a "British Emperor". S/he was only an Emperor/Empress of India. And British Queen/King. 

Petropavlovk had a harbor, and certainly had its own ships/boats. For these ships, as well as the ships from nearby harbors, the question probably makes no sense. Of the ships from more remote places, there existed the Russian-American company, (see Wikipedia) whose ships probably visited Petropavslovsk regularly. Communication with proper Russia was not by ships but by land. 

Austria in 1918 obtained independence from the Austro-Hungarian empire, as a result of lost war. Also Russia in 1992 became independent from Soviet Union, which collapsed. It was clearly against the will of most Russians. 

Black Legend is so well known because it originates in English literature. At some time Britain competed with Spain, and later it essentially won this competition. It was important to represent Spanish conquests in the darkest possible colors. As English-written history is the most popular history in the English-speaking world (surprise!) this Black legend is well known among English readers. 

The usual general attitude of professional historians to revisionist history is ignoring it. Except some publications specially written to refute it. Your last sentence with the question is not completely clear, but I interpret it as: "How can a non-specialist tell "revisionist history" from "mainstream history". Usually, by the author's reputation, affiliation, and publisher. For example, a book by a professor of Classics, published by Cambridge (Chicago, Princeton) University press, is unlikely to be revisionist history. One can also search for reviews of the book, and make a judgement. Remark. History based on the Bible, as a main source, is usually not qualified as "revisionist", because there was time when the Bible was considered the ultimate source of all knowledge:-) Even in modern times such history books exist, and usually they do not qualify as "revisionist". But this type of book is easy to detect once you browse it. Remark 2. I don't want to imply that all "revisionist" historians are wrong. But before reading their books it is strongly advisable to make yourself familiar with "mainstream" history. There are also distinctions between pseudo-history and revisionist history. 

Spartans gave canonical examples (for Western culture) of what is called "noble behavior", and heroism. 

"Rock shortage" is clearly not a question of geology. It is a problem of transportation of the appropriate rock from the point where it is available to the point where it is needed. It is difficult to transport substantial amount of rocks when your infrastructure is not sufficiently developed. This was always a problem in Russia. 

The cities of Hanseatic League belonged to different countries and a quick search indicates that they did not have a common policy with respect to Jews. Of those countries, the most tolerant one to Jews was the kingdom of Poland, which later merged with the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, which evolved to Rzeczpospolita Obojga Narodów, which is translated as Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, but literally means Republic of the two peoples). These countries in general granted various rights to Jews (the policies varied with time), and had substantial Jewish polulation. In general the Rzeczpospolita was by far the most tolerant state in Europe with respect to religion. On the other hand Jews were not permitted to live in most of the German and Russian controlled cities See, for example, $URL$ and $URL$ I cite from the second reference: 

In Lviv (Lwow) in Ukraine they re-enact the Polish-Ukrainian civil war of 1918: $URL$ (On the other hand, the "civil war" between Ukrainians and Russian communists which also began in 1918, still continues, so they do not re-enact it). It is not completely clear whether the national liberation war in the Western Ukraine against Soviet Union qualifies as a civil war but it is also re-enacted: $URL$ 

It is always difficult to name one reason for a complicated historical event. Usually there are many reasons. The point of view expressed in your question is defended at least by some historians. For example Sean McMeekin, The Russian origins of the first world war, Harward UP, 2011 has a chapter (Chapter 6, p 141-174) on the role of Russian policies in the Armenian genocide. 

Logarithmic tables and logarithmic slide rules generally disappear in the late 70th and early 80th, with the spread of cheap portable electronic calculators. Also computation with logarithms disappear from the school curriculum. One cannot say however exactly when the last set of tables was published. Some very similar tables are STILL in print. I mean the tables for navigation, for example. They contain essentially logs of sines, and are designed to solve a spherical triangle. They are still published (and sold and bought) For example, here: $URL$ You may ask: who buys and uses them. The answer is a) hobbyists who like to do celestial navigation as it was done in the old days and b) those who justify their hobby by saying that they worry for backup for the Doomsday (when the batteries are dead/non available, GPS goes off, Internet not available, etc.) I do not think anyone makes slide rules nowadays. But there is a large market for the old ones (see e-bay). 

In most areas transition was indeed gradual. They just stopped breeding them in large numbers. However there is one exception. Military horses. Main transition happened during WWI, and after the war many millions of war horses were slaughtered. $URL$ $URL$ 

Certainly no. They planned to finish the war in 1941, there is a lot of indication of this. One crucial piece of evidence is that they did not equip the troops for winter. Of course it was not possible to move the industry before the end of 1941, and even what the Soviets performed was a great surprise for everybody. 

In the late sixties. This is called "sexual revolution", and some social scientists explain it by invention of reliable and convenient contraceptives ("the Pill"). Of course, decline in religion is also an important ingredient, but this process began much earlier, I mean in Western Europe. In other parts of the world this happened later. For example in the countries of the former Soviet Union in the 1980-90. I mean sexual relations without marriage were quite common already in 1960-70, but they were not socially acceptable: people had to hide them. In the 1980-90 this became completely normal. 

The structure of CPSU was hierarchical. At the bottom there were the "primary party organizations", or a party cells. Normally one of them existed in each enterprise (factory, collective farm, university, or any other institution or organization). The minimum size was 3 party members, maximum could be very large. Next step was the area (район) organization ("areas" were geographical units: a small city, or several villages; larger cities consisted of several areas). Next level was the regional organization. A region (область) was also a geographical notion, of larger size. There were for example 24 regions in Ukraine. Next level was a republican organization, in all republics EXCEPT Russia. Russia did not have the republican organization. All this was controlled by the Central Committee, a small part of it was Politbureau. The chairman of Politbureau was sometimes called the General Secretary. The system was called "democatic centralism". The members of the higher committees were elected by the committee one step lower. But all decisions made by the higher committee were mandatory for all lower levels. The inner working of the party was determined by the Charter (устав). According to this charter, the supreme authority was the Congress of CPSU whose delegates were elected by the lower level organizations. The Congress happened every few years, irregularly. The decision to call for a Congress was made on the top level. In practice by the General Secretaty. In practice the General Secretary had the power of dictator, but according to the charter, between the congresses, the supreme authority belonged to the Central Committee. It was Politbureau which decided to call a meeting of the Central Committee. Most of the time this was a dictatorship of the General Secretary who presided the Politbureau. Politbureau was elected by the Central Committee. In principle, the Central Committee had the authority to make changes in Politbureau, and this was used several times to change the composition of Politbureau, without the agreement of the General Secretary. For example Khrushchev, the general secretary was dismissed by the Central Committee. In practice the Central Committee was doing most of the time what Politbureau decided, and the same system was on the lower level: the decisions of the upper levels were mandatory for the lower levels. There was a parallel "ordinary" structure of power: factory directors, university presidents, elected councils on the area, district, republic and all union level, as well as state departments (they were called ministries) etc. However no decision on any level could be made by administrations without the approval of the corresponding CPSU committee. And most decisions were made by CPSU committees first and then stamped by the organs of ordinary power. Most of the people in the ordinary administration were party members, and the decisions of their party committees were mandatory for them. 

A rough estimate of the time is as follows: the distance from London to NY is approximately 3000 (nautical) miles. The Blue Riband prize was awarded to passenger liners which showed the average speed of about 15 knots, (20 knots was the world record in 1889), so I suppose it is safe to assume that an average ship at that time could cross with the average speed of 10 knots. This makes 300 hours = 12 days. This is the crossing only, and if you send your letter from London to NY. With this estimate one could probably hope that from SOME place in Europe to SOME place in the US it may take from 3 weeks to a month. (Nowadays when the mail is transported by airplanes it can still easily take more than a month, sometimes much more, for a letter or a small package to reach from Germany to US Midwest: personal experience). The question about the price is probably ill defined. I suppose some fast delivery options were available for extra price like they are available nowadays. My general impression is that there was no big progress in the speed of the (cheapest) mail from 1890 to the present. EDIT. Here is a web page with some 19 century stamped envelopes, showing dates sent and received; the price of a British stamp is easily fund on the Internet: $URL$ 

In Russian Language the word "Tsar" has also another, non-literal meaning. Examples are: "Tsar-pushka" (king of the guns), the largest (in caliber) existing gun, and "Tsar-kolokol" (king of the bells), the largest bell in the world. Both the gun and the bell are currently in the publicly accessible part of the Kremlin, (and were there during the last two centuries), they are popular tourist attractions, many Russians have seen them, and all Russians know them. The analogy is clear: Tsar bomb was the largest (most powerful) bomb ever exploded. Anyway, it seems probable that the name "Tsar bomba" is of Russian (not US) origin. $URL$ Remark. Neither the gun nor the bell were ever used (the bell cracked when they were casting it). Hopefully this will apply to the bomb as well. 

That the whole complex is the ancient Petra is evidenced by the ancient Nabatean and Roman tombs discovered there, and location of the ancient Petra is known, and it is mentioned in the ancient texts. See the picture of these tombs in the end if this article: $URL$ There is no doubt that a lot of restoration was done there since the discovery in 1812. How faithful is the restoration of the particular temple Al Khazneh you are asking about can be discussed but that the whole thing is genuine, there is no doubt. Actually many old monuments were restored and rebuilt many times, and do not look nowadays the same way they looked in antiquity. For example, the Great Wall of China, as shown to the tourists and reproduced on so many pictures, is a 20s century reconstruction. The non-restored parts look more like the Hadrian wall in England and other Roman walls in Europe: some people do not notice when they walk over them. 

My answer is based on my own personal experience (in 1966 I was 12 years old and was reading newspapers and watching TV in Soviet Union). The coverage was strictly negative. They were showing the excited mob of "Red Guards" (Russian media was calling them "khunweibins" which is probably a transliteration from Chinese, the term "Red Guards" had a positive connotation in Russian at that time) on TV with derogatory comments. Similar comments were used to describe the Great Leap Forward. At times there was a feeling of an imminent war with China. 

Here is what I found after some search in Russian/Ukrainian internet. Apparently one inaccuracy is that in the main version (which is in Peterburg, this is actually the 2-nd version, and most famous because it was purchased by the tsar for the enormous price of 35 thousand roubles), several cossaks are smoking pipes. Actually a pipe is a traditional attribute of a floklore cossak in popular imagination. The problem is that smoking probably did not exist in Ukraine at the time of the events shown in the painting. In the painting cossaks are writing a letter to the Turkish sultan Mehmet IV, and this is supposed to be 1676. Smoking was introduced in Russia by Peter I in the very end of 17th century, and there are documents showing that ukrainian cossaks did not smoke even at the time of Peter I. (Repin worked on this paining more than 10 years, dong a lot of research, traveling, and using a private museum collection for cossak artifacts. But perhaps those items were not properly dated). In the latest version of the painting (that which is in Kharkov) no one is smoking. The left-most figure on the Peterburg version is a young person filing a pipe. The model for this figure was Repin's own son. But on the Kharkov version he removed it. Actually, I don't know how much this criticism was justified because the habit of smoking could be taken by cossaks from Turkey, not from Russia. And I do not know exactly when the Turks started to smoke pipes. Let me also add another historical inaccuracy: the whole inspiration for creating this painting was a "Letter of Cossak atanman Sirko to Mekhmet IV" which was published at that time and which Repin read. The letter is using very obscene language, and this is what makes them laugh. It is a general agreement that this later is an 18-th century fake. And in general it is unlikely that cossaks would write an obscene letter to the Turkish sultan. But probably this was not the point of the criticism at the time of Repin. All three versions of the painting can be seen here: $URL$ (scroll down). Remark. All the above is only my conjectures, based on the fact that on the later version of the picture no one is smoking. Chronology of smoking shows that it was known at the time in both Turkey and Russia but banned in both countries (death penalty). However these bans could not apply to Ukrainian cossaks.