Yes, of course you can apply. But the key questions here are: does your experience meet the employer's requirements, and do you have the skills for the job? Unfortunately, that's something that can only be judged and answered by the employer. If the job description states "1 year of development experience required" then you might not qualify. But often, job postings are less clear. And often, demonstrable skills can make up for some lack of experience. Apply anyway. In your cover letter explain how your experience in tech support, your degree, and any other familiarity you have with development will make you a terrific asset to their company. It's worth a shot - the worst that happens is they say "No". 

In my company, you wouldn't have that option. Goals are locked down within the system we use for tracking goals at a certain period. Two months before year end you wouldn't be able to change anything. 

I've never asked such a question and I've never been asked such a question in almost 40 years of working and managing. So in my experience it's not at all normal. Perhaps this is just a ham-handed way of asking the far more common question "What would your current manager say about you?" 

Although it's your resume, and you can do anything you like with it, I think this is a poor approach. Remember, you will be severely narrowing down the list of potential employers. Adding this section is not the approach I'd take. Employers with cubicles and unacceptable tools will of course avoid you. Clearly, that is what you are seeking with this approach. But many others will avoid you as well - even those with no cubicles and only the most acceptable tools and practices. As I read your question, it screams "high maintenance". I suspect many otherwise acceptable employers will avoid you because a "looking to avoid" section will tell them "this person won't be happy anywhere". They'll think to themselves "Well sure, I don't have any cubicles, and I don't have tool X or process Y. But what else will this person suddenly deem unacceptable?" If you are unwilling to compromise on your "Avoid" list, what other demands will you make? When I interview people, one of the priority decisions is to get a sense of how this person will fit in. It's hard to fit high maintenance people in. There's only so much I can modify to suit the needs of one individual. I have to think of the entire team. Right or wrong, highly-qualified or not, I tend to reject high maintenance individuals from consideration. I'd worry that will happen to you too when it doesn't have to be this way. You could take the approach you have chosen, but I think there's a better way. It would be far better for you to work with a reputable recruiter that you trust, who can match you up with positions that meet all of your standards without you having to advertise your laundry list of acceptable versus unacceptable in your resume. Be very honest with the agent, making sure he/she understands all of your "must avoid" issues. If you don't want to work with a headhunter, then I'd suggest leaving your "Avoid" list off of your resume, and weeding out the unacceptable companies the old fashioned way - during the phone screen or initial interview. Just ask about items on your "Avoid" list. If you are looking around, see if they have cubicles. If so, don't continue on with the interview process. It may cost you a fair bit of time in an interview, but a good job is worth a bit of your effort. We all have an internal "I'd never work at a company that..." list (for me, I'd never work at a company that requires me to travel on a regular basis). But advertising that list on a resume isn't usually the best solution. 

While placing "if you are thinking about coming by our office for a meeting, please browse through our scotch menu - it can be an important preparation for any meeting at {company}" on a website says something about the type of culture at this company (or at least something about what they are trying to convey), it may not be as worrisome as you imagine. It's easy to imagine an office of continuous, drunken parties, where everyone who doesn't drink is ostracized, where lawsuits are a regular occurrence, and where poor judgement runs rampant. But that's rather unlikely to be the case. At least in the US, even the most "fun-loving" company cultures usually support individual choice. And most companies attempt to protect themselves against lawsuits. Rather than jumping to a conclusion just by viewing their website, find out for yourself. Apply, get an interview, and determine for yourself the implications of this website statement. Ask pointed questions about what you observe - particularly about anything that would run counter to the culture you desire. It might be a wild and crazy place. It might be a fun place where everyone is free to do what works for them. It might be a very professional place where people work hard during the day and some party hard after hours. Or it might just be a poor website. Only you can decide if this is "wrong" to the extent that you couldn't work there. (From the outside, it seems like a rather cool company to me.) 

Resolve the issue with the colleague privately first. If you are both located in the same office, talk with your colleague, get to the bottom of the issue, and determine a resolution. Then, Reply All to the original email with the details, the solution, and the date on which the issue will be (or was) resolved. 

Maybe. All experience has some value. Perhaps the value will translate into more-than-entry-level pay. Realistically, one year of experience isn't very much. And (assuming you started at an entry-level salary 1 year ago), you probably haven't progressed much salary-wise anyway in just one short year. If you are really interested in a different technology or career path, you should feel overly burdened by the difference between entry-level salary and entry-level-plus-one-year salary. Consider the long-term instead. 

First off, you should apologize to Bob. Without intending to, you misled him and falsely raised his hopes. Something like "Bob, I'm truly sorry. I thought I knew the list and was just trying to be reassuring. Turns out I didn't know the real list and I should have kept quiet. I know this was painful to you, but that wasn't my intent at all." Then, you should stop spreading rumors - particularly about important topics. Things change quickly in these sorts of situations, and clearly Sue's information didn't hold true in the end. There is a lesson in there for you. Finally, you need to wait. As they say "Time heals all wounds". Bethlakshmi points out that you have violated office trust. She's right. If you change your behavior now, trust can regrow over time. 

I'm not sure what "without any opposition" means in this context. If you mean that you asked for and received $80k, then it's likely that they simply wanted you, and felt like you were worth the extra money. Be happy. If instead you mean that the company increased the advertised salary to $80k, then it likely means that they weren't finding sufficiently-talented candidates at the lower rate, and are trying to match what the market will bear. If you are qualified - again, be happy. You seem suspicious for some reason. I'm not sure your suspicions are warranted. 

Enlist the aid of your former boss and the branding people. They can help explain the value to the company of your conference speaking engagement. If that doesn't work, you could 

Either find an empty conference room, first aid room, or other room without windows and do it there, or go into the toilet and be careful. Worst case, do it in your car. Since it should only take a short time, it should not be a huge deal either way. 

He is simply wrong. As long as you are prepared for whatever you need to do on the other side of the trip, your travel time is your time - just as it would be on the daily commute into work from home. Some executive positions require that you are pretty much always "on the clock", but I'm guessing that isn't the case here (or you wouldn't be talking only about a business flight). If your colleague needed your help on a work assignment, and you mutually agree to work on it during the flight, that would be one thing. But to expect that you must fill all of your flight hours with work, is just unnecessary. 

Unless you have something that makes you exceptional, and far more highly valued than other candidates, most companies don't want to get into a bidding war. So make sure you aren't stringing them along - be ready to decide and live with your decision. Note: I always suggest you do this sort of thing either in person, or at least by phone - not by mail. That way, you can gauge their reaction and formulate your response better. 

Unless your condition requires a change, you wear whatever everyone else wears on the job. (This is something you either noticed during your interviews, or must ask about). Some workplaces are very informal, others prohibit sneakers, sandals, etc. If you are unable to wear formal shoes due to your cast (or doctor's orders), then wear whatever you must, even if the office normally requires formal wear. If asked, explain the medical necessity. 

First off, you should stay out of it, it's not your business. Talk with your friend, but don't inject yourself into the issue. There's no "we" here. She should have a discussion with her new boss. She should ask her boss to explain what he needs out of her in her role. She could explain in detail what she used to do, hoping that the new boss just didn't realize what she was capable of. But in the end, her boss will decide what her role is to be. And if that doesn't fit with what she wants to do, she should find a new job first before quitting. With a new boss, often there comes new expectations, and shifting roles - particularly in a small office. Nobody is guaranteed that what they used to do will be what they are expected to do forever. If the new environment no longer fits her needs, then she needs to decide if she wants to adjust to the new role or not. And if not, she may need to move on to a new job. 

Your friend can treat the owner's daughter as he would any other employee. If that includes some sort of discipline, then he must do the same. If your friend is that worried about the situation with the owner+daughter, your friend could talk to the owner first, explain the situation, then explain what he plans to do and why. If the owner indicates that such discipline can't happen, then your friend needs to either suck it up and do what the owner requires, or find another job then leave. As Bill Leeper correctly indicates in his comment, this many be a delicate situation that requires special handling. If the daughter has preferential status, you will have to work with that. If you discuss this with the owner you may choose to indicate that his daughter is leaving you short handed and ask how he wants me to handle that. You may be in a position where you have to let him figure it out. And although you could offer options, they may need to more along the lines of not scheduling her weekdays, only weekends kind of thing. 

These things happen. Most employers understand that. Probation is all about assessing fit. The company wants to see if you are a good fit for the position. And you want to see if the position fits your needs. You have concluded that it doesn't. Hopefully 1 month is enough time for you to come to that conclusion. Find a new job. Get and accept an offer. Then tell your current company that it simply hasn't worked out as you had hoped. Then work out your notice period.