If you search around you can find other recommendations. Check the nutrition information, and pay attention to the serving size! You may find you have the wrong idea in your head about how much food 180-200g protein really is. 

As to the form of cardio, one is as good as another. The goal of cardio work is to get your heart rate up to a certain level, and your oxygen levels at a place where they can feed your muscles (i.e. aerobic workouts). Whether you use an elliptical, a treadmill, or actually go outside and walk, they are all equally good. I found that elliptical will get my heart rate higher with less work than the treadmill, but your mileage may vary. 

Some minor shaking is normal as you push heavier weights, but but as you move closer and closer to full exhaustion the biggest danger is inuring yourself due to your form breaking down. The main reason the shaking occurs is because you are pushing yourself beyond your ability to recover. Recovery is multifaceted, and includes important topics like: 

Beyond that you can manipulate the amount of carbs you take in to adjust the fat burning potential. There's a good number of eating plans that suggest you have a long period of time between eating carbs, and this has to do with the pancreatic function. Check out the roles of insulin and glucagon for more details. This approach seems to be working for me. Essentially, if the scale's trend is going up, cut back on the carbs. If it's going down too far (assuming you are on maintenance), increase them. As to working out, there's quite a few options. Again, depending on your goals and what you enjoy, you can stay active and lose fat. 

Without more samples to prove or disprove your theory, you will just never know. One of four things will happen: 

The closer you are to a "normal body weight" the more lean mass you will lose as you lose weight. Going from normal fat levels to bodybuilding competition fat levels is a specialty topic and one I'm not qualified to speak toward. Just as a personal anecdote, I was able to increase strength while losing weight in 2014 culminating in new personal bests in a powerlifting competition that year while weighing over 20 lbs lighter than the previous one. Slow weight loss, normal training, and staying out of ketosis were key elements of that process. I used to recommend ketogenic diets but don't anymore. I was able to get fairly quick dramatic results on one back in 2010, but lost a lot of muscle mass in the process. Much of that was due to bad diet advice and my own ignorance at the time. I didn't have enough protein to protect the muscle mass I had (I was consuming less than 0.5g per lb body mass) and I wasn't doing anything that required the muscle to remain. Had I had the correct amount of protein and did strength training the results would have been better. Performance will suffer in a ketogenic diet because there are so few resources to do work. It's also the only time that increasing protein above the recommended amount might be worthwhile. 

One approach isn't inherently better or worse than the other. What I believe is happening is that you are adapting to one way of training after a while, and then changing your approach causes your body to re-adapt. The SAID Principle 

Eventually, you may get to the point where you need additional help to get really heavy weights on squats. That threshold is different for everyone, but you want to hold off as long as you can so your core can get stronger. When that happens you will need a weightlifting belt. The belt is a tool to help get your maximum weight up, not a fashion statement for the gym. Only use it when you need it. When shopping for a weightlifting belt look for: 

The downside to this approach is that 8x3 takes much longer than 3x8, and you will feel wrecked by the time it's done. Avoiding Dogmatism Not everyone needs to train the same way (citation). In fact, during your evolution as a lifter, you won't be training the same way all the time (citation). Everyone benefits from cycles of putting on more volume and training like a bodybuilder, and everyone benefits from cycles of focusing on putting more weight on the bar. The first builds muscle mass, which in turn translates to strength. The second forces you to focus on technique and applying that strength. The biggest problem I have with both StrongLifts and Starting Strength is the dogmatism of it's adherents. They are both very good beginner programs. Their focus is somewhere in the middle of focusing on volume and focusing on adding weight. However, they are general programs and give you general results. What to focus on The common exercise elements between StrongLifts and Starting Strength are excellent foundations of any strength training program. Squats, bench press, deadlifts, overhead press. However, when you have to manage fatigue sometimes you have to adjust your exercise selection. 

It's best to use carb sources that are relatively high in fiber both for satiety, and to slow down digestion enough to absorb more nutrients from your food. 

Your core can typically take a beating and recover pretty quickly. There's no reason you can't do both. Basically, the goal of a deload is to allow your body to actively recover and rebuild a bit more deeply than it otherwise would. A successful deload has these qualities: 

As Dan John would say, it all depends on your goals. In fact a lot of programming, or how you string your exercises together both throughout a session and throughout a cycle, has to do with your goals. There are a few approaches to programming: 

Grams to cups make little sense without knowing the density of the substance being measured. Since you know a scoop holds 1 serving (~28.5g), you'll have find out the volume of that scoop. 

The problem is the recovery, and doing more work will cause more fatigue. By reducing the amount of work, you can help your body recover quicker. The next time you work up to the weight you stalled on before there is a good chance you will get past it now. If your goal is to get stronger, I recommend higher weights with relatively low reps. For example 3 sets of 5 reps is a good set/rep scheme for a beginner. The work will be intense enough to disrupt homeostasis, but short enough not to over-fatigue you. 

I'm assuming this is grams protein or carbohydrates per kilogram total body mass? For the purpose of discussion, let's assume you are 80kg (~175 lbs)--that would be 240g protein and 120g carbohydrates. That would leave you with about 29g of fat for the remainder of your diet at that weight. Just a couple observations: 

Notice how much I left out (on purpose)? I didn't talk about leaning your body, etc. The bottom line is that the amount of lean your body has really depends on your genetics. The basics remain the same whether the dips are weighted or not. Things to avoid 

First, congratulations on your transformation. No matter how it is done, it is always an accomplishment. First, the obvious things you did right: 

They are regulated as food. However, anabolic steroids are hormones and are considered drugs. Drugs are regulated much more stringently, and excessive doses typically are much more damaging to the body. The best resource to see available studies and the have a good summary of the quality of the study and affect of the supplement you are considering, I highly recommend looking at $URL$ A couple additional points: 

It's important to note that the word "Supplement" means to supply what the primary food does not. I agree that you are taking too many supplements, and if you are not careful it will be at a level which might cause detrimental effects. Nutrition / Supplementation There needs to be a proper balance. First, let's look at your description of dietary changes: 

That's all you can do. Time and genetics will do the rest. Some coaches have observed that when a young person takes up training with weights they grow more than kids who don't. If this is true, then don't expect miracles from it. At best you might get another inch of height. Should you choose weight training, stick with full body movements and train no more than 3x a week. 

So in order to achieve any goal you need to be consistent. Choosing a gym near you will help with that. It sounds like you will need some nutrition counseling. Not too many gyms have an on staff nutritionist, but some do. Ask around. Just a couple refinements to your goals that will help you in the long run: 

Any single leg work that you can do properly will work, but there are several options. Some examples are: 

The crease of your hips go below the tops of your knees. This is considered depth. There's nothing magical about going beyond this, but this should be your goal. The bar stays over mid foot throughout the lift. This position provides the best balance and the strongest position to stand back up. 

One of the advantages of training for physique is that you don't have competition lifts you have to practice. You can be freer to use different variations. Bench with the feet up, or on the floor. Use an incline. Use different implements. Training for Strongman is somewhere between training for physique and powerlifting. As a result you are exposed to an even larger series of implements to use for getting stronger. The biggest take away is that what you are doing can no longer be called "StrongLifts", just based off of it. As a result, Medhi's advice on progression really isn't going to apply to you. Take some of the ideas in this answer and work with them. 

You will be severely limiting your strength gains. Note that I am talking about the amount of strength you will be able to gain, not just the rate of gaining strength. In order to understand why, you have to understand a bit about General Adaptation Syndrome. Essentially, to disrupt homeostasis (the body's current happy place) to build strength you need to induce a certain amount of stress. That stress is in the style of strength training like Starting Strength. After that stress, you need to recover and during that time your body will super-compensate--making you stronger... Yay! Unfortunately, if you don't keep the regular frequency of the training, you won't be causing enough stress to force adaptation. Furthermore, the adaptation you are putting your body through with aerobics is working against the strength training (which is anaerobic). Essentially, what you do more of will win out. I would start seriously considering the following questions: