He should take her to the doctor to get the standard vaccinations everyone gets. These are also given to people who move to a new country. If she gets sick, he should take her to the doctor, as you would with any other person. If bacterial infections become an issue, she will likely be prescribed antibiotics. That will likely render your concern moot. Possibly he might want to watch her diet and put her on an exercise program, since the drastic change in lifestyle may lead to unhealthy habits, which are also common to non-time travelers. But an upper class person like a princess is probably already aware of the basic concepts. The bigger issues would probably be social: Friction due to unfamiliarity with contemporary culture (not very different from the average immigrant I imagine) and issues with paperwork (in most places he could probably resolve it by marrying her). Also, leaving behind your home, family, friends and everything you know forever isn't very pleasant - but then again, it was not something unheard of for people in the past (especially princesses who could be married off to kings of distant lands) so even that might not be as big a shock. 

Well, there's a lot of dialects of English today (such as in parts of Britain and Australia, and "street" slangs common in many urban areas) that are unintelligible to the bulk of anglophones. It depends on several factors. 

You don't like cat videos? Go start your own country and make them illegal. Better yet, just run for office in yours, or start an advocacy campaign, or... Well, anything else than building a generation ship. Incidentally, what will be your ship's policy concerning asking questions on StackExchange? 

No, it's not feasible at all. There are a million reasons why it wouldn't work, but I'll just touch briefly on the major ones: 

I can't recall the technical terms right now, but human motion can be divided into two logical groups: Movements that are stable throughout (you can freeze at any point and maintain that pose for some time) and movements that are only stable at the start and end but are inherently dynamic at some point in between. For instance, when you lie on your back and make snow angels, that's a static movement. You can stop at any point and hold that position. The position may be uncomfortable or exhausting, but the point is that it's possible to hold it all for any time whatsoever. An example of a dynamic movement is jumping. There are points in the jump where you cannot stop, for instance when your legs leave the ground. Another good example is running or jogging (because there are moments when neither foot is in contact with the ground) but not walking or power walking. I think with these so called stable movements the exoskeleton could work. For it to feel like Earth, the resistance that a human experiences must be the same. The suit would essentially be applying force defined by Earth gravity vector minus Planet X gravity vector, so it would push upward at all times. It would need a computer to calculate how much force to apply at what joint, but that's relatively easy to do. It may or may not be necessary to "train" the suit to work with that individuals idiosyncratic movements, but I think either way is plausible. You would probably have a range of suit qualities, with the worst being just a bunch of bare bones struts, while the best ones distribute the force more evenly on the human body, but in principle the main force that the human must apply can be made to exactly equal that which would be needed for the same movement on Earth. Secondary forces might be harder - for example if the suit is poorly constructed, there may be an excessive strain on smaller balancing muscles which resist the heavy gravity dragging the human out of the suit harness in certain position. You might make a plot point out of lower classes from Planet X having distinct but subtle muscle hypertrophy in certain unusual areas, similar to many occupational diseases associated with excessive strain on a certain part of the body. Where this illusion of Earth gravity falls apart is the dynamic portions of movements. For example, the suit could provide a walking experience mimicking Earth, but it cannot mimic a jump. The reason being that once the jumper is airborne, a purely mechanical suit no longer has a surface to press against to apply the counter-gravity force. The motion of the jump may feel exactly like Earth, but as soon as the subject leaves the ground they will obviously fall faster than on Earth. Also, when the suit wearers step on flexible objects that they "know" would support their weight on Earth, they might be surprised to find out they are easily crushed (which could be another plot element concerning novice or careless users). With a bit of thought you will observe that dynamic movements are very common in every day life. Besides running, sitting down, getting up from a prone position, quick turns and going up or down stairs can all have dynamic component. It might make the suit very startling to wear, since unless you are carefully trained in its limitations, you will often be surprised by abrupt and unexpected losses of antigravity force. Suppose you descend a familiar stair for the 100th time, but this time get overconfident and careless and let go of the banister - but instead of being slightly harder like you expect the movement is suddenly 10 times harder. Probably after a few weeks or months the human brain can adjust to it, but if a person wearing the suit for the first time is careless they can easily get injured or killed. The experience of learning to use the suit would probably be somewhat analogous to learning how to ice skate - while in principle it is not very hard, you do have to learn to cope with the fact that you are suddenly much more stable in some directions (left-right) and much less stable in others (front back). If your suit is not actuated solely by mechanical means, you could correct the dynamic motions as well. One obvious way I can think of is to attach tiny jets or rocket thrusters to various limbs. You would have to carefully watch your fuel, since when it runs out gravity will suddenly increase (or perhaps the suit detects low fuel and starts gradually reducing thrust to avoid surprising you) and you could be hurt. Alternatively, some sort of magnetic shenanigans (perhaps magnets in the hip repelling magnets in the arm or something like that) could correct gravity for some dynamic motions, such as "collapsing on the couch", but probably not ones requiring loss of contact with the ground unless you want a magnetic levitation kind of technology. 

Yes, the immune system has an adaptive component. It can acquire immunity by raising antibody repertoires against new pathogens it encounters, even if they were not "hardcoded in". This is how vaccines work. 

The "standard" solution to this is to predict the future. The most straightforward version would be to print out and bring along stock market data for some time following your intended arrival. It is widely believed that the movements of the stock market are impossible to predict precisely, so consistent success at this would be quite convincing. And, if everyone is still incredulous, you could just leverage your information to make a fortune and then simply pay them to do what you want. If you want the time traveler to not have this disproportionate power, you could instead give him a one way hash of the market figures - that way he would not be able to predict what the value will be, but it will be possible to determine whether he had access to the future value at any point. Alternatives include guessing lottery numbers, weather, sports competition outcomes, and so on. All of these have the drawback of being chaotic, and so if your universe takes a "butterfly effect" approach to time travel, the simple presence of the traveler may disrupt these events and render predictions useless. To solve this issue, you can try bringing back large scale historical events, which would take more than a flap of a butterfly's wings to alter. For instance, presumably a person traveling to 1913 would have a lot of trouble preventing a world war in early 20th century, even if they did manage to save Archduke Ferdinand. The drawback here is that major historical events may be predicted, and people may ascribe the prediction to extraordinarily sharp deductive powers rather than future knowledge. Lastly, you could bring back information that was already past at the time of arrival, but would not be widely known until much after. For instance, an important shipwreck was discovered by chance in 1982. If you traveled to 1975 with a map showing the location of the wreck, locating it would be an extraordinary feat. Some could accuse you of stumbling upon the wreck yourself, and trying to spin it into a time travel story, but if you do this for many shipwrecks (or other artifacts) around the globe, that theory will become quite weak. Besides archeological finds, you could go back with information that was a very well kept secret at the time. The nice thing about this strategy is that even if some chaotic process ruins the future you are trying to predict as proof, the past would not be affected (granted this assertion is dubious in a universe where traveling backwards in time is possible) and your proof is safe. 

Easy: have the effect wear off. The details depend on how exactly the invulnerability is accomplished. For example, if you have rapid regeneration like Wolverine, you could say that the regeneration is a consequence of some hyper-active stem cell population that is short lived, so must constantly replenish itself. After a certain time, the cells suddenly (or gradually) lose their ability to divide, and once the reservoir of these cells is exhausted, the regenerative powers are gone. This isn't really all that different from how we age already. The person could feel this by feeling more "tired" and less energetic. Or suppose the invulnerability is generated by some kind of cloud of smart nanomachines. The machines can be manufactured at a certain time, and have a time-to-failure curve much like other electronics: They will usually last at least X years, and rarely last more than Y years. The decay could be sensed by various reductions in the quality of the protection: Perhaps the nanites start generating more and more noise, create dust, take more energy to fuel, or whatever else. An interesting twist could be "backup bodies". Suppose people are not actually invulnerable, but their mind is constantly synchronized to some server, and when they die, their consciousness is immediately downloaded to a new body. This is more a lich-and-phylactery type invulnerability, but you could incorporate the weakening nicely by having it cause gradually more and more memory loss at successive stages, or having an initial period of severe disorientation and confusion following revival. This period gets longer and more severe every time (or over time, eg. due to aging of the brain), and eventually the "revived" person just becomes a zombie indefinitely, never managing to "snap out of it" to re-boot their consciousness. By the way, if your goal is immortality without increased lifespan, you can simply say that everything has been cured except for dementia. The central nervous system has a very unique and complex nature, and sooner or later it just starts dying off. It is unclear exactly why, and while some factors can make the rate of this dying slower or faster, ultimately it is inevitable. Unlike all other organs, however, you can't just replace or regenerate the CNS, because it contains information, and once neurons die the information is lost. If the CNS suffers severe damage, even if all of that damage is somehow repaired, the effect on the personality of the individual could be catastrophic. So you could accomplish what you want by making sure your "magic cure" takes care only of tissue damage, not loss of information.