Language is hard Figuring out how to communicate with other people is a very difficult problem. Linguists traditionally call this the "gavagai problem", after an early example. 

This depends on how your time machine works. Let's imagine past!William built a time machine back in 1970. The time is finally right to test it, so future!William dusts it off and opens the door. On the other side of the door...is his laboratory in 1970. When he walks through the door, he is in 1970; when he walks back through, he's in 2016. Conservation of energy applies to a closed system, where nothing is entering or leaving. "The Earth" isn't a closed system, since the Sun is constantly adding energy. "The Universe" on the other hand is generally considered closed, since there's no known method for energy to enter or leave it. But with your time machine turned on, "the Universe at midnight on January 1, 1970" can't be considered a closed system, because now things can move back and forth between 1970 and 2016. You've effectively forced "the Universe in 2016" and "the Universe in 1970" to be part of a larger closed system in which conservation of energy holds. This is really weird, and runs counter to our intuitions about physics, but is a logical result of the way this hypothetical time machine works. You aren't actually producing energy out of nowhere; anything which comes through the door in 1970 has departed through the door in 2016. As a side note: equivalent to conservation of energy is the claim that "nothing depends on time" (via Noether's Theorem). In other words, there's no law of physics which gives different results if your clock is five minutes slow. So if conservation of energy doesn't hold for the Universe in a single instant any more, then time symmetry doesn't either, which could have some interesting consequences...including, a convenient way to handwave any other weirdness in your fictional world's physics. ;) 

Your question is quite broad, so here's just one option which could have interesting story consequences. Teleforce This was an invention of the brilliant Nikola Tesla. It was described as a "peace ray", since he hoped it would ensure peace, even though it wasn't really a "ray": they would be so cheap and deadly that all major cities would build them for protection, but so bulky and unwieldy that they couldn't be moved or used for offense, only defense. As he described it: 

(Note for the sake of accuracy: this isn't a single quote, the individual paragraphs are taken from different places.) Tesla tried to sell his concept to both the American and the Soviet governments, as well as several others, and during the Cold War there was quite a bit of research which bore a striking resemblance to Teleforce. (The Soviets are known to have given him a $25,000 grant for it.) In real life it didn't pan out, but in your story, Teleforce could have been built during Tesla's lifetime, or perfected at any point later. Nowadays the idea is generally considered unfeasible, but Tesla said in 1937 that "I have built, demonstrated and used it. Only a little time will pass before I can give it to the world." He never put his full designs on paper because of the risk of espionage…perhaps he had some breakthrough which nobody has yet rediscovered? Practicality The main body of a teleforce weapon would be a vacuum chamber, with one end open to the atmosphere. Particles of material would be accelerated to ridiculous speeds inside the chamber, then ejected out through the nozzle. Quite a lot of machinery would be needed to maintain the vacuum, inject the particles, and aim the resulting stream…not to mention supplying all the energy. Depending on the needs of your story, the whole device might be building-sized or larger, or closer in scale to a conventional cannon. But the energy needs are phenomenal, and this is the major limitation compared to conventional artillery. Whatever size it is, the device will generally have to be fixed in one place. It would generally be a defensive weapon, built in a major city to protect against invasion and bombing—not something brought to the front lines. And it would only be effective for about 200 miles due to the curvature of the Earth. Any farther, and it would continue into space. (Tesla suggested this as a peacetime use of the device: generate artificial auroras for lighting!) The PBS page here has some more fun information on the history of his invention. There's also quite a bit of technobabble you could throw in, such as "gas focusing" (also used in vacuum tubes!) and "electrostatic repulsion" 

This is a very broad question as written, so I'll interpret it more narrowly as "what would give rise to such a system?". Let's suppose you divide your circles into eight segments, each of which can be shaded or unshaded. (Choosing eight because you mention eight compass points.) Imagine a pizza cut into eight slices, with some of the slices missing. This gives you $2^8 = 256$ possible variations on the inner circle. If you only have a single "stem" on each character, that gives nine options (eight directions, or no stem at all). So you would have 2304 possible symbols. If, on the other hand, you allowed multiple stems on the same character, you would have another 256 possibilities, giving $2^16 = 65536$ different symbols. I'm going to take this latter interpretation, even though it's a bit different from your question as stated, for reasons you'll see in a moment. These numbers would be intimately familiar to anyone who works with low-level computer programming. Each of your symbols perfectly represents two bytes. Each "slice" on the inner circle and each "stem" on the outer circle represents one of the bits. As far as humans are concerned, this is a very difficult system to use: there's a reason nobody writes out numbers in binary! A real-life analogy might be punch cards, which used a series of blanks and holes to represent bits. They were very easy for computers to read and write, but rather less pleasant for humans to work with. So I'd say such a system was more likely created to transfer information between humans and non-humans. The non-human doesn't need to be a computer: compare Stross's "Laundry" series, in which "magic" involves applying mathematics to affect eldritch horrors from beyond the world. Or such a precise and logical writing system might have been introduced to humans by some divine or diabolical entity to get past the language barrier, leading to its use in dealing with spirits. But somehow, people learned that precise application of these symbols could have magical effects on the outside world. Eventually the mathematical underpinnings were forgotten by everyone except specialists; most people just know that "you activate protective spells by writing ◐ ◔" and "drawing those without knowing what you're doing can be fatal". 

If the aliens had any mathematical knowledge, they would recognize the series of prime numbers. That would make it clear we were trying to communicate with them, since this is unlikely to happen by accident. Then we would wait for them to make the next move. Once we'd established communication, we might move up to pictograms: a drawing of a rock placed next to a rock, a drawing of a plant placed next to the plant. And from this we could begin to learn their native writing system (if we could express that we wanted to know the word for "rock" or "plant"). Since our knowledge is more advanced than the aliens', and (if I understand correctly) our intelligence greater, we would probably be the ones to learn their language, rather than the other way around. Communication would take place through written messages or, eventually, simulated color changes (if the humans designed an LCD wetsuit or the like). 

With aliens, the problems become even worse. Pointing at something is a fundamentally human gesture, but perhaps for the tetrapods it means something entirely different: say, pointing their arms at something means their head points in the opposite direction, and you're supposed to follow their head, not their arms. With aliens, we have no shared means of communication, not even facial expressions. Start with mathematics After observing the tetrapods for a while, the humans would undoubtedly notice the complex color changes used to signal. Analysing these would give us an estimate of their visual range, which is conveniently similar to ours. So visual communication is probably the best option, since both species seem to use it. The humans would start by sending a message with some sort of mathematical pattern in it. For instance, they might write this on a piece of plastic: 

Your title and your question seem to be asking two different things ('distinguish two alien voices' vs 'distinguish aliens from hallucination'); since the latter has more detail, I'll focus my answer there. The easiest way to distinguish a hallucination from reality is looking at its effect on other things. Since these aliens are causing the air to vibrate, the sound is "real" for all intents and purposes. This means that a phone or voice recorder would hear them just as well as you would. If I thought I were hallucinating, the first thing I'd do would be to grab my cell phone and turn on the camera. Hallucinations generally aren't constant long-term things, so I wouldn't expect to hear them again when playing back a recording. And the fact that the recorded voice could show up in a spectrogram, or be perceived by other (perfectly sane) people, should be conclusive evidence. This system isn't foolproof, though. For one, good luck convincing other people. The aliens are using your own voice, and don't appear in the video; "you recorded another audio track and overlaid it" is a more likely explanation for the weird recording. In addition, if the aliens have enough precision to "draw" sound waves with ripples, they could also position the origin of those waves precisely inside your ear canal. If they did this, you would hear everything with perfect clarity, while other people (and your microphone) would hear nothing at all. This one is much harder to explain, since it's unlikely that someone would react to possible hallucinations by shoving a microphone in their ear just in case it's actually fourth-dimensional aliens creating actual sound waves inside their head. 

As others have said, it really depends on what sort of AI you have in your fictional world; the term on its own can mean anything from "machine which thinks like a human" to "slightly more intelligent optimizer than what we have now" depending on the story you're writing. But in general I would say no, it is not possible. If they're reproducing by themselves, you could say they have some built-in feature that ensures the "kill switch" is always an integral part of any new design they invent. But there's always the chance that a series of small changes over time could inadvertently cause the kill switches to stop working, even though no AI nor any human ever came up with it. (Imagine genetic mutation: if you give it enough time, something might go wrong in just the right way. Improbable but not impossible.) Consider also Asimov's stories with the "Laws of Robotics". By the very nature of the technology in his universe, those laws are fundamental to every positronic brain, and it's physically impossible to build one without. But most of the "I, Robot" stories revolve around those three simple rules interacting with new situations in ways nobody had intended or anticipated. You can't plan for everything, especially if these AIs are common and thus constantly encountering new environments and scenarios. 

"Heat", in the form of "extremes" In Asimov's "The Gods Themselves" (which you might enjoy, as it fits your themes quite well, if from a sci-fi rather than a fantasy standpoint), one character describes energy as, roughly, "what you get from levelling out extremes". If you have a source of water up high, for instance, you can get energy out of it by letting it flow down over a turbine and join the rest of the water at sea level. If you have a hot thing, you can get energy out by cooling it down; if you have a cold thing, you can get energy out by heating it up. This type of magic might draw magic from the heat and cold in the future. Rather than creating heat that could be used to power a turbine, for instance, a powerful spell might snuff out the fire someone was using to keep warm in the Arctic (and warm the surrounding environment by a fraction of a degree), or melt the ice that was preserving food in the summer (and cool the surrounding environment by a fraction of a degree). Basically, in this form, magic pushes whatever it draws from toward an average. So it always takes something useful (a fire on a cold night) and dissipates it into something useless (a tiny bit of heat scattered through the air). And if there's no good source of heat around, you could always invoke a bit of "life" as well. After all, a living human is much warmer (and much less "average" in many ways) than a corpse… 

It sounds as though this pillar is visible from all around as an enormous beam of light. But this means that light must be escaping in every direction, or being deflected off something in the beam (dust, air, nanobots). Neither of these helps you receive a good signal at the other end. Optical transmission is usually designed so that as little light escapes as possible. You would want an incredibly focused beam to get useful information out at the other end; "spilling" light everywhere would run counter to that. 

Language. Our modern-day knowledge of ancient languages is, to put it lightly, incomplete. Even for languages as famous and prolific as Latin, there are words scholars don't fully understand. Ancus appears only once in all known classical texts, describing weapons that aren't being raised...but what does it actually mean? And this was the lingua franca of Europe for centuries. The Hebrew Bible contains over 1500 words which aren't attested anywhere else, and their meaning is still debated. After all, there aren't many ancient Hebrews around to explain them. Depending when you arrive in Mesopotamia, for instance, cuneiform writing will be your best resource. The most important variants have been deciphered, and a time traveler could be taught to read before departing (and given some pre-written messages, just in case). Let's say you bring along a clay tablet saying "I am an emissary from a distant land, and must speak to the governor as soon as possible". But finding someone who can read won't be trivial. While the writing system has been deciphered, we still don't know precisely how it was spoken. For example, there are at least seven different symbols which were probably pronounced gu, but aren't interchangeable. Were there tone differences, like in Mandarin? Or subtly different vowel sounds, or nasalization? Or were these actually just homophones, like English "to" and "too"? We don't know. The usual convention is just to transcribe them as gu, gú, gù...and leave it at that. This would be an opportunity for a larger puzzle. You can't speak the language, only write it, and most of the people around you can't read. So you need to not be arrested until you can find someone who can communicate in writing, and hopefully teach you enough spoken words to get by. Luckily for you as the author, literacy levels varied greatly over time, so you can justify whatever level of difficulty makes the puzzle interesting. Alternately, you could create cryptograms or a decoding puzzle from (a small subset of) the syllabic characters, or require players to learn the correlation between sound and writing by listening to someone reading an announcement out loud. Hopefully this helps. If you provide more details about your game, or what types of puzzles you're looking for, that would be useful. 

The Mercator projection is fundamentally cylindrical: it first maps the globe onto a hollow cylinder (so that the South Pole is either not represented or mapped to the entire bottom edge), then unrolls that cylinder into a rectangle. While there are various other steps in the Mercator projection, what you want here is a polar-to-rectangular conversion: mapping the polar coordinates (radius and angle) to the X and Y axes. And Photoshop conveniently has that built in, as the "Distort > Polar Coordinates" filter. Position the South Pole at the center of your image and choose "Polar to Rectangular", then rotate and scale as necessary. 

I'd say it's not impossible, just very unlikely. So don't let that stop you. ;) Hofstadter uses an interesting analogy in the "Ant Fugue" of the GEB: the individual neurons in our brain aren't sentient by any means, but through the sheer number of them and the sheer scale of their interactions, they're able to represent an intelligent mind. Or consider the transistors inside your CPU. Each on its own is effectively a tiny switch, no intelligence there. The transistor doesn't understand differential calculus. But through enough interactions between them, the CPU as a whole can take derivatives of complicated functions far faster and more accurately than my human brain can. Of course, depending on their individual intelligence and the structure of their society, the scale of the Chirr colony might need to be incredibly enormous for such things to happen in a reasonable amount of time. But the idea in and of itself is entirely conceivable. You might also look into the Church-Turing Thesis, which predicts basically that any calculation a human can perform, a universal Turing machine can also perform (and vice versa, since a human following a list of rules can simulate a universal machine). Some philosophers have taken this idea and run with it to talk about the nature of consciousness and the mind. But it's not too hard to imagine a Chirr colony becoming "Turing complete"—Conway's Game of Life is about as simple a simulation as you can get, and yet with enough cells interacting it's possible to build a Turing machine from it.