A short response not repeating what's been said in other answers, just adding conceptual clarification: Assuming that you can indeed cause a large endothermic reaction (which wouldn't be an "explosion"), one thing to realize is that an exothermic reaction really just produces heat. Yes, light is a byproduct - when something heats it emits a range of EM radiation, including visible light if hot enough - but in the end it's all just heat. Chemicals endothermically reacting simply get cold, and therefore won't directly "absorb" light, electricity, or any other form of energy. The net result of a large endothermic reaction is that the immediate area gets colder than it was before. Still, what might rapid cooling do? Rapid contraction of some brittle solids makes them fracture/shatter (try dipping hot glass in ice water). Unprotected electronic systems will collect frost from water vapor in the air, potentially shorting them out when they thaw. Living creatures get frostbite. All in all, the effect is pretty mild if the temperature isn't sustained, and weaponizing it would be difficult without alien tech or other handwaving. 

The simplest way is pretty boring: just starve them out. Cities have very high population densities - a lot of people in a little space. Cities don't generally produce any of their own anything, especially food, and the supply has to be extremely high to keep up with demand. Put checkpoints on all major highways and stop trucks from entering the city. Most grocery stores have to be stocked weekly or they'd run out of food just from regular business. Two weeks into the blockade, the population of 4 million will turn on that little group of 100,000 for their supplies. Bonus: No real structural damage will be caused to the city buildings, aside from a few riot fires, and if you time it right you could (optionally, as an evil overlord) save the majority of the civilians, which is good PR. 

When you think of an ecosystem, remember that everything has a function, like a living organism. Resources are distributed in balanced manner. Everything that happens works together in order to support the health of the system. What does this correspond to in a computer? The operating system. The kernel - the lowest level of any OS - allocates the use of system resources, like disk space, memory, and CPU. Operating systems are, of course, human-authored, and they typically use a cooperative scheme instead of competition. I could see (many many years down the road) a very advanced set of software on top of the OS using genetic algorithms to modify its own kernel and packages to make them more robust or efficient. It doesn't have to be within the same computer, though. It would be plausible (again, distant future) to have malware/anti-malware tennis match occurring in which multiple systems are at war over a network. Think of cyber-warfare between major nation-states that has become autonomous. More details and context is required for a specific answer, though. 

The sparks just travel through the air. Why would this be a problem? No, air isn't as conductive as water. But electricity can travel through the air for several miles at sufficient voltages. Machines can generate sparks multiple meters long. Even the tiny static spark that you get from rubbing your sock on the carpet and touching a grounded object can be three or four centimeters. 

They have the best eyes in the animal kingdom, with not two, but three pupils in each eye. Humans have binocular vision - we perceived depth by focussing two pupils on the same point. Mantis Shrimp have trinocular vision giving them better depth perceptions than humans using only a single eye. Not to mention that they see in the infrared and ultraviolet range and discern polarized light in ways that we can't. These phenomena aren't a result of multiple pupils, but rather because of a larger number of photoreceptors - twelve instead of the three that humans have. In short, their vision is something we can't quite even imagine. They have other amazing qualities, like being able to create shockwaves underwater that stun prey even if their bullet-fast striking appendages miss. Oh, and the Department of Defense is studying the structure of its shell for the sake of designing better body armor. But I digress. EDIT: Correction by Samuel confirmed - their eyes are indeed compound, like those of insects, so their "pupils" that we see in the photo are an optical illusion - which I think is still pretty cool. Details in this article, which also tells how they can distinguish between right- and left-circular polarization of light, and may even use this as a communication method. Their vision is still trinocular, however, as each eye has three distinct sections. I wasn't going to, but LSerni in the comments already did. Obligatory link to The Oatmeal, though the notion of them being able to see so many colors was disproved - many of the extra photoreceptors are used for some of the above purposes. 

Justice demands punishment of evil, or it is not justice. Law without enforcement is advice. No matter how good and kind a police officer or judge is, if they don't do their job in condemning lawlessness, they have become the antithesis of their original purpose. That being said, your religious texts should include something about punishment of wickedness, whether done by a special class of priests or the god itself through natural consequences. But I still prefer to think in another way. The gods disappeared hundreds of years ago, so there's plenty of time to have different sects and denominations spawn with beliefs that weren't originally in the religion - see Mormonism and the Jehovah's Witnesses in Protestant Christianity. The thing is, whether the god would condone it or not, it just has to be justified in the minds of the followers. And humans can rationalize quite a lot of things when it works to their advantage. 

One overarching thing to think about regardless of type of profession to think about in the first world is this: retirement. Most people don't exit the workforce because they are physically or mentally incapable of continuing, they do so because they have accumulated enough resources and eliminated debt such that they can live a more leisurely life. I imagine this effect might even be amplified in such a world, because the retirees would be "young" enough to travel, play sports, go skydiving, or do just about anything they fancy. They would have the youth and the money to enable a killer retirement. Highly Skilled Positions: A major factor is mental acuity. If an engineer or professor is just as alert at 80 as they were at 30, and they happened to be passionate enough about their profession to not want to retire, perhaps they would die doing what they loved. If not, these are typically the individuals (along with politicians) with the most money in the bank at retirement, which could make for a very luxurious and/or exciting last quarter of life. Political Professionals: Exciting retirement from above applies equally. Politicians can no longer accuse their opponents of being (mentally) old and senile. This might cause a stagnation of political power, as physical appearance plays a surprisingly important role in persuasion (and politics aren't about facts - they're about persuasion and emotional manipulation). I think attractive females would have a much larger pull in politics - both because they would remain perpetually appealing, and because the electorate of males would have the sexual drive and hormonal composition of a twenty-something. It's much easier to look the other way when the person doing wrong is a smokin' hot lady. (Source: I am a male twenty-something). Unskilled Labor: This will vary across different professions. For physically intensive jobs like construction or factory workers, consider that younger bodies are less prone to injury and heal more quickly. Physical strength won't diminish either, keeping workers in those positions much longer. I would label such jobs semi-skilled, though: it takes time to train someone in factory processes, and the like, which is some form of job security. It could spell doom for the totally unskilled workforce. The available workforce would be much larger across the board with unskilled labor, so that could mean a much quicker replacement if you screw up at your job. Like in our world (but maybe more so), it means lower pay because "anyone can do your job," except the supply of workers is now much higher than the demand. Military Personnel: First, it would mean that at no age do men (and women, if that's the way your society works) become ineligible for selective service (a.k.a. draft). Again, bodies heal faster and are less prone to injury, potentially extending soldiers' life expectancy. These effects work on both sides of the fight, though, so I could see wars of attrition lasting longer as more troops may be drafted and experienced troops survive better.