There are several approaches in your situation and they aren't mutually exclusive. They all boil down to accepting where you at and they require you to know where you want to go. Accepting where you're at You know your condition, that's a given. But what does that mean in context with the world? My favorite metaphor is a treasure map. You know you stand between a certain rock and an oddly shaped cactus. But what does that mean for the map? Are there more places like this or is where you are completely unique? You suddenly can become sick beyond working capability, but isn't that true for your colleagues, too? Sure, your condition is unique from the inside and please do not take this as belittling it. From the outside though, you're sick at home unable to work. There are a lot of rock-cactus-formations like that on the map. I recognize that your condition is of chronic nature and you may be on sick leave more often than others but again from the outside that's a difference in frequency and nothing else. Where you want to go Do you want to stay in that managerial role? Go even higher up? Maybe rather specialize on something that's unique in the company? Switch to something with lesser deadline pressure? Start consulting in your profession instead? This section is not meant as advice but, to open your focus up a bit. What you can do I'm listing several things here. Pick the ones that you expect to work best in your situation and your company. be open about it Talk to your superiors about your condition and what it could mean. Explain that you are perfectly capable of doing your job (they should already know) and that you just may need someone to jump in for a few days, or something else that covers your downtime. That you will make an effort to make taking over where you left off easy, but don't want to push through a pain streak for the reasons you mentioned. Risk: the company might of course view you as unfit for your role. Being open is something you have to do very carefully. work with your team Talk to your team about it. Get them on the same page as you are and maybe you can get them to take over some of your tasks when you're out. Risk: this comes down to loyalty. How loyal is your team to you? But it can also build loyalty. A team lead that shows they rely on and trust the team, have the team's back and ask team to have theirs, can build the strongest team ever. find out and point out the true size of the problem Like I said in the beginning, while your condition is chronic your down times might effectively not be worse than those of others getting sick randomly. If that's the case use this information as a defense if somebody pressures you. Risk: waiting until somebody puts you on the spot for a chronic disease can be viewed as keeping something from the company that affects your ability to work for them. 

I would put it in much the same way you've written it here. You mentioned that your job is stressful and demanding and you're not growing career wise. Make your direct report think about what's keeping you at the company and what reason you have to stay. Perhaps they think that you're comfortable with what you're doing and you don't really mind that you haven't been given anything extra, perhaps they're just thinking that you want what everyone else is getting? Below's a few talking points for you. Be extremely clear about what you want and where you want to end up. Most people don't want to stay in the same job for the rest of their lives, so let your manager know what you aspire to, what's driving you. Show that you're keen to learn. Don't forget to tie it into a benefit to the company, why should they put you through the training? How does that turn into a benefit for the business and how will they get a return on their investment? Will they end up losing the "invaluable person" they have in their current role? Talk about how you could up-skill/cross-skill someone else into your role. If you're determined to reach a goal and there's a roadblock in the way, ask "How can we overcome that?". If it's something that simply cannot be overcome, then you really don't have much option other than to look for another job that will provide what you're after. On a side note It's best not to let things slide for so long, if you're determined to get something, letting it go by for 7 years without having a path to your destination doesn't exactly scream determination. You have very little reason to show loyalty to a company that can't keep it's promises. At the end of the day you need to look out for yourself. "You're #1" as someone else here put it! 

Any employee can use this excuse, and any employee is expected to inform the company in advance if the appointment is scheduled or to inform the company right away, if it's an unplanned visit. 

Disability is a lack of certain abilities, just abilities considered ubiquitous. That what I suggest treating it like. 

I think your best bet is to fuse the two: Find a job at a retailer specializing in health care. Use this second degree to your advantage. There's virtually no combination of two degrees that one can't use to their advantage when you have the right attitude. Transition from one field to the other in a step-by-step manner like this: 

The best approach is to set a lower limit under which you won't go with your salary (given that's the only negotiated factor), to demonstrate willingness to walk away and to do so if necessary. This way there is no way they can push you below your limit and the only option they have, if they really need/want you for the team is to meet your price. In the worst case you found out you're wrong and they either can't or don't want to afford you and you go ahead and find someone who does. 

But it rarely makes sense. Think about it, interviewing is an expensive process that takes a lot of resources, and it's very rare that something like this would actually be a good use of time or money. It would be much more effective to post for contract-gigs on any number of sites. 

It would be probably safest and most effective if you could demonstrate that this truly horrible email signature they think highlights how impressive they are actually makes them look completely unprofessional and amateurish. Bonus points if you can tie it back to the one thing that really matters to a corporation (money) and come to the table with something better. I can't imagine it would be difficult for you to get feedback from your friends and colleagues on the topic, nor would it be overly difficult to redesign it so that the worst parts (the very over-sized Microsoft App partner image and the 2015 partner of the year finalist image) are eliminated/changes into simple urls, or sized and placed more appropriately, instead of in the style of a tween who just figured out how to make a MySpace page back in 2003. "Look, I'm getting a lot of negative feedback about our email signature from potential clients/customers, and I think it's costing us money... for example, [provide some documented examples]." To help get you started, some feedback from a few IT professionals on your company's signature: 

To answer your question directly... Yes you should support him if that's part of your job. You should do this regardless of what you believe will be a good fit for this person given their current skills. The Why This person appears has the drive to get into development. Employees tend to work rather well if they enjoy what they're doing. Happy employees are productive employees and productive employees means FTE well spent. Now to address your concerns If you believe that this employee doesn't have the skills needed for development; then let them know. There's nothing wrong with this; give the employee tasks to do at home if it's something that's simple enough that they can google. Get them to learn the basics before you teach them how to code. If it turns out that it's something that they just aren't able to learn then you can raise it with your manager and let the manager know that you don't think that they'll be a good fit for the role. In short; start with the basics. If you're there to mentor this person, then tell them what they need to know prior to being shown how to code/develop. If they can't grasp the basics then so be it; but until you provide someone with the rope, they aren't going to trip themselves up and fall flat. (Who knows, they may even be a great fit) 

(Incidentally, the above quote is from some wiki summaries page for the book Hardball: How Politics Is Played Told By One Who Knows The Game, by Chris Matthews, which is a really excellent read for anyone who wants some insight into politics... or office politics, or people in general, but I digress.) In your case, I imagine it would go something like "you're right that the cs.x file isn't really architecture, and your solution is the right way to fix it. Let's go through the process anyway and get the architecture team to sign off on the change just to protect ourselves, in case some other team screws something up and is looking for someone to blame." 

No, you shouldn't mention that you're failing, but you should mention that you're enrolled in higher education. The simplest, cleanest way to do this is to say that you're studying for a MSc, and it is "in progress." If they want more details, they'll ask, and you can tell them your expected graduation date. If they actually do the math and ask why it's taken you longer than usual, the best response is usually an honest, but vague answer - that you had some issues come up in your personal life that you had to handle, which took time away from your studies. No need to mention that this means you failed; it could just as well mean that you took a lighter course load while tackling your personal issues. If you're pressed and end up giving up that you have failed (which you shouldn't do), frame it positively. You may have failed because of circumstance outside of your control, but you're not giving up and have learned from this experience, etc. Regarding the escort website, I would probably not mention it, because as you note, some/many employers are likely to find this morally objectionable. If you have other work you can show off, you can include it under the umbrella of freelance consulting/webdesign/whatever, and offer up the safe-for-work projects you've done as examples of your work. Perhaps a better idea would be to punch up a slick personal site for yourself that you can use to host your CV/resume and other professionally relevant information. I've seen these given out in place of a resume (on a personal business card, for example), and when well-done, they can be a great differentiator, and a way to showcase your skills and provide a segue into what programming languages and tools you're familiar with. 

I'll answer your actual question directly first... I would tell him that you don't want to give out that information in much the same way you've explained it here. Anything else would just be beating around the bush and isn't a surefire way to achieve your end goal of not disclosing the information. Example - "Sorry, I don't like to give out my Steam details as I like to keep my work life and outside life separate from each other" Then I'd perhaps explain that maybe you'd share your details with him once you get to know him a little better (if that's what you'd actually do). Now to avoid the situation in future If you really have no intention of giving out information to people regardless of how well you know them at work. Simply state that you don't have Steam or whatever else it might be that they're asking. If someone's asking if you have something like a social media profile then I can assure you that their next question is likely going to be a request as to where they can find your profile. An alternative to this would be to answer yes, but immediately state that you don't like to give details out to work colleagues. Regardless if you want to keep 2 separate 'lives', you're not helping your chances of making friends in the workplace which may hinder your chances of progression and unfortunately it's not what you know, rather it's who you know. 

To take a slightly different view of this than the other answers, the last thing you should consider doing is going back to 100% front-line breakfix, because these other duties you complain about are a golden opportunity. (Unless you want to be a helpdesk technician your whole career... and even if you do, refusing to do "other duties as assigned" will probably result in your being fired). You should be using the opportunity you've been given, and building on your experience with more systems and network administration duties to transition into a job along those lines (probably somewhere else, based on what you've said). You should keep up (or even accelerate) the non-helpdesk tasks you've been doing, make sure to update your resume to highlight those tasks, and search for a systems or network administration, engineering or devops job that pays a lot better than what you have now. I know plenty of IT support/helpdesk techs who'd kill for the experience you're getting now, so don't waste the opportunity. 

If you're convinced he can't improve, the solution is to fire him as soon as possible, and pay him out the notice period he's legally owed. Same as any employee. This is standard practice for employee terminations just about everywhere, and for very good reasons. In this case, that sounds like you'd fire him the day the project ends (or maybe the day after), have him escorted off the premises and he'd get two weeks of severance pay for time he's not working. Yes, it sucks, especially with a well-meaning under-performer, but you're not being paid by your employer to be his friend or his life coach or his mother; you're being paid to act in your employer's best interests. That usually involves things you'd rather not do (such as this), which is why you get paid to do it. You can soothe your conscience by reminding yourself that you're doing the right thing, and you're not doing anyone any favors by continuing to carry an incompetent subordinate. Not yourself, your team or your company, and not even him, strange as that may sound. Long-term, it's bad for someone to be in a job they're not competent at, and it's better to find out early in your career than after years of futile struggling. 

Give everyone who would be reporting an issue a form to fill out or a template to complete before they email through. The issue here from the sounds of it is that you're not being specific enough. Provide information on exactly what you're after. Telling someone to describe the problem will not give you the information you're after. The reason for this is that I can describe a problem in a single sentence and I've fulfilled your requirements of describing the problem. Then when I get a response back from you saying I haven't described it, I'll think you aren't reading my emails because I've already described my issue to you, what more do you want? For this reason you need to ask the user "What steps did you take before the problem occurred?" or "What were you doing immediately before the problem occurred?". This restricts the user in what they can answer and lets them know what information is meaningful to you. They're likely under the impression that you can gain everything you need from the program log and any information they give you isn't that helpful. Never assume that the person you're receiving your log from knows exactly what you mean. As was mentioned in another answer, you don't offer mind reading as a service. However, I'm sure that the people sending you the logs don't offer mind reading either, it works both ways! Narrow questions will provide you more meaningful information.