Honestly, nuclear weapons (or American nuclear weapons, at least), have robust and effective safeguards to prevent a nuke from accidentally going off for technical reasons (like an electrical short in the triggering mechanism or being hit by gunfire or an explosion, or being set on fire, etc.), and are designed to be exceedingly hard to detonate anyway. The general design type in use is an implosion-type device that requires special, high performance trigger devices to initiate a spherical implosion that compresses the fissionable core to "critical mass" (density, really). As a result, it's not really possible for an accident to detonate a nuclear weapon, from a technical standpoint. In fact, it's extremely difficult to deliberately detonate a nuke without all the required components and authorization codes, so the "terrorists steal a nuke and set it off" trope is pretty implausible, too. Having said that, nuclear weapons are tools, which do what the human operating them tell them to do, not what the human operating them meant to tell them to do, which has resulted in dozens of "near misses" over the decades, and that's how you would plausibly detonate a nuke by accident - human error. While there are layers of safeguards in place there, they've been bypassed or failed frequently over the years, and many of those have made it into the press. Nuclear launch codes set to 00000000 for 20 years. Nuclear silo doors left open while the nuclear officer slept. Six nuclear cruise missiles accidentally loaded onto a B-52 were missing for 36 hours. ... And there are scores more, going back to the 50's, including a frightening list of instances where nuclear powers were close to deliberately launching nuclear weapons at each other under mistaken pretenses. It's not hard to imagine how coupling one of these incidents (or something similar) with a poorly timed drill or training exercise or weapons test could result in a live nuke being launched and detonated, and I think that's your most plausible approach here. Known, documented examples of human error with our nuclear weapons, coupled with some bad timing turns a training exercise into a nuclear detonation. 

I'll go ahead and say it wouldn't. As far we know, life requires 3 components in combination. Nutrients to form into complex, self-replicating molecules (RNA and DNA on Earth), energy to drive that process, and a solvent of some sort (water on Earth) to allow the nutrients to mix together. Theoretically, it might be possible for some form of life to evolve in an organic solvent, like benzene or whatever else, but we can't say for sure. Your water-world would have an abundance of one component, but a distinct lack of at least one of the other two in the same place. These nutrients that form the building blocks of life tend to be and/or are delivered in forms that are heavier than water. So they'd sink. Which brings you to the big problem you're going to have, nutrients. Even if you did find a way to deliver them in sufficient quantities to allow life to form, (asteroids, whatever), you'll have a big issue with concentration. A gigatonne of phosphorous (or whatever) won't do you much good if it's diluted to 3 parts per million across your ocean world, nor if it sinks to the icy core, where there's no energy to drive the chemical reactions required to create complex molecules. Looking at Earth, life developed in places where the water and land meet - the land provided nutrients and a convenient anchor to keep the building blocks of life from diluting away, the water provided a solvent for them to mix in, and the energy was provided by either EM radiation or geothermal vents. I don't see a way for the three components to exist in a world that's all water - where you might get concentration with mineral-rich asteroids sinking to the core, you won't have energy, and where you have energy (near the surface), you won't have sufficient concentrations of the building blocks of life. 

Quantum teleportation. We know quantum particles can and do "tunnel" through barriers, and we can induce them to teleport short distances under some circumstances. Through the magic of handwavium [insert technobabble here], our teleporters do that on a macroscopic scale. 

I imagine that the cheapest and most likely option would the use of phase-selective organogelators which are already used to clean up oil spills in some cases. They're cheap, being based on sugars and alcohols, available in large enough quantities, aren't tightly controlled, make it much more difficult to pump up the oil in the first place, and are difficult to untangle from the oil once they're mixed. ("The recovery of oil from polymer gels is cumbersome"). Kind of surprising that no one's done this already, now that I think about it. Might be related to the fact that "gelling oil wells" isn't as exciting or useful in a propaganda reel as throwing Molotov cocktails at SUVs on a suburban car dealership lot. 

I would suggest that over time, transporter technology could lead to increased risk of almost every disease or disorder, particularly those we associate with or tend to encounter later in life. Nothing's perfect, so there are going to be small imperfections every time you transport, and that can create a tiny one-time risk of whatever disease or disorder you want, and/or they could build up over time and lead to the diseases and disorders that everyone will get given enough time, unless something else kills them first. You could say some of these errors are cumulative, in parts of the body that don't heal or don't heal well (brain, nervous system), and with enough transports causing enough of these tiny errors, people start developing degenerative neurological disorders and/or dementia and so on - it works great until 30 years later, when your substantia nigra can't produce dopamine, and bam, Parkison's (for example). You could also observe that cancer is basically what happens when a particular part of a cell gets damaged so that the cell reproduces without end, instead of dying when it's supposed to. Minor errors in transporting, in the wrong place in a cell could, therefore cause cancer. Not a high risk on any one transport, but over time those tiny risks add up to an increased risk of cancer among heavy users of transporter technology. Some diseases have physical causes. Strokes, for example, happen when blood clots or plaque inside blood vessels get dislodged, travel up to the brain and block off blood flow to part of the brain. It would be easy to see how minor errors in transport could cause a small piece of plaque or blood clot to get dislodged, and increase the risk of strokes among among users, as an example of this type of disease. When you get right down to it, a lot of the vital systems in our bodies rely on very tiny parts that need to work just right, so you could plausibly use minor transport errors to cause most any problem you wanted. "Oops, transporter scrambled your bone marrow and now you have leukemia." "Sorry, the transporter choked off a tiny blood vessel in your brain and now you don't have any short term memory. But don't worry, you'll forget about the problem in 30 seconds anyway." "Now you're diabetic because a minor transport error incorrectly reassembled the blood vessels feeding your pancreas, so it doesn't work any more." "So, we're not sure exactly what happened, but it appears that your spleen didn't tolerate the transporter well, and now your immune system is attacking all your cells, so you have a severe auto-immune disorder." "After 30 years of transporting, the small errors have accumulated to a point that you have early stage dementia." And so on. 

Fundamentally, if there's way to make someone live for hundreds or thousands of years (or longer), their brain is going to have to function on a biological level, or the person will die. Whatever you do to keep the rest of the cells and systems in the body from breaking around the hundred year mark, you would presumably be able to do for the brain and nervous system as well. Having said that, the big issue you're likely to encounter in the brains of immortal (or long-lived) biological beings for which there isn't a plausible solution is the problem of neural plasticity, specifically, what's called activity-dependent plasticity (or "learning", if you prefer less technical terminology). Because of the way neural networks function at a basic level, they become more rigid over time. Memories and experiences and knowledge are stored in the brain, as are the connections and pathways between them. This has the effect of giving more weight ("a stronger signal") to existing experiences over new ones. (Because there are more old experiences than new ones, of course, and this effect grows stronger over time.) Since neural networks function on a strongest-signal-wins basis, this becomes a problem over time. Past experiences have more weight than new ones, making it harder to integrate new experiences ("learning"). There's many an adage along those lines, such as "can't teach and old dog new tricks" or whatever stereotypical pejorative you want to throw in about old people being cranky and stuck in their ways. It's rooted in the way neural networks function, preferring a large body of historical experience over a smaller number of new experiences. I think current research on neural plasticity pegs 75 as something of a dividing line, but I'm not sure how much of that is due to biological aging, and how much is due to fundamental issues with neural networks in general, but it seems like over a long enough time span, the way neural networks weight new things against their body of existing experience is bound to be a problem. The other issue is that the brain doesn't really scale to the type of time scales you're taking about. Can you recall many memories from 10 years ago? 20? I wouldn't say that's a big problem, as people get along just fine with only the vaguest memories of what they experienced years ago, but it will be a more pronounced effect the longer you live. In respect to this question, it means a person who's lived for thousands of years would only have reliable memories of a fraction of a percent of their lifespan, at least with their natural wetware. (There's definitely a sci-fi angle for memory storage implants in there, but the natural state of only being able to recall a tiny fraction of one's life seems weird and unsettling.) So I would suggest that the biggest problem an immortal person would face is that they'd be very limited in what they're able to learn and adapt to after a certain age. They might live 10,000 years and gather new memories, but otherwise, they'll probably be mentally the same person as they were at 75 (or 100 or whatever). 

So even before the questions of motive or the practicality of hitting a planet with your DNA payload or how you get the DNA to fertilize the planet, (rather than burning up on entry or impact, etc.), you have the problem that DNA degrades too quickly to survive an interstellar voyage... unless you have the technology to travel there anyway. So a definite no. You can't seed life across the cosmos, at least not with DNA, because DNA degrades too quickly. 

How plausible it is that Joe gets caught really boils down to how Joe acts with his new found wealth. If the machine really does print perfect fakes, he's not going to get caught directly - it won't be a counterfeiting investigation that brings him down. Even if he ran the printing press non-stop, he's not going to put out enough to make a noticeable difference in the money supply, and it's not as if the serial numbers from his fake bills are going to be compared against some government database of bills that have actually printed (a fact that intelligence agencies and other governments rely on when printing their own fakes), so we have basically negligible odds of the printing press operation bringing the Secret Service to Joe's door. Having said that, it's not actually easy to move large quantities of cash around without someone noticing, and it's probably the tax man that's going to Joe's biggest threat. Joe's either going to need to find a good way to launder large amounts of money (which, in and of itself is a problem that can bring the authorities to Joe's door) or show enough restraint that he's able to fly under the radar, because if the authorities show for another reason, it's safe to assume that they won't take kindly to his magical printing press. A smart Joe would probably use the printing press conservatively to pay his bills, start a business of some sort and set himself up so that several years down the line, he'll be a successful business owner who can live it up without raising eyebrows. Which, of course, means the odds of Joe getting caught are probably rather high. That level of restraint and patience are pretty rare, and the temptation here is pretty large - the vast majority of people are going to spend too much, live with with too much of a profile, bring the IRS or the cops sniffing around, and end up in jail for their counterfeiting operation, especially considering that the bills are essentially undetectable as fakes. 

You would want to use the same places criminals tend to use to commit crimes, for the same reasons criminals use these places to commit crimes - the lack of video surveillance or reliable witnesses that allow them to get away with their crimes would allow you to get away with your transformation. Abandoned properties, no-tell-motels, drug dens ("crack houses", etc.), an out-of-sight potion of the local skid row, or just the middle of nowhere would all do just fine. I would probably prefer a drug den or no-tell-motel, as it gives you a plausible explanation for your absence while you were off doing your super hero thing, should anyone follow you, and any witnesses who noticed something off would be both unreliable and inclined to keep their mouths shut anyway. Of course, the major drawback is that your alibi for not being a superhero is that you were strung out on illegal drugs, or sexing up your hooker at the time... but nothing's perfect. 

There are two fundamental problems with any military technology or strategy. The first is that if it is successful enough to give you a significant advantage, then your adversaries will acquire or emulate it. This is why empires built on the strength of a military tend to have a short lifespan. Napoleon is the textbook example of this. He revolutionized warfare and conquered Europe, and while he was unstoppable at the start, it didn't take his adversaries long to learn and implement the very strategies that made him unstoppable, dramatically narrowing the gap between the effectiveness of his armies and the effectiveness of his adversaries' armies. The second is that no strategy or technology exists in a vacuum. Your adversaries will constantly adapt and change to counter whatever strategy or technology you roll out. Machine guns came about to counter masses of infantry, then tanks came about to counter machine guns, airpower and RPGs came about to counter tanks, and that's just in the last 100 years or so. In the case of your perfect anti-ballistic technology, the counter-move is obvious - don't rely on ballistic weapons that can be shot down. Use kinetic weapons, use mines and IEDs and use directed energy weapons (flamethrowers). These two unavoidable realities combine to mean that an advantage built on military power is very temporary. More lasting advantages arise from having a stronger economy, demographic base and means of production. Which brings up the other problem of military power, which is that military power just covers the issue of winning the war. Military technologies and strategies are not of much use in winning the peace, generally speaking, and if you don't win the peace, can't hold what you've conquered, then you've spent a lot of blood and treasure for nothing. This is the bigger problem most empires face, particularly those that expand principally by military force. It's been many hundreds of years in human history since we've seen one comparable nation conquer and hold another for any significant period of time (the USSR collapsed and gave up all its WWII gains inside 50 years, and against much smaller and weaker nations, the Imperial Japanese didn't even make it that long, nor did Napoleon, the European colonial powers collapsed under the weight of maintaining control over their colonies, etc.). Military power is simply not a good way to spread ideology. Fundamentally, people do not like being conquered. Spreading ideology is about winning hearts and minds, about making people want what you have and what you are, which is why it is primarily done through cultural and economic means. The only way that ideology is successfully spread by military means is when the military decimates the other population and paves the way for settlers. (Just ask the Native Americans, right?) If your Lettucians are comfortable with that, then that's the way to go. Use their current military advantage to win the war, genocide the other populations, and have their civilians claim the ruins.