Did the Czech Legion really bring POWs during its evacuation ? If yes, who exactly, and how many, were those POWs ? What motivated the Czech legion to bring them along ? What happened to them when they reached Czechoslovakia ? In addition, any more precise figure about how many family members, civilian personnel, and POWs did accompany the Czech Legion evacuation would be appreciated. 

I am a bit skeptical though : why would the Czech Legion, who didn't plan to play a role anymore in Russian civil war, bother to bring POWs all around the world to their newly founded homeland, Czechoslovakia ? Why not rather release them, or handle them to the Japanese Army that was occupying Vladivostok ? Possible explanations that I could imagine : 

This is one man's subjective view, albeit a professional's. And the guy was riding in a Tiger tank with an 88mm gun (or was it a "Jagdtiger" with a 128mm main gun?). And then he might just have faced infantry or inexperienced fresh units. At the beginning of the war in the Soviet Union, the Germans captured hundreds of thousands of soldiers, until the Red Army adapted it's tactics and training. 

"Dark History" doesn't give a source for this supposed order from Hitler. I don't think the site is credible by itself, since it's just a blog. From what I've read and heard about the topic (I can't give references either, since I didn't write the books and tv shows down), the Nazis just used the means of execution that had already been in place at these prisons before during the Weimar Republic. I'm not aware that the courts gave verdicts specifying the means of execution. 

Arnold Schwarzenegger is a native German speaker from Austria and a naturalized US citizen who became Governor of California. Wikipedia indicates that his grasp of English was quite weak in childhood. Schwarzenegger himself indicated that his command of English was weak in 1968. In 1968 he was 20 or 21 years old, indicating that his mastery of English came as an adult. Martin Van Buren, the eighth president of the United States, was a native speaker of Dutch and learned English later. This case might not fit your requirements as he was a native-born US citizen from New York. 

In Adomnán of Iona's Life of St. Columba (Book 2, Chapter 39), the author speaks of a man from Derry who swore an oath of slavery to a man who saved him from the death penalty. He later ran away and ended up in Scotland, where he met St. Columba. The man, named Librán of the reed-bed, explains his his back-story thus: 

All one needed was a map of Europe and the German propaganda reports on the fighting (and maybe some pins to mark places). Official German radio reports about fighting included names of cities that lay in the vicinity of the combat and rivers that were crossed. The reports were heavy with propaganda-speak, blurring losses and denying defeat. But if one filtered out all the phraeseology and just concentrated on the cities that were mentioned, he could get a good overview of the back and forth motion of the general frontlines. Completely lying about the course of the frontline would have been impossible. Too many men were soldiers, and they went on home leave occasionally. Wikipedia says that approximately 18.000.000 men served in the Wehrmacht [Wikipedia]. It was impossible to prevent them from talking to people at home. I don't know how the reports differed with respect to information content between radio, on-screen, and the newspapers. 

On September 20, 1979, the US signed a treaty with Kiribati abandoning its claims on several islands ("Canton (Kanton), Enderbury, Hull (Orona), Birnie, Gardner (Nikumaroro), Phoenix (Rawaki), Sydney (Manra), McKean, Christmas (Kiritimati), Caroline, Starbuck, Malden, Flint, and Vostok"). It appears that sovereignty over the islands was disputed, but the treaty clearly had a similar effect to an outright gift of undisputed territory. It also is pretty clear that the USA could have retained the islands by force if it had wanted to, so this wasn't a case of surrendering territory under serious threat of conquest. 

Exploration of the Gobekli Tepe archaeological site in Turkey from the 1960's to the 1990's revealed that monumental construction predates the development of agriculture, rather than the other way around (which was the previously prevailing viewpoint). 

Apart from Jews only Sinti and Roma have suffered worst from the Holocaust ($URL$ I can't think of any other ethnic group which endured anything similar under the Nazis. The holocaust was extended to include them. There was a plan for the Holocaust at least starting with the Wannsee-Conference in 1942 ($URL$ One can argue that it had always been Hitler's intention. 

Jesus of Nazareth was a historical figure, by all which is known today. He was a Galilean jew, born in Nazareth. His father was a carpenter, and Jesus possibly had the same occupation, because it was customary to learn one's fathers profession. He probably did not rise much above his father economically. From spending time outside beneath the Middle Eastern sun, his skin could have become dark. There is no reason to call him dark-skinned, apart from what the sun did. Since his parents were Galilean jews, probability theory says that they were like most Galilean jews. And the majority did not look African. 

Already in prehistorical times, it seems that the arrival of Human was the cause of major changes in ecosytems. Even before the rise of agriculture, the use of fire is supposed to have had a huge impact on the environment. For instance in Australia: 

Although the Spanish militia and citizens were to some extend coordinating with the Spanish Army, I think the Peninsula War against Napoleon's army fits. The guerilleros weapons were much less sophisticated than the Frenchs', but they prevented the invading army from controlling the country for 6 years, until it retreated in 1814. This episode is the reason why the Spanish word guerrilla is widely used nowadays in a variety of languages, including French and English. 

You are correct. According to this site (unfortunately in German) about the Roman Empire there were many different types of dice in use by the Romans. Apart from the 6-sided cubes we know today there were also rod-shaped dice with four or six sides. The website reports: 

Germany was perceived as the aggressor and cause of World War I by the Allied powers. It gave a "carte blanche" to its ally Austria, which was about to declare war on Serbia just because the Austrian successor to the throne was killed by a Bosnian Serb. The Germans attacked France executing their "Schlieffen-Plan" which required they march through Belgium which was Allies with Great Britain. The German situation in late 1918 was rather hopeless on the front - Germany had no ways to counter the tanks, which made trench warfare obsolete, and the United States had brought fresh troops to the war. 

Turkey, under the leadership of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, introduced a series of language reforms via the public education system that seriously impacted comprehension of older documents. The changes included massive vocabulary changes as well as a switch from the Arabic to the Roman alphabet. Since the taxonomy of languages is always up for debate, it can be reasonably argued that a change to the Turkish language at this magnitude constitutes a shift to a new language, even if that new language is also called Turkish. This change differs from the more gradual changes that typified transitions between classical, medieval, and modern languages (e.g. Latin to French, Middle English to Modern English, Old Norse to Danish, etc.) because it was quick, deliberate, and official. This was not a slow social process of changes filtering out through towns and villages and across social classes over decades or centuries, it happened via government decrees and official public school curriculum updates. 

In the case of Luxembourg, the country's independance was established during the early 19th century because of the strength of its main fortress in the capital, Luxembourg-ville. But not so because some fierce nationalists would have used the fortress to defend the country against imperialist invaders. Rather because the fortress was such a huge advantage for whoever controlled it, that giving full sovereignty to either France, The Netherlands or Prussia/Germany would have been a threat to the security of the other two. The balance of powers was considered during the 19th century, and possibly untill WWII, as the main garantee for peace. This concept drove the European policy of UK, and of some continental leaders like Metternich. As a consequence, the Congress of Vienna (1815), the first Treaty of London (1839) and the Second Treaty of London (1867) gradually led to the small, independant country of Luxembourg, and to the dismantlement of its capital's fortress - to make sure no imperialist power would take advantage of it. Remaining neutral for the next 150 years must have helped Luxembourg to maintain or recover its independance ever since, even if it has not prevented its occupation by Germany during both World Wars. $URL$