Based in historical facts, we might say that Romania was not neutral by then. Russia occupied Bessarabia and Bukovina from Romania early in the war. Hence, Romania neutrality was already violated. It was after those events that Romania entered in alliance with Germany. 

Religious and cultural diversity were part of the Ottoman Empire during its whole life, hence this alone can't be the reason of its decline. Also, the Empire reached its max size around 1680 and remained stable for a century or more. What weakened the Ottoman Empire was: - European industrialization - Colonialism - Nationalism In short industrialization gave the european powers enough weapons and strength to defeat the Ottoman Empire. But also gave to european powers motives to search for new resources to supply their factories, new markets to sell their products and enough money to invest in other countries. This surplus gave to Europe the need to control foreign lands. This is one of the reason that starts colonialism, were Europe starts to colonize several regions of Africa, Asia and Oceania. This turned Ottoman territory into a potencial place to colonize. Finally, the surge of nationalism, one of the effects of French Revolution. This is somehow related to the question, because nationalism is related to cultural and religious differences. Nationalism gave a reason to european minorities (serbs, greeks, bulgars, romanians, etc.) inside the Ottoman Empire to fight for their autonomy. Now, even though cultural and religious differences had an effect, the main reason was industrialization. Because the same effect ocurred in China, India or Persia, were european countries started to divide these countries in influence zones since they had the strength to do it. Only Japan was able to remain independent because they accepted western industrialization, and they were able to become a colonial power as well. 

Well, the Byzantine Empire certainly considered itself to be a continuation of the Roman Empire. It continued Roman culture fairly directly at first, but gradually changed over its lifespan of nearly a thousand years. The Empire had been re-arranged and sub-divided a number of times, but the distinction between the Greek-speaking East and Latin-speaking West was the one that lasted, and the Byzantine Empire had started as the Eastern Roman Empire. The Holy Roman Empire also considered itself to be a continuation of the Roman Empire. It only maintained Latin as a language of the educated after the Romance languages had developed out of Vulgar Latin, and most of the HRE territory was German-speaking anyway. While its culture had Roman influences, it wasn't strictly Roman. It did, however, help preserve Latin Christianity. The Ottoman Empire regarded itself as a successor to the Byzantine Empire, but it wasn't founded until about 800 years after the fall of the Western Roman Empire, so the claim to be a successor of the original Rome was not taken seriously, and lapsed after the death of Mehmed II. The Russian claim was based on family links to the last Byzantine emperors, and their support of Orthodox Christianity. "Tsar" is their version of "Cesar". After the dismantling of the Holy Roman Empire, the Austrian Empire claimed to be its successor, as did the German Empire from 1871. Fascist Italy also claimed to be a new Rome, but they weren't very good at conquest. The Wikipedia article on Third Rome is a reasonable summary of the various claims. 

Hitler is saying that he thinks he can make use of the Spanish communists, some day, so some sort of contact with them ought to be maintained (that's the metaphor "keep them on the back burner.") He's saying that the communists lost out firstly to democracy, and then later they lost out to Franco and his group. He's agreeing with something that Speer seems to have said earlier in the conversation, that the Spanish communists had real idealism, and were thus more impressive to him than the democrats or Franco's group. Hitler never thought much of democracy, and Franco's group were traditional Spanish conservatives. Hitler regarded Nazism as a radical, rather than a traditional, movement, overthrowing the past. Why does Hitler think he can convert the Spanish communists to Nazism? He'd done that to a lot of German socialists and communists. Goebbels, for example, was originally a socialist, but as Nazism turned from a kind of socialism with a strong racial element into a system based on the idea of the leader (Hitler), he changed his views with it. Idealism and desire for revolution are personality traits at least as much as they are political ideas, and they can be redirected. 

I'd say that instead of the weakness of Morocco, the strength of Iberia at the end of XV century is the cause of the exploration of the new world. For centuries Spain and Portugal had been fighting against the islamic kindoms in the peninsula. So by the time they liberated the peninsula they started to look for other challenges. Actually, once Portugal ended its conquest of the peninsula and liberated from spanish influence (1383), they invaded Morocco, by taking Ceuta (1415). Later Spain did the same, they defeated Granada in the peninsula (1492) and later invaded Melilla in north Africa (1497). Both countries started their naval exploration once they liberated (either foreign influence or muslim kindoms) their respective territories. Hence, Morocco during the XV and XVI centuries was under a strong pressure from Spain and Portugal. By not being able to sustain its own territory it was also incapable to create an armada capable to explore the world or repel the invaders. 

The USSR does no longer exists. In fact, when Gorbachov resigns the flag of the USSR is removed from the Kremlin, and the flag of Russia takes its place. Basically the USSR ends in 1990 when the constitution removes the article that declares that the Comunist Party is the only political party, this was done by the new Congress, not by the soviets. This event means that the soviet no longer had any power. Therefore from now the Soviet Union no longer works as a soviet. Later Russia and the other states declare their self-government. The new states actually always existed, the difference is that they declared their independence during the fall of the USSR. The concept would be similar to a disintegration of present day Spain. Before the revolution of 1917 one might have said that the different states where colonies or territories of Russia, but during the communist age they where states of the Union, after all, the communists were against any form of colonization. 

The rates of pay were increased at least twice during the war, but from July 1940 to at least March 1944, a Lieutenant Colonel's pay was 43 shillings per day. There were various allowances for family members. Soldiers with dependents were expected to allocate some of their pay to them, and there was a system for making those payments in the UK. The amount would have been up to the soldier, at least for officers. The balance was available to the soldier, and they would often draw it in local currency if serving overseas. Source: Hansard report of a question in Parliament, but the OCR has not made a good job of the layout. 

It's extremely hard to distinguish between these possibilities at this distance in time. While experiments could be designed to distinguish between them, they would involve bringing up newborn children without human contact. This is considered profoundly immoral, and thus the experiments should not be done. 

His renunciation of the throne was legal, in the sense that there was no law against it. It did not take legal effect until Parliament had passed His Majesty's Declaration of Abdication Act 1936. He actually continued to be monarch until that act came into effect, which happened when he gave Royal Assent to it, and thereby ceased to be monarch. All of this happened the day after he had renounced the throne: Parliament can act quickly when everyone agrees that's a good idea. Each realm of which he was King had to pass its own act to give effect to the abdication, which is why he was King of Ireland for a day longer than anywhere else. If any future UK monarch abdicates, the procedure will presumably be similar. To retain the throne, he would have had to abandon his plans to marry Mrs Simpson, and he was unwilling to do that. He could have remained unmarried and kept her as a mistress, but she would not have had a social position along with him. He also had an implied duty to father an heir, and she was a bit old for that in 1936. There was a covert objection to Edward VIII, among those who knew him. He had the maturity of a teenager, entirely self-centred and caring only for his own pleasures and desires. My source for this is the diaries of "Tommy" Lascelles who was Private Secretary to Edward VIII, George VI and Elizabeth II. George V had regarded Edward as poorly suited to being king and hoped that it would end up with "Bertie" (George VI) and his daughter Elizabeth, as actually happened. The story that he was in favour of Nazi Germany has a distinct problem. If he was, why was he picked out of his exile in France and attached to the British Military Mission to France? It's very plausible that he was impressed by the glamour and displayed power of Nazism, but that's different from being a traitor. 

After five years I'll add more information to complement @ihtkwot answer. When you take a social science and try to give it a scientific aproach, your first problem will be the repetition of the phenomena in order to confirm an hypothesis... only after that you can create a law which describes that phenomena. In a good case, if you have several samples you might use statistics to describe in numbers that phenomena, and if you have a good correlation between the theory and the reality you will be able to say that your hypothesis is actually a law. In a social science like history you have so few samples to describe each event, that you'll always have problems trying to find a pattern or confirm an hypothesis. That's why Toynbee accepts that limitation and tries to confirm his theory by comparative method, where he tried to find similar events to compare, but he knew that these events are not exactly the same. Samuel Huntington, Francis Fukuyama and Yuval Noah Harari might be authors who have tried to find laws of history lately. 

Do not confuse world war with peace time. Even though during the cold war there were military actions, the magnitude is not the same. During WWII USA built almost 100 carriers of many sizes, while in the cold war usually only 12 big carriers were available. During cold war, USA actually used several carriers at the same time in a single theater whenever it was required. For example in the Gulf War, where several carriers were in the Red Sea. In the present, since USA has many interest worldwide, they must keep military presence in many places, as result they divide their forces in all oceans. While in the WWII their influence was inferior, because many seas were covered by the Royal Navy. As result its ships where concentrated in less oceans. 

At the time conquering yourself an empire was seen as a legitimate ambition if you could do it. Invoking Genghis Khan was a way to gather supporters and frighten opponents: getting people to surrender is easier than fighting them, and means you can tax them. He was not a member of the Borjigin clan, but may have been descended from Genghis Khan anyway. There's no way to know now. 

For the British monarchy, the answer seems to be "no". Since the Act of Union in 1707, only two monarchs have married while on the throne, George III and Victoria. Both of their spouses were royal, and neither had any special title during the engagement. George III married Charlotte of Mecklenburg-Strelitz, in part because she had no experience of politics. The engagement was formalised on 15th August 1761, and they were married on 8th September; there would hardly have been any point in giving her a special title for three weeks. Victoria proposed to Albert on 15th October 1839, and they were married on 10th February 1840. He had no special title or style during the engagement, although he was made a Knight of the Garter in December 1839. It's not clear just when Edward VIII proposed to Wallis Simpson, but he made it officially known on 16th November 1936, and abdicated on 10th December. She was not a princess, and certainly had no title until she actually married him, when she became the Duchess of Windsor. Men who marry daughters of a British monarch sometimes receive a peerage, bestowed on them the morning before the wedding. However, they have no special title before then. Examples include Prince Phillip, who was made Duke of Edinburgh on the morning of his marriage to Princess Elizabeth, and Antony Armstrong-Jones, who was made Earl of Snowdon on the morning of his marriage to Princess Margret. Mark Phillips did not receive a peerage when he married Princess Anne; he may have declined it. 

I'd say that the Third Punic war might fulfill the requirement. Even though the beginning of the war might be hard to define, Roman demand to people of Carthage to leave the city and go inland to live, in order to burn the city, almost forced Carthage to accept war instead of the relocation. Even though they did not have weapons neither military training. So defeat was almost for sure. Another potential candidate is the Warsaw ghetto uprising during WWII. In this case the difference is that the guetto was not a country, but a nation. But the other requirements of the OP are filled, because people in the ghetto knew they could not win against germans. But it was the inevitable defeat or the extermination camp. 

During the first winter of war in the eastern front, Russia used several units of cavalry because they had few tanks during those months, some of these units as part off the called "shock armies". They were not designed for frontal attack, but instead as units to deep explotation of openings in the enemy line and to harass rearguard. Since the eastern front was so big, there was enough space to use cavalry, but once Russia improved their tank contruction they started to create more mechanised armies instead of the former shock armies. 

It started around Teheran Conference, after the knowledge of german war crimes in territories liberated by the Soviet Union. Since only war criminals should be put on trial, they started to make the distinction between criminals and the rest of the population. Later on criminals started to be associated to nazis. By Yalta Conference, the declaration used the word nazi several times. So then it was clear that the concept nazi was prevalent as the cause of war. Near the end of the war, it was required to make a strong distinction between germans and nazis, in order to prevent abuses from allied forces against german civilians and prisioners. And also to give an excuse to remove former nazis from civil goverment during the occupation of Germany.