These options should help you find the middle ground between doing it all yourself and getting the CEO's direct help. Think about this answer to your question compared with other answers you were given. Which ones were the most helpful? Being given a short list of options to choose from is a great way to give your requesters most of what they wanted, while still pushing some of the responsibility back to them when you can't do it all yourself. 

The more you show that he bothers you, the more he gets what he wants. One of the better coping strategies is ignoring the situation, "so as to show the bully that bullying had little effect." In the study above, fighting with the aggressor or other confronting strategies tended to lead to more problems than the bullied child could handle at once. Another article, the long-term effects of bullying, from mentalhelp.net also seems to have some good practical advice that may be of use to you. For example, 

"Flexible work ethics" appears to be a particularly insipid phrase that has been sprouting up in HR/management speak. A Google search shows that it is popping up all over the place in job descriptions. Obviously, the intent of the phrase is not something that is unethical. In my opinion, this is just a case of really bad wordsmithing by some HR/management person. Somehow this has become a meme and now other orgs are using the phrase. 

(*) Before responding to the first listing, it might be useful to do a little research. You can do this even with the very slim set of clues provided by the anonymous job description. 

I agree with the others about setting up the scope of the project, communication channels, the use of change requests, management of expectations, etc. But your problem is that "the cat is already out of the bag". It is probably too late to set-up proper change request ground rules at this point. The best thing you can do now is to humanize the communication and try to re-establish some rapport with the client. It seems like you are using email to communicate. In situations like this where anger becomes an issue having a conversation on the phone or in person might be more helpful. Email has a way of making people more rude and dismissive and this is particularly acute if you're dealing with a stubborn person who can't imagine that what he wrote could have an ambiguous interpretation. If you talk with him, preferably with a drawing in hand, you are going to be more able to make him appreciate the nuances of what you're saying, and he will be able to see that you're not trying to give him a hard time. 

I think that you could have done better, but I disagree with answers that say you completely failed and should have done X or Y instead. It's important to understand that a CEO needs to delegate: this is how she uses her time for the right thing. Being executive implies commanding, not doing! I can see why your CEO was irritated at being brought in after believing he'd handed the task off. He has better things to do. This does put you in a difficult position when you feel like you don't have the required resources to do the task. However, without seeing the exact list of basic phone requirements you were given, it's hard to say whether your questions were warranted or not—just maybe going straight back to the CEO with them may not be the best strategy. Here are some suggestions for the future. When given a task that you feel isn't in your area of expertise, or you don't think you have enough information to carry it out, you can do several things: 

It certainly was wrong of the senior member of your team to over-react in such an offensive way. That kind of behavior, in addition to demoralizing the rest of the team, encourages others to hide mistakes rather than admit to them lest they face the wrath of this person as you did. You should not expect that this behavior will be "addressed" by the offender or anyone else by any kind of apology or reprimand. You made a technical mistake and he made a mistake by behaving unprofessionally. No good will come out of forcing judgement on which transgression was "worse" and having the loser pay the balance in an apology. However, keep in mind that his over-reaction most likely has hurt his reputation MORE than it has hurt yours. We all make mistakes, your co-workers make mistakes too and they know that you are not, as he said, "insane". They know you made a mistake like everyone else. His outburst is harder to justify: in the best case scenario it was a forgivable isolated incident but every time it happens again the loss of reputation will get worse and worse for this person. The best thing to do is to move on from this incident and do not bring up his behavior. 

Sounds a lot like my previous job... I was contracted to get a start on .NET and Flex projects and in the they put me working on LAMP/WAMP stacks (which is what the company eventually got into and dropped everything else). But in my case I was already familiar with those stacks whereas you will have to take on something new as a challenge. I would say just go with what you've learned already because in the end, these languages/systems are just a tool to meet the end of a goal. As someone just coming out of a training program, you won't have much say in the company until you can produce some results. Leverage your back-end experience to work for Javascript, and learn a framework or two. You'd be surprised how complex the language can be. Also, you'd get a better understanding of how server-client interactions work. Also, understand that the demands of a company may constantly change, as it was in my case. However, we cannot tell exactly from your question if this will be for one project only, or if the company wants to keep you in front-end for the long haul. If you are being compensated fairly, I wouldn't complain about it for now. Part of being a competent and reliable worker is to adapt to the dynamics of the company. 

The unfortunate thing about "metrics", "KPI's" or whatever you want to call them is that people are all too willing to uncritically accept such measurements as "the truth" just because they're numbers. Moreover, far too much emphasis is placed on the collection and reporting of these dubious figures and relatively little effort is put into their intelligent interpretation and how to effectively use these measurements in practice. A simple number is much easier to present and digest than nuanced sentences, comparative case studies, and historical background. This plays into the desire of management to make crisp, quick decisions based on "objective data". It understandably feels better to make black and white decisions or judgements and not have to be mired in a fog of "grey area" indeterminancy. Unfortunately, reality itself often is a "grey area" and it is not always possible to make truly informed decisions based on data, let alone data that isn't even valid. As an example, in manufacturing, it is not uncommon for organizations to practice "cargo-cult" versions of six-sigma or lean methodologies. In these places, a superficial effort is made to collect easily measured data and then cherry-pick the data differently to report the desired outcome. This leads to people "gaming the system" for their own benefit while the true outcomes fail to change in a controllable way. The way to avoid this problem is to cultivate a culture where decision-makers are willing to spend significant effort to look at data intelligently and critically. Such people would not blindly accept what their "business intelligence dashboard" tells them and would smirk with skepticism upon hearing the phrase "high visibility into productivity." 

If you can sleuth your way to the original job listing, skip the middleman and contact the company directly! Now, not all technical recruiters are terrible- from my experience the bad ones tend to be the ones that scour through so many resumes and jobs. I applied to a newsletter for one that gave weekly job listings, but getting a response from any I was interested in was futile. I had a better, more personal experience with smaller agencies. They tend to have less candidates coming their way and you won't get so lost in the shuffle. 

You would ideally title yourself as a software developer or software engineer. In your case, you have experience with back-end languages and frameworks which, in some companies put you squarely in programming the back-end of websites, far removed from the design. Other places would have you using a lot of HTML, CSS, PHP and some frameworks, bridging the contexts of design and function. The degree of specialization often depends on the company size. Website/graphic design is concerned with the presentation and organization of information in the medium. In a perfect world, having an expertise in graphic design would carry over well into website design, but website design comes with its own idiosyncrasies and rules for good practices. So those designers have to understand the technical requirements and limitations for design for an online medium. 

I would not even mention your perception that you were told not to do it (a fact which is debatable based on your report of what he actually said). I wouldn’t apologize unless sorely pressed to it (though then genuinely for having done something injurious that you didn't intend), and I definitely wouldn’t say I’d done it on my own time, as if you’re salaried then all the energy you spend in work belongs to your company, and if you’re paid hourly then it was illegal to not report the hours. I'd play it like this: 

Here is a completely different angle for you to consider. It may be a completely useless suggestion, but could also transform your life. Since you say that your depression is biological, it is possible that it is rooted in a gene defect governing some important metabolic pathway in the body. Many people who have what most would assume is a mental disorder have significant or amazing improvement in their conditions after mitigating for the problems revealed through genetic testing. You can get genetic testing done at a site like 23 and me (sorry, I don't know of genetic testing companies in the UK, but you can research this). Either do just the Ancestry service, then get your genetic data and upload it to a site like Genetic Genie, or do the more expensive Health & Ancestry service (though you can still use Genetic Genie or another provider, there are several). Please research this, though, as it seems their offerings have changed since I last researched it thoroughly, and you want to be sure that you'll get what you expect. Based on the prices, you may need to do the Health & Ancestry service in either case. For example, a woman with inherited anxiety of disabling and destructive degree, who was completely unhelped by therapy, found through genetic testing that she had an (inherited) double MTHFR gene defect. Under a specialist's care, by avoiding certain foods containing folate and taking a methylfolate supplement, she almost completely resolved her anxiety issues which had plagued her and was destroying her family. Here is an example story—similar, but not identical to the one I read about. Some web searches will reveal lots of talk about this possible connection. It may be a long shot and I know you are short on money for the test and for any special medical care to follow up on the results, but considering how life-changing it could be, how could you not check it out? If you started a GoFundMe site to pay for the genetic testing and any subsequent medical care, I would probably even contribute, myself. To My Detractors I am not advocating the avoidance of honest self-inquiry, nor suggesting skimping on copious amounts of hard work. If there is progress to made through self-improvement efforts such as going to therapy, joining support groups, or reading relevant books, then do all those things! But if there is truly a biological basis for the OP's depression as he has claimed, what reason do you have to doubt him? Are you psychology experts, now, able to diagnose complete strangers after reading a couple of hundred words they wrote? Or is it that you doubt? You don't think that genetic defects in genes governing key metabolic pathways could ever cause depression? Are you all genetics experts, too? Had you ever even heard of MTHFR or COMT? Are you aware of epigenetics—that two people with the same genes can have different genes expressed because of environmental factors? Or that these defects can be more about rates and thresholds than absolute switches, so that an issue can arise later in life after another health problem has stressed the body in some way and put demand on the key pathway? The OP wants to know "How to get a raise I am denied to because of sick leaves." My answer is an objectively realizable path that could achieve his goal. He pays $200 to do genetic testing. He discovers he has a heterozygous defect in a couple of important genes. He visits a doctor familiar with these issues and begins supplementing with vitamins, plus avoiding a few foods. The depression is cut in half in intensity and duration, it becomes easier to manage, he reduces his amount of sick leave by 75%, and is able to get the raise he needs. Or, it doesn't work, or he doesn't have a defect. So then he moves on to another strategy to manage and defeat the problems in his life. If you downvote, please leave a comment with what objective reason you're doing so for—and include your thoughts on genetic defects. If you're just ignorant, go educate yourself before you vote. But if you have objective information that shows my answer to be poor, please share it so that everyone can learn! Don't be afraid I'll revenge doenvote you—I won't. Do be afraid I'll be checking and contesting any objective claims you make that upon investigation appear to be flawed... 

During the interview, it is very important to ask really good, pointed questions. It reflects well on you and if you really care about the quality of your work environment, you will listen carefully to the answers and evaluate them seriously. However, at the end of a long session of interviewing where both parties have had plenty of opportunities to ask and answer questions for literally hours, it is really hard to be authentic when asked "Do you have any questions for me?" If you really did ask all the questions you needed to ask during the discussion, there is nothing more to say other than to go over what the next steps in the process are (if this hasn't already been covered in detail). In other words, it is OK to say "no" if you've already asked all the questions you needed to ask. Forcing out a trite question just because you feel obligated to on the spot is awkward and will leave both parties with a bad feeling. 

I would have a heart-to-heart with each of them, privately, in a frank and serious but not stern tone, something like this: 

You could follow this up by discussing with him the video Dan Pink on motivation – mastery, autonomy, and purpose. Talk about those things, then forward him the link. Explain that having autonomy and being allowed to practice your mastery are crucial to your motivation at the company, and that you'd like him to grant you those things so you can be the best employee possible. You might ask him to watch Greatness by ship captain David Marquet or a longer version (there are other versions as well, look at the related videos). You might even get him to watch Great Leaders Serve Others. It's not enough to sit back and let your boss manage you at his whim, however he wants. To be successful you have to manage him, too. Help him learn how to provide what you need to make it easiest to do a top notch job. 

I have an unusual problem in finding work. I have been in many interviews (over 10 in the past year), but none of them produced any job offers. However, the employers I've interviewed with are impressed by my resume and ability to solve the problems given to show that I would be productive. This leads me to find an observation for most jobs that I apply to (mainly a hard-skills technical job). Everyone needs soft skills to survive the interview process. But for those more inclined for technical work, once the job is held, these soft skills are suddenly not as important or used with the same sense of urgency, or at least they're not the same type of communication skills. They feel underused in the job compared to the interview. As an example, I do not know how to translate my ability to communicate well with co-workers on a long project into the ability to convincing interviewers and play the salesman for saying why I should get the job. Speaking to an interviewer to me feels a lot different and more difficult than speaking to a team member to discuss project goals. I consider then different kinds of communication skills. I probably don't know how make them work at an interview, so here is where I want improvement on.