if believe we can escape the suffering of this world and the limits of our material existence by observing and practicing a set of practices. for Christian, we know that the way of “escape” is only through faith in Jesus Christ as they are spiritually reborn with God’s life through the Holy Spirit? what about Buddhist? 

A fundamental tenet of Buddhism is freedom from attachments. If that is so, what is the purpose of the Buddhist marriage ceremony? It seems to be a contradiction, a celebration of attachment within a philosophy that avoids attachment. 

Buddha loved all the animal (can see to eye & cannot see to eye) in the world not only dogs. for examples like "Alcoholic Elephant Nalagiri". before become Buddha prince siddartha save's a swan life hunted by Devadaththa.. these are few examples..you can see so many examples in the net about this. any way lord Buddha loves Humans & Animals in equal & same way.. 

Yes it does. The concept of rebirth and reincarnation in Buddhism is complex and can differ slightly or largely from tradition to tradition however. You asked: 

I have seen Zen monks in meditation, usually with one monk supervising. The monk supervising usually carries a wand of some sort. Every once in a while he would rest the wand on the shoulder of one of the monks and then respectfully hit his shoulder. It did not seem very forceful yet I found this confusing because to me it seemed as if it may be a method of harm or violence. I would like clarification on this practie. Why does the supervising monk do this to the meditating monks? 

in Buddhas time also their was Prostitutes. having sex others (including Prostitute) beside your wife as per Buddhism its WRONG find below the meaning of the Guide line 4 

we all know Prince Siddartha, about 29 years old when he began his quest for enlightenment. His quest was accomplished about six years later, when he was in his mid-30s became Lord Buddha. so my question is, is their any Age limit to become a Buddha? 

As per My knowledge of Buddhism Lord Buddha said this is a Question That Time Wast's. Buddha said you cannot ever find end for where new Humans come from.. its like you cannot find End of the Universe.. 

did the Lord Buddha sad anything about magic and fortune telling, because i just want to know in this modern world every one following some astrology People (Fortune tellers) & People believe what ever these people say. media also giving high priority to them. 

The type of meditation that this was related to was called placing focus on the breath (not keeping focus on the breath). I found that placing the focus on the breath eventually lead to a quiet state in which I was aware of my surroundings, truly being in the moment where everything was fresh. I did not think about being aware, I just simply was (here I mean I just simply existed). This was the natural return to a natural state of mindfulness. The only active effort that I had to do was to place my focus on my breath repeatedly and peacefully allow any thinking to depart from my mind. After some time I would start thinking again and repeat the process. This is very beginners level meditation. 

Do not take life Do not take what is not given Do not distort facts Refrain from misuse of the senses Refrain from self-intoxication through alcohol or drugs 

is it the EARTH only Place that can give birth to a Buddha? isn't their any other Universes or worlds beside than Earth that Previously born Buddha or in the Future? 

Does any one know what is the exact Age Limit that Buddha can live? i heard that one of previous Buddha lives His Life for 40,000 year. 

If our present existence is the result of something we could not control (from a prior life), what hope can we have related to our present situation in this life? 

In Buddhism, there exists the concept of Samsara. This is the continuous cycle of rebirth throughout six different realms. These realms include the realm of Gods, Titans, Hungry Ghosts, Hell, Animals, and Humans. One may be considered more preferable to another, for example Gods to Hell, yet all are imperfect and involve some level of suffering. Depending on past lives and karma, one will move from realm to realm during each rebirth. The Human realm is generally considered to be the best because it is the only one in which one may obtain enlightenment and exit from this wheel of Samsara and therefore end the cycle of rebirth and suffering. For more information, you may find this article to be useful. 

If some person when he live's on earth His doing 50% good & 50% Bad things (theatrically). after he died what will Happen to him in next life. 1st will he effected with his good things he done in Past or bad things? 

The senses in Buddhism include not only the five generally thought of: touch, hearing, seeing, smelling and tasting, but also the mind: thinking. This means overindulgence in touching (for instance sex), hearing ( overindulging in listening to music for instance), seeing (too much focuss on beauty or ugliness around us), smelling and tasting (overindulgence in food preparation for instance). Lay people aren't expected to refrain from sex, yet they are expected to refrain from overdoing it. Moderation in this respect has become highly unpopular, with kids having sex at earlier ages every year and sexual crime becoming almost usual. To be a virgin equals being ashamed, these days. Buddhist morality is old-fashioned in this respect. The the last sense which can be overindulged is thinking or thought, or use of the mind. One often meets people who think so much, they forget to practice. Or they out-think any morality one can come up with. The mind is a highly deceptive tool and overuse makes it overly powerful over us. When thoughts start seeming real, and control ones life, beyond what is reasonable, it is perhaps time to consider whether perhaps one has overindulged in thinking. 

I realize that this may seem paradoxical or difficult to understand. You may need to experience to fully understand it. I have described what my monk friend instructed me and my experience of it. Yours may be different. I suggest seeking meditation instruction from a monk. 

Every sentient being (people, animals, etc) is in a cycle of rebirth. They will all be reborn after death. The only exclusion to this will depend on the tradition. Most traditions, in a general sense, state that one may leave the cycle of rebirth if they attain enlightenment or nirvana. This is only possible when you are a human, though. You asked: 

I have heard that upon completion they are erased to represent transience. Is this what the erasure represents? What other spiritual significance does the mandala have in Tibetan Buddhism. I seem to remember something relating to a spiritual journey being represented in the mandala yet I am unsure. I would like clarification on this.