JOLTS actually goes back to 2000 (though years before 2005 are only available on a SIC basis). Prior to JOLTS, most people used data on the number of help-wanted ads in newspapers, such as this series from the 1950s-60s or this one that goes back to 1919. 

Okay, What DID Cause The Financial Crisis? Well, I kind of gave it away above, but let me slay a couple more bad ideas first. Mortgage losses alone were probably not sufficient to cause the financial crisis. They were certainly a core part of it, but they, by themselves, were not sufficient to cause, as the original poster asked, the near-failure of the world economy. This might sound crazy, but let's look at the numbers briefly. Here's the total amount of mortgage debt outstanding in the United States, from the Federal Reserve, via FRED: 

The formula for calculating the real value of an amount $x$ in a given year using dollars from a particular reference year is $$ \frac{x_{baseyear}}{x_{current year}}=\frac{CPI_{base year}}{CPI_{current year}} $$ So in your hypothetical example (where the deflator is higher in 1980 than in 2000, which indicates deflation over the period), the value of \$5 in 2000 is equal in 1980 to: $$ x_{current year}=x_{base year}*\frac{CPI_{current year}}{CPI_{base year}} $$ or $$ $5*\frac{1.6}{1}=$8 $$ So in your example, a basket of goods costing \$5 in 2000 would cost \$8 in 1980. 

What you describe is neither unusual nor pernicious, and occurs more commonly at smaller companies when the company has borrowed significantly from a single bank. Larger companies have direct access to capital markets (in addition to stock, they can issue bonds and commercial paper, which are both forms of debt), and are thus less reliant on their relationship with a single bank. When companies are reliant on a relationship with a bank for access to debt, the bank will often seek a position on the board as a way of monitoring the activity of the company. From the bank's perspective, this is totally reasonable, but to understand why, you first have to understand a tiny bit of industrial organization theory. In a nutshell, firms have what we refer to as "capital structures," which are a way of allocating risk and return. At the top of capital structures is senior debt, which is first in line to be paid, but which receives the lowest (though a fixed and predictable) rate of return. If you hold senior debt, you want the company that issued the debt to take little risk, as you'll be paid the same amount so long as the company remains solvent. If the firm goes into bankruptcy, you'll still be paid first, but your money may be tied up for a time in bankruptcy proceedings, and you face having to reinvest the cash you get back, potentially at a lower rate of return. As a result, you want to avoid unnecessary risk. At the bottom of capital structures is equity, which is high-risk and high-return. The equity portion gets paid the upside if a firm does well, and it bears the first loss if a firm performs poorly. If a company goes bankrupt, the equity is worthless. Equity investors have a lot of incentive to take on risk, because for each dollar invested, the downside is a maximum of a dollar (this is known as "limited liability"), but the upside is limitless. In between these two parts of the capital structure, there are all kinds of hybrids of debt and equity, but we can set them aside for simplicity. Most important is that there is a fundamental conflict between debt holders, who want limited risk and who only have control of a firm once it is bankrupt, and equity holders, who favor risk and control the firm in the normal state of the world. Once you understand this conflict, it's easy to see why a bank would ask for a seat on the board of a company when it holds that company's debt: by having a member on the board, it can ensure ongoing, regular access to the information it needs to be comfortable that the firm isn't taking on too much risk. If it sees that the firm is moving in a direction that it isn't comfortable with, it'll decline to roll over its debt, getting its money back and forcing the firm to find financing elsewhere. So: is this unusual? No. Directors who don't directly "represent" equity holders aren't at all uncommon. In fact, the majority of directors at large firms in the US are "independent" directors who have no direct relationship to the firm, other than serving on the board. Many non-independent directors are "executive" directors, who are company management— a group that, like creditors, may have incentives that differ from those of shareholders. Other groups, like labor unions, are also sometimes represented on boards. So if in addition to equity holders, outsiders, management, and unions are all represented on boards at times, what is the specific objection to creditors being represented? It's additionally worth noting that the only case where a creditor's vote matters is solely when the other directors are evenly split on an issue. If a particular matter clearly benefits creditors at the expense of equity holders, a significant fraction of equity holders would have to vote against their own interests for this to be the case. Finally, to your question as to why regulators and corporations allow it. Simply put, regulators have no reason (from a market conduct, safety and soundness, consumer protection, or financial stability perspective— the general scope of regulators' mandates) to object to this sort of arrangement. For a regulator to intervene in this way would interfere with the company's freedom to contract however it chooses. Creditor board members are not a thing that banks do to corporations, who passively allow it; rather, the boards of directors have to vote to add the board member representing the creditor. So if one views positively the judgment of a board composed of equity holders, why should one question the judgment of that board when they vote to add a creditor as a member? So in summary: banks as board members is a way of monitoring/limiting risk-taking by firms, firms "allow" this because they want to borrow money from the banks, whether it is socially optimal depends on whether firms should be taking more or less risk, and it's more about correcting information asymmetries than about asserting day-to-day control— boards of directors don't tend to have lots of measures passing or failing by a single vote. 

Prepaid cards are definitely money by any definition— they are essentially demand deposits. An article from the SF Fed states this clearly: 

The IMF created its Historical Public Debt Database a few years back; that should do the trick for you. It's described in this paper, with annual data from 2012 back to as far as the late-1800s for some countries. You could pair that with the IMF/World Bank Quarterly Public Sector Debt statistics. 

The Federal Reserve is a system, consisting of the reserve banks, which are "owned" (in a limited fashion) by their member banks (members select the leadership of the reserve banks), and the Federal Reserve Board of Governors, which oversees the member banks and is independent within the government (that is, the Governors are nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate, but neither has direct control over the Board beyond its composition and the legal authorities assigned to it). All of this is covered in the law that gives the Fed its authorities, the Federal Reserve Act. 

I strongly recommend clicking on that link and taking your time to browse the map on page 2. It's worth noting both that many of these entities have existed for long periods of time without incident, and that due to choices in how banking is regulated, shadow banks are often the result of a desire to both limit the scope of regulation and to limit the risk of failure within the scope of regulation— which has the effect of pushing intermediation activities outside the regulated sphere. 

@capm is correct that the Fed is not allowed to buy equities (though they may lend against them if need be, so long as they are secured to their satisfaction— see, for example, all the things they lent against in the Maiden Lane transactions), however, they're allowed to buy a lot more than "government securities" (i.e., Treasuries). Section 14 of the Federal Reserve Act details what they can purchase, which includes Treasuries, GSE (i.e., Fannie and Freddie) securities (which are not legally considered to be government-backed securities, though they're often casually treated as such), gold, cable transfers, bankers' acceptances, bills of exchange, discount notes, municipal bonds, obligations of federal agencies, and (by allowing them to hold accounts at other central banks) foreign currencies. 

There are two main channels (I am ignoring the VA, Farmer Mac, and other small entities) that offer credit protection on mortgages: the Federal Housing Administration, which insures loans that are then issued as securities through Ginnie Mae (and are explicitly backed by the full faith and credit of the US government); and the GSEs, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, whose securities received implicit government backing. Both the FHA and the GSEs do engage in some amount of lending to borrowers who would be considered under some definitions to be "subprime," and have for decades. However, let's look at the pre-crisis boom period from 2002-2006, during which house prices nationally increased by an average rate of about 14% annually: