Richard Dawkins dedicated his entire book The Extended Phenotype (which is an excellent read if you get the chance) to elaborate on the idea that your genes may express themselves not only as adaptations in your organism (a certain gene for longer arms or whatever), but possibly as adaptations in other, physically distinct organisms, via exactly the same mechanisms. In his book, Dawkins alludes to the concept of parasites' intermediate and definite hosts, where a definite host is the host that eventually nourishes the parasite, and the intermediate host is only the means through which the parasite infects its definite host. Although the book is riddled with examples, here's one that I think is especially instructive, as it deals with two parasites that exert different zombifying effects on the same host: 

I'd be inclined to believe the shoe retailers are behind the video. A year ago, this video of a new sport called Liquid Mountaineering went pretty viral as well. A key point in the video is that they found these shoes that are completely water repellant. Kobe seems to attribute quite a lot to the shoes as well. You don't see that with people who are winning the olympics :) Of course I can't prove that the shoe retailers are behind it, but that doesn't really make a difference. The Liquid Mountaineering video, though well made, was obviously fake, as you simply can't do that. It's not as obvious that you couldn't do what Kobe does in that video, but it would certainly be easier to fake it. He's probably just standing closer to the camera than the car is, so he's jumping in front of the car (from our perspective). The jump still has to be just as impressive, but it would be completely safe to perform it, and he could try it a hundred times until he got it right. 

For a TV to be able to interpret the information, the high-frequency input is mixed with a local oscillator signal. This is the signal that the detector van can pick up. 

What happens is not due to some stickiness inherent to electricity, but rather, the electric shock causes your muscles to involuntarily contract. If you're unlucky, such a contraction could effect a firm grip around the electric source, which would render you unable to let go of it. All about circuits elaborates: 

The problem with TV detector vans is not that they don't work at all, but rather that they are just now ceasing to be effective, as we're moving towards exclusively digital signals. As TV detection yields diminishing returns, the cost/benefit balance will soon turn TV detection into an unreasonable endeavour. Techniques that are not as likely to go out of date include: 

One particular yoga method based on Tummo yoga and popularized by Wim Hof has been shown to have nontrivial medical effects, such as the ability to voluntarily influence the autonomous nervous system and the innate immune system. This method involves heavy breathing techniques (to the point of severe hyperventilation) and extreme cold exposure. A scientific explanation of why this method works, is given here (full video here). Whether modulating the immune system using such methods has useful medical applications is not clear yet. However, the method is very useful in preventing hypothermia when exposed to the cold, and it's also useful to lower the sensation of pain. 

Similar studies have done in other such plant based populations with similar results. But here we have to note that people who live in such societies typically won't keep track of their amino acid intake, so they may actually get protein deficiencies from time to time. Nevertheless, they don't get heart disease. Autopsies on old people will not show any signs of atherosclerosis, while atherosclerosis already starts to affect our arteries at the age of ten. But absence of certain diseases doesn't prove that such a diet is healthier overall. A good test for the vegan diet would be studies were the protein demand is increased by letting people do heavy strength exercises and then studying the impact of a vegan diet relative to other diets. It's all good and well to point out that you can get enough of all the essential amino acids in theory, what matters is if you can demonstrate that you are able to stick to a diet that gives you all the required amino-acids on the long term. Such studies have not been performed. But what we can do is look at whether there are vegan bodybuilders and how competitive they are. The absence of vegans in that professions or if they all perform poorly would be a red flag for the vegan diet. It turns out that there are a number of vegan body builders, some like Frank Medrano supplement with protein powders while Patrik Baboumian manages to do with only vegetables, as he explains here. The most famous vegan bodybuilder is Jack Lalanne, but later in life he did start to eat egg whites and fish. So, we can say that there are no good reasons to believe that a vegan diet would lead to protein deficiencies in practice. My personal opinion for which I cannot find independent sources, is that doing a lot of exercise is important for getting enough nutrients from a vegan diet. A lot of the foods you eat in this diet have a low density in nutrients (not just protein, also minerals like calcium), so you must eat large volumes. E.g. I regularly eat 1 kg of potatoes and 500 grams of broccoli for dinner, which isn't all that difficult if you run for an hour a day at a fast pace. This meal alone contains almost all the amino acids I need. 

First of all, smoking statistics in Sweden has followed a trend very similar to that of the rest of the world. I do not think that there is reason to assume that climate is a factor here, and I wouldn't even say that there's much of a difference to be explained in the first place. Tobacco consumption *OECD Second, as Hendy points out in comments, the legalization of different substances has little relation to their relative health effects. That is rather a question of policy, and a general trend is often that you seek to criminalize harmful substances if possible, but make exceptions where it is shown or assumed that the implications of smuggling etc would be worse than the direct health effect. However, there are other ways to approach the problem as well, and this is not the forum for political discourse, so I shan't dwell on that beyond having pointed out that this is not a good indication of the health effect of a product. Now, as far as the actual health implications of snus are concerned: 

If you eat a lot, you'll feel rather uncomfortable doing any physical exercise immediately after. As for getting stomach cramps and dying, though, that has never happened. So says snopes: 

I usually find that the body building realm is full of weird nutritional myths, but after some poking around, it seems that a lot of articles writing about it actually did say they were citing a "scientific study", without providing any links. At last I've found this article from the British Medical Journal that seems to be what everybody's talking about: 

Also, Tacoma Naturopathic Care endorses Allergy Easy, citing the same "Endorsed by the World Health Organization as a viable, safe alternative to allergy shots", which is taken entirely out of context. The quote is not about Allergy Easy specifically but, just as with the Cochrane review, it only refers to SLIT in general: WHO credibility $URL$ So there's an integrative medicine site and a naturopathy site endorsing AllergyEZ. That's all I've been able to find at the moment. Still no sight of scientific references that speficially put Allergy Easy on trial. 

Tellingly, Koch himself eventually abandoned the strict postulates! Other than that, there are heaps of known virus infections that are exceptions to the postulates. I wouldn't pay that much regard, and it is my understanding that nobody does. Although I don't think failure to fulfil the postulates proves anything, it turns out there's actually still some debate as to whether or not the HIV->AIDS causation does. I'm afraid I can't read the full article, but clue is in the title :) 

This means US$1.25 in 2005 prices or, equivalently, $1.00 in 1996 prices. Progress to this target is significant in most of the world. According to World Bank figures, the number of people living from less than $1.25 per day has dropped significantly, both in relative and in absolute terms. The figure below is from Wikimedia Commons, based on data from the World Bank: 

They can't both be true. Are illegal immigrants given a bus ticket to where they want to go? Or are they all deported? 

Is this claim correct? Is there any reasonable interpretation of the legislative changes made by the Canadian Conservative government, through which these numbers are accurate? 

The figure shows that the fraction of the world population living of less than $1.15/day has dropped from more than 50% in 1981, to 22.4% in 2008. I don't know what model or baseline Hickel used, but the claim that it will take 100 years seems inconsistent with trends up to 2008. However, the figure also shows that the trend for the absolute number of people living from less than $2/day is not as clear as the trend for the lower treshholds. So, this data neither contradicts nor confirms his claim that the number of people living off less than $5/day is increasing by more than 1 billion people. The World Bank data above go only up to 2008. A more recent UN MDG report notes that the number of people living of less than $1.25 per day was 1.2 billion in 2008, 1.0 billion in 2011, and a projected 840 million in 2015. So, no support for Hickels claim here either, although again there are no figures for the number of people living of less than $5 per day. There are, of course, other ways to measure poverty. In an article here, Hickel claims (among many other things) that the UN definition is flawed and that other definitions paint a less optimistic picture. Sources: 

This study thus did observe a correlation. However, remember that correlation does not imply causation. Critically, the paper does no attempt to suggest any physical mechanism that may cause the observed correlation. Therefore, causation is not established. I lack the medical domain expertise to otherwise judge the merits of the paper, but Scientific Reports is a reputable journal published by the Nature group, so there should be some peer review that filters out the junk (and the paper does not appear to be junk). Note that Scientific Reports should not be confused with the actual journal Nature, which is much more prestiguous and harder to get into. Finally, I will quote an insightful comment by MB made on the actual article: 

Wasn't sure on this one myself, so I did some research. I've come across this explanation, which sounds similar to what was my understanding before, so it's true by confirmation bias: 

"Black magic" is a really large umbrella for a wide range of claims, but the very definition of any "magic" is that it is somehow supernatural. Naturally (!), no compelling evidence has ever been put forth for any supernatural phenomenon. Once a phenomenon is observable, reproducible, and testable, and shown to exist, it may turn out to violate our current understanding of the natural laws, but if the phenomenon is for real, we shall have to adjust our views to accommodate this, and the phenomenon shall cease to be considered supernatural. "Magic" will never be shown to exist. All rigorously tested supernatural claims have turned out to be fake, and the great number of untested supernatural claims can most likely be largely attributed to the fact that the practitioners are aware of their fraud, and reluctant to be exposed; see the million dollar challenge in Regebro's answer. More specifically, in regions of India there is a somewhat widespread belief in tantra. While few practitioners would lend themselves to scientific studies for reasons explained above, there has been one notable appearance where Indias allegedly most powerful tantrik was challenged in live TV in front of an audience of millions of people, to kill a person with the aid of black magic alone. 

The above figures are as rated by the men and women themselves, in questionnaires. However, that study is somewhat of a fishing trip. Another study, looking specifically at The influence of humor on desirability finds the following: 

The conclusion might be that the topic is controversial, which you'll certainly find with a lot of studies on aspects of personality and psychology, and there could very well be cultural discrepancies. In The influence of humor, participants were asked to identify the most desirable partner for a romantic relationship, using the same subjects, and having a humorous or neutral autobiographical description as the only variable. The difference in study design could potentially explain some of the discrepancies in the conclusions of the two studies, in that the former measures what traits people perceive that they value, and the latter measures to what extent they're actually taken into account. This means that the latter study could cover subconscious parts of decision making. Another possible interpretation is that the two results are entirely compatible, and that this is exactly what you can expect when you're specifically testing a hypothesis, and compare that to result of a more qualitative study design. For instance, it is quite possible that the table from the first study matches exactly the weighting that was applied in the decision making in the second study. That could be explained by the other traits; e.g. Beauty - which is the only p<.01 difference, remember - might be so strong a determinant in the male respondents that the humorous/neutral tagline variable didn't affect the outcome, whereas the female respondents, quite in line with what the first study reports, doesn't pay as much attention to beauty, and therefore allow the humour variable to affect the outcome to a greater degree. I do recall Richard Wiseman citing support for the idea that women do value humour significantly higher than men, in his book 59 Seconds, but I don't have it available at the moment to be able to check those sources, or even what the exact claims are.