Remember this is a theory of "relativity". Now, time dilation due to gravitation effects is rather outside our normal experience. But there are relativistic effects that that you experience all the time. I'm sitting on a train. Relative to my computer I'm not moving. Relative to the track I'm travelling at 100km/h. Relative to the sun I'm moving about 30 km/s, as the Earth orbits. Relative to a distant galaxy I'm moving close to the speed of light. But in my frame of reference, I'm not moving at all. So, even though I'm moving at nearly the speed of light, relative to some distant galaxy, I don't notice any slowing down of my watch. My watch is moving with me, in my frame of reference. It would be the same if you were experiencing intense gravitational time dilation. For example, if you were falling around a black hole. Your watch would be in the same frame of reference as you, so there would not be any observable difference, locally. If you tried to stop yourself falling, the force required would crush you. Small black holes have such extreme variation in gravity that your head and feet would be pulled apart by the tidal difference, and if you passed the event horizon, you can never come back. So you would be dead if you tried the experiment in practice. However "gravity" itself can't hurt you, only variation in gravity or your own attempts to act against gravity. 

No. Small red dwarfs may be fully convective. Larger stars like the sun have a region in which the energy is transferred by radiation. So in small red dwarves, the star becomes fully mixed. Red Giants are quite different and are large and old stars, swollen by their powerful cores. Both red and yellow stars produce large amounts of neutrinos. Yellow stars produce more than red dwarfs because they are more powerful. Red Giants would produce more than yellow dwarfs, as they more powerful. Nothing that could explain superman. 

Take a look at $URL$ Note the example picture of Jupiter, shown to simulate its size (on a typical computer screen) when viewed at a magnification of 180x. If you use 60x magnification, your view will be a third of the size. Planetary discs are really small! However, you should see something that isn't point-like with some banding. And you certainly should be able to see the moons (which do look like a line of stars) and are visible even in a small pair of binoculars. The fix could depend on what is wrong, which could be any of a range of problems, from "silly mistakes" (such as pointing the telescope a bright star instead of a planet) or lens that aren't what they claim to be. Atmospheric problems (like trying to view through a window), or technical problems (if a telescope isn't properly collimated). Your best bet might be to find local experts, a local astronomy club or similar. 

The size of star in equilibrium is a balance of forces, the pressure produced by the hot plasma, heated by the nuclear reactions in the core, balanced by gravity. Fusion rates are strongly affected by temperature. Increase the temperature a little and you get a lot more energy coming out. As the core runs out of hydrogen, it begins to collapse and heat up, forming an inert degenerate helium core surrounded by a shell of rapidly burning hydrogen. At this new equilibrium a lot more energy is released. This positive feedback means that what seems like a small change (core to shell burning) has a massive effect on the energy output of the star. Now when a star evolves, it puts out a lot more energy per second. Aldebaran produces 500 times more energy per second than the sun, despite being only a little larger. Now this does cause the star to increase in size, but as the star gets larger, the outer layers are further from the centre of gravity, and so the force of gravity on them is reduced, in accordance with the inverse square law. With less gravity the growth in the size is amplified. So a large increase in power becomes a massive increase in size. This is why the growth in size is so much larger than simple intuition about the expansion of hot gas would predict. In the final stages of a star's evolution, the size of the star grows without limit, as the star's gravity is not sufficient to keep its outer layers bound to the star, and it becomes a planetary nebula. 

No, it seems that the formation of a supermassive black hole is a consequence of galaxy formation, not a cause of it. The mass of the black hole is a very small proportion of the mass of the matter and dark matter in the galaxy. The details are not yet worked out but it is the distribution of dark matter that forms the galaxy, and then galaxy mergers contribute to the growth of a large black hole in the centre. As indicated in the answer to your previous question, "sucked" is entirely the wrong metaphor for how black holes work. Black holes have lots of mass in a small space, so they "pull" gravitationally. 

Dark Skies are your friend. When Messier was searching for comets, it was before electric lighting and the nights were dark in a way that is rarely seen today. Take a look at the Dark sky map, and try to get somewhere in the blue or black region. Then allow your eyes to become dark adjusted, and to look with the edge or your vision, or learn to do astrophotography. And limit your expectations. Messier was looking for comets (little fuzzy blobs) and he made a list of the fixed little fuzzy blobs that might confuse him. Most Messier objects do look like fuzzy patches. You might take an account with telescope.org to see what can be done with a telecope 16 times larger than yours. 

There are two factors here. First, to construct an image such as this, several optical filters are used, and then these are then merged to give an image. The colours that you see are therefore not the "true" colours (they couldn't be, the light you see is far too faint for the human eye) but are chosen to bring out details in the image. A galaxy that is blue in the image might not actually be blue. Secondly, red shift means that all the light is shifted, If a galaxy is emitting a broad spectrum of light, the ultraviolet is shifted to the visible, as the red is shifted to the infrared, the apparent colour doesn't change much. So the apparent colour, red or blue isn't telling you about the red-shift of each galaxy. To measure the red shift you need a detailed spectrum. A spectrum will include spectral lines, which have known frequencies. By noting the shift of these lines the redshift is measured. The different colours you see here are probably a consequence of the type of stars in each galaxy. Galaxies with more young stars appear bluer, and this is probably emphasised in the image (but remember it isn't "true colour") 

The North Pole of the sun points towards the constellation Draco. There is no bright star close to the North Pole of the Sun. The closest fairly bright star is Delta Draco, "Altais". A magnitude 3 star. The other marks on the image are the "North Pole of the planets' orbits" The Earth's rotation is inclined by 23 degrees from its orbit, so the Earth's rotational North Pole is not the same as the pole of its orbit. 

The size of the accretion disc in a black-hole binary system is calculated to be less than 1000000km. This is less than to the size of large stars (eg Spica at about 10000000km diameter). In other words, the accretion disc for a large star would be smaller than the star itself. 

Both the radiation and gravity follow an inverse square law, so there is no "horizon" at which gravity would overcome light radiation, they both get weaker at the same rate. Radiation pressure affects smaller objects disproportionately. This is one factor in the formation of comet tails: dust and gas is pushed away from the heavier nucleus, which is relatively unaffected. Very small objects can already be pushed from our sun, I did a quick estimate and found that dust with a mass of less than $10^{-16}\,kg$ the mass of a bacteria, would be more affected by the light of the sun than the gravity. For a planet to be affected more by the radiation than the gravity of a star would be beyond realistic (though might make a good "xkcd 'what if'". Not only would be be enough to vaporise a planet, it would be enough to unbind the star. It would be a supernova. 

The picture shows 3 paths of the sun over a single day, plotted on three particular days: Midsummer, midwinter, and an equinox. The apparent motion of the sun is due to the rotation of the Earth, not the motion of the Earth around the sun. Why is the path of the sun a part of a circle? Because the Earth is spinning, so you are moving in a circle around an axis that passes through the poles of the Earth Why is this path in a plane? The local surface of the Earth is modelled as a plane tangent to the sphere of the Earth. As the Earth spins, this plane rotates, and so relative to this plane, the sun appears to move. Because the plane is rotating in a single axis and at a uniform rate, the sun appears to move in a circle, across the sky. As it is a circle, it is in a plane. Why is this plane tilted? It is tilted because you are not at the poles, the surface of the Earth on which you stand is tilted with respect to the axis of the Earth How to get this "tilt-angle"? It is your latitude, or more exactly 90 - latitude. If you are at the poles the sun would travel in a horizontal plane. If you are at the equator the sun travels in a vertical plane. The different paths (red green and blue in the picture) are due to the tilt of the Earth at 23.4 degrees, and so in Summer (in the north) the sun is higher at midday and further North at rise and set. Why does this motion seem to be uniformly from a equatorial point of view. The image appears to show the path of the sun from a location about 45 degrees North, for example Northern USA. Again, I may be misunderstanding the question. 

The formula is Kepler's equation, but to understand it you need to know three values: $M$ is the "Mean Anomaly". It increases linearly from 0 to 360 over the period of one orbit, measured from periapse to periapse. So if a planet has a period of 100 days, then the mean anomaly at day 0 is 0, at day 50 it 180degrees, at day 25 it is 90 degrees. This is only the position of the body that is in a circular orbit. It is the first stage of calculating the position of the body in an elliptical orbit. $E$ is the "Eccentric Anomaly". This is also not the actual location of the planet. It is defined by $\cos\,E = x/a$ where $x$ is the x-coordinate of the of the planet, measured from the centre of the ellipse not the focus, and $a$ is the semi-major axis of the ellipse $T$ is the "True anomaly", the angle between the actual position of the planet and the line through the major axis of the ellipse, measure at the focus of the ellipse (ie at the sun). These are related by the Kepler equation. $$M = E- e\sin E,$$where $e$ is the eccentricity of the ellipse. You can calculate M directly, then solve this equation (numerically) to find E. Providing the eccentricty isn't very close to one, Newton's method is effective at finding a solution to this equation. Then the true anomaly is given as $$ T = 2 \, \mathop{\mathrm{arg}}\left(\sqrt{1-e} \, \cos\frac{E}{2} , \sqrt{1+e}\sin\frac{E}{2}\right) $$ (where $\mathrm{arg}(x,y)$ is available as in many programming languages) It is possible to use the Eccentric anomaly to calculate the coordinates of the planet directly using $\cos\,E=x/a$and $\sin\,E=y/b$ where a and b are the semi-major and -minor axes of the ellipse. The word "anomaly" doesn't mean "false result", but "angular deviation (from periapse)" and has been in use since Kepler's time. 

Comments converted to community wiki Ceres' density (2.08 g/cc) suggests it has abundant water/ice below its presumably mostly dry surface. That and the shiny spot (salts left after subsurface water has sublimated) suggests it wouldn't too difficult. Low gravity, keep the dig in shade to prevent the ice from sublimating in direct sunlight. We could not do it now, but with improved technology and continued space exploration, it should be very possible. Ceres should be a comparatively easy place to build a space elevator too. It seems a pretty good mining option. Only potential issue might be the occasional asteroid impact. Ask the asteroid mining companies "Planetary Resources" and "Deep Space Industries". Actual and serious companies. See the websites www.planetaryresources.com and www.deepspaceindustries.com 

If the Earth were a cylinder, and stationary in the centre of the universe, then the apparent daily motion of the stars must be due to the stars' actual motion in the heavens. The stars he thought to be on a sphere that encircles the Earth, and there is a pole to this sphere, at the Northern pole there is a bright star. If the Earth were a cylinder, and the stars moved in circles around the axis of the cylinder; the axis of the cylinder pointing directly at the poles of the celestial sphere; then for any observer on the curved surface the pole star would be on the Northern horizon. The Southern pole would be on the southern horizon an all the stars would rise and set. That is clearly not the case. Ptolemy then considers the possibility of a cylindrical Earth with the axis of the cylinder not pointing towards the pole of the sphere. Then some stars would rise and set and others would remain always below the horizon. Ptolemy (in Egypt) would see the Pole Star at about 30 degrees above the horizon. But he knew that the position of the pole star was not the same in the Northern part of the Empire. There were stars that were sometimes visible in Alexandria that remained always below the Horizon in Rome. In Rome the Pole Star was 40 degrees above the Horizon. This is not consistent with a cylindrical Earth. 

As time passes, there are galaxies that are currently not in the observable universe which will become observable But this is not a sudden winking on. Instead, over hundreds of millions of years we will see a proto galaxy evolve into a mature galaxy. For example there is a "blob" of hydrogen that some interpret as being the accretion of hydrogen onto a dark matter halo. If this interpretation is correct, then the galaxy that eventually forms from it is outside the observable universe. But it won't remain so. Over billions of years the hydrogen will have formed stars, and the galaxy will be in our observable universe. We don't see the sudden appearance of a new galaxy, rather we see the evolution over billions of years. There is an effect of greater red-shifting. Ultimately galaxies will begin to retreat fast enough that they are red-shifted below the level of detectability. It is suggested that in about 2 trillion years only local galaxies will be visible. This again is not a rapid process(!) Thus we do not observe galaxies disappearing over a cosmic horizon, and do not expect to do so. 

The Earth is clearly visible from the moon. $URL$ In the linked image, Harrison Schmitt, the mission specialist on Apollo 17, stands next to the American flag, with the Earth in the background, the image was taken by mission commander, Gene Cernan. Schmitt claims to have taken the "blue marble image" during the journey to the moon. 

The mass of a object does not increase when it collapses into a black hole. So a supermassive black hole must have started off quite small, and then grown. The formation and growth of supermassive black hole is not settled science. Supermassive black holes probably started as large stellar mass black holes (The very earliest stars could have been very large, and were almost entirely free of any heavier elements, and could have collapsed to form black holes with a mass of about 100 suns) The black holes then grew as more matter fell into them. There is a strong correlation between the size of a SMBH and its galaxy. Its not clear why this is, but it suggests that the environment that drove galaxy growth, also contributed to the growth of the black hole. This article on the Growth of supermassive black holes across cosmic time may interest you.