I believe VR might be their best bet in this situation, if their tech is up to it. A helmet that gave you complete range of vision inside the simulation, as well as provided very realistic audio, and a suit that somehow provided tactile sensations based on what happened in the simulation (crawling through tall grass, something grabbing you, maybe even getting shot in the leg). Guns would be easy to simulate, but hand-to-hand weapons would be harder. They'd probably have to be both dull and somewhat soft, and could only be used against other people (as opposed to the AI inside the program). This would let them test the soldiers against many different possible fighting styles and plans of attack that the aliens could use, since you could load any possible configuration you wanted. The fact that pain would be transmitted through the suit would probably be sufficient to get the soldiers used to it, and see if any would desert. As for how the suit would work, it'd probably have to be some combination of electrodes and a device/material lets call mechanized rubber, that stretches or contracts based on what voltage you put across it (kinda like a muscle). The electrodes would provide the pain, and the mechanized rubber would simulate tactile feelings. It could contract and release very quickly to simulate an impact, or maybe contract very tightly and hold to simulate an injury. It might even be able to squeeze just slightly in specific places to simulate walking through tall grass or something. The whole program would need to be housed inside some sort of huge gym, maybe with soft-ish wood structures everywhere, corresponding to where structures are in the game. As many video games have shown, there are a huge amount of possible types of fights you can have on even a small number of maps, so not very many of these gyms would need to be constructed. 

If he is smart enough he will kill the dragon when he is flying over the sea. Water will reduce the impact. EDIT : OK don't kill the dragon, instead incapacitate him with a fatal blow until it reaches the ground very wounded, and then finish it. Other method : If he's falling near a high tower, he could stick his dagger/sword and reduces his fall by friction while looking cool !!! 

Practicing Sports with your fancy shoes : One way to demonstrate that you are wealthy is to practice sports while wearing your fancy shoes instead of regular sports shoes. In that case you will prove that you are too rich to not care about your fancy shoes getting worn by playing sports. Avoid walking on pedestrian passages and walk on rough unattended roads : Yes you are rich enough to torture yourself by walking on rocky roads just to prove that you are much superior than the others. That doesn't make sens but it will definitely get your shoes worn. 

Since you are writing a sci-fi the only technology I can think of is : the bubble maker. Each citizen in your city lives inside a personal bubble, they can eat, work, sleep and do everything normally without breaking it. Each bubble has a 24 hours supply of oxygen after that, every citizen must go to this huge medieval machine to change his personal bubble. 

Rituals are sometimes considered to work better when you think they're going to work in modern witch circles - they work because it's positive thinking, you think it'll work. The belief that "this will work really well because it's a special day for it" could greatly increase the mental ability of a wizard - kind of like saying "I'm wearing my favourite underwear so I'm bound to do well today" it would increase your confidence, compared to "I couldn't find any matching socks today and now I feel terrible" - your date could go bad because you're worried about your socks or it could go really well if you're confident about it because it's unlikely your date would notice. I'm going a little off-topic but I'm just comparing it. Thinking that it's a good time for a spell or ritual could give you the confidence you need for a more powerful spell. It doesn't have to be the moon and this would explain why things like ritual clothing and special herbs or candles also help increase the power of spells. The power comes from the wizard being more confident in their self. Similarly, things being bad omens for a spell would be because it makes the wizard feel more nervous/less confident. 

There are other things to consider like overpopulation that will drive them to go to the surface, but the question is why can't they come up to the surface when they are suffering from overpopulation ? The answer is simple : 

How long does it take to completely deplete the resources of a planet ? Nomads change places only if they exhaust the resources (food, water, ...) existing in the previous location. In your case we are talking about planets, so to completely consume the resources of a planet during let's say 3 years, it has to be one of these propositions : 1 - Small and tiny planets : The galaxy in which your nomads live contain only small planets with few resources, so they need to change places many times during their life cycle. 2 - Swarms of nomads (overpopulation) : The traveling civilisation is actually a big one, hundreds of billions of people can easily exhaust the resources of a planet in no time, then move to the other in an endless cycle. 3 - Lazy and passive civilisation : What's wrong with working in farms to grow vegetables and fruits and breed animals, doing so will assure a more stable future for the whole civilisation. 

Well the 14th century is full of crisis : The Black Death that wiped half of the population. $URL$ The Great Famine of 1315-17 $URL$ So if he brings medications and antibiotiques, he will be idolized by them.