There are some things that can prevent you from being in a favorable position, most notably shoulder mobility. If you can't get your arms straight up over your head, you can't keep the bar in a position you can put more power into. If you have hyperlordosis, there are a number of stretches and strengthening exercises to help you correct that postural problem--which will in effect take care of the first point. 

Now you can decide how best to put all these together. I've seen some programs have you mix it up so each major movement is done each week, but each one has a different goal during the week. I've seen some programs where everything is on the same goal each week. Your approach should fit you best. That said, here are some common approaches: 

With the guidance of a coach, they can make the adjustments to the plans as necessary over time. For example, my diet has been tweaked about every other month to keep progress moving forward. He also kept an eye on my training to see how I responded and made some adjustments on the fly. In the absence of a coach, I can give you some general principles to work with: 

I've been doing the Strong Lifts 5x5 program for about 4 weeks now, and I'm starting to get to some substantial weight. I follow that with cardio work and finish with a bunch of stretching. Up until I do the stretching, I feel good. I don't have any pain after I do my squats, deadlifts, or barbell rows (the lifts that might affect my lower back more if I do them wrong). However, it's after I do my stretching that I start to have some lower back pain. It goes away before the next time I lift, but for a day and a half I'm sore. I have a feeling that I'm doing something wrong, or at least should be avoiding one of the stretches (and I know which one it is). However, I want to make sure I have some decent flexibility overall. I have some stretches that are recommended for doing squats properly and they will remain: 

If this is a drastic change from the way you have been eating, then there is a period of adjustment your body has to go through to work with the type of food it is getting. If this is a serious caloric deficit (like 1000 Calories), your body may never get used to it. 

Your training will already have some inflammation involved, as that's part of getting stronger and building muscle. However, uncontrolled systemic inflammation from fast food and highly processed foods create a hostile environment and triggers your body to keep storing the fat. With training, keep in mind the mantra "no junk miles": 

Another resource suggests that exercise in otherwise sedentary people will increase your fertility, as long as it isn't taken too far. Too far is defined when you have: 

Unfortunately, the bulk of protein study centers around its efficacy (or usefulness), not harmful side effects. That said, excess protein (beyond what the body needs to build muscle) is broken down in the kidneys to become glycogen. Drinking plenty of water facilitates this process and makes your kidneys happy. However, if your kidneys are not functioning normally, an excess of protein can be dangerous for you. Now, based on a Consumer Reports study on available protein powders there are other harmful chemicals that are present in higher densities than they would be in naturally occurring food. These are things like cadmium, arsenic, etc. The numbers in the chart represent the load of the chemicals in 3 servings of the protein. The protein maker's response calls the study into question saying that the CR report had an agenda. All that said, there are a couple reasons for not building more muscle: 

I'll be honest, there are some people who spend 2 hours in the gym and they accomplish less than others who spend only 45 minutes. Keep in mind that is a huge investment in time and energy, and without a great plan of attack you will end up doing too much too soon. The people who are spending 2 hours a day in the gym have built up their work capacity over time to handle the stress of that kind of work. Managing Recovery Managing recovery is the priority number 1 when dealing with this kind of work volume: 

Personal view: I much prefer my protein in the form of chicken, fish, beef, or lamb. With several of those options you can have more protein with fewer calories than the protein powder. Word of Caution: Not all protein supplements are the same. Some add sugar and other additives for taste which add more calories per volume. The lower quality protein supplements also have relatively high amounts of heavy metals, while the higher quality protein has more quality controls in place. Many protein supplements are designed for the guy who is bulking, which means they don't care about the extra Calories and in fact would rather have them. Is it healthy? Yes, as long as you are getting all your vitamins and minerals (micro-nutrients) that you need. Assuming you have a good quality protein supplement (see the word of caution), it will be more readily absorbed by the body than the whole protein sources I prefer. The trade-offs are: 

Working with heavy singles and doubles (sets that are 1 rep or 2 reps respectively), you can get your workout done more quickly. It may take a bit to recover from the training, but you got in, got it done, and went home. Wendler style training has you focus on one major lift with assistance each training day. This lets you get the appropriate amount of volume and intensity, and keep the training to about 1 hour per day. The top set on the main lift is done for as many reps as possible. You compare your effort using the 1RM calculation so that you can track whether you are improving week to week or not. 

An Olympic barbell is 20kg for men's competitions both according to the IWF and IPF standards. That's what the manufacturers build towards. The other standard sizes would be 15kg for women's competition and 10kg for junior's competitions. Beyond that, standard plate sizes from 2.5k and up are: 

With both the AFP and Starting Strength protocols, it's best to find your 5 rep max (the heaviest you can lift 5 times). Now, for a beginner the definition of a 5 rep max is when form breaks down. If that means you can only lift the bar for overhead press, so be it. Check the ego at the door, because in a very short time you will be surpassing your current abilities. 

If you choose to ween off of the brace, you'll have to go light until you build your ankles back up. I.e. start light, and build intensity a little at a time, consistently. 

You can do that in several ways. The quickest and most direct way is to use weights for resistance. This involves barbells, dumbbells, kettlebells, rocks, or anything that weighs a lot--including people. Since you don't want to pay gym fees or buy equipment, you will be using either body weight or unconventional weights for most of your exercises. Another avenue is to increase resistance. While weights are a direct way to increase resistance, there is also isometric exercises and pushing against something that pushes back--like gravity. The key here is to find something you can increase in difficulty. For example, if you are doing body weight dips and pull ups, you might look in to developing the strength to do muscle ups (starting with a pull up and transitioning to a dip all in the same movement). Then do it strict, and then slow. You might find some inspiration from Strongman activities as well. Eventually, you will get to a place where body weight alone is not sufficient. You'll have to break down and start collecting heavy things to lift. This usually involves money, but hopefully by that time you will have an income that will pay your bills and have enough left over to buy the heavy things. 

For body weight exercises, the push up or the push up using resistance bands is probably your best bet. Plyometric pushups will help build some explosive power. If, however, you have access to weights, you can do a lot better. For a beginner, the barbell bench press will help do a lot of good for the chest as well as the arm muscles. A bit later, dumbbell bench press will give you a better result as you are forced to bring the dumbbells together giving you a greater range of motion. I'm not going to tell you what proportion you should shoot for on your bench press, because that proportion changes based on your weight. The key is to keep increasing weight as best you can. I would be remiss if I didn't say that only working on the chest and not balancing that by working the upper back as well is a recipe for injury. A reverse pushup will balance normal pushups, and rows will balance bench presses. 

According to this article, the principles for a good weight lifting shoe has the following properties: 

If you find a coach that trains competitive power lifters, and those power lifters are getting stronger from contest to contest, chances are they are a good coach. If the athletes really aren't improving, or are only adding 5-10lbs to their totals when they are no where near elite totals, then I would pass on the coach. If you have multiple candidates, hire one of them for a while and see how well they work with you. If you are unsatisfied, try the next coach. Remember to be very patient. It's only fair to let the coach know about your history of injuries. They may have you doing some things that may not look like power lifting for a while to help rehab your body. This may be mind numbing and tedious work, but it is very necessary when correcting long term pains. 

Very likely it is a vitamin deficiency. Likely culprits are water soluble vitamins like Vitamin C or Folic Acid. If you are not taking a multivitamin with your low-carb diet to compensate for the vitamins you are missing from not having carbs, then you will be experiencing any number of unhealthy symptoms. 

When in doubt, start light and work up to heavy. As far as particular types of dumbbells to get, the simpler to use the better. As Meade Rubenstein pointed out, the adjustable dumbbells (dial-a-weight style) really aren't that easy to use--and the moving parts only add to the complicated nature of those weights. The question then is fixed or adjustable? 

(This info from Paul Carter in his Strength-Life-Legacy eBook) Double overhand or hook grip is good on warmup sets, but eventually the bar will get too heavy for your grip with these. That's when you need to switch to a mixed grip. Mixed grip stretches the bicep of the suppinated hand (the hand facing away from you), so it is very important that you do not try to flex that bicep at all during the lift. If you follow these steps you won't have any problems: 

Your body needs enough protein to protect its muscle mass, particularly when you are trying to lose fat. You do not have a proper source of protein in your diet. Your lean mass, particularly your muscle mass, is what is going to burn the most calories. 

That said, there is a limit to how much you can hold that way. You can improve your grip using plate holds, or even simply holding your last rep for 30s at the end. But there will still come a time when you can't use DOH any more. To that end, you have hook grip and mixed grip as options to move to. Hook grip is stronger than DOH, and it retains the benefits of DOH symmetry. The downsides are you are squeezing your thumb hard, and if you have small hands and a thick bar you just may not be able to do it. Some people are able to deadlift 800lbs with hook grip, but they are exceptions to the rule. Hook grip is most commonly used in Olympic style weightlifting (snatches and the clean & jerk). Mixed grip is the strongest grip we have: