Of course Orwell talked about his motivations for writing the book, but I'll try to be a bit more general than quoting him directly on those reasons. I've been reading Orwell off and on my whole life. I grew up in Bombay, India. When I was around 12 or 13, a young visiting English teacher to our school read us the first chapter of "Animal Farm". I had never heard of it before. A bit later, I might have been 15 then, I borrowed and read 1984 from the school library. I remember that it really spoke to me. A bit after that I found copies of the Collected Journalism, Essays, and Letters from a local library and read and re-read them for a while. Orwell was a prolific essayist and journalist. He also wrote a lot of letters. One can read statements about why he wrote 1984, but it's more interesting to attempt to trace his thoughts. To put it in a nutshell, Orwell seems to have become convinced, over a period of about 15 years or so, starting in the early 30s, that totalitarianism and totalitarian leaders, which included the examples of his contemporaries Franco, Hitler and Stalin, posed a special and possibly existential threat to the human species. He also seems to not have been so much concerned with totalitarianism's directly destructive potential, despite horrible examples like the Nazis, so much as what they might do to human society. In other words, his concerns appear to have been at least partly humanistic. Not only that, he seems to have felt there was far too much cultural acquiescence to totalitarian thinking among people at large, and not enough awareness of the dangers. His writings directly on the subject started in the mid 30s and increased in volume as time went on, with such themes eventually playing a dominant role. Orwell's major writing is available online, some of it is out of copyright in Australia, and so is available on Project Gutenberg Australia, so it's easy to look through them and see these concerns taking shape. His interest in this really seems to have started during the Spanish Civil War. As most people reading this doubtless know, Orwell fought briefly in the Spanish Civil War in an anti-fascist outfit called POUM and was wounded. He wrote a famous book about it called "Homage to Catalonia". After that, his interest seems to have continued and increased as he thought and wrote about similar totalitarian phenomena like the Nazis and the Bolshevik/Communist Party. A fairly detailed and explicit discussion of all this is in his essay: "Why I write" (1946), which includes the well-known passage: 

I'll offer a no doubt idiosyncratic, personal and possibly controversial opinion on the topic given in your title - "Do we know what prompted Orwell to write 1984?". The question contained in the body of your question is slightly different: 

I am currently reading The Heart of Haiku by Jane Hirshfield. In it, there are many examples of haikus by Bashō. In them, they always appear to give reference to a time, either explicitly or through description of the moment. Are there any examples of early Japanese haiku that attempt to describe a place rather than a moment? 

In Gulliver's Travels by Jonathan Swift, Gulliver travels to a land of Houyhnhnms. When I read, I like to hear the names in my head because it helps me to get into the story. However, I do not know how to pronounce Houyhnhnm. Do we have any guidance from Swift, the word's origins, or other sources for how to pronounce Houyhnhnm? If so, how do they recommend? 

No, there is no complication regarding the theme of Casey at The Bat. The poem as generally known is purely about baseball and nothing else. However, it is unclear whether this is a portrayal of a specific game and player or not, but we do not have enough information to determine if it is and if it is, who it is. Additionally, in a 1979 article, sportswriter Leonard Koppett claims that there were 19 lines originally written, but omitted from the final version, which gave the poem and new meaning about gambling, but there are no corroborating sources to this claim. 

In Gulliver's Travels by Jonathan Swift, there is little discussion of religion except for a passage from part 3, which reads, 

(emphasis mine) In this passage, it is discussing how the role of the author in the literary analysis of that time was absolute. However, it refers to "magazine interviews" as being an avenue in which the author's word is absolute. However, at first, I thought this was a weird translation of journal, but in the next line he refers to "their [the literary men's] private journals", which clarified for me that the magazine of "magazine interviews" was not a journal. This led me to wonder whether magazines of that time did serious literary analysis. Did mainstream magazines that Roland Barthes may have read include interviews for the purpose of literary analysis, or only interviews in the modern sense of magazine, author interviews? 

Many Southern authors of Harper Lee's time period wrote very autobiographical works. This led me to wonder how much Harper Lee's personal life was reflected in the narrative of To Kill A Mockingbird. After some research, I was not able to find much. However, I found some information to suggest that she had lived near an event like the one written about in To Kill A Mockingbird; her father was a lawyer, like Atticus; she was a tomboy, like Scout; and she had a neighbor down the street who left things in trees, similar to what Boo Radley does. I can't find any sources saying that those were the only similarities and I also can't find sources saying there were more similarities. This leads me to ask: How did Lee's personal experience affect the narrative of To Kill A Mockingbird? 

So, it was like the Past of which he was so fond, and which he valued precisely because of its absence of the Party, has betrayed him as well. No doubt Orwell had multiple reasons for using that rhyme - it's very old - but he made it fit well into the plot of the story. Incidentally, this usage of this 18th century rhyme, in a mid-20th century novel, is probably its best known use in literature. 

And of course, Charrington, in disguise as the harmless/kindly shop owner, had originally mentioned the rhyme to Winston. 

So he didn't "like" British imperialism but would "support" it. This is despite the truly impressive crimes and destruction committed by the British and their cousin the United States. And people like Hitler having acknowledged their indebtedness to Britain and US policies as having "shown the way". But this is in keeping with general British attitudes on the matter, which, even in the 21st century, remain largely unchanged. And it's certainly true that Britain and the United States have never been totalitarian internally. 

There is also a revealing bit of dialog in the 1939 novel "Coming Up for Air", which is full of references to Hitler and Stalin. 

This is really more of an extended comment, than an answer. But my feeling about that rhyme was that part of the reason why Orwell used it in the story, was as another example of Winston being "betrayed" by something he trusted. Basically one of the themes of the book is inescapable doom, and even the things that seemed good and seemed "on his side", O'Brien and Charrington for example, turn on him in the end. The book clearly shows that Winston was fascinated by the vanished (or vanishing) past, symbolised, for example, by the paperweight. For him, the past represented a better place, or at least a different place (since he didn't actually know what it was like - see his attempt to find out from the drunk prole). At any rate, the past was a place that was free of the influence of the Party. It was a time before the Party came to be, and therefore (at least in Winston's mind), it was a purer, more innocent time. And hence his fascination with trying to find out more words to the rhyme. But in the section where the Party finally "arrests" Winston and Julia (for lack of a better word), Charrington quotes the end of the rhyme, namely, the "chop off your head" part to them. To quote the novel: 

The first quote is from Bowling, the protagonist. The response is from his friend, a school teacher named Porteous. It seems that Orwell himself thought that Hitler and Stalin were "after something quite new". Reading between the lines, Orwell decided in the 1940s to use a novel as a more effective vehicle to transmit his ideas and thoughts about totalitarianism to a wider audience. That novel was 1984. If you will forgive some editorializing, it's interesting to note what Orwell did not consider to be a particular danger or problem. Specifically, standard Western Imperialism. Though he grew up during the British Empire, and even served as a British Imperial Policeman in Burma (and wrote a novel set there), he seems to have mostly tended to make excuses for it. For example, a random example from $URL$ (borrowed from Bookeater's answer above): 

The Theodore Boone book series by John Grisham takes place in the fictional town of Strattenburg, Pennsylvania. Is Strattenburg, Pennsylvania based on a real town? 

In The Shadow of the Wind by Carlos Ruiz Zafón, Zafón has the main character discover a book entitled The Shadow of the Wind in the Cemetery of the Forgotten Books. This book is by a little-known author, Julián Carax, who was not very well-received by critics and many of his books have been destroyed following his death in either Paris or Barcelona following the Spanish Civil War. Is Julián Carax based on a real person or is he a character entirely his own? 

In the Theodore Boone book series, a primary criminal is Pete Duffy who has committed a murder. Is Pete Duffy based on a specific murderer or is he based on the general trope of a murderer? If he is based on a specific murderer, who is that murderer? 

We never find out if Gulliver is in fact, Christian, but this is the only mention I could find in the book. Do we know whether he was Christian? Does Swift ever mention it in any of his letters? 

For someone who wrote very autobiographical novels to the point of receiving death threats for his Look Homeward, Angel, I wonder whether he wrote a diary. Did he? If so, does it contradict any of his novels significantly? 

Given that the organization of the library could most likely work with pentagonal rooms, given the vagouness of the specifications. This suggests to me that there is a non-mechanical reason for the choice of the hexagon. So, what is the significance/symbolism of the hexagon? 

In The Scandal by John Grisham, Theodore Boone finds out that cheating occurred in the administration of annual standardized tests. It is common knowledge that such cheating scandals occur on a fairly regular basis. Is it known whether John Grisham based his cheating scandal in The Scandal on a specific cheating scandal? 

In A Rose for Emily by William Faulkner, Faulkner never mentions rose as a noun, only as a past tense verb throughout the work. However, its position as one of two primary words within the title, suggests that the "Rose" has significance of its own. So, what does the rose represent in the title of A Rose for Emily? 

What is the significance/symbolism behind the book being "cyclical", as opposed to a different shape? 

This explains how the universe in which the story occurs is made up of hexagons. However, there is also a group of people who believe that the rooms may also be circular as we learn when the speaker says, 

I think he is the most likely option. From reviewing the books and skimming, he seems to most definitely be the only giant located under the carving. However, he isn't the only king, but in my view, "who lives buried there" is the more important criterion and as the giant Time fulfills both, I think he is the most likely option.