You want an airship. Tungsten Hexafluoride has a density 11 times that of air (and certainly fulfils the toxic criterion) - so an airship should be very possible using normal air as a lifting gas. Unlike a normal airship, the lifting gas would be breathable; meaning that you could actually live in the envelope of the airship. Make the whole thing out of aluminium and clear polythene and fill with lots of plants - on a large enough scale, you have yourself a closed ecosystem. Gas loss would be an issue (although the rate would of course be slower the larger the ship is) - your best bet would be to send machines down to the surface to mine it for minerals that can be used to generate oxygen and nitrogen to balance the loss. 

Mobility. For a tank to be useful, it needs to get around. One of the biggest limiting factors on modern AFV weight is the capacity of bridges - it's very difficult to get around if your vehicle is too heavy to cross any sort of bridge. Less important perhaps in a siege engine, but worth considering for such an enormous project - remember that battleships in that era were huge capital expenditures, and something that had only one role would probably not get approved. Usefulness. What can one giant tank with 10 guns do that ten tanks each with one gun do? Battleships only existed in the first place because they needed to be that big to carry the guns - on land, it would be far less necessary (and the requirement to carry fuel, food and crew to go thousands of miles wouldn't be there either). It's much the same reason as why battleships don't exist any more - you can fit weapons as big as you need on a 5 or 10,000 tonne ship, and one 50,000 tonne ship is far less useful than 5 10,000 tonne ships. 

EDIT: Bridgeburners pointed out that since it's time dilation by velocity and not gravity you have to take into account that it is a more difficult scenario and the perceived time changes strongly depending on the observer. I did not properly clarify that this might not be the effect you were going for. 

The brain is not one big module with a single task. It's a big cluster of semi-interdependent modules each working on their own - and sometimes conflicting with one another (e.g. mental disorders). (for reference: Robert Kurzban's "Why everyone (else) is a hypocrite") This structure implies that the mind and personality are not as simple concepts as you might think. You can not easily define what makes a person or a personality. And you can not transfer that from one person to another person without entirely rewiring the "host" brain. You also can't transfer modules as the connections of modules need to work in specific ways with other modules - maybe the other brain doesn't have these. A brain only consists of structures it needs. There is no "free space" to be taken by something else. You can't just cram more stuff in there. Especially not twice as much - like transferring another personality in there. The basic premise of your question is contradicting science. Therefore no one can give you any scientificly valid answers to your question. If you want to write about that, you can make up something fictional. 

No. Short answer: there's no oxygen Longer answer: as a rule, potential chemical reactions don't really hang around in the natural world unless living things are present. Most things that would react have reacted; Earth is of course the exception in this regard. Fire requires oxygen - a highly-reactive substance, which only exists in its free form due to organisms which produce it as a waste product. 

The problem here is that you can't have a 20,000 ton biped (indeed, the number of legs is largely immaterial). An elephant weighs in the order of 10 tons, you want an animal that is in the order of 1000 times that. This will mean that it will need to be 10 times as tall, wide and long (10^3 = 1,000). Its legs though will have to carry 1000 times the mass, despite only having a cross-section 100 times that of an elephant (ignoring for a moment the fact it has half as many). That means that each leg will have to be 10 times as large in cross-sectional area, or for a simpler way of looking at it, you'll need 10 times as many. Now picture in your mind an elephant that is proportionally the same as a normal-sized one, but with 40 legs (each proportionally the same size as a normal one) - you end up with much more leg cross-section than you do elephant (alternative explanation - think of an ant with legs that are proportionally very spindly, but can carry far more mass relative to the creature than an elephant can - then reverse the logic). Even if you ignore the leg strength issue, you're going to have a similar issue with the feet - with a ground pressure ten times that of a real animal, it's going to sink. Given that the basic physics of your creature aren't really possible without a lot of hand-waving, how long it takes to stop can largely be a product of your imagination. 

It would work (within reasonable limits) There is always side-effects to tampering with brain-chemistry. If it was the best for the brain to simply work faster then why would it not have evolved that way? Of course you burn a lot more calories, but there is other stuff, too. Hormones might be released and you get into emotional distress or you could have long-term effects like depression or dependency. Differing results Let's take current day drugs that work with brain-chemistry in different ways. Marijuana as an example. It does different things with every person. Of course the main tendency is to calm them down and make them hungry, but for some rare people the same strain causes panic attacks, paranoia or even psychotic episodes. (note: marijuana is a rather weak drug and is comparably not that dangerous) Body chemistry imbalance Also the side effects do not even have to be psychological or neurological issues, but can make your body chemistry go nuts and cause an imbalance in other organs causing them to malfunction when effected to severely. Physical limitations Then there is also the hard limits of the body. In the human body a signal travels about 128 m/s. So even if you were to enhance the speed in which neurons fire you wouldn't greatly increase that speed. If a signal is supposed to travel 20cm in your brain it would at least take 1.5ms to reach the destination. You can not enhance the 'computational power' indefinitely. Conclusion There are already methods to enhance focus, but they all have side-effects to some extend. None of the methods can boost indefintely. You could argue that an aliens physiology might be better "boostable" and with futuristic technology it can work to much stronger extends, but even then it will have its limitations. There is no inherent issue with "boosting" biochemistry. Just side-effects and limitations. 

That is not a great idea. If your enemy has access to the same technology they probably can send another current at contact and destabilise your shield/blade, making them useless. It is probably easier to cause the material to return to liquid than to keep it in shield form so unless you are using it against someone you know doesn't have the technological level to do it you are giving the enemy an advantage. 

I propose the device doesn't stop time, it changes the users nature and matter. Turned into an inter-dimensional-energy-being the subject steps out of the third dimension and is able to stay in a single moment of time. Observing and interacting with a single state of the universe through new senses and capacities, not based on time-affected particles like photons or air molecules. Gravity and mass still exist, and your character can phase through matter or move it changing her own gravity, which is done instinctively in her new physiology. Doesn't need to breath in this state because her body is no longer bio-chemical. 

In a Victorian society, an engineer has come up with a clever boat lift for his canal, using counterweights. In order to work correctly and most efficiently, the operators will need to know how much each boat or barge actually weighs. How could he do this? Clearly the obvious answer is to put the boat into a tank and see how much the water level rises; but the point of this system is to weigh the vessel for lifting - so any solution that involves picking the ship up isn't practicable. Plimsoll lines could work; but not all boats would have them (and you'd need to establish how much the boat actually weighs before you can accurately apply these anyway. The best I've been able to come up with so far is a dry-dock - float the ship in, empty the water out completely and then fill it up again with a specific amount; then measuring how high the water is should give an answer. But it's not a very elegant (or fast) solution - can anyone do any better? Edit to answer some of the comments: This is a 'dry' boat lift, it which the vessel sits on blocks (similar to those in a dry dock) and is lifted out of the water; hence the need to know the mass (rather than a 'wet' lift where the mass would always be the same). 

If we ignore that then there is no further answer to be provided, since the leftover question of what would happen to society is very opinion-based. A more realistic scenario would be a world-wide EMP. But the problem of the question being mostly opinion-based is still there. 

The premise of your question is flawed It would mean that you have such a huge radiation density that it would most likely severely effect any living thing. Blocking (or jamming) wireless transmissions is not that difficult, but already takes a lot of energy if you do it locally. If you want to block every wireless transmission everywhere that'd be insane amounts of energy being pumped onto the earth. Probably more than the suns, since the atmosphere blocks most of that radiation. If you want to block wired transmissions you'd need even significantly more than that. You would need insane amounts of radiation on every frequency from 1Hz to 100GHz. Most of the frequencies are not very reactive with biochemistry, but some are. And also the frequencies used in current day technology are effecting biochemistry. Most of those are used so little no actual harm comes from it, but the amount of energy your proposed radiation would mean would destroy a lot. And it would also boil water, probably. (WLAN: 2.4GHz, microwave: 2.455GHz) I think even if you would ONLY have EXACTLY the frequencies we use for communication the side-effects of the radiation intensity on biochemistry would still be destructive. To conclude: Society would probably not exist anymore since everyone dies of cancer, radiation poisoning and other things. 

I think so long as he is careful to avoid doing a few things (and assuming that nothing in the machine is illegal or controlled, such as fissile material, etc) then he should be OK, legally-speaking. For one, I'm fairly sure that there are no laws about uncontrolled leaving of the country, only entering. So if you start in the pub, go somewhere foreign, and then end up in the pub it's not going to be vastly different, leagally-speaking, to hopping in your dingy in Kent, crossing into French territorial waters, crossing back again and ending up back in Kent. Of course at this point he needs to make sure he has no extra people, as then you'd be in the realms of people-smuggling. If he's leaving the country on these trips he may well be breaking the law in those countries (even just on basic immigration laws) but I think that any form of extradition is very unlikely on that front. He should of course be careful to avoid teleporting anywhere that he otherwise would not be allowed to go. There is of course an entirely different question of precisely how - upon deciding you wanted - to successfully prosecute someone in possession of a teleporter. 

Your A-type star has a Dyson Swarm of unknown (or known) origin around it. Except the modules are not entirely opaque, but almost transparent, and of a nice shade of blue. 

The area is not longer no the planet, but has shifted to another dimension without gravity and THE PORTAL IS STILL OPEN. Though I call it portal it is not necessarily a door but a spherical field, like the surface of a buble, that transport you to that dimension/plane. Since the portal completely encompasses the zone you cannot step (sorry, float) out of it to the rest of the dimension without returning to earth and everything (light, air, animals, people) crosses freely through in and out of the field without realising they are leaving the planet or coming back to it. 

If i were you i would send my own drone down to the surface and communicate through that, that way they would know for sure they are not being punked by a pirate radio signal and a kid with Mad FX Skills. Let the humans decide who steps in front of the drone. 

As Raditz_35 pointed out: You could argue either way. But: The technologies do have a similar basis - the robotic parts, but cybernetic stuff has a lot more to do with making those things part of your body. There is medical and neurological components, too. You can't just implant robotics into a person. Currently the two fields are closely entertwined, but this would not have to be, as you could imagine cybernetics to be illegal. To conclude: Without advanced robotics you can not build advanced cybernetics, but cybernetics is not something that simply follows robotics as there are lots of other things that come into play. 

Yes, we could stay healthy To my understanding the reason behind the weakening of a mars colonists bone structure is that they are permanently experiencing low gravity and their body is "overequipped" for that. So over an extended period of time the body will build less bone support. (People born on Mars would never even have a bone structure as strong as ours) In my opinion the bone structure would not decay as it is still required daily. They would severely struggle for 16 hours a day if the structure was weakened. There is still a need for that, just as there is on earth. So there would be no or barely any decay in the structure and thus no impedance of ones health.