I don't disagree with @T.E.D's answer, but I think there is an alternative explanation that is a bit more succinct. The short answer that my econ profs gave is that although in theory wages can be treated as a good (the price rises when in short supply, and falls when in surplus), wages are "sticky downward" - there are legal and practical reasons why the price of labor does not fall. Stagflation occurs when the economy wants to shrink, but the price of labor cannot fall. In the 70's there was a continuous upward pressure on the price of labor, driven by cost of living agreements and unions. This continuous upward pressure created inflation. A variety of forces that are too complex and contentious to analyze succinctly imposed a downward pressure on productivity and economic growth. Stagflation was the economy's attempt to balance these two. I also wanted to touch on the conclusion that we can ever run out of commodities; we can't. Take, as an example, energy. At the moment the premiere energy commodity is oil. As the world stock of oil depletes, the price will rise. When the price rises high enough (and when governments stop subsidizing cheap oil), the economy will substitute another energy commodity. Prior to 1800, the dominant energy commodity was either wood or human labor; then we switched to whale oil. As the price of whale oil rose, we switched to coal. Then when we discovered how to use oil, we switched to oil. I can't predict what we'll switch to next. While we may run out of a specific commodity, we'll never run out of "commodities" - at least as long as the government doesn't interfere. Aside: Professor M. Salemi in his course "Money and Banking: What everyone should know" is rather adamant that no change in the price of a commodity can affect inflation. The course is available through the Great Courses series and from audible. I'm only partway through, but the portion I've consumed is clear and simple. 

(Although it is not relevant to OP's question, I've included the modern position that the events never happened. Scholarship on this matter has changed since I was an elementary school student, and I don't want to perpetrate myths we now doubt.) On the gripping hand, the entire document is propaganda; it is not designed to argue facts, but to justify actions and to persuade those who were not yet committed to believe in the legitimacy of the new country. Facts and evidence are ineffectual tools for persuasion; grand claims and hyperbole are far more effective. 

@jwenting is correct. Inflation is defined as an increase in the money supply uncoupled from an increase in the means of production. One crucial distinction is important - you asked about an increase in "resources" - silver is specie/currency, not a simple resource. Adding specie to a market will always cause inflation. @lohoris argues that this is true only in a closed economy. I'm not convinced that I understand @lohoris' argument, but to the extent that I do, trade flows (import export) will only moderate the effect by "exporting" inflation. If the surge in specie is dramatic enough, and the trade flows are small enough (as a proportion of the economy), then the impact of trade flows is not relevant. I'm not an expert in Spanish history (Spain seems to have some peculiarities that are not common to the rest of Europe), but my understanding is that the increase in specie was actually coupled with a decrease in the efficiency of labor - the colonies added a tremendous amount of potential labor that was organized in a way that was effectively slavery, while the existing labor was diverted away from production/capital deepening towards speculation. As I say, this is not a period I've studied deeply, but if this summary is correct, it would only worsen the effects of inflation. BBC History magazine's podcast this week has a section on finance which deals with this - the Kwasi Kwarteng points out that Spain lacked the financial institutions that might have helped them to deal with the influx of specie. If you're interested, I think his book is War and Gold 

Wikipedia which cites Craig Nelson's book on Thomas Paine. This is confirmed in multiple sites Wired is a bit more expansive on the same quote 

OP points out, "Vermont, which was not one of the thirteen colonies, but which issued its separate declaration of independence in 1777, was, during the years before its admission to the Union in 1791, most often called the "State of Vermont" but sometimes the "Commonwealth of Vermont" and I think less frequently the "Republic of Vermont". Some 20th-century historians started using that last term to refer to the status of Vermont between its declaration of independence and its admission to the Union. However, that was not during the colonial era." The Carolina Charter of 1663 ". . . do grant full and absolute power, by virtue of these presents, to them the [Lords Proprietors], and their heirs, for the good and happy government of the said province, to ordain, make, enact, and under their seals to publish any laws whatsoever, either appertaining to the publick state of the said province". Now, this mention of "state" is as in "condition", but that is what the term "state" to refer to a political entity grew out of Source. (hat tip to @called2Voyage again!) 

Travel & Transportion in Ancient Greece is a bit older than you asked but does discuss carts and chariots. 

Governmental policy generally forbid the colony from trading with anyone but the mother country, or from trading amongst themselves even if the trade would have been advantageous to all. For example, colonists in Georgia could not trade with colonists in Jamaica - they were forced to trade with England, who then traded with Jamaica. This has interesting implications for smuggling. Mercantilism was a bankrupt idea, but it persists to this day. In general, around WWII, a more laissez faire system dominated, in which trade is less limited. (there are exceptions to this and they are fascinating, but they are not the point I'm trying to make). Mercantilism is a zero sum game - every ounce of gold that you hold is an affront to my economy. Modern economics is a positive sum game - we can both win through trade. In general, colonies participated in the economic life of the empire as subordinate partners, but did not participate in the governance of the empire. Each colonial system had a distinct solution to the status of colonials - few gave them full rights, most gave them no rights. (Check Mike Duncan's Revolutions podcast for examples, or Jack Rakove's lectures) 

This was (to the best of my knowledge) a comment that Jefferson made to Madison, and I believe he was referring to revolutions, not civil wars. Jefferson was at the time strongly under the influence of the French Revolution, which he thought was a marvelous thing. Madison pushed back on Jefferson, and he recanted from the position. I regret that I can't provide a solid source, but I believe I read this anecodote in Jack Rakove's "Revolutionaries". It is also possible that you're referring to Jefferson's quote "God forbid we should ever be 20. years without such a rebellion.", which I think in context is a bit more ambiguous. I recall no evidence that the other founding fathers shared Jefferson's belief. 

There are a number of concepts confused here, and it isn't possible to answer the question precisely. 

tl;dr Why invade? Because government, in order to be legitimate (I'm using the term "legitimate" in the same sense as Fukyama - that the citizens perceive the government's actions as appropriate and that the citizens support and endorse the government. THe term is different from "strength", but that is a different question), must exercise governmental functions for all citizens. If a government does not exert control over all claimed territory, it implicitly: 

Immediately after the American rebellion, and most especially during the period of the Articles of Confederation, (1777 to 1789), the national government was uninterested in labor law. Controversies such as the role of slavery, the pre-eminence of the North and South, the role of commerce vs agriculture, the right to Navigate the Mississippi, or the relative evils of France and Britain were dominant issues. State governments were relatively stronger than the Federal government (by design), and each state government had different opinions about the future of the country. The new US was an economic disaster. Government officials abandoned their posts and refused to be re-appointed because the government couldn't pay them. State governments were in severe debt and many were close to default. As a result of these factors, there simply wasn't money with which to pay people. Almost everyone used scrip or barter. Being paid in whiskey was no more unusual than being paid in tobacco, or bacon, or any other good. If anyone had tried to make it illegal, they probably would have faced laughter rather than revolution. For years, the US economy was based on shipping tobacco to England, and most commerce was conducted in tobacco for years - merchants would issue and accept scrip in the form of tobacco that was payable only if the tobacco was conveyed to England and sold there. West of the Appalachians (where the colonies had been forbidden to settle, and where the "national government" had a very tenuous presence) were particularly poor in specie. People turned to barter. West of the Appalachians, the dominant industry was farming, but the country didn't yet have the transportation infrastructure necessary to send farm goods to market. The one good that could be transported over long distances was distilled spirits and whiskey. 

It isn't about a specific gene (although I'm sure there are genes that influence the strength and adaptability of the immune system), it is about the expression of the immune system - individuals who are exposed to multiple disease vectors during the crucial period of childhood when the immune system is being trained develop stronger immune systems. The Hygiene Hypothesis1 would seem to confirm this. At every horse barn I've visited, some wag has posted a reference to the study that shows that children kept in an overly clean/sanitary environment grow up to be more sickly adults, while children who play in the mud grow up healthier. The more disease vectors you're exposed to when your immune system is training, the more likely your immune system will have a relevant antibody when you're exposed later. Yes, I'm aware that sources would improve this answer - I will yield to and upvote anyone who can provide sources. 1 Hat tip and a double tot to @called2voyage. 

Governance. Remember that the Glorious Revolution of 1699 was less than a century old. Britain was still working out what it meant to be a constitutional monarchy. There wasn't a strong theory about what taxes were, who should pay them or how they should be authorized. Most of what was known about taxation was in the negative - e.g. "The King cannot tax, nor can he maintain a standing army.", or were in the form of well intentioned sentiments without practical underpinnings, e.g. "Taxes are the free gift of the people to the Sovereign". Many of the US Patriots were inspired by a small faction of British politicians called Whigs, who were most significant for their attractive, but internally inconsistent political philosophy. The Seven Years War. This was actually the first world war in which effectively every nation participated in some way. Britain won, France lost. There are too many implications to summarize but the key implications were: 

As @Luke states, there seems to have been a tipping point in the 19th century; I'd have dated it a few years earlier, and I'd have located it in England; Britain started out as a major participant in the slave trade (more slaves went to British possessions in the Caribbean than to the US colonies). I've edited in a few comments with credit to the original authors with the intent of preserving them from the beasts that roam SE and consume comments like bon-bons. The redoubtable P. Geerkens draws our attention to 1772: 

Knowing that the marriage was conducted according to Brehon Law opens up a wide variety of sources, that lead to facts like: 

What passes for a humorous answer Of course the plague struck throughout the labor market, raising the price of labor everywhere. There were very few places where Britain could have imported labor. Production of labor remains constrained by the very inefficient labor production mechanism - it takes 10-15 years to produce a new unit of labour (and in the time period, approximately 50% of the new production of labour failed to pass quality testing). Modern labor production is more reliable, but legal restrictions impose a minimum 16 year cycle on the production of new labor. Although production of new labor has been effectively restricted to less than 50% of the population, analysis of the data fails to demonstrate a significant increase in the welfare of those who have a monopoly on the production of new labor. This is also a case where it is difficult to justify Friedman's Maxim "Inflation is always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon.", and is therefore an interesting test case. The knee-jerk response to inflation is to contract the money supply. This is very difficult to do in a specie economy. Final notes