If we are speaking of current official spelling systems, I believe that Vietnamese wins the prize. Potential competitors would most likely be a language with a rich vowel system than included independent tone, phonation and nasalization contrast, which points to Ju|'hoansi and !Xóõ, which would have a higher maximum and probably a higher text frequency – if these languages were transcribed in IPA. However, Ju|'hoansi has been undergoing a progressive reduction in diacritics to the point that the 1994 orthography is diacritic-free (tone isn't marked). !Xóõ orthography likewise trades in diacritics for VC digraphs. 

The term "diphthong" is much abused and undefined. The main issue is precisely whether the two elements are "vowels", or might one be a glide. Your transcriptions presuppose that one of the elements is non-syllabic (noting the diacritic), i.e. not a vowel but rather a glide. A requirement of being a "diphthong" is being a sequence within one syllable, so [ai] could be a diphthong, but [a.i] could not. These are matters of phonological analysis, not phonetic observation, so you can't determine whether a sequence of two vocoids is monosyllabic vs. bisyllabic, or ends in a vowel vs. glide, just by listening. Some apparent German examples such as [fiɐ̯] "four" are not examples, if you analyze this as the phonetic realization of coda r. Also note that there is a well-establish distinction between "rising diphthong" and "falling dipthong". Rising diphthongs would end in a vocoid of greater sonority, such as [a, e, o]. North Saami has only rising diphthongs, ending just on those vowels. It appears that the "other vowels" that you're interested in are vocoids other than [j w ɪ̯ ʊ̯ ə̯ e̯ o̯], which means [y ɯ ø ɛ æ œ ɔ ʌ a ɑ...] well I'm not gonna write them all out. So... Norwegian has [øy] ('island') and [æʉ]; Finnish has [yø] 'night' as well as [ey, æy]. Rising diphthongs that end with [a] are not particularly remarkable, existing in Saami languages as well as Faroese and Romanian. A hallmark, perhaps a defining feature, of diphthongs is that they are a proper subset of the possible monosyllabic vocoid combinations. While Norwegian has [øy], it doesn't have [iy, oy, ay]. I don't know what the evidence is that [ay, aɯ] are very uncommon, at least given the background of general diphthong uncommonness. But I suspect that if it could be shown that they are uncommon, then that would be the product of the uncommonness of [y ɯ] times the uncommonness of diphthongs that don't simply all end in [i u]. Given the facts of intrinsic duration, a bivocalic sequence ending in a non-high vocoid is likely to have a greater duration on the second part, which would encourage a bisyllabic analysis (ergo not a diphthong). 

The universal quantifier words are like this -- all, no, none, everybody, nobody, each, every, never, always and so on. Some people insist that you have to follow an absolute universality definition of such words, so you can't say "Fred never leaves a tip" if Fred has been in a situation where tips are expected a hundred times and left a tip only once. Most people don't think that way, and would consider the counterexample to be not worth considering -- basically, it's not a datum. If Fred has tipped 5 times out of a hundred, I think it's misleading to say "never" and you should say "rarely". So there could be competing theories of the meaning of "never", one being the absolute not-even-one-case interpretation, and the others allowing some number of counterexamples. At the level of individual behavior, you find people who act according to the "absolutely none" theory, and you find people who act according to less stringent criteria of non-existence. So either some people have a different meaning for "never", or else most people don't know the meaning of "never" or don't care about the meaning of "never". Ideally we would decide this empirically, but I am not sanguine about the probability that the experiment will be performed. Your code examples point to something slightly different, since the question is about a continuous value (comparatively better), rather than a simple true/false distinction. If you have multiple evaluative principles, then they may also be hierarchically weighted -- this is what they do in Optimality Theory (well, used to, until that changed). "X is always better" means that the first evaluative cut rejects any non-X options, so any surviving possibilities must be X (and then the second-level principle would kick in to find the best of the all-X subset). So there is competition between "fewer lines of code is (always) better" and "more readable code is (always) better". Attaching "always" to one of these helps resolve the matter. 

Based on your comments, I think your question is narrower than just "what is a level", it's primarily about derivational levels in phonology. Greg Lee's answer correctly identifies the essential property of "level" as applied throughout grammatical theory, and in phonology we have added on a few more concepts. Your question (as applied to phonology) also points to two distinct concepts of "level" in our technical vocabulary. One sense of "level" is "substring", in autosegmental thinking. Any utterance at any derivational stage has a number of "levels", so that you can talk about the word, syllable, and featural levels of a representation. It is not a precise technical term, but people will say things like "This consonant is final at the foot level", meaning that the consonant is the last segment in the foot, even though it is not final in the word. It corresponds to "a node of type N" in representations, given that there is said to be a set of node types that make up representations (Place, Vocalic, Root, Syllable, Foot, Tone...). This sense of level isn't generally applicable to SPE style phonology, excluding the bits that are not clear regarding morphemic features. The other sense is derivational, which is orthogonal to the question "what does a phonological representation look like". In classical generative phonology, a derivation is a chain of representations mapped to other representations, via the rules of a language. The initial representation is the underlying forms and the final representation is the surface form. We don't use the term "deep structure", which was only used in syntax and I think the concept was officially renounced as part of the Minimalist Program (and in other streams of syntax earlier than that). In classical generative phonology, all representations are phonological and there is no such thing as a phonetic representation. There can be any number of "levels" between the input and the output, each corresponding to a string mapping (i.e. what a rule does). None of these levels are significant. Eventually, people opted to say that there are some significant levels. The (historically) first of these was the addition of a "phonetic" level, which is based on the realization that phonological rules cannot actually handle phonetic implementation. This more or less corresponds to the distinction between regular phonological rules versus allophonic rules, with the caveat that a number of "allophonic" rules probably are phonological rules which create new phonemes. (Flapping is an example). The theory of lexical phonology then created the potential for many new significant levels, also called "strata". Sharon Inkelas in her dissertation provides a straightforward method of reducing derivational level and representational level to just representational level. It's actually completely obvious: take a phonological string, with stratal bracketing (the derivational concept of "level"), and let each stratum be a node in a new tree structure (α,β,γ) so that Level 1 is "anything under the same α", Level 2 is "anything under the same β" and so on. OT (via Candidate Chains) has essentially reduced the full concept of "derivation" to "representation". In a classical derivation, you might have something like: /bunt/ → bund → bunid → [bunud], where the underlying form is /bunt/ and it is pronounced [bunud] by applying post-nasal voicing, epenthesis and vowel harmony. But this can be subsumed under the notion "surface form" where you have (bunt,bund,bunid,[bunud]) and the last item is what it pronounced (plus there are constraints on well-formed adjacent substrings within this "candidate"). There is a much narrower question about "levels" that could also be investigated, namely the utility of the Lexical Phonology concept of "stratum". 

I tenatively propose that you can not, and that click identity depends very heavily on the burst. I don't know if anyone has run the experimenent, but you can sort of start with recordings of Nama, Xhosa or !Xóõ, edit out the burst, and play the result. Ideally you'd want minimal pairs (and actual speakers of the language for your subjects), but you can get a quick DIY answer from these materials. My opinion is that click place cannot be identified at all, not just limiting oneself to formant transitions, but some of the fancy features like epiglottalization might have an audible carry-over past the burst though not something realized in the pattern of formant transitions. EDIT: I'll be less tenative. Tony Traill's 1997 paper Linguistic phonetic features for clicks ran the experiment with !Xóõ speakers, and found this result. He notes that the anterior constriction does not coarticulate with the following vowel and the posterior constriction coarticulates with the preceding only to the point of indicating some velar constriction. 

The explanation for flapping, which takes place between vowels within the stress foot, has to do with the general phonetic timing of English segments, and it is a consequence of factors that shorten /t/ in that position. It has been observed that there is a tendency for segment duration to be influenced by whether the stress foot has 1 syllable versus 2, so that the vowel [i] in "seam" is longer than in "Simi" (assuming you use [i] and not [ɪ] in that word). Consonants are likewise subject to this effect. In addition, as we know, voiceless consonants are aspirated in syllable-initial foot-initial position. The combined effect of these two factors is that in words like "happy", "lucky", the stops are shortest, compared to "appeal", "acoustic". Flapping is the result of pushing this consonant-shortening tendency a bit further, whereby in order articulate the consonant within a very short window of time, you have to throw the active articulator at the passive one (tone to alveolar ridge). This is relatively easy to do with the tongue tip, doable with the tongue body (velars can flap), and somewhat doable with labials - the reasons have to do with the mass of the articulators and the nature of articulatory control (the human tongue tip is a serious marvel). North American (and NZ) English are at the stage with alveolars flap; analogous flapping in Efik, Ibibio and numerous related languages down to NW Congo extends to labials and velars. It is not clear what exactly pushed NA English that bit further in shortening /t/ in food-medial position. Perhaps there have been some revealing cross-dialectal studies of vowel and consonant durations in the "happy" context, which would fill in some of the missing information about this shortening trend. 

1: it's a lexical property of "stop" (contrast "start", "try", "deny"); it follows from what "stop" means. Notice that "start" describes a change of state, too. 2: Yes, see Kiparsky & Kiparsky "Fact". 

Proto-Bantu and Proto-Niger-Congo were tonal, and a number of daughter languages have become non-tonal (examples: Kutu, Pogolo, Mbunga, Zaramo, Swahili, in East Africa; most North Atlantic languages; the Gur language Koromfe; the Mande language Bis(s)a). 

Insofar as the question is tagged for OT, I assume the question is specifically "within OT". This article by McCarthy give what is essentially the defining position on the concept in OT. He notes that the term derives from rule-theoretical work by Kiparsky in the early 70's. McCarthy adopts a phenomenological definition (he unfortunately has to approximate K's intent): 

If you do strictly go by the first paragraph's understanding of [w], [wu] should be a somewhat longer version of [u], having whatever its reduced duration is plur that of [u]. It is not false to say that [w] is a rather short [u], but that is insufficient. Apart from duration, there is a small but visible difference in stricture of the vocoid, where the glides have a narrow constriction. The articulatory movement of [j,w] is more ballistic. This is mostly independent of the surrounding vowel (though [w] in [awa] vs. [uwu] are themselves different). 

The development of arbitrary morphological classification results from innumerable factors that obscure the relationship between form and function. For example, there may be a sound change that developed in the language that raises word-final mid vowels. Roots might arbitrarily end with /i/ vs. /e/, and there could be a rule of palatalization where /k/ → [č] / __ i. With the addition of the final vowel raising rule, you can get new sequences like [muki] which don't undergo that rule (because originally they were [muke]). Inflectional classes of this type then result from the impossibility of knowing (without doing the historical reconstruction) which words had /e/ and which had /i/, and thus which behave one way vs. another. There are non-phonological causes as well, where an inflectional affix only combines with a certain semantically-defined class of verbs (e.g. a perfective affix only combines with stative verbs). New stative verbs may be added to the language, and yet don't allow that affix (perhaps because they are basaed on a noun) -- thus you have verb classes where you have to sort roots as to allowing vs. not allowing this affix -- conjugation classes. In short, the basic reason is that the relationship between form and function is not always self-evident, and therefore it may be easier or necessary to treat the relation as a somewhat arbitrary list.