I am not a doctor, but I was taught that once you have been on antibiotics for 24 hours, or without a fever for the same length of time, you are no longer contagious. Short of debating the accuracy of these statements, as long as you follow these guidelines you are being completely responsible and professional, and should return to work as soon as you feel able to do so. As for the comment by your co-worker--you can also look at it as a positive social interaction. He noticed that you were out, and went out of his way to acknowledge that you are back again. I would assume that he meant it as a humorous way to connect with you, unless and until he proves otherwise by some sort of rude or inappropriate behavior. 

I'm in a situation where my Boss only wants very simple answers. The problem is that in the information security and software business, this doesn't really exist. Here is the situation. My Boss is in the process of drawing up contracts for clients where they pay us for services rendered, simple. My Boss brings me in, says "hey, based on our current stack (how everything is set up), could we support 20,000 clients?". My first answer consists of lots of questions. What client is it? How many hosts per client? What operating system? What services? What processes? How is their network set up? Etc. There is not a straight forward answer. My Boss than says, "I just need a yes or no answer so I can relay this to the client". I basically refuse to give him a answer and try to explain. He wants to say "x=2 and y=3 and so x*y=6. But it is never that simple in the software business because there are many other externalities. He gets frustrated because he wants a yes or no answer but we do not have the available information from the client to say so. I have expressed that we should tell the client "let's start out with 1000 hosts and we can build our way up as both of us are happy" but this gets refused. How do I deal with a Boss that does not understand the complexities and wants a clear cut answer I don't feel comfortable giving? 

You can also set a timer and keep track of the time you are spending here. If you are on the site to search for information, and then you find yourself getting "caught" by the site after you have found the information you are looking for, set a timer for 10 minutes (on your phone or computer), and when the timer goes off, leave the site. If you are in the middle of an answer, copy the text you have written so far into a word processing document and save it there. That way the next time you have time to spend on the site, you can paste it back into an answer field and keep going. 

I currently work at company A. I have worked here for over a year and I love the environment, job, etc. During this time, I have also started my own side business that isn't related to company A, it is more of a product than a business. This does not affect my work at company A at all (performance reviews have been fine, getting raises, etc). I have recently launched my side business product and it is doing decently well for a single person start up. Now, while I mentioned company A is not related to the start up, it would help them in a huge way. So my boss contacted me today during work and asked me how the side business was going and I said well. He expressed a lot of interest to integrate my side product into company A. And here is the problem. He believes that because I work for the company A, my side product will be 100% free. Not only free, but work to tailor it to their preferences to fit them. I do love working for company A but I have also worked very, very hard on my product. If I am honest, I would not give the product away for free to another company(and I have not). I'm afraid by saying "hey boss, this isn't free", he will take it as if I am leveraging my position (get paid salary from company A who then pays me agin for the product). How do I treat company A as a customer/client and not as a employer of mine? How do I manage this situation without it blowing up? Edit: he never said "it's nice this will be free too", but I am very confident he believes this is the case. Having worked with him for over a year, you start to understand how a person works. 

Recently (2 mos. ago) joined a data analysis team at a large U.S. corp. This team is an interesting mix of technical and not very technical people. My boss and I are more on the technical side- can code in various languages, can employ different tools etc. Co-worker A and B are responsible for analysis of specific data and products- while they cannot code, they have knowledge about their subject matter and can utilize a data visualization tool effectively. I respect that we all know different things and are experts in different ways. I always try to get my co-workers' opinions on things they know more than me, like their data sets, their products or the company. The problem is this: I feel like I rub my co-workers the wrong way when I want to be more technical in the way I do things. I get this impression because Co-worker A has told me on more than one occasion that "this team is about X" and "we do things like X". Here's my issue with that- my hiring manager is happy to have me utilize whatever skills I have to my disposal, and this team knew what I was about when it was hiring me. In fact, we talked about how I like to supplement my work with code or want to do "Y" type of analysis to our data during my interviews. Maybe this wasn't conveyed properly. My boss's boss is also happy with the direction I take with tasks- he is excited to see me do things that are new for this team. Because of this he invites me to meetings that either co-worker A or B, or both, may not be invited to. This I think is another sore point for both of them, me being new and all- evident by not responding to my friendly IMs, like hey how are you. I would like to have a good working relationship with both coworkers, but I am unsure how to overcome the "resentment" that may arise because of these issues. I call it resentment for lack of a better word. More context: co-worker A has been at the company for 3 years, has a ton of friends here, and I think doesn't like that I am not truly a subordinate to him (I think I am, I have told him on more than one occasion he's the expert on X and I trust his on judgement on X etc.) He doesn't want to teach or mentor me, but I think is more interested in maintaining his power and status; this is evident by him complaining about me asking too many questions to someone from another team. This co-worker is also quite gossipy and may even tell tall, negative tales (though not sure about this). Problem to solve: how do I survive in this kind of team dynamic? 

I agree with the other answers already posted, but just wanted to suggest that you might want to create different resumes depending on their usage. If you have a LinkedIn profile, and you upload a resume with that profile, I would make sure that that resume is optimized for ATS, so that if employers are generally searching for candidates with specific skills, your resume is likely to be found via that search. If you are responding to a specific job opening, however, I always advise optimizing that resume for that job opening. If possible, use a hybrid resume that looks good and will work with the ATS, but always rework your resume to highlight those skills/positions that you think are most likely to resonate with the particular employer. 

Very simply, no. You are not required or obligated to go. In fact, if you truly do not want to go or not interested in the job opportunity, cancel and do not waste your time or the employers time. Although they won't be happy, it would save them time and money to focus on another candidate that is interested. Note: This probably won't look great on you cancelling last minute, so expect bridges to be burned. 

This is actually a very normal thing to do, not only in the computer industry, but also in virtually every other industry. I have found that the majority of people in cyber security for example, were usually in a branch of the armed forces. What's more important is that you go after the things you are interested in and pursue opportunities. You have just graduated, you still have plenty of time to figure out what you want to do. Because you mention the computer industry, I can confidently say this will not affect you at all. Some even may look at it as a very positive thing. This is a decision only you can make, but it certainty will not affect your future employment. You have a long, long career 

I have been in my current role for 4 months, and I want to move to a different team because the career track my manager has laid out and discussed with me does not work with my career goals and aspirations. There was some confusion before I joined my team, and I was told that I would be in a different position/track than the one I ended up being in (my manager agrees that there was confusion around the position I was coming in to). What can I do if I don't want to waste a year of my life in this position, but also don't want to lose relationships (I don't hate my work or my coworkers, and my manager has been great about listening to and implementing my suggestions, however the work I am doing is only half of what I thought I would be doing when I joined).