From my personal experience, people either use a double bowline (*) or a double figure 8. The bowline (in my experience!) is used only by fairly experienced climbers, probably because it is more difficult to execute. I will list some pros/cons of the two knots; remind anyway that both knots are absolutely safe to use (as I'm sure is the Yosemite bowline, which I don't know). Double Figure 8 Pros: 

Preuss even wrote a series of principles to express his ethics of climbing, criticizing the use of any artificial mean (including the rope) for the progression. However, people like Preuss were rare, and most of the alpinists in the world didn't bother about how a summit was reached, as long as it was reached. The debate about the the ethics of climbing made a return at the end of the 60s and of the early 70s: the advances in technology and the diffusion of the expansion bolt had made possible to climb almost anything, as long as you had enough gear and patience. The excessive use of bolts and artificial means was strongly criticzed, amongst the others, by Reinhold Messner in Italy, who wrote in 1968 the famous article The murder of the impossible and by Royal Robbins in the USA, which described his ideas in the book Advanced rockcraft (1973). Adventure and boldness were still considered prominent in rock climbing, and not much stress was put on technical difficulty. Therefore, using too many artificial means was seen as a betrayal of all climbing was about. Things started to change in the late 70s/ early 80s. In some circles attention began to shift from the heroism of climbing to the technical difficulty. An important step in this process was the invention of modern rubber-soled climbing shoes in the early 80s. 

And that's good advice to stay hydrated, but offers little insight into optimizing urination stops. My races so far have taught me quite a bit about how my hydration works. I stress that it's my hydration because I've seen that it works differently for different people, so YMMV. Nonetheless, these are a few tips that may work for you. Many of these tips are often recommended by some professional trainers and long-time athletes: 

The first one is pretty obvious, but the other two deserve a few words. Once the first healing phase is over, what you're trying to accomplish with therapy is to avoid the injury if you happen to have another accident. Strength and flexibility play a huge role in being able to sustain another fall without injuring yourself. And here's the rub: Your ankle may be stronger and more flexible than before you had your accident. You may be less susceptible to injury. I have since had a couple of episodes where the stress to my ankle have been bigger than the time I got sprained. I'm not a therapist, so I can only assume that YMMV. But for me, knowing that my ankles are more resilient than before helped me overcome my fear. 

The one way I know to remove the twists from a climbing rope, requires for the rope not to be hanging nor in use in any way. The procedure is quite simple but may require help from your partner: 

Have your parter attach an ATC with a carabiner to the belay loop in her harness (if your partner is otherwise engaged, you can tie the ATC and carabiner to a rock or tree with some webbing). Push one end of the rope through the ATC in the way you'd use it to belay (through the top of the ATC, around the carabiner, and back out through the ATC). Pull the full rope length through the system. 

As far as I know, commercially available climbing ropes are max. 80 m (260 ft) long; however, to descend from a 80 m long route, you would need a 160 m long rope! Maybe something less if the route is overhanging, but still much longer that what -as far as i know- is commercially available. So what kind of ropes are used for these "super-routes"? Some kind of "custom" ropes? Disclaimer I know perfectly well (as I've done it myself many times, only on shorter lengths) that it is possible to climb an 80 m route with two 80m ropes (half ropes or twin ropes), then join them together and rappel down for all the 80m. But from the linked videos it is clear that a single rope is being used (see for example Ondra on Chilam Balam). This makes perfect sense, because we are talking about cutting-edge routes, at the limit of modern sport climbing, and carrying two ropes, even if thin half ropes, with all the added weight would probably decrease the performance. 

As far as I know, the "change of paradigm" that led to the birth of sport climbing happened between the 70s and the 80s, and it happened separately in Europe and in the United States. From the early 1900s to the 50s, rock climbing was mostly seen as a "tool" necessary to reach the summit of a mountain. There was no real distinction between "aid climbing" and "free climbing", too: the goal was to reach new summits and to establish new bold first ascents in the mountains, whatever the means. Of course, there were those who advocated a purer climbing style, as for example the german Paul Preuss: 

Figure: the south-east face of El Cap. From www.xRez.com The first ascension of El Cap passing through the Dawn Wall was realized in 1970 by Warren Harding and Dean Caldwell after 27 days on the wall (source). The name given to this route was Wall of the Early Morning Light (WEML). Since then, other routes have been established on the Dawn Wall, most notably (source): 

I relied on being well informed to overcome my fear. Specifically, I did my best to understand what physical therapy could do for me. A good therapy will: 

Years ago, after a storm, I found a dead bird with an id ring on its leg. I wanted to find out where to report it, but before I returned with a camera to take a photo, a neighbor decided to dispose the body. In case I ever find another one, I'd like to know how to find out what I can do. The above incident happened in Mexico, but I'd like to have answers that aren't country specific, if possible. 

We have a new puppy and can't wait to take him to TGO. Since he's still growing he'll grow out of any harness that fits at the moment. I'm considering tying a harness out of webbing, but all instructions I've found so far require D rings, stitching and cutting. But aside from my current needs I'd really like to know how to tie a makeshift hoist harness for my dog in case I ever need it. How can I tie a one-piece harness out of webbing? Some tidbits: 

Granted... mountaineering is not really my thing, but I'm still curious: Why would belay devices like the Verso and Reverso useless in this scenario? 

I don't usually care too much about making a pee stop if I'm hiking (I just don't mind). In the last couple of years, however, I've taken on running and have since ran a marathon and a handful of half-marathons (and a one-minute pee break is a lot when you're trying to beat your own record). Pro-advice for hydration usually falls under two big categories: