A bank loan is an illiquid asset. As a result, loan losses do not directly cause illiquidity; they cause insolvency. Of course, people will not normally lend short-term to an insolvent bank, so it will be illiquid later. (If the concern is about money creation, impaired deposit growth would only be a consequence of insolvency.) Can a crypto crash cause a general wave of insolvencies? That is difficult to answer, but we can look at the possibilities. The credit risk at the time of writing appears to from individual investors borrowing to buy cryptocurrencies. The only business borrowing that I am aware of is by the crypto exchanges - they borrow to support customer borrowering. Such loans are covered by two parties - the customer, and the exchange. We cannot double-count these debts as a result. As for customers, banks either lend against collateral, or cash flow. No sensible bank would lend against most crypto-currency collateral: most of the cryptocurrencies are designed so that authorities cannot seize them. Unless there is an exchange-traded fund (which can be used for margin debt), such crypto-based lending will be negligible. Banks could lend against other collateral, such as a second mortgage. However, such loans are backed by both the home as well as household cash flow. People take out second mortgages to go on vacation or to fund small businesses (which mainly fail); there is always a safety margin for the banks in such lending. Unsecured lending is lending against income. The recent wave of banks blocking cryptocurrency purchases via credit cards is a sign that some are getting uncomfortable with such risks. However, losses would only materialise if the involved investors are cash-flow impaired (lose their job in most cases). Although such cases will happen, any losses need to be looked at in the context of other sources of loss, such as those caused by medical emergencies in the United States. In order for these losses to pose a systemic risk, it would probably require large job losses, which by itself poses a risk. 

The amount of currency in circulation (bills and coins) is published by the Federal Reserve. (Available at the FRED web site.) The annual change in this time series is the amount created. This is the amount outstanding, it does not tell us how much currency is being destroyed and replaced. Also, there is seasonal demand for currency, and some cash is shipped back and forth. The creation of currency is not really a "transfer" (gift). The banks need to buy the currency by exchanging reserves (settlement balance at the Fed) for the notes. Finally, the Federal Reserve does not single out how much it deals with any particular banks by name under normal circumstances. (During some of the special operations undertaken after the Financial Crisis, the Fed published some information about their counterparties.) The most you would get would be on the basis of the category of bank. 

They added market segmentation as a way of allowing bonds to trade away from the predicted ('efficient") value, that is, allow a non-zero term premium. Once we allow for a non-zero term premium, supply effects can be seen in predicted bond pricing. The term premium interacts with supply as a positive term premium will induce bond investors to increase the holdings of bonds relative to the allocation that would happen if the term premium were zero. That is, changes in the term premium is needed to balance the market. 

There’s a lot of techniques used, but it is extremely rare that forecasts are on “supply and demand”, rather prices. To go from supply and demand to prices (which is what investors are interested in), you need supply and demand functions, which nobody can really estimate well. I will first comment on supply and demand analysis for the bond market (the market I am familiar with), then have a few quick comments on price forecasts. One does see attempts to match up the supply of government bonds (based on projected deficits) to what end investors want to buy, but such analysis is only of a niche interest. For example, governmental debt agencies try to gauge what maturity structure of issuance will match investor needs. Meanwhile, on the demand side, people look at the effects of regulatory changes, and how much demand that will create for long-term bonds. The UK gilt curve was greatly affected by pension demand for long-term gilts. There’s a wide range of techniques used in practice to forecast prices (rates in fixed income). If one looks at the debate about market efficiency, most do not work very well (bulk of investors underperform the market average). Some analysts use methods like story-telling or technical analysis, which are generally looked down on by academic studies. However, the bulk of the analysis is fair value analysis. For example, if I a wanted to gauge fair value for a 2-year bond, I am just going to look at the outlook for central bank policy. This is because the fair value of a bond is the expected cost of financing over the life of the bond (the short rate), which is set by the central bank. If one is interested in corporate bonds, one estimates the probability of default, to get an idea what spread is fair. Equity investors attempt to forecast future dividends and earnings. All of these analyses can be done in a wide variety of ways. 

When the central bank buys anything, it transfers a deposit (reserves) to the reserves account of the bank of the seller. (The seller could be the bank itself, or a customer of the bank.) This keeps everyone’s balance sheet in balance. Until the central bank does something to destroy reserves (e.g. sell something), all the bank can do is transfer the reserves to other banks. That is, the reserve increase is “permanent,” even if the initial bank gets rid of them. 

My argument is that he is just looking to find a justification for a policy choice he made, and so there is no reason to believe that his arguments are completely coherent. We need to understand why he is making such arguments in the first place. If interest rates are purely the result of expectations (term premium equal to zero), the purchases themselves have no direct effect on yields, only as the result of signalling what the Fed will do (the first channel). However, the Fed could achieve the exact same effect by just saying that the economy stinks, and they will not raise rates for a really long time. In order to find a justification for the decision to purchase bonds (instead of just talking), he needs to argue that the change in supply affects bond yields. The problem with that argument is that the front end of the yield curve does a pretty good job of tracking expectations, regardless of the state of supply and demand in the bond market. (One can look at how market participants use front end pricing as an estimate of what the central bank will do in the next few rate setting meetings across all the major markets as an empirical validation of that assertion.) Therefore, we need some reason to believe that the short maturity bonds are somehow different from long maturity bonds, i.e., there is some form of segmentation. This way, one can hope that supply and demand affects long-term bond risk premia more than short-term premia (which would sound plausible to most bond market analysts). What matters is that the term structure of the term premia is changing due to the supply effect. One can come up with different verbal explanations for why term premia move, they will end up being indistinguishable in practice. That said, we need to ignore the possibility that other factor affect term premia, such as returns volatility (which would be suggested by portfolio theory). The obvious issue with this argument is that Fed purchases are not the only factor affecting supply and demand in the bond market. Why are those other factors being ignored?