As Philipp said - defence is more important than offence. So lessen it from the equation by giving fighters extra defence, allowing them to focus more of bypassing that then defending themselves. I'm thinking particularly of Dune where fighters had energy shields that worked better the more force was used - so bullets were completely ineffective and the only weapons that made sense were knives and similar. If you have to fight slowly, your technique is much more important than your lucky or quick strikes. You'll be encouraged to make flashy moves to disorient or distract your opponent from the relatively slow strike you'll finally make when you have the right opening, and can ignore anyone who just jumps at you. 

The easiest way is to restrict the abundance of energy supply. The Industrial revolution required massive amounts of cheap energy to work. Some say that it was because the coal fields in the north of England were practically lying on the ground that the steam engines were built. You couldn't get as much power from burning wood or from horses pulling wheels as you could by simply picking coal up off the ground and throwing it into a furnace, and those early steam engines were very inefficient so you needed a lot of energy. There were power sources such as waterwheels already in existence, but they are particularly static in nature, and only available in certain locations. Also windmills provide reasonable amounts of power but again, aren't the easiest of things to use. Nobody would have a railway locomotive powered by water or wind. You have to have coal. So - get rid of the coal. No power = only small scale industrialisation in limited locations. 

The "4f" arrangement seems nice. Just make it spin really fast on all axes. Physical dome A probably preferable mechanical solution could be accomplished by having a deployable dome, that forms a mesh when deployed - then it fills the gaps with matter somehow. I'm thinking of something like this: 

The first thing that comes to mind is that if resurrection is easily available, it would become a commodity. People doing dangerous work could, for example, be compensated for possible deaths. The reduction of death to an inconvenience would also make risky jobs less compensated - there's just not that much at risk anymore. Work with a high risk of death would also be performed more often - for example, the assassination business would change; more people would try to do it for the high pay for a while, until it peters out to the value of secrecy and making sure the target is completely obliterated rather than just dead. Also, people could now be requested to do deadly work, with the promise of resurrection. You might be the best miner, for instance, which may otherwise make it less possible for people to send you in mine full of deadly gases to do work since you might be lost, but now, that can be reversed if your body is easy to retrieve. Safety might remain an interest, since it would reduce the waste of effort to resurrect people and prevent clutter to the point of overloading the services. Trying to protect people from death would be closer to an everyday act of kindness, like giving them a ride or preventing a broken leg, rather than having the weight that it has if death is permanent. This can mean people risk less to prevent the deaths of others - it the end, it might be more efficient to let someone get killed and then resurrect them (in some cases) than risk dying yourself and possibly having more people to resurrect or being incapable of retrieving the body. It could also become a form of torture - killing someone and resurrecting them repeatedly. The legal penalty might be reduced with the perpetrator being fined rather than punished with a life sentence or death. Likewise, the penalty of death could become the equivalent of a fine. Warfare would likely not change much - tactics wouldn't change unless resurrections could be performed easily on the battlefield. After you kill your enemy, you can scour the battlefield for corpses, resurrect those you want for interrogation and burn the rest. edit- as Unsigned observes in the comments, weapons would probably shift towards obliterating enemies or making them useless as soldiers, since after a battle, the winner can just resurrect all their soldiers. 

No, of course not. You could have super-intelligent aliens who either don't bother to develop at all beyond what they immediately need because they have no 'ambition' but can have whatever tools are needed for any task at hand - so an aggressive species could stumble across a completely peaceful world and next thing you know, the clever but peaceful aliens have produced a whole heap of war machines. I'm particularly thinking of the moties in Niven's Mote in God's Eye novel, but they had a different character flaw - one of constant reproduction that led to overpopulation, war and social destruction. But they were really good at making whatever tools were needed for a task/ So, given alternative motives or impulses for these aliens, you can skip straight to the good stuff without having to slowly invent better and better tooling. That said, you could let them get better tools by default - we built stone, then copper, then iron etc because we invented these things. If your aliens had, say, super-strong plants that could be trained to grow in certain shapes, you could go straight to the 'iron age' (or the plant equivalent with iron-strength leaves when they grow to maturity in shaped moulds built around young plants), or plants trained to grow into the structures we eventually learned to build out of iron. 

The other answers are good so far, but I don't think anyone has pointed out that there's another way to easily lower the difficulty of getting off an alien planet: just reduce the gravity and/or atmospheric density. A smaller planet with less atmosphere is significantly easier to take off from. Even though the delta-V required to reach low Earth orbit is 9.4 to 10.0 km/s, that required to reach low Mars orbit is only 4.1 km/s. Source 1, Source 2, Source 3 To see what a thick atmosphere does, take a look at the number for Venus: 27.0 km/s! Remember, doubling delta-v more than doubles the mass of the rocket, as it's an exponential relationship. 

You needn't look any further than many failed states. When a country can't pay its debts, the typical response of the government is to just print money. This causes Hyperinflation and causes everyone to try to divest themselves of the useless currency. In other words, the currency itself becomes worthless. Assets still have the value they always had, such as food, clothing, and fuel. Some items that have real value but are also durable and portable may actually rise in value because they can be used as a new form of money. Historically this has been gold, but it could be anything. Cigarettes are a form of currency in prisons. Batteries, non-perishable food, and medicine seem like great candidates. A lot of people's investments aren't actually money, but stocks. If you own a stock, you own a portion of a company, which is really an asset. Assuming that company can figure out how to stay in business and produce their product for some kind of profit, then that stock still has value. If nothing else, that stock may entitle you to a share of their assets if they liquidate (but it depends on the type of share). There are other alternatives to cash though. Let's say as soon as the aliens started dropping money, the government declared that all cash was worthless, but all deposits were still valid. A bank, for instance, only keeps 5% of the on-deposit money as cash. When you deposit \$100 in your account, the bank loans out \$95 of that, and that person typically deposits it in their bank account (or spends it meaning the seller deposits the money) and then the bank loans out 95% of that \$95, and so on. The net result is called the "money multiplier" and it ultimately means that the amount of money in circulation is only 5% cash. It's hard for me to understand what this would mean, if suddenly only that 5% became worthless. Could we just switch to a cashless society? How does the government continue to manage the money supply? One option would be something like Bitcoin. One could imagine a crypto-currency where only the government had the keys necessary to authenticate a transaction. This would be some kind of centralized electronic currency (instead of the distributed nature of Bitcoin). Countries have gone through periods of Hyperinflation and then stabilized by issuing a new currency. If you immediately say "cash" is worthless but money on deposit has value, and you immediately start issuing a new digitally-authenticated currency where the value was one-to-one the same as your existing denominations, and you offered some kind of replacement plan for the banks that hold most of the cash currency (the amount they have on hand at the moment the aliens started dropping cash could probably be authenticated by an audit) then it just might work, and the world could avoid big financial system problems. 

Celestial objects are too far from each other to interact electrically this way, although they do interact through the interplanetary medium, albeit at a much smaller degree Electricity and gravity don't interact the same way with matter. If a planet had a net charge, everything on it would share that net charge. Unless we're talking about a huge volcano (where events are violent enough to cause lightning), a thunderstorm, a tornado or an earthquake (where separations are again violent and there's a lot of friction involved), you wouldn't see much of a difference. Also magnetism is not electricity - they're related but not the same effect - unless the magnetic poles shifted dramatically (which does happen but never abruptly), you wouldn't notice much changing. It would have as much an effect as it has now, on other bodies - the Sun controls most of what happens with charge within the solar system as it has the most powerful charge flows and emissions. It's hard to imagine a planet having a stronger effect on the charge of its surroundings than the star they orbit. Even if it were to happen, only the planet would face the consequences, not even moons. Life would be no different - in fact, lightning is considered to be part of the necessary ingredients to get life and in the primordial Earth, we probably got tons of it all the time. With time, life adapts, the atmosphere stabilizes and things work out fine. The elements would also be the same, chemistry would be the same. If the spacecraft entered the planet's environment too fast, it could get struck by lightning when it enters the higher (near space) layers of the atmosphere. But that would be easy to mitigate by just slowly adjusting its orbit until the potential is equalized, provided the pilot was prepared for this case. 

The simplest way is dogma. If you have a holy book, that is written to be less vague about things, then it can be used as a source of a single absolute truth. Any deviation from this is unacceptable to that religion. This in itself becomes "fun" as times change and proscribed ancient practices become outdated... but if the book is clear enough then schisms can be prevented. Killing anyone daring to even think about questioning it helps a lot too. Basically, killing anyone not toeing in line is the easiest way to keep solitary control of the religion. If you don't want violence and oppression, then the next best thing is to have a historical genocide of such epic proportions that everyone considers its not worth letting it happen again, such that everyone basically agrees to keep things stable whilst possibly having enough laxity in secular life that the religion continues its practices and teachings without any opposition or schisms forming. 

It's not that far fetched to believe that the alien technology will be fragile. Our most advanced technology (aircraft, spacecraft, laboratory robotics) are in fact quite fragile. One of the main difficulties in space travel is that the energy required scales up dramatically with mass, and this would be even more the case in travel between stars. There is currently a project called Breakthrough Starshot that's investigating sending tiny wafer-thin sensing devices from Earth to the next closest star system at about 20% of the speed of light. If successful, these will be tiny incredibly fragile devices, built to be as light as possible. They'll barely have the capability to take some readings and pictures of the surrounding area and send them back to Earth. Certainly the designers aren't going to give any thought to security or defense. The attacker in an interstellar war has one big disadvantage: they have to move their force across an incredibly large distance, with all the logistical problems that entails, weakening them the entire way. Now imagine there's an alien race on the receiving end of these Breakthrough Starshot probes. Assuming they could figure out the basic purpose and mechanisms that make them work (possibly by intercepting a transmission from one back to Earth), it may be quite simple to interrupt their function. That's really the root question: can we understand how the alien technology works, and what its limitations are? If we can, there's a good chance we can find a weakness and exploit it. Of course, one can always come up with a more powerful technology. Some kind of grey goo bomb could be delivered almost undetectably and relatively inexpensively across interstellar distances, and cause enormous destruction once it arrives. What you're really sending in that case is self-replicating information - a pattern that makes copies of itself. Information is one of the least expensive things to send anywhere. However, we do have ways of combating self-replicating machines (in fact we have them here now and call them bacteria and viruses). In general, we look at them under a microscope, figure out how they work, and attack them in one of two ways: quarantine, or medicine. Medicine is just a form of chemical attack on the device... figure out something it needs and take it away, or figure out how it works, and introduce a chemical that sabotages it. The basis of self-replication on Earth is DNA and we have a pretty good understanding of how it works, but also how to stop it. 

Blimey, we'd have to read the docs for the software we use! Imagine not being able to cut and paste random bits of code off the web any more, productivity would plummet. Mind you, quality might increase, particularly if developers spent less time on the stack exchange sites instead of working :-) 

I'm going to suggest 2 items, a spear type weapon (ie melee, no ammo requirements, and allows to keep a bit of distance) plus a disabling weapon such as a net, bolas or lasso. Against a lot of zombies, you only really have 1 option - be like Brave Sir Robin and run away as fast as you can, but this applies to most scenarios with most equipment. Against 1 zombie, get him tangled up in something so he's on the ground and not going anywhere or able to be much of a threat, and then you can walk up to him and stab him with your spear in the relevant places until he stops wriggling. (a machete or other short sword might be a good thing to include just for completeness). 

Given the age of the solar system, and the fact it's made up of stuff from earlier solar systems, if there was another physical mechanism with these same properties and the tendency to actually occur naturally, it's likely it would have happened by now, and we would see lots of it everywhere. The only explanation for not seeing it is that the conditions on Earth, and on other bodies we've visited, aren't suitable for this stuff to exist. 

You could use a Momentum Exchange Tether. I first saw this concept in the Neal Stephenson novel, Seveneves. The concept is that being on the end of the rotating tether, you get decelerated with respect to the surface of the Earth while the other end is accelerated. At the lowest point, you disconnect and just fall down, since you're now at almost zero horizontal velocity. The deceleration is (potentially) nice and slow. 

updated tl;dr: fuel is a problem, so is wear - alternative fuel sources will be required, as will some serious mechanical skills to patch the cars - for a 1st world country that has mostly newer cars, expect most to break down within 2 years, with very few left after 4-6. Calculations below. Some variables I dug up to help calculations: all numbers are approximate and correspond to values taken for years 2009-2013 as far as I know. Also, using scientific notation to prevent zero overload. Rounding is performed on an arbitrary basis. also fuel units are in gallons and barrels because that's the units they're reported in online - I would much prefer metric since I don't live in a country that uses imperial units, but gotta bite the bullet this time. Worldwide numbers usage and production: 

While bowlturner's answer provides a list of processes to work with, I think that, since this is about worldbuilding, there should be some technique in applying all of these possibilities in a practical way. Practical means, since we're not talking about software explicitly here, possible to do with pen & paper and fit it all in your head. Keep in mind, the following technique is intended to give a realistic result, but it doesn't necessarily depend on absolute realism or application of mainstream theory in every step Elevation Starting out with a barren rocky planet, we can apply some elevation to reduce how smooth it is, which can help later. This can be done randomly - a nice noise algorithm can help of course, but since we're on paper here, we can just divide the world into a few large sections and roll dice for the elevation at each intersection. To do this properly, we need a range of elevations that make sense. We need a mean elevation and a higher bound. We can't define the lowest elevation as sea-level since we have no sea yet. Since Mars is considered to be close enough to a young Earth, we can use its elevations at this point since there's less corrosion there (which gives us room to apply our own corrosion later). The highest and lowest points on Mars are 30km apart, the highest mountain is 22km and the mean elevation (datum surface) is at around 8km. Apply any elevation at the intersections within these bounds and adjust until you have a proper mean elevation. Then subdivide the grid and perform the process again at all new intersections. This will give a very artificial look to it, so just merge and divide peaks and valleys until it looks more reasonable. Now is the time to place craters and stuff if you have to - make sure they're big impact craters since smaller ones will erode away anyway.Decide whether to apply the surface features due to elevation over or under the craters (did the impact happen after a mountain was formed?) Craters should be large and cover a 2 digit percentage of the surface. They should also not be too deep, at most a tenth of the elevation range (in this case 3km, but less is better). If you don't want oceans in the world, you can pretty much stop here. If you want earth-like, it's time to break it up. This will give you continents. Seas & Continents Create fault lines around the caps and across the entire surface, more if you want lots of continents, less if you want less of them. Then, recede the surface from the fault lines - the further away land is from the faults, the larger the oceans and the deeper they will be. Feel free to reduce dry land to 30% of the surface or less. All of this doesn't need to be done with detail, just roughly. After you're done getting continents, create more fault lines all over the place. Don't recede them - these are your tectonic plates. If you're unsure about how they should look, here's a pic. From the picture it's obvious the plates neither coincide exactly with continents nor are they completely random. Volcanoes Now randomly place volcanoes - all over the place. The previous grid approach can work. The number of volcanoes throughout history is probably too high to work with, but it seems that today there are about 1500 potentially active ones. About 15 volcanoes should be enough because, as you can see here, they're pretty well clustered along the tectonic plate fault lines. After randomly placing them, bias them heavily towards those lines. Those that are very close should be multiplied to cover large lines along the faults. There should still be a few left far from those lines however. If they are placed on dry land, they create volcanic mountains, if they're close to land but not on it, you get an island - if they're far from land, in the ocean, you get an underwater volcano. After noting the spots, their scale needs to be decided. There's the VEI scale for that. The scale goes from zero to 8, where zero is relatively inert and 8 is apocalyptic. We need to make sure we've got the volcano's surroundings covered as well. The tephra would be ejected into the atmosphere and would eventually be deposited on the ground. There's also lava covering the surroundings. How far would these go? We can divide the total volume of tephra (find it out by the scale of each volcano, from the VEI) by a thickness and get an area of settled tephra for that thickness. Apply it to the surrounding area. Wind and weather would of course affect things, but we can be freeform about this since simulating weather for each eruption etc. will quickly get too tiresome for this. The magma bubbling out based on index can be seen here. You can assume that all those cubic meters turn into a large mountain. But how tall and wide does it get? We can use the right circular cone formula and solve for either height or radius to get a result - fortunately, google has us covered - search for "cone volume" and it should give you a calculator to work with, along with the formula if you need it. Obviously this is hard to do for 1.5k volcanoes, so just do some quick calculations for those that are solitary and then pick some points along the volcano lines, calculate something for those and interpolate the rest of the volcanos (so that they are larger when closer to large ones and they get smaller as they get near the small ones). If you need a thickness for the line, use the average volcano radius for that - you can also just assume the tephra is distributed in a circle and take that radius for the tephra circle line. Fuzzy it up a bit for "realism". An alternative would be to distribute the sizes based on frequencies, that you can derive from a chart like this. Canyons, Mountain Ranges, Island Series This is where our plates start to matter the most. Canyons and mountain ranges are easy. Look at an example - here's a rough map of mountain ranges. It's obvious there is a fault-line relationship. Since both canyons and mountain ranges are results of plate interactions, we need to shake them to get some of these made. An easy way is to place random vectors on each tectonic plate - for each plate, make an arrow of a length and direction. They should start roughly from the center of each plate. To get the horizontal and vertical components and make our life easier, use a calculator or more easily, just draw a rectangle aligned to the grid for which the vector is its diagonal - the left and right sides are your vertical component and the up and down sides are your horizontal. Now look at where all the new arrows are pointing. If two plates are pointing to each other, make it a mountain range if they meet on land or a series of islands (can be underwater islands) if they meet at sea. If they're pointing away from each other, that's a canyon. We need to know how tall these ranges are going to be and how deep the canyones are going to be. There's two quick approaches to this - use the same range of elevations from above, from Mars (since we're going to erode mountains to 2/3rds to 1/2 later, don't use Earth ranges - highest point should be ~20km and lowest trench underwater should be ~5 km below sea level - canyons should go at most 1.5km below sea level) or move around the plates multiple times (like 3-5 times) and count collisions and retractions for each edge within the total number of movements; divide the total elevation with the number of iterations to know how much difference each ones makes and then do a simple addition to make out their depths and heights. All of these collisions are earthquakes - like volcanoes, if you want a rough estimate of how powerful they can be and how often they can happen (for more detail) take a look at this. What about erosion? Seems to be planned for later, so I'm stopping here. 

Its usually separation of concerns - the military must be accountable to a group of people who are not necessarily the ones in charge. eg, the British military gets told what to do by parliament who except in exceptional circumstances get to decide amongst themselves, and the military themselves are only loyal to the Crown. So a prime minister cannot unilaterally decide to go to war, nor can he order the troops like they're his personal bodyguard. Meanwhile, the Queen who does have the military as a personal bodyguard doesn't have any direct power. This kind of tradition then builds upon itself to be a safeguard from corruption. This engenders the sense that the military are a branch of the country and loyal to it as a whole. So you effectively "divide and conquer" the groups with power so all of them end up working for the common good. It still can go wrong - look at Egypt where the military took over to protect the country from extremist political leaders, or Turkey where some tried to do so.