Best Regard is friendly enough and you don't sound like a broken record, saying thanks all the time. :) 

I don't see this as a question but more that you might want advice, so I will give you my advice since I've been in the current situation. Search for a new job now I took my first job under similar work-related issues. 

Boy I was so wrong in this. The first 6 months of the job was probably the worst anxiety I've ever had in my life. A lot of responsibility was put on me and I was working 8-12 hours everyday. I started to resent my work and my life cause I the only thing I did was to work or thinking about work (Not cause I was interested in work but because my brain was fried). Thankfully I had a good college friend who pulled me out of it and got me a new job which I truly enjoy. The major thing that changed between this job and my first? The Manager I still work hard and sometimes over 8 hours, but the responsibility is dispersed between all developers and the manager understands that learning and understanding development takes time. Now I actually like waking up in the morning and traveling to my job. It's exciting. My advice is look for a new job if you are burned out. A change in the environment is a good thing for your body, and hopefully your brain too. 

Don't tell them anything until you HAVE a written contract with the company you want to work with. Even if the company you like, have been in contact with you and said that you will be getting an offer, you should wait until the WHOLE process is done. A lot of things can change, and it's better to keep as many doors open as you can while there is an uncertainty. When you do receive an offer and written a contract I would suggest to contact the other companies and thank them for their time. This shows a good ending and also that you don't want to use their time in vain. 

This all depends on how your boss see you and your skills. This can be either good or bad. But I don't think "bosses" will send out people to represent the company if the didn't believe that the employed had the correct skills or the brains to learn them. So I would see this as a positive thing, and a good way for you to prove your worth to the company. Good luck! 

Questions like this is varies between the interviewer and there is not "correct answer" for it. This is just a matter of preferences, so you can't plan anything for it. Just be honest and have something within your profession that you would like to be more experienced with. Talk about that and how you would like to work more with that technique (Or whatever it is you want to be more efficient in). I got the same question during an interview, and I was forward and honest saying that I'm a driven person. After a year, they have noticed it and they keep giving me more responsibility and projects to work with. So don't have a "script" for this question, cause it won't do you any good in the long run. Just be honest and hope that your answer is sufficient for the interviewer. 

TL;DR> There is an enormous opportunity for you here. However, realising that opportunity will involve a lot of work, likely take you out of your comfort zone, and may ultimately be unsuccessful. If you're not willing to put in the hard work to get the potential (though not guaranteed) reward, then maybe you should move on. Details You know something that the C-level executives don't; converting the company so it can make data-driven decisions will likely bring a big benefit to the bottom line. You also know at least some of the necessary steps to take before the company can become data-driven. If you can persuade the executives that the benefits are real, and large, and that you are the person who can help them realise those benefits, then this could be a seminal moment in your career. However, it seems that these particular executives are not detail-focused. If they were, then the benefits of more data would likely already be apparent to them. So you have to figure out what is important to them, and find a way of speaking to them in terms that make sense to them. They pay people – for example you – to take care of the details for them, and they need you to distil the information into stuff that they care about. You will need to spend some time laying foundations of credibility, and working with your boss to understand what it is that the C-level execs care about. Then find some way of using your data to address at least part of one of the exec's areas of interest. Demonstrate some value from the data. Then explain that with more, or better, data, you could be addressing their concerns more effectively. You want them to be asking you to provide information to help support their decisions. Note that raw data probably isn't useful information to them. Scatter plots will probably just look like ants on a page to them, but a nice clear trend line will carry a message that they can actually do something about. If that all sounds like too much work, then you're probably in the wrong place. 

A formal annual performance appraisal is never a good place to bring up any new topic. In some cases, it may be the only place – but that doesn't make it good. Ideally, you'll have regular opportunities to discuss such matters with your manager, and you should be bringing it up – informally – as soon as it starts preying on your mind. And your manager should return the favour, discussing performance concerns with you long before you a formal meeting. If you don't have regular meetings with your manager where you could discuss this, then you should ideally make an opportunity. Book a meeting of your own if needed. This way, you're driving the agenda, and you can make sure your concerns get proper consideration, rather than having them disappear in amongst all the other things that crop up during a formal review.