I'd suggest a more subtle form of magic: Couriers are born lie detectors with abilities that are (or seem) magical, and they are highly intelligent to boot. (You can have other people born with this ability that do not become couriers; but being a courier pays very well and is a highly respected position. Their own ability lets them test and recognize fellow couriers, and those born with the gift, without error.) There is no magic object, amulet, rope or ring; it is the courier that is magical, and any sender must tell the courier their message, and why they are sending it, in private if they wish. The courier can question them as long as they wish. If the courier detects a lie, they will not bring the message. They take various precautions before such an encounter: Other couriers know where they are going, it does no good for a king to kill the courier if they detects his lie. If a "Carry" is turned down; the courier immediately notifies the Courier community; so in this culture the very act of attempting to deceive a Courier may cause a penalty to the King of no Carry service at all, either for some period of time or permanently. The Courier is free to reword the message however they wish. There is no secret code or marks or secret keywords or hidden messages inside of pictures. If a picture or map is necessary; the sender can explain why (with full Lie Detection enabled for the Courier), and the Courier can then reproduce the essence of the picture upon arrival. In this way messages cannot be stolen or taken by force or torture: Give the Couriers the ability to wipe their own memory of any messages, past or present, at will in the event of capture. In fact, that can be part of their service, once a message is delivered, the Courier will only retain the message for about a month before intentionally forgetting it. Of course non-delivery of the message is always a risk for senders, Couriers can be intercepted and killed or captured like any other person; but at least the senders know their message was not revealed. 

Uselessness. A social breakdown and starvation level of society. Gold, diamonds and sapphires will not feed your children, you will not trade a pound of your beans for a pound of gold, if nobody you know would sell you a pound of their beans for a pound of gold. This is not about "intrinsic value" at all, it is about faith in the utility of something to buy you something else you want or need. A paper \$100 bill has no more inherent value than any other piece of paper, but I can get my house painted for a handful of them. Why? Because painters have faith, bordering on certainty, that the grocer and pharmacist and landlord will take these pieces of paper in trade for what they need to keep their children alive. Trading value is not about rarity, either, although it is about an inability to easily counterfeit, create or just find naturally. Beans have intrinsic value. Injectable insulin has intrinsic value. Even Water has intrinsic value. These things can keep you or your kids alive another day. Various tools (knives, drills, scalpels, pulleys, ropes, saws, magnifying lenses, pipes ... ) have indirect intrinsic value, they can help you acquire or create something of intrinsic value. Gold and gems do not. In a survival situation (without any magic or zombies) gold is a worthless paper weight and a sapphire is a pretty piece of glass that cannot be used for anything. They are indulgences, you cannot afford to give up a tool or food for them when you have three days of food left and are hunting for more. What can bring about such an apocalypse? The most probable one on Earth, IRL (and to my awareness), is a large coronal mass ejection from the Sun that intercepts Earth. There is about a 1% chance per year of such an event. In the modern world, this could create massive currents in all grounded wires, effectively vaporizing all power lines (literally boiling the conducting metal so they are all gone, destroying generators and all other electrical devices, making them useless; also incidentally setting houses on fire everywhere. The electrical grid and devices would have to be rebuilt from scratch. Communications are gone, there are no telephones, cellphones or satellite phones, the landlines are gone (although undersea and underground cables probably survive). Without electricity, the cities are unlivable and starve. Cars and trucks and trains don't work, their electrical systems are gone. Refrigeration is gone. Most manufacturing processes are gone, they depend on electricity and computers (all gone). So medicines are no longer made. Food rots in the fields, there is no way to get it into the cities or to the towns. All of that stuff could be rebuilt, but it would take years, and in the first six months more than half of people die, in a few years, 90% are dead. The only survivors live off the land hunting animals (and fish) for food, and of course, each other for territory that produces food. I would likely be dead in the first months, but if I survive, I won't trade my machete or knives or even my sling for all the gold or gems you can muster. And certainly not a rabbit leg. (There are other apocalypses that could have a similar effect; CME is the one I consider most likely to cause civilization collapse; the others like super volcanoes or asteroid collisions are (IMO) much much longer shots.) Added to address commentary Earth's Greatest Threat: CMEs This link describes the magnitude of the threat of Coronal Mass Ejections. In particular, these excerpts: 

The obvious consequence is that you have a lot of money you can't spend. The first ramification: Nobody works for anything anymore, so no labor is producing burgers, ice cream, vegetables, etc. Nobody is waiting tables, or cooking in restaurants. No clerks in the stores. Only artists (including writers, singers, musicians etc) and some research types work for the joy of the work; everybody else is working mostly for money. Nobody is cleaning toilets for the satisfaction it gives them. Nobody is keeping the sewer system running because they love the work. More important than those two functions: Law enforcement risks their lives for the pay, so they may be off the job too. If those people get a billion, they stop working forever. Domino from first: There's very little to buy for the billion you have, and infrastructure starts to decay. Garbage isn't collected, the water, electric and sewage systems all fail. Food isn't delivered or stocked on the shelves. Managers, lawyers, accountants, cops, all quit their jobs and stay home. The second ramification: Competition for a product usually sets the prices, but you have frozen prices. This effectively makes money worthless. Therefore, who gets one of the limited number of Hershey bars left in the city must be determined by other means. Like violence, bribery, sexual exchange or other barter. Family or Gang ties or fealty. Having a billion dollars but being refused a $2 Hershey bar makes the billion worthless. When that is true (and it has been elsewhere in the world, like Somalia) then society tends to devolve into camps (gangs) led by sociopathic warlords that use violence and murder quickly and without remorse to "make a point" and remain king of the hill. 

Added: I suppose the same idea, for a coastal area, might work for smaller fishing boats that could be operated manually. People need protection and have to work, the fisherman with help can supply a ready food supply but needs protection and muscle to get it all done. The idea is that, in an economic collapse, most people revert to a "will-work-for-food" mindset. Of course some jump straight to a "will-kill-for-food" mindset, but the majority of us aren't capable and don't give ourselves much of a chance of prevailing with the latter mindset; so those willing to work will try to find a way to be useful to somebody that is already a food producer with the knowledge and experience (and perhaps some manually powered equipment) to do that successfully. 

Gorget first; the throat is the most fatally vulnerable part of the human body. Even the heart has the rib cage and sternum to protect it; and normal armor covers the major limb and torso arteries. The point would be to protect the eyes and kill points. Gauntlets next to protect the wrist, probably greaves third and then spaulders. If you want your character to get inventive, I've always thought strips of outer chain mail should be attached to bridge the gaps between plates that are frequent attack points. 

You could write fiction that way, but IRL, no it isn't. Its parts do not interact in any way that could be described as life or thinking; the interactions we see are all far too mechanistically explainable by constant forces (mostly gravity) to be actually processing information which is a necessity for any intelligent being. It isn't pattern matching, changing to remember experience, or taking actions that would suggest any kind of goal. The Galaxy is a whole lot of molecules and rocks following gravity gradients, "Falling" basically, and that's it. To the extent the galaxy is "intelligent", it is because of life forms within it that ARE intelligent. Those (like humans) could cooperate to become more intelligent; just like in a human brain, 100 billion neurons cooperate to make something more intelligent than any one of them. In that case, we are not analogous to bacteria, we would be more analogous to the neurons in a Galactic brain. But still not organized enough to make our Galaxy behave like an intelligent being in its own right, and due to the distances involved, that outcome is probably impossible. 

If he is wealthy himself, he can become a good Samaritan. Get busy using his own money to do whatever the wealthy residents would like done without having to pay for it with higher taxes. Buy or otherwise get involved with with local media so what he does gets lots of attention. It is relatively easy for people with money to look like leaders, because indirectly, their money (in effect) hires followers by funding the infrastructure that volunteers need to operate: Office space, computers, printing and marketing costs, donuts, signs, transportation, electric bills, people to write press releases and bulletins, hiring professional artists and musicians for events, hiring security and stage builders and stage and sound technicians, hiring attorneys to secure permits and licenses and rent venues for rallies and demonstrations. Doing something good for a community requires truckloads of money even if the focus is on volunteers. The important thing, for your protagonist, is to make sure THEY are the voice and face of all these good deeds, and nobody else. (except perhaps a spouse as a secondary). Name recognition and positive feelings among the electorate are the two main ingredients to getting elected. To get things done the CEO needs political allies: Those can be acquired, before their own run for office, by advocating for and supporting those that will be in office when their own bid is made. It would be important for these potential allies to have an "understanding" up front that their supporter [our CEO] will run for the top spot eventually, and is hoping for a friendly reception at that time. As a CEO, presumably they are good enough at reading people to tell if the person they are backing will reciprocate in kind, without needing to be explicitly asked. (To avoid any charges of quid pro quo.) It might serve the CEO to support underdogs, so favors are definitely owed. Much of politics is conducted in this silent "understanding" manner so there is no possibility of a record of collusion or corruption. I do you a small favor without you asking. You then do me a small favor without me asking. I complain about X (just venting, I'm not asking for help, I don't even say I'm "hoping" for help) and you are smart enough to do something about it. And vice versa; our relationship escalates from tiny favors to large favors, whenever needed. If there is no reciprocation on the tiny favors, there is no escalation: You prove yourself to me by being smart and figuring out what I need, I prove myself to you in the same way. Even if we are secretly recorded or videotaped at any point, anywhere, even if we think we are alone, there is nothing to suggest anything criminal or corrupt at all. That's the smart way to do it, and that is the way our CEO should operate. Money well deployed can legally buy allies and supporters, both in the civilian population and amongst other politicians.