This mode of evasion he characterises as a "tranquillisation" (Beruhigung), a way of avoiding death even up to the end. However, while its important for Heidegger's initial characterisation of the everyday attitude towards death as a way of avoiding death, it's not the main evasion (and this will bring us closer to what to do with "I will die"). Returning to §52, Heidegger notes that: 

That's not really what he says in the video. The translation in the subtitles there is not the best possible translation. Where the subtitles read "Marx bases it on a completely certain world interpretation," "completely certain" translates the phrase "ganz bestimmten", which means "certain" in the sense of "a specific interpretation," rather than "an interpretation which is certain". A published transcript and translation of the conversation (in the volume Martin Heidegger in Conversation edited by the man interviewing Heidegger, Richard Wisser) runs thus: "Marx rests on a specific interpretation of the world." Certainty, in the sense of the German Gewissheit, for Heidegger isn't required for action, but it is important in defining the relation to truth (at least in his earlier work). On this, Being and Time §52, §53, and §63 are quite relevant as is the first part of his 1928 lectures published as The Metaphysical Foundations of Logic. Certainty in these discussions may have something more in line with what you're talking about as "alternative forms of sure thinking". 

Here the problem of raising the question of the meaning of Being is put in terms outside the terminology of traditional ontology. Instead, Heidegger is simply referring to the everyday use of Being. The problem arises when we try to give an account of things. When we say "The sky is blue", everyone understands what this means. The copula "is" seems to add nothing but a grammatical niceity; one could very easily imagine constructing a sentence such as "the sky blue" or "blue the sky" and have it be perfectly understandable according to rules of a certain grammar.6 The problem that Heidegger sees is that taking Being as this empty signifier occludes the meaning of Being from our understanding; rather than 'simply understanding' Being, what such formulations show is that we do not grasp Being at all or rather, "we already live in an understanding of Being" without being able to articulate this understanding. This "already liv[ing] in an understanding of Being" applies to how we come to think of Being itself. We can "study" Being and "use" Being "in various ways", but none of these really grasp Being itself. Rather what we study as Being is always simply a certain pre-conception7 of 'Being', a construct of our understanding, which, takes 'Being' as an empty, "obvious" signifier. Given that the above is very abstract, let me try to make things more concrete. If I were to say "Being is..." or "Being is not...", for example, "Being is not an entity" then I face a kind of a priori problem because I can only make such an assertion about Being by already having a conception of Being, that is, by already assuming I know what this 'is' or 'is not' means. Hence, in these broader terms, I can only talk about how 'Being' 'is' or 'is not', i.e., how a certain conception of 'Being' operates in an already-given conception of 'Being', but not about Being itself.8 This a priori aporia seems to leave us with no hope of getting any closer to Being, but Heidegger thinks he has a way out: there is a primordial, pre-conceptual experience of Being that, when clarified can give us a non-conceptual meaning of Being. The task of Being and Time is to destroy our conceptions of Being in order to make this experience of Being come to light. 

As @MauroALLEGRANZA has indicated in the comment's Löwy's Fire Alarm is a good resource and probably the only text in English to address the whole of Benjamin's On the Concept of History thesis by thesis. Nevertheless, I thought I might attempt to give some kind of reading of it to address the points you raise. Sorry for the lengthy amount of text. The first sentence of this thesis is very important. It announces more or less the task of the rest of the thesis, albeit in a negative way. To "recognize 'how [the past] really was'" is the task set for history by Leopold von Ranke, one of the key figures in developing historiography based on primary sources. It is this view that Benjamin is completely opposing, as is made clear in the French version* of the thesis which begins: 

It is important to be clear about what Benjamin means by "aura". Every work of art is subject to reproduction and has been as long as art has existed, but Benjamin adds: 

It's (probably) important to realise that Heidegger doesn't coin the term "ontotheology." He gets it from Kant, notably in the Lectures on "philosophical theology" where he considers the term as designating that part of theology which "considers God merely in terms of concepts" (Cornell edition, p. 4). Nevertheless, Heidegger makes some fairly bold claims on behalf of a relationship between ontology and theology: 

Consciousness, for Marx then, is not primary; it only exists as a product of certain material activities. It is something that has arisen from out of a historical need---not something prior or immediately separable from to the material conditions which produce this need. Descartes, in his Meditations, which you allude to, seeks after an Archimedian point, "just one little thing that is certain and unshakeable." (Descartes, Meditations, p.17) And where does he arrive? Descartes assumes everything, his senses, his memory, etc., are false, but winds up with this: 

By bringing onto-theology into question, Heidegger hopes to open up a different way of thinking about beings and a different way of relating to the divine. 

I've never heard a single term used to cover everything that might fall under this sort of umbrella. Its often referred to using terms such as "atheism," "atheology," etc., but those terms have other referents as well. There are, frankly, quite a lot of precedents for this sort of thinking, depending on how far back you want to go, but the serious main source is Hegel, especially his thought from the period of the Phenomenology. An excellent overview of Hegel's rather bizarre theology is Deland Anderson's Hegel's Speculative Good Friday. Unfortunately, its a bit pricey. Hegel's God is, of course, not precisely the same: Hegel's God once was and will be again, but has to go through a period of non-existence. Hegel's ideas in this regard are somewhat based on the teachings of Jakob Boehme and Joachim da Fiore. One might look at Ernst Bloch's Atheism and Christianity with his view of God as the God of Exodus, which he takes to mean that God is something we must create. There are some traces of this same structure in the early Lukacs, who was deeply influenced by Bloch, Walter Benjamin, and, indeed, a whole lot of philosophy in Central Europe during the Weimar Republic. A good summary of some of the trends can be found in Michael Lowy's Redemption and Utopia. Similarly, Jacques Derrida should be mentioned. His version of the spectre is, in my mind, definitive for the form that Meillassoux's problem takes in the "Spectral Dilemma". See, especially, the edited volume Acts of Religion, his Spectres of Marx, and perhaps The Gift of Death. The French philosopher Jean-Luc Nancy might present another way out from the Derridean cosmos than Kearney or Meillassoux. Nancy has written some work on what he terms "the deconstruction of Christianity" that attempts a pretty radical re-reading of Christianity. Christopher Watkin's Difficult Atheism is a good attempt to summarise some of these trends in French thought. Caputo's "weak god" and Mark Taylor's atheism share a fair bit of conceptual territory especially with Kearney (they are all influenced by Derrida, but in other ways). Again, not exclusively a future God, but some conceptual similarities. Levinas version of Judaism as a "religion for adults," an almost, if not actually atheistic conception of Judaism is an important precursor for Derrida's religious thought and its out-working. Its also worth mentioning Whiteheadian process theology, which does tend to have a conception of an actually-existing god, but not in a very traditional sense. God there is seen in the process of emerging as god, as not yet complete. Finally, Nietzsche really has to be mentioned, not just for the obvious death of god stuff, but for his overall weirdly persistent and deeply affective relationship with Christianity. Its worth noting that some of this resurfaces not just in philosophy but in forms of theology, such as the radical theology or death of God theology associated with Thomas Altizer and the theology of hope associated with Jurgen Moltmann. Of course, most of what I've mentioned doesn't always get you to a god that is only in future, a contingent God---though Bloch and some readings of Derrida do. Then again, there's not really a single, straight-line path towards that conclusion. Both Meillassoux and Kearney adopt similar concepts but for quite different reasons. Hopefully that's a least some more sorts of things to Google. 

I suppose the answer to this depends largely on what one calls "Existentialism." There are clear points at which Marx is in agreement with Existentialism, especially a focus on concrete, factical life, especially a life as it is actually lived, rather than as it is determined by some overarching schema. Indeed, the general slogan that "existence precedes essence" sounds not dissimilar to Marx's "inversion" of the Hegelian dialectic. All of which is to say that Marx's views aren't diametrically opposed to Existentialism, broadly understood. The difficulty is that Marx's own alignment with Existentialism is undercut by what is typically understood as the basic Existentialist premise of the importance of individual subjectivity in contrast to what is the key of Marx's thought, namely the social, or, as he refers to it in his earlier writings, "species-being." For Marx, individual subjectivity is of less importance than its capture by social dynamics, which is to say that he conceives of human beings as first of all beings in relation to particular social forms (compare, for instance, the Kierkegaardian thesis that "the crowd is untruth"). Which is not to say that Marx is inimical to Existentialism, just that the distinctive characteristics of Existentialism are of lesser importance to Marx than they are to more "canonical" 19th Century existentialists such as Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, and Dostoyevsky. Marx shares with proto-Existentialism influences in the form of Feuerbach, Schelling, and even certain moments within Hegel himself that seem to offer an escape from a crude Idealism in favour of sensuous life and concrete existence. Nevertheless, these influences play out somewhat differently, making it hard to say that Marx himself is in some obvious way an Existentialist. As to the meaning of life question, you're right that to some extent both Marx and Existentialism urge a need to create or produce that meaning. The question really concerns the sources of this creation: are they the product of the self-assertion of a unique individual or are they born out of a conflict that is best understood as a means of producing new social forms? The answer is not necessarily dichotomous, but the terms in which it is phrased tends to lead to different foci. 

Instead, Benjamin's positive conception of history starts from the second sentence: "It means to take control of a memory, as it flashes in a moment of danger." Once again, the French version may be helpful for clarifying this: 

I'm going to attempt a rather long exposition of what's going on here because there are several issues involved. First, it's important to note that this early section (§1) involves a deconstruction1 of traditional ontology. Hence, his point in this passage is that in the terms of traditional ontology, 'Being' cannot be conceived of as an entity. The quotation marks here are important, because they indicate that what is under discussion is not Being as such, but the concept of 'Being' as the supreme universality. It follows from this "supreme universality" that 'Being' is not an entity in a rather straight-forward way. The traditional ontology Heidegger references requires that an entity has a definition, that is a genus and a specific differentiation.2 For example, the much abused Scholastic dictum that "Socrates is a man" involves both the genus (man) and the specific differentiation (Socrates), and hence is taken as a "full" definition of Socrates. 'Being', however, has no genus nor no specific differentiation since it is predicated of all things; likewise, 'Being' is not itself a genus nor is it itself a specific difference which defines the individual thing; hence "being adds nothing else to nature."3 Since 'Being' has no definition nor is involved in the definition of anything, 'Being' cannot be an entity. This, I think, is sufficient for detailing how in terms of traditional ontology 'Being' cannot be an entity. But still the question you raise is an important one and, as @virmaior pointed out in the comments, Heidegger takes the idea that Being is not an entity to have an relevance beyond just the terms of traditional ontology.4 So, if we aren't thinking within the bounds of an Aristotelian notion of entity which requires both a genus and a specific differentiation, why can't Being be taken to be an entity? Or, as you wrote, "I can talk about it, study it, use it in various ways: It is and is not various things." On my reading, Heidegger's initial answer to this question comes in the next numbered passage:5