"I'm wondering if any models or data provide predictions for the more immediate future, say 10 - 20 years from today." "Specifically, I'd like to hear about predictions that directly influence humans, such as weather, flooding, disease, etc." Basically, I take your question to be: "How are people affected by climate change today?" The expectation being that if present trends continue, the effects may intensify in the near-future (10-20 years.) I suggest you consider how people today are affected by extreme weather, because climate change may manifest today primarily by leading to more intense and frequent extreme weather events. This recent paper in Nature Climate Change, Attribution of climate extreme events (2015) proposes that 'snowmaggedon' in February 2010, superstorm Sandy in October 2012 and supertyphoon Haiyan in November 2013, and, in more detail, the Boulder floods of September 2013, may have been influenced by high sea surface temperatures that had a discernible human component. In the popular article "Study sees a ‘new normal’ for how climate change is affecting weather extremes", an author summarizes some of the major conclusion of that paper. For example, although a moderate storm "Sandy" may have occurred regardless of the effects of global warming, computer modeling suggests it is likely that global warming augmented this storm up to a level great enough to flood the New York subway. 

Yes, the vertical component of the seismogram looks different than the horizontal components. There are surface seismic waves (Love waves or Q-waves) that are horizontally-polarized. The ground motion due to these waves is horizontal and parallel to the plane of the ground surface. Therefore these waves will be most visible in the horizontal components of the seismogram. In some cases it may be possible to use the horizontal components to estimate the bearing to the epicenter. Surface waves travel more slowly than body waves, and their amplitude decays at a lower rate, therefore they may be easier to recognize in seismograms measured farther from the epicenter. 

Fossils are our strongest, and to most people most accessible, evidence of the great age of life on earth. The fossils in the Burgess Shale are clearly the imprints of critters, but are a mere 505 million years old. The oldest cyanobacteria-like fossils known are nearly 3.5 billion years old, among the oldest fossils currently known. There is Evidence for biogenic graphite in early Archaean Isua metasedimentary rocks, but requires knowledge of isotopic chemistry to understand (or dispute.) Life on earth originated before 3.5 billion years ago. 

The existence of a crust (both a continental and oceanic crust actually.) Plate tectonics The existence of an atmosphere and ocean. 

Without all of these, the concept of the rock cycle (as introduced in textbooks) really is not applicable. (You might suppose there were other 'rock cycles' in the very distant past but that is not what is discussed in undergraduate textbooks.) The earth is older than (1) (2) or (3) - so when these preconditions were not in place there was no rock cycle. The three preconditions also did not "turn on" at exactly the same time. It took a long time for the earth's crust to form (When and how did continental crust form?). Oceans and lakes appeared later (When did oceans form on Earth?) Plate tectonics may have began early (When did plate tectonics begin? ) The point is that the planetary conditions necessary for the rock cycle we see evidence for in the geology of the last billion years or so evolved over much time. Earth was very different in the distant past. This is the reason why there are no scientists working on the question: "What was the first rock in the rock cycle?" Scientists would like to answer big questions, such as: 

Changes in the Earth's rate of rotation is measured by the International Earth Rotation and Reference Systems Service (IERS) using observational techniques. They publish daily the rate and orientation of the Earth's rotation, and publish near-term forecasts (of great practical use if you are launching satellites into orbit.) Mass movements in the atmosphere due to weather can change the rotation. I know papers written by Richard Gross at JPL have discussed methods used to examine rotation/earthquake interactions - you can try looking there. 

I recently read of a company in Canada using robotic technology to study freshwater microbialites. Their claim is that greater understanding of terrestrial microbialites could help in the search for extraterrestrial microbialite fossils (if they exist) on Mars. If a rover encountered a microbialite fossil on Mars, how would it identify the rock as being a fossil? 

No, this seems highly unlikely. According to online sources: Average human power consumption in 2008 was estimated at 15 TW. Total annual heat loss from the Earth due to the surface heat flux is estimated at 44.2 TW. Estimates of the electricity generating potential of geothermal energy around the world are consistently less than 2 TW. So although the average power consumption is a surprisingly large fraction of the total geothermal heat flux, the part that might possibly be extracted for power is quite small. There are much more concerning environmental impacts to geothermal power development than freezing the core and destroying the Earth's Magnetic field. These include increased rates of release of carbon and sulfur into the atmosphere and land use issues. 

The earth existed long before there were crustal rocks or a "rock cycle." The idea of the "rock cycle" has prerequisites to even be meaningful. These include : 

If you have no prior information that event B depends on event A, it's a logical error to claim event A causes event B just because you find they are correlated. Let's say you collect a large data set of how people use their computer-mouse, and show that there is some change in a statistic of this data preceding an earthquake. That cannot not prove that the anticipation of an earthquake is causing people to behave differently, because the data will always correlate just as well with some other unrelated event C (such as a swing in the stock-market.) 

You need a model. You could try to use Bayes theorem to build a model based upon conditional probabilities. See this reference from NOAA about weather forecasting: Probability Forecasting - Primer . If I were to try to build a Bayesian model for weather forecasting, with the intention of using a limited data set of observations I had collected myself, I would look into existing software frameworks to see if I could use one of these. For example, the Infer.NET framework is available for free, and has several examples which would be a good starting point for learning about probabilistic modeling. 

In iron oxides, titanium commonly substitutes for iron in the crystal structure. Two solid solution series are important: the ulvöspinel-magnetite and ilmenite-hematite series. The composition of a solution changes continuously, without any change in crystal habit. Your reference indicates its the size of crystals than matter for being efficient nucleation sites. Composition is not expected to be important. 

The method of drawing circles on a map to find their intersection solves for only one unknown. When the stations are far from the earthquake focus, or the earthquake is shallow, the difference between the distance to the focus and epicenter is ignored. Because many earthquakes are shallow, the three circles often do intersect in a point. When they do not, a possible explanation is that it is because the earthquake is relatively deep (compared to the distance to the epicenter.) If you want to try to determine both the epicenter and the depth of the earthquake, then you need to collect more observations (more stations) and use mathematics to solve a system having at least two unknowns. You might use linear algebra. Note that arrival times for stations closer to the earthquake will be affected by the depth of the focus than stations far, so you would want to try to include stations closer to the earthquake. Secondary school physics student might have had enough math to use the Newton-Raphson method method to estimate the depth. They might try to used the initial estimate of the 'epicenter' by the first method, to constrain the equations they try to solve to estimate a depth. In practice, seismologists collect large amounts of data and have to consider many unknowns - such as distance to focus, but also the variation of seismic velocity through different types of rocks. If you try the three-station and map approach in your Earth Science classroom, the students may notice that all three circles do not go though a single point typically, but come more or less close to doing so. Perhaps this is a good opportunity to discuss the differences between a model and actual earthquakes and Earth. It might even be possible to discuss how a better model can improve the agreement with observations. It looks like this USGS page : Determining the Depth of an Earthquake has a somewhat different answer, which may describe how deep earthquakes were 'discovered' historically :) This presentation at the Berkeley Seismographic Station shows a geometric construction and formula for determining earthquake depth. 

Fine answers above. I think a historian of science would propose the "psychology of scientists" and the "sociology of scientific institutions" had a greater contribution to the controversy than any question about the veracity of the observations. You may be interested in viewing this interview with the science historian William Glen about PARADIGM INERTIA. His book about the history of plate tectonics (The Road to Jaramillo) is based on direct interviews. 

The approximate magnitude of ancient historic earthquakes may be estimated using a Magnitude/Intensity comparison based on modern earthquakes. Earthquake intensity may be estimated from the descriptions written down by people. The Chinese officials made detailed records of the damage caused by large earthquakes.