Three business days. That would be the most likely time, 50% chance it's sooner and 50% later. Takes two days to get the first images, one business day to process the discovery. There are ~150 observation satellites orbiting Earth, with the typical orbit being 800km. Each satellite scans about 200*40,000=8,000 km^2 every 100 minutes. Earth's surface being scanned is ~360 million km^2 - the other 150 million near the poles is largely ignored. This amounts to 120,000 km^2 or 1/3,000 of the surface scanned per minute, or 1/50 per hour. There is a lot of overlap between scan areas, hence the 50% qualifier in the beginning of the answer - can be sooner, can be later. Still, in four days, it's all but impossible for the island to stay undiscovered. While earlier discovery by shipping or aircraft is possible, it's highly likely to go unreported due to simple assumption one is mistaken and the "someone else's business" effect. 

What reliably scales with size is power output of the muscles. Power is produced chemically and is subject to several hard constraints. ATP and Pcr stores in the muscle limit peak power; the cardiovascular system's oxygen throughput limits sustained power. Based on the power constraint alone, a creature of a given size can carry 1000 times its weight at 1 cm/second, or 1 times its weight at 10 m/s (force*distance/time=const). How this power is distributed between force and speed will depend on the creature's exact physiology. I've seen feats of nature impressive enough to lose belief in evolutionary impossibility. The outward effects of adaptation for high strength/low speed would be thick short limbs and vice versa. The mammalian endoskeleton is generally more favorable for high speed and high instantaneous force than an exoskeleton. The joints are compact, the muscle is well-cooled and has a lot of room to change shape. In comparison, an exoskeleton is like an aircraft fuselage, it's good at distributed static loads, but not at strong shocks and high acceleration. Force on the skeleton is determined largely by acceleration, so running fast would be riskier for the mantis than a mammal. Carrying weight, however, would be a lot more efficient, with most loads going through the exoskeleton. So the human-sized mantis would likely have good strength and excellent ability to carry loads, but not be as good as a mammal at jumping and running. Its sustained strength would be determined by its cardiovascular system. To make good use of its muscle, the mantis will need to circulate at least twice more blood, as both a coolant and an energy source. In the gym, it's going to be very good at most weight exercises, doing dozens of reps (given good circulation). But not as good at complex full-body exercises, because of the system's limited instantaneous capacity. They won't be good at throwing punches, as that takes explosive strength and speed, but will be good at holding force. Carrying as much as 5x own weight over long distances, but not very fast, should be quite doable. Perhaps 10x if someone else puts it on their back. It takes a lot less muscle effort to keep their exoskeleton straight than it does for a flexible bipedal human. Arm-wrestling between one another will be viable, but more like how non-wrestlers imagine it - arm vs arm, slowly forcing the opponent down. A human athlete puts their body's force on the opponent's arm in one strong move; it's forceful and would be dangerous. Due to exoskeleton limitations, the mantis population will likely be a lot more uniform between athletes and non-athletes than humans. So they could be able to arm-wrestle amateurs, but at risk of permanent injury if they come against an athlete. 

I agree with the cool factor! However, the problem is with the where. It isn't likely to happen in our planet's future, because dirigibles have terrible density. If anything, our world's future will probably see more boxy city cars. However, there is another way. Humans have demonstrated the ability to breathe gas mixes that are about 6 times denser than air at atmospheric pressure, and function continuously. More than 6x increases the work of breathing too much for our physiology. This has been demonstrated in technical and commercial diving and the Sealab experiments. A planet with 6x the atmospheric density would make LTA craft about twice smaller in every dimension - the volume improvement is better than 6x due to improved structural efficiency. If you want to create a world where LTA transport is more feasible, try looking in that direction. The abundance of room, the lack of legacy infrastructure (we still use some Roman roads), low population density, and possibly difficult terrain on a colonized planet would also work strongly in LTA crafts' favor. Colonization is likely to focus on the most favorable region, making flight distances short enough for LTA. Adding a lack of fossil fuels could be the tipping point - kerosene is very convenient for heavier-than-air craft, while dirigibles are easy and practical to electrify. P.S. Keep in mind that real-life air traffic is anything but unregulated. The planes mostly fly alongside designated airways and air corridors, on predefined flight levels, maintaining a lot of separation. That's what it takes, with ATC assistance, to keep just the 23,600 commercial and ~400,000 other aircraft in the world right now from colliding. Think for a moment about how small that number is for a 7-billion planet. 

The major issue I see is that rivers are flowing bodies of water. If the world was composed primarily of rivers and river systems, to where would all of that water be flowing? When the water reached its destination, what force would make it continue flowing? Gravity generally only works downhill, so I think to make a river world possible, it would have to extremely flat, effectively turning the rivers into canals. Now, if a planet were incredibly massive, the gravity of such a planet may act to keep the planet flat (but flat enough, who knows?) For @John Robinson's idea of continued bombardment delaying the cooling to have an effect, the planet would have to have little to no atmosphere, creating an issue for the formation of life as we know it. But an interesting thought I had is that the planet only has to be flat. That doesn't mean that it has to have been formed that way. Arguably, a sufficiently advanced (and motivated) society could flatten a world (realistically speaking, a smaller world than Earth) on purpose. Reasons for such a super-task might be the allocation of water to all parts of the globe/ populations; the facilitation of marine-based travel (the preferred mode of travel other than by foot for most of human-history); or self-preservation reasons like to control El Niño-type storm effects from a heating and cooling ocean, or to alter the planet's albedo for various reasons. 

Gender roles would likely be much different, because in the world you describe, people of the same sex must be able to reproduce with each other, whereas in our current set up, that is not possible. Given that our real-world gender roles are formed around (but not necessarily by) the fact that one sex is capable of giving birth, and one is not, I imagine that there would be a less distinct gender difference in the world you describe. This makes me think that "gender" --as we define it currently-- would not exist in your world; the biological reason for sexual dimorphism to develop must necessarily not exist in your world, given that there is a non-zero probability of two members of the same sex having an offspring together. Also, from a genetics standpoint, over time the relative populations (XX) and (Xx) will shrink, because there is a higher likelihood of being born as (xx). While I will not say that these populations would vanish (though I suspect they would as reproductive rates are fairly low) I will say that the gene pools for (XX) and (Xx) will not be as diverse as they should be, creating a genetically inferior sex. If this is what you mean by gender role, then it could be explored in more depth, but I argue at this step that what we are discussing is no longer "gender." 

Reading through the comments I am having a tough time figuring out if this thread is still active, but I do have a few ideas. Firstly, you ask what must be changed to follow some form of logic? As noted, magic usually isn't very logically, however I understand what you mean by this and to me it seems like an additional (9th) domain might be useful (since 7 doesn't seem to work as you mentioned in the comments) to ensure some sort of balance. That is, a rock-paper-scissors mechanic. The main reason to use an RPS mechanic is to make sure that no single ability, or any combination thereof, is head-and-shoulders better than the others. If this were the case, there would be no real reason to ever use the other spirits, or for that matter include them in your world, thus my suggestion to add a 9th. A functioning rock-paper-scissors mechanic can only work with an odd number of features. The ability to bind multiple spirits complicates the system, but the combinatorics exist to sort the problem out. My initial suggestion to simplify things here would be to only allow 3 spirits at any given time. This works well as a multiple of 9, and still gives an 24-, 12-, 8-hour time span feature as you mentioned. Should you decide to go that route and run into a specific problem developing a balanced scheme, that may make for an excellent follow-up question. As far as which domains must be added to cover the whole spectrum of a human being? my initial thought was to add a creativity/ingenuity type category, but it would be hard to specify what exactly that might do, especially for the malevolent spirit. One idea that does seem to flow would be an Emotion category. The benevolent spirit would add empathy and the ability to relate to people, thus making them more likely to support your cause. The malevolent form would make you cold hearted and distant, which may be useful for making those "tough" decisions. Just an idea. One other thing: the malevolent Appearance spirit doesn't seem fitting. Instead what if that spirit made you intimidating to others. People would be scared of you and thus less likely to oppose you, but also less likely to support your efforts.