Get folding handlebars so you can carry the bike up the steps into your apartment. Make room for it inside (just get rid of something else you don't really need such as an old chair, an old bookcase, an old girlfriend...). 

I noticed while at an amusement park that on the roller coaster, each link of the chain has what can be considered a combination inner and outer plate. The side plates are somewhat diagonal so they start as an outer then become an inner. So my question is if these work well for roller coasters which have a lot of load, why not use a similar scaled down design for bikes so that odd length chains are possible? Here is a pic of a roller coaster chain so you can see what I am talking about: (you can click on it for a more detailed larger pic). 

I was thinking it would be cool to have a bike where the crank arms can be adjusted automatically "on the fly", depending on load. If that is not so safe then maybe a manual adjustment that the rider could make from a control mounted on the handlebars while riding. For example, when extra torque is needed, the crank arms could be extended to maybe 180mm. When cruising along on flat pavement on a windless day (or with wind at the riders back), shorter crank arms might be desirable to save on excessive leg motion. Having adjustable crank arm lengths might actually extended the effective gear range even wider. For example, suppose the crank arm length adjustment is between 180mm and 140mm and is currently set in the mid portion of 160mm. The rider then attempts to ride up one of those spiral walkways that are part of a pedestrian bridge over a roadway. If the lowest gear has already been selected but more hill climbing torque is needed, extending the crank arms from 160mm to 180mm should help. Even if 180mm is excessively long for the rider, it is only temporary until they crest the hill, then they can be reset back to 160mm. I think that would be another fun thing to play with on a bike. So my question is would this be beneficial to a rider and if so, why don't I see these available? Has anyone attempted to make this, either homemade or available to the general public? From an Engineering viewpoint, can it be done? If so, how? 

Bearings are never as buttery once they've been installed, they all feel rougher after they're put under pressure. I put GXP BB90's in my carbon 29er frame and it was the same, though not too bad. It looks like you've installed them properly, it may just be that the frame could be a bit on the tighter side. Riding the bike will loosen things up a bit though, take it for a ride then check the bearings again to see if there's any difference. Unfortunately there's really nothing else you can do about it except hope that it smooths out a little from breaking it in. Those bearings are a closed system, you can't adjust them. The only other solution is to try a different bottom bracket. 

Those darn spiky things are called thorns. Where I'm from there are cactuses that hide in the grass in some places and are notorious for puncturing bike tires. The solution is to use tire sealant in your tubes. Out here most people use "Slime," you can buy slime brand tubes or just buy the slime and inject it in through your valve. It works almost instantly, I've seen it in action: people run over cactuses, there's an initial hiss of air for a split second, but then it stops all of a sudden as the slime gets in the hole and forms a patch. 

I have a 2007 Stumpjumper FSR frame, I bought the Elite model back in 2006, but it still has the same mounts as the Expert and Pro models for a rear shock with a flow control valve. I haven't been on top of the newest tech trends, so I don't know if flow control valves are obsolete already or not. Have they gone the way of the dodo, or are some bike manufacturers still putting them on their bikes? 

I tried to research this online but didn't see any examples of this exact concern, which is if I gear down a very cheap mountain bike that has a 7 speed freewheel, do I run the risk of creating so much torque magnification that something bad could happen? Is it possible that something could break from the high torque? What about if and when I need to remove the freewheel? Might it be stuck from the high torque pedaling in the lowest gear? Stock lowest gear is 24/28 and I will attempt either 20/28, 24/34, or 20/34 which is about 15.3 gear inches. I ride mostly on the street at a slow pace (about 10 MPH average) but I also like to ride thru grass slowly and even in grass uphills so I put a good deal of force on the pedals in that situation. 

I read somewhere that steady cadence is a good thing but why is that? It is analogous to running long distance where it is a good idea to set a reasonable pace and stick to it? I would think that varying your cadence would give your muscles a chance to rest some. I question whether the original claim is actually true. I would think it would be more efficient to accelerate briskly then coast down, then repeat. This "sawtooth" cadence question is interesting because with a car or motorcycle, you actually get better gas mileage if you accelerate briskly and then just coast down. For example, you are at a red light in pole position (first). The light then turns green. You then accelerate quickly up to the speed limit (say 50 MPH) and then let the car/motorcycle coast down to maybe 20 MPH and then repeat. This is actually more efficient (you will use less gasoline) than if you accelerated slowly and maintained the 50 mph. This has already been confirmed by many people that have tested it. It is also easy to confirm yourself, especially if you have a real time mileage display. It will be at maybe 10 MPG for a brief time while you accelerate then vary between 99 and and some lower number as you coast down. Ok now to bikes. It seems to make sense that for a bike a similar thing should happen. Imagine a person pedaling an average bicycle 10 MPH on level ground with no wind. The amount of energy expended by the rider depends on several factors including what gear they are in. Imagine they are in the proper gear vs. much too tall (high) a gear vs. much too short (low) a gear. Problem is in the low gear energy is being wasting pedaling faster than is needed (for example 150 cadence). This is a "subpoint" I am trying to make related to the main point of "sawtooth" cadence I am working up to. If I pedal 10 miles at 10 MPH at near constant cadence, that will be 1 hour straight on pedaling. How can my muscles ever get a rest? Compare that to pedaling up to 20 MPH quickly (briskly) and then coasting down to 3 MPH and then repeating. Here I use my muscles for a quick burst then spend most of my time coasting. Here my muscles get a good rest and the number of actual crank rotations is far less. 10 miles on my bike in my favorite middle gear (34/20=1.7) with my 26" diameter tires would require about 4500 crank turns. I suspect using the sawtooth cadence method would require far less, possible only 1/3rd or about 1500. It would be an interesting test to have someone make the trip using both techniques and report their level on fatigue afterwards. Someone mentioned about pedaling then coasting a lot will make me look like a kid on a BMX bike. Well kids are generally lazy. Maybe they figured out it is easier to pedal and coast so that is why they do it. Another analogy is at my workplace. Can I get more work done if I work hard but take several breaks or if I just work straight thru without breaks but I get more tired that way? For me, I need the breaks to stay productive. Maybe for younger riders a steady cadence is better but I am wondering for the 50+ crowd if sawtooth is actually better. I suspect it is. 

I have two threaded holes on the inside of my frame on my 2007 Stumpjumper FSR and I don't know what they are for. 

When cutting a 1-1/8" to 1-1/2" carbon steer tube, what is the maximum length you can leave outside the head tube and the stem clamp? Is there a maximum? How would you determine what the maximum steer tube length for you frame could be? Does it make a difference if the steerer is 1.5" on the bottom? 

I'm in the same boat, what you need to do is shop Tall sizes. I've got a 6'5" wingspan but I'm only a size medium in build. If I get something sized MT (Medium Tall) then it fits perfect. Lots of brands sell tall sizes, but it's my experience that most brands only make tall sizes for their lower-end performance gear, except for the uber expensive brands. Search online, most shops don't stock the tall stuff so you have to order it. Visit the brands you're interested in and then search their sites for "Tall" or "Long", this usually brings up all the articles that come in tall sizes. If you fit perfect in XL width wise, then I imagine you'd fit perfect in XLTall stuff. One brand that sells a lot of tall cycling clothing, is aero tech designs. 

Are there ever! I'm totally evangelizing for the adventure cycling association in my answer here, but check this out: Adventure Cycling Route Network. They have a lot of road tours but they do mountain tours as well. You want the extreme of extreme backcountry mountain bike tours? How does 4418km of trail riding along the continental divide sound? Check out the Tour Divide, It follows the ACA's Great Divide Route. Other than that take a closer look at the trail systems in National Parks, there are trails that permit cycling, and some that are long enough to bikepack on for a couple days. At least there are lots where I'm from, which is near Glacier National Park. 

I was wondering instead of a long cage rear dearailleur (RD), what would happen if 2 rear short cage RDs were used instead? I realize the 2nd one might cause some mounting issues but assuming there was a proper bracket to hold it in place, could they somehow be synchronized to pad out or take up similar amounts of chain but about half each so they don't need to angle as much as a single? For example, if the same cable passed to both of them but there were calibrated to shift one rear cog each laterally, but individually would only take up or pad out enough chain for half a shift, so that combined they would make a complete shift but with half the travel/deflection or whatever the proper term is when it moves. If they were both identical RDs (with same spring tension), would they automatically share the chain takeup/padout equally (half each) or would the system be biased more towards one than the other? I am not suggesting this is a good thing to try. I am just asking if it is possible and what problems may occur as a result and if it would actually work. 

I have a wiper motor from some car or van that has a shaft on it. When I apply 12 volts to it, with no load on it, it seems to spin at about 125 RPMs. I vaguely remember that when I load it, it can draw up to about 10 amps (10A). I suspect it can output maybe 100 watts of power or so. It also has 3 mounting holes. I suspect someone mechanically inclined could perhaps connect this with 1:1 ratio to the crank/chainring assembly. The 125 RPMs would likely drop under load but under low load it should maintain close to that I would think. It would be fun to try it with some type of freewheel mechanism or centrifugal clutch so when the motor is turned off, it would not load the cranks. Since the rotational speed mimics a normal cadence (probably will drop to 60 to 100 RPMs under load), it can possibly be used to run a multispeed bike and if the rider pedals too, they would help each other out (like 100 watt motor plus 100 watt rider = 200 watts total). So has anyone ever tried this and do you think it could work and if you think so, do you think it would work well? What about pitfalls? UPDATE: I tried the motor with a 12V battery and a short crescent wrench and I was able to hold the wrench still but there was a fair amount of tug on it, meaning it might be ok as a helper motor but not strong enough to move the bike on its own. It would be interesting to see if after getting the bike going say 10 MPH, if this motor would at maintain that speed or at least help the bike to coast down longer. Also since it spins at about 125 RPMs, it can be geared down even more such as thru a 16T drive sprocket and a 20T driven sprocket which is a a 4:5 reduction so then about 100 RPMs, giving it more torque. I think if this motor spun at half the speed, it would be harder for me to hold that wrench still. Maybe some other wiper motors spin slower like 60-100 RPMs. Thank you.