In the realm of simple magic: Great White Shark patrols. The magic is to give the sharks a predisposition for patrolling the shore; they can go off to hunt for food, but the magic means they just never get tired of hunting the shore near the city, even if they never catch anything there. Similar low level magic to attract them into cages and calm them, where they can be enchanted, perhaps even attaching an amulet to them or something like that. It should not be much more difficult than an infatuation spell. If you attach the amulet, than simple touch magic to a sister amulet can call the sharks in an emergency, or send them off to hunt elsewhere during the day so your own fishermen can get their jobs done. 

It seems unlikely the girl would fall in love in the first place if the alien has an octopus face, so there is obviously some level of pre-filtering going on. If she is sexually/romantically attracted to him, there can't be much wrong. Just fix your backstory, watch some Ancient Aliens. The Gods [Aliens] made Man [and woman] in His [their] image. They took the closest thing they could find (some lemur looking thing), and guided evolution every few hundred thousand years, tweaking the progress until they got something that looked like them. That's us. Not only that, but they've done it thousands of times throughout the galaxy! Aliens everywhere that look just like us! (In fact this is much like the premise for a Star Trek Next Generation multi-episode epic; the reason all the aliens look pretty humanoid is an ancient first race in the galaxy, ten billion years ago, was alone, humanoid looking, and seeded the galaxies with their OWN DNA, everywhere! Then some hand-waving ensues and the mystery of why nearly all aliens look humanoid is solved!) You don't have to bridge the uncanny valley, either the girl fell in love without caring, or there was nothing to care about, because the aliens are basically human beings from another planet. In your universe, the accepted science is a myth, self-serving and self-centered dogma that the aliens know Earthlings, when they grow up, will realize was all childish self-importance. 

I'd think about your characters, and perhaps future generations of your characters, and how you will use the world. Do you intend to be using the same world ten years from now, IRL? Then you better make it big; no telling what stories you will be telling in ten years. To me, the world needs to be logically coherent, but a "setting" is the best kind of deus ex machina. You don't have to explain why a talking coyote guards the cave leading to the elven kingdom, that's just how this world is. Or why your hero has to travel to Septima 7 to consult with a pedantic vegan Tyrannosaur on his warp drive modification. Or why his warp drive didn't do what he wanted in the first place. In Star Wars, much of the plot and resonance is just about the setting. Luke is in danger in a cave (when with Yoda, he encounters the hallucination or whatever of Darth Vader), while Hans Solo is in danger in a cave (inside the giant worm they thought was a cave). Or, what idiot sets up a military base in Antarctica (Hoth the ice planet)? Blah blah about strategy, but that was world-building too; making the best strategic place for their base so frikkin' inhospitable. Really Hoth was a deus ex machina, a setting to push Luke to use his Jedi powers. We can think of settings as villains and helpers. The magic forest will try to kill you. The greenstone fountain will heal you. Ariel's castle is safe haven, if only you can get there, and she knows the secret to the maze you must get through to find the home of the white dragon. but like characters, you don't want the settings to seem too conveniently helpful or harmful or powerful. When your character is confronted by an evil dragon, you don't have a witch appear, give your character a handful of powder that kills dragons, and then disappear, never to be seen again. Nor can the forest they have entered have some convenient suit of armor discarded in the forest, complete with magical sword, that they can use to defeat the evil dragon. You are better off describing some far off lands and leaving the world vague (as it is for most of us IRL, anyway). Sketched settings can be like sketched characters; interesting and potentially worthy of their own story in the future, but just introduced in the current story to serve some plot purpose, like an excuse for knowing something critical, or to go somewhere. 

I cannot answer for pointed ears specifically, but the shape of ears is known, in audio science, to have an impact on sounds reflected into the ear canal. See here, an excerpt is below (The pinna is the outer part of the ear; plural is pinnae): 

I should think this is not dissimilar to the real life situation of Norway (and a few others) with North Sea Oil. That is also a form of "free money", if you will; trillions of dollars worth of something they can get for relatively low mining costs. Shouldn't your situation be similar? Have the government nationalize a large area of what is otherwise wasteland (say desert like New Mexico or Arizona), and "discover" gold there, a hundred feet down! But of course they just made a show of digging a great big hole, at the bottom of which they convert base metals into gold. They keep digging, but as a social service they hire the least intelligent citizens to work there, telling them the gold is in microscopic form and must be refined out, but every rock is chock full of it! That's why they only see rock and dirt. But they are making a good living and helping their country, they are heroes! Your government can follow Norway's model: Their oil (your gold) is converted to cash; after paying their own citizens to work the oil rigs (your gold mine) the rest of the cash goes into a national fund; this fund invests the money in all sorts of ventures (tens of thousands of them). They earn about 10% to 15% on the money; and by Norwegian law, only the profits are allowed to be used to fund their government, their welfare programs, etc. The capital is never touched (well it can be diminished by failed ventures; but the Norwegian government is not allowed to use it or borrow against it for expenses). Here is why that is important, and how it balances your gold production: Your gold will only ever fund legitimate business enterprises that have to gain a market in order to make a profit. Think of such business enterprises as more or less inevitable. People are going to invent things, or services, or whatever, and sell them, with or without your help. But (if your gold is not in the picture) the profits all these ventures earn get distributed widely, to many millions of investors. On average they all make that 10% to 15%. The market is never crashed by this profit making; all the profit comes from people that were willing to part with their money for whatever they bought; it is a legitimate creation of new value through human creativity and labor. But with your gold in the picture, you are just outbidding thousands of those investors with an extra 5% or 10% to the entrepreneurs, and you take the profit those investors otherwise would have had. You just edge them into funding the riskier investments and taking more losses, and the entrepreneurs you are funding get a little extra equity or 10% more money to make their ideas work. In business terms, you make the pie smaller so you can take a bigger piece of it: by giving the entrepreneurs a more generous deal you reduce the total amount of profit available to investors, but your little country is getting far more than its fair share. This won't crash the economy, because your magic is really just diverting profits that would have been earned anyway into your pocket instead of the pockets of other investors. It is just a redistribution of the profits. Your cost is the sham of pretending what you are mining is 20% gold, when you are crushing worthless rock and turning scrap iron into gold. But of course you have insanely high security around the mine, inside the mine, and where the transmutation actually occurs: Only the wizards in the hardhats are ever allowed to empty the final centrifuges and crucibles of the "final product". Or something like that; I am sure there must be ways to mix pure transmuted gold into the crushed rock so you can "burn off" the rock and "purify" the residue into tons of gold, so to outside observers it has all the appearance of a real operating mine. By analogy, suppose Norway had discovered a magical way of converting sea water into crude oil, and decided to pretend they were drilling for it, to the point of actually drilling holes and arranging for transmuted sea water to look like it was coming up from those holes. I'm not sure we'd know (or care) what was really happening half a mile beneath the North Sea. 

An alternative idea that allows lifting to effectively unlimited height (even taking material strengths into account) is a chain drive bucket system. The idea is as simple as buckets of water on ropes (the buckets can be as big as barrels). If the rope would be too long; you can build in a relay system (basically gearing); so (for example) your water wheel is designed to turn an axle, the axle turns a rope with knots in it (to prevent slippage), the rope has permanently attached wooden buckets about the size of barrels. seal them with pitch on the inside, it is waterproof and lasts a long time. Say our first stage is going to lift the water 50 feet (the height of a modern 4 story building). These are lifted up, full of water, at the top of the wheel the rope goes around the top axle; which it is also turning. The buckets are guided by simple barriers to dump their water into a chute (also pitch sealed). Either you are now done, or you go on to the next stage: That same top axle, on the other end, has the same setup: Another chain drive and buckets it carries upward to be eventually dumped in another chute. That is the Stage 2 Lift: Stage 1 collects water from the river (and is turned by the energy of the river). At the top of Stage 1, the chute (and timing) are designed to automatically dump the Stage 1 bucket into a chute, that fills an empty bucket of Stage 2, which is designed to be "going by" at that time. Stage 2 rises another 50 feet, and dumps its bucket into a chute: Which could lead to a Stage 3 lift. There is the strain on the rope of turning all the Stages at the same time, so there is a limit. But the rope does not have to be the breaking factor, you can just use 2 or 3 ropes if the strain is too much. The breaking factor is now strong you can make the water wheel before it breaks, or a tree trunk axle breaks, under the strain. Also, fewer buckets can be used if need be; each stage only needs to be carrying one at a time in order for this to work. This scheme bypasses the need for a super-strong ropes that might break. The gear that holds the rope can have a "string of beads" design; imagine a rope with regularly spaced knots: It casts a shadow that looks like a string of beads; basically circles connected by a thick line. That same shape should be in the trunk of a large tree or on a wheel, so the rope, with knots in it, has knots that fall into circles, and the rope between the knots falls into thinner channel. It is way to make a chain drive without any chain or gears. (You want the chain drive for its accuracy in a clockwork mechanism like this). Stages above the first would need platforms built into the side of the cliff; but those do not have to be too extensive; people don't have to live there or anything. You can "dig in" to put some tree trunks about 20 feet into into the side of the cliff; they will take the strain of holding the axles in place and supporting the few chutes you need, along with some flat space for a maintenance worker to make any repairs (or rope replacement) that might be needed.