In terms of tire friction coefficients, these change over the different slip angles and camber angles, the same tire could have many different coefficients based on different angles, speeds, temperetures, pressure, wheel widths, surface conditions and many other factors. 

I use Sheldon Brown's Gear Calculator whenever I'm looking into gear ratios. For someone who doesn't ride any big hills I would think that 50/34 - 12/28 would be absolutely ideal. You could go 1x and get 98% of a 50/34 with a 44+10/42. See SRAMs pocket guide 50-12 tops out at about 33mph definitely not something that mortals can sustain for very long on a flat road. 

Here are a couple very cheap options for saddles on amazon Narrow black saddle colorful options to match your bike 

I had to dig through my senior year single track vehicle knowledge for this one. It's a little confusing but mathematically the maximum lean angle of a bicycle is theoretically 45 degrees regardless of tires or anything else really. Here is a picture of the math: 

In the first picture it looks like the holes are simply machined to decrease the weight of the adapter without compromising strength. My only concern with the frame and adapter would be tolerances because you wouldn't want it to fit too loose. The second picture definitely looks like a bb30 frame but without calipers it's impossible to know the diameter and width for sure. The gold/red tubes you see on the bottom are the internally routed guides for the rear derailleur cable and rear brake cable/hose. Since this frame has a lower compartment where the cables route, you will not have any issues with internal cable routing with any bottom bracket combination. 

I had the same issues riding on pre-built 26" mountain bike wheels. I'm 6'5" and weigh ~400lbs, so I break stuff left and right (including frame welds). I have found two things that broke my wheel-breaking streak. The first thing I found was the Surly Pugsley and the Endomorph (or Larry) tires that fit on it. The 26"x4" tires are massive, and absorb any blow without threat to the wheels. At the same time, I also went with wheels based around Large Marge rims, which have never needed to be trued (even through the frame break!). The other thing I found was beefy, hand built, wheels. My second bike is a Surly Karate Monkey (a 29er) which I had wheels built for using 36 hole hubs (again a Surly product). This wheel shows a bit more wear and tear (after 5 months of riding), but it hasn't broken anything. I also run higher volume (but nowhere near the Endomorph) tires on this bike, with a pair of Schwalbe Big Apples. Bottom line: If your current equipment can't work for you, go big. It will cost you a lot up front, but save a ton in the long run. (I swear I don't work for Surly, though my bikes make it sound like I do.) 

Since the largest value possible for inverse sine is 1 the largest possible lean angle would be 45 degrees. This makes sense because if you tried to pull a leaning bicycle upright from the tire contact patch, as soon as you reached 45 degrees this would become impossible. Yes, MotoGP achieve lean angles of 60+ degrees but there are affects such as angular momentum to take into account and are beyond the scope of this answer. If you are interested in the maximum lean angle based only on tire adhesion the data from my notes shows tires dropping off around 40-50 degrees camber angle. 

I'd like to start off by saying that bike fitting is almost completely a matter of personal preference and the "rules" are often broken and should be broken as long as it is safe, doesn't cause injury and feels comfortable to you. Although, riding on the very tip of drops might make bike handling and accessing your brakes or shift leavers difficult but I have seen others who feel very comfortable in that position. This position could mean that your handlebars are too far away from you and too high but could also be a number of different factors (In bike fitting every position is affected by surrounding positions). Without seeing you riding your bike it is hard to decipher more, but I would start by adjusting your stem length, riding for a week, and seeing how that feels, then you can adjust your stem height and ride for another week, repeat this with your entire bike fit until it feels perfect. The other option if you do start to have problems in that position is to see a bike fit professional. My general advice though, is to make sure you spend more time riding your bike then fitting your bike. 

A friend of mine just did a review of the Lupine Betty 7. The light turned night into day. It's a 1750 lumen max, but can be adjusted in 5% power increments. It also has a rechargeable battery with plenty of run-time, even at max. I would say that this light is comparable to one of the headlights on my '07 Civic. If you want to feel like you're riding in the day, and money isn't an object, go for the Betty. 

I mostly use it for tracking rides after the fact, but Ride With GPS has cue sheets and route planning based off of Google maps for their paying members. From the GPS side, it works great, your mileage may vary for pre-planning. 

One of the more interesting bars I've tried is the Titec H-Bar (there are also other brands of H-Bar, as I recall). Insane amount of hand positions. Can be hard to find a good spot for levers and shifters, though. 

I have a Specialized pump which works very well for both high-volume and high pressure tires. I've also used a couple of different Joe Blow pumps from Topeak, which worked pretty well. In light of this, I'm of the opinion that your best bet is to hit up your LBS and see what they have, and what you like using. For me, handle shape and size plays a big part (you need comfort to pump up a 26"x4" tire). Plenty of pumps work for both types of valve, and your LBS should be able to point out which pumps can do this. Some require you to screw off a cap and flip something over, others can have a two-sided head, and others (like my Specialized) have a head that works for both without any changes.