Finally (and this may sound pessimistic) always assume your tent WILL leak. If you have a car keep as much kit as possible in the car and out of the tent. This guarantees you dry clothes and means if you do have to evacuate there's less to carry. This may sound obvious but don't keep anything electrical which isn't designed for outdoor use (phones, iPods/Pads etc) in the tent. It's not worth the risk! Don't forget pubs are often much drier than tents! 

The most common reason for a mountain to 'change height' is because it's been remeasured. Erosion, rockslides and other natural causes can change the height of a mountain however in comparison they're relatively minor. The main reason that the Munros are reclassified is because they have been measured to a far greater degree of accuracy. Ordnance Survey and several amateur groups periodically survey the UK, when errors are found the SMC updates it's list. Reclassification is fairly unique to Munros, the Wainwrights for example are not reclassified as they are set on guide books rather than a set criteria of inclusion. TLDR The most common way for a mountain to change it's height is because it was incorrectly measured previously. 

As mentioned in other answers lighting should come from external forces not headlights, because you look at other players to throw the frisbee to them, this results in the intended recipient being dazzled while they're trying to catch! 

It is not. The lowest-impact solution is to use a poo-pot. These are compulsory in alpine areas here in New Zealand. Pack it out - Poo pots 

If the tent fly can be pitched without the inner then your winter tent becomes a summer tent by leaving the inner at home. 

Growing up in rural New Zealand, we often encountered electric fences. Some of them were illegally high-powered to deal with big animals. We tested fences either with the back of our hands or with a piece of grass. As specified a few times in this question (thanks @Michael Martinez), using the back of the hand is for safety. An electric shock can cause muscles to clench. If you place your hand around the wire and get shocked then you risk being unable to unclench your hand. Using the back of the hand, with the palm away from any wires, means that if a shock clenches your muscles then your hand and arm move away from the wires. An anecdote: A mate of mine grew up on a farm used for Sweetwaters (a popular music festival a few decades ago). He says that the combination of stoned hippies and electric fences was extremely entertaining. In answer to another question above, I have a cousin who peed on an electric fence. It was not a pleasant experience (for him, anyway, his mates were laughing their heads off). 

Private camping is both allowed and nice on Masonboro Island which is North of Carolina Beach, NC and south of Wrightsville Beach, NC. You are close to civilization but the island is only reachable by boat which cuts down on the population - especially on weekdays and during off season. I don't know if you consider this Mid-Atlantic since it would be quite a haul to get there from the north, but I have been there and it fits all the other criteria you list. It is part of the North Carolina National Estuarine Research Reserve (NCNERR) 

Flint is your best bet and it sparks much better with steel than with a rock like iron pyrite. The better rocks you find, the less the tinder matters, but you will need something like a cotton ball or similar fine material that is very dry in most cases when you don't have actual steel and pure flint. Any old tinder will do - fungus, grass, wood splinters or mashed wood / sawdust. Chalcedony (a chert form of quartz) and other flints are also very useful since you can make edged tools made of stone with enough skill and the proper raw materials. Jaspillite (or taconite as we call it in Minnesota) also will spark and has a high iron content. 

Assuming you don't have an outer first tent pitching in the rain comes down to planning and practice. It is actually possible to stay fairly dry if you're organised. There is no sure fire method but there are a few tricks which can help you keep the inner dry. 

Having actually tried this on a campsite I would advise you to play in a well lit area. It turns out throwing spinning plastic discs at people in low light can actually be quite dangerous! I would suggest: 

As other people have mentioned mittens are warmer in almost all circumstances, a large part of this is that your entire hand is keeping the inside warm rather than each finger trying to warm itself individually. Where they fall down is when you need to take your hand out of the mitts, everything from taking photos to having something to eat becomes a chore and can leave you with very cold hands. One option is to wear very thin gloves inside your mitts, you need to experiment with the combinations here. Too bulky and inner and too small a mitt and you end up restricting bloodflow and actually cooling your hands. Big is often better! Consider wearing a pair of "thinnies" with your mitts close by which you can swap and change for tasks which need some dexterity - robbed of your big gloves even a cheap pair of thin ones will keep your hands warmer longer than your bare skin. In short take lots of different pairs of gloves and keep them handy. When I walk in winter I often have four or five pairs of gloves with varying thickness. 

Down is fairly easy to measure in terms of loft when you lay out the old bags. Basically, if the feathers are so crushed that after a proper wash and fluff you don't have a bag that holds up the fabric a couple of inches above the floor - you'll know to try sleeping in it with a backup blanket or plan to test how warm it now sleeps. Presumably, you won't really know the condition of the bags unless the seller is willing to agree what volume the bags now take when gently laid into a pillow case or large volume storage case and you can repeat that measure when you take possession of the goods. 

Since a high quality polycarbonate helmet is now so light, affordable and durable; the added cost and limited weight benefit of carbon fiber seems to be of limited use for all but the most weight conscious or sponsored mountaineers. Plastic fails in a much more human friendly manner without sharp edges of carbon and hard resin that it's generally superior for helmet covering and strong enough for protection from sharp objects. 

Cotton is the dominant bedding material choice worldwide for several reasons and as long as you aren't getting into the bag drenched and have adequate water control for your environment, I can't see the lining choice being a make or break factor in warmth. I can see it making the bag much more comfortable for casual use. Furthermore, for winter camping in Minnesota, one thing I often pack is cotton or flannel liner for my synthetic lined down bags. You may be a step ahead with your bag should you end up making similar choices. 

I'm a lurker on two knife-related forums (Bladeforums.com and Knifeforums.com). On both of them, "what knife should I buy" or "what is the best knife for X" are either closed quickly or become very hot topics because there is no right answer, only lots and lots and lots of opinions. See this thread for a recent discussion of the topic (including some nice pictures). That said, there are some general guidelines. First of all, make sure it is legal! Carrying an illegal knife on the Appalachian Trail will get you in the same trouble as carrying an illegal knife on the streets of New York. A LEO might cut you some slack in the wilderness, but they don't have to. Fixed blade vs folding blade. Fixed blades are tougher, which is great if you are going to be splitting firewood or cutting branches or digging holes. Size Bigger blades (both length and thickness) are better at chopping wood but are far worse at small tasks like skinning small game and slicing food and cutting rope. Serrations Serrated blades are better at cutting fibrous materials like rope but suck at cutting soft food like cheese and tomatoes. Typical bushcraft tasks are usually better with a straight edge (though a serrated edge makes pretty good feather sticks for firelighting). Metal Harder steels hold an edge longer but are harder to sharpen in the field. Softer steels might roll over the edge when chopping. Some types of steel are better than others at making sparks from your fire rod. There is no such thing as rustproof. Stainless steel is just steel that takes a bit longer to rust. :-) All knives need good care. Unless you are spending a lot of money on a titanium blade. Shape Straight edge blades (like the "american tanto" design) suck at cutting food. The curve, or "belly", of the edge is what helps cutting through the entire draw of the knife. Saws on the back of the blade mean you can't use the blade for batonning very well and you will hurt your hand in some knife grips. A lot of military knives with saw backs are for ripping through aircraft skin. Leave the sawblades to Rambo. What do I carry? I carry a Victorinox Outrider Swiss Army lockable folding knife. The long blade is for food prep (it is long enough to cut through an apple in one go). The sawblade on it is long enough to deal with firewood and track maintenance. The scissors probably get used more than anything else on the blade. I've used the can opener a few times and the corkscrew only once (wine bottles and tins don't go hiking often as they are heavy). If I am going somewhere camping I also carry a CRKT Stiff KISS MDP. It is small, light, strong enough for me to whack it through wood with a baton and cheap enouygh that if I break it I don't care. It is a bushcraft knife and does not go near food. The Victorinox is legal carry in New Zealand. The CRKT is not, so I have to make sure it stays in my backpack when driving to and from the trip. Final Thoughts You are not Rambo. Don't carry a massive piece of movie-madness cutlery (termed "tacticLOL" on the forums above). If you are Rambo, then disregard all of this. You can do whatever the heck you want - I'm certainly not going to argue. Edit: Thanks Ben. 

Each of these design criteria have very inherent safety tradeoffs. In general, the type of cycling helmet that has a cosmetic and purely "hold the styrofoam together" type shell would not be appropriate for climbing where you might expect to have tens of rocks fall on your head during one climb. Similarly, the padding on a cycling helmet might be more than is needed for climbing. Looking at the spectrum from a full face racing motorcycle helmet to a winter skiing helmet, to a rock climbing helmet, to a skateboarding helmet, to a mountain biking helmet and finally to a typical road cycling helmet - you can see a progression to less and less armor as well as various amounts of styrofoam like insulation depending on the speed at which your body might hit the ground or an object if you fall from your vehicle. I don't know how to precisely answer which is best, but hopefully this discussion helps frame your decision when picking a helmet if you can't get help from a subject matter expert that has experience in the activity you will use your helmet. 

I would say, dismiss the bowline on a bight since it needs a backup stopper knot to prevent loosening over time so it's not a "complete" knot like the other candidates. The bends on the yosemite bowline are generally less tight than the figure eight. This bowline is less likely to jam, wears the the rope involved in the knot less, so from a rope longevity, fall damage to the rope, and general stress sense, the yosemite bowline would have to be the superior knot from an "engineering" standpoint. I would not choose a knot on that basis and instead choose the one my party is most comfortable tying over and over and checking over and over. I don't see how the technical superiority of the yosemite bowline would make it measurably better "in the field" than the figure eight. If I didn't have a fid to assist in knot untying or my finger strength / rope choice made "untieability" after falls an issue, that would be a fair reason to choose a bowline over a more simple and jam-prone knot. 

I carry a Victorinox knife. On my last few trips I've used the various tools on it to pry shellfish off rocks, slice cheese and salami, prepare vegetables, cut sticking plaster, cut duct tape for gear repair, cut cloth to make a dressing, open packets of dehydrated food neatly. I have, in the past, used the wood saw on it to clear windfall. It did the job but a folding saw would have been much better. Of all the non-knife tools, the scissors get the most use. As far as other gear, I also carry a KFS set (a knife because the pocket knife is useless at spreading marmite and jam). I go out with people who carry no knives at all. I wonder what they would do if they had to cut clothes to make bandages or slings? To make an emergency shelter? 

Given that it is above the mesh pocket at the side, my guess is that it is for walking/ski poles. If you need to put the poles away for a short time (for example, a traverse using your ice axe, a river crossing), you don't need to go to the trouble of loosening the compression straps (the ones holding the tent poles in the photos above). 

I have friends who swear by silk inners. They are thin, so can be worn under other gloves, but are extremely warm for the thickness. Combine these with windstopper outers - as mentioned elsewhere, layering is good practice. On the downside, silk is really expensive, at least where I live. On the upside, silk lasts a long time and doesn't get smelly. 

I have used both the Pro version of YakTrax as well as the normal version that lacks the velcro strap across the forefoot. They are amazingly well engineered, durable and perform as advertised. On ice, hard snow and frozen trails, they provide excellent footing. Of course - if you are walking on a dry smooth surface like marble or stone, the grip isn't as good as you would have with a completely rubber sole, but the foot feel is good and I would highly recommend them for hiking and trail running as well as general cold weather traction. I have had the pro versions for 5 seasons and they show no signs of wear after easily a hundred miles under foot - half of this mountain hiking in Montana. My normal pair see more on/off for short use like dog walking and this pair are several seasons old. I live in Minnesota, so both get months of use at a time. 

I would argue that there is a wide functional gap in safety helmets for various sports. The design tradeoffs are easily summarized: 

My rule is don't eat wild raw meat, cook it when you can't be sure both it and the preparation are sanitary. The only exception is fish caught from a line when I'm able to cleanly sashimi a species known to be generally safe when healthy. I'm looking at you toro and maguro (tuna), sake (salmon) and hamachi (yellowtail). The salmon and yellowtail are safer if frozen first due to tapeworm and other infectious parasites - so in the wild, those get cooked too in most instances.