The open-source game UFO:AI has a plausible-sounding design for both plasma and laser weapons, and the in-game description has a very detailed hard sci-fi explanation about how they work. All the advantages and disadvantages of plasma and laser weapons are presented in detail, both in the descriptions and their in-game functionality, although the later is a little bit abstracted. A very powerful late-game weapon is actually superior to the alien's plasma rifle, as it's a normal kinetic weapon with a projectile including a very little amount of plasma, designed to burst after entering the target, working both as a shaped charge to punch through armor, and as a very advanced version of the real-life expanding bullets. The plasma weapons involve a solid protective shell which is designed to burst after traveling for a short while. They have a small range, because despite the projectile traveling fast the plasma eats through the casing very fast, and due to its lighter weight the accuracy is also lower than of traditional firearms. What it excels at is its high stopping power. Whoever is hit, feels the pain immediately. The laser rifle uses a type of chemical laser, has very high accuracy and a long range, no recoil, but with the added problem of having no sudden impact, therefore a lower damage, and that they require some time on the target, effectively reducing the damage due to the shooter's inaccuracy as the beam might wobble on the target. Basically, compared with traditional firearms, the plasma and laser rifles actually represent two completely opposite directions, instead of being almost interchangeable with each other compared to the traditional firearms. I'm not suggesting to completely copy these designs from the game I mentioned, but it might be worth taking a look at, as the developers obviously put a lot of though and research into it. 

A real life modern example I've seen in relatively remote East European villages: people do have family names, and they are registered by the state and they are printed on national ID cards, driving licenses, passports, etc. but no one actually uses them. If the same name is used by more people, they are differentiated most often by nicknames. In other cases, by the father's name, or from which part of the village they come from (or if they come from a neighboring village, than by that one). The real family names are in such disuse, that even relatives or friends don't know them at all, or have to really think hard to recall them. 

Modern parliamentary monarchies have the issues that the monarch is usually just a figurehead and a diplomat, but does not govern internal affairs. Also, feudalism implies a mostly agrarian society, which is expressed in the question, as typical jobs, and as knights/lords. A much better example than modern countries would be the Principality of Transylvania, and maybe the 17th century Dutch Republic, but I have more knowledge about the former, so let's take a look at it for an example. It was an elective monarchy, the ruler called the "Prince" was elected by an assembly of nobles. There was also a parliamentary system, called the Diet. However, the country was still mostly agrarian, and the lords of the land could do pretty much what they wanted on their own lands. Interestingly, while the Diet was the main form of government, the ruler still had the right to distribute and re-distribute lands among the nobles, a very clear resemblance to feudalism. What makes it even more interesting, is that while the militarily and economical might was in the hands of the nobles ruling over vast estates and villages, the cities were something completely different. The walled cities, especially those belonging to the Saxons, had great autonomy, they could freely elect their own leaders and freely adopt any internal policy. They actually resembled independent city-states allied with the country, rather than cities being part of the country. All in all, it was an interesting mixture of democracy and feudalism. Of course, from a modern perspective you could find social injustice, but for its time period it was quite progressive. Among other things, it was among the first countries to declare the freedom of religion (1558-1568). 

Discarded ideas: One idea was to do it as a marketing campaign to increase brand awareness, but people who wouldn't give up their eternal soul, would probably not be convinced to do so after trying out a limited offer. And even if they did, giving something for free would be opposite of the very nature of devils. They are selfish, and they only make a deal if it directly benefits them. Another idea was used in the Order of the Stick, where a wizard got a significant boost of magical powers for a limited time, and as payment, the wizard had to agree to spend the same amount of time as the duration of the powers, in the custody of the service provider at a later time chosen by the provider. In this case the deal was well worth for the fiends because the wizard was taking part in highly important missions, many of them about preventing evil acts, so a temporary imprisonment could make it impossible to prevent one such evil act. However, in our case, the expected customer base is to be regular humans, without such important missions, so the devils would not gain anything really useful out of the deal. Note, that the service provider has to gain something tangible and useful out of a deal. Just making the supplicant suffer is in itself not a gain. So no such things as "I will help you in your job interview if you hit your little finger with a hammer". Humans have free will, and the devils cannot directly force anyone to do anything they wouldn't want to. So "you agree that you will kick a puppy" is not an appropriate payment, as it is not enforceable. (and also not too useful for the service provider) Currently I'm considering "relinquishing control of your physical body to us for an agreed-upon period of time" as a method of payment. It has the advantage of being less severe than giving up one's immortal soul, and it can also be quantified (more time for larger services, less time for smaller ones), and it can also be very useful for the Lowerarchy. However, it has the disadvantage of still being too scary for most potential customers. Can this payment method be improved upon, or are there better payment methods not yet considered? 

In 1869 a giant space gun was built, with the intent of firing a projectile at the Moon, just to prove that they can do it. Of course, the ludicrous idea to put people inside it was never even taken into consideration, as the acceleration would kill them, and if not, the crash into the Moon, or the lack of an atmosphere would finish with them : it just fired a normal cannon shell. The experiment was a success, the cannonball hit the Moon and formed a nice little crater, an event being seen and photographed by astronomers. However, as it didn't have any other use, it was quickly abandoned after the first experiment. They coated the interior with wax and put a cover on top of it to keep rust and rainwater away, so it survived mostly intact to his day. Could we find any useful propose for it? Could it have been of any use in the space race of the 1960's and 70's? I guess the only benefit is that it's already built by our ancestors so it is completely free: we don't have to spend money and resources for building it. However, as it is built completely vertically, it's not useful to achieve (unaided) orbit around the Earth. Also, the high initial acceleration would probably destroy any sensitive electronics or other equipment we tried to launch with it. Could we design projectiles to limit this? If we can't find any use for it now, could we in the not too distant future? The only use I might see in it, is to send bulk raw materials to a space station or a Moon colony, but we have neither a Moon colony, nor a space station requiring bulk raw materials. The cannon is as close to Verne's idea as possible, has a bore with a diameter of nine feet (or slightly less, but not by much), is cast directly and completely into the ground on a hilltop in Florida, is completely vertical, and long enough to be able to be used to hit the Moon with a single explosive charge available in the late 19th century. If the later proves to be physically impossible, then we can modify the original experiment so that the cannonball left the atmosphere, but failed to reach the Moon, instead falling back and splashing into the ocean. 

Antimatter annihilation is the best source of energy per weight. However, antimatter is not readily available anywhere within reachable distance, it's insanely difficult to produce and contain. However, if a society with our current level of technology (or just slightly more advanced) discovered a source of antimatter, how could they use it? 

For most of human history, countries (and especially empires) were just like as you described them in your question. The concept of a nation state is relatively recent. Even in the Middle Ages, it was usually not language which bound people together, but the intricate system of alliances and feudal contracts. Being part of the same nation meant having your rights granted to you by the same king. People often considered being the same nation with people of a different mother language, and considered being a different nation from other people speaking the same language. One of the last such countries to exist was the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. By the beginning of the 20th century the spreading of nationalism and the idea of a nation-state made such an empire unsustainable. However, a few generations before that, such multi-ethnic countries were the norm rather than the exception. A less-known example is France before the 18th century. Most of the country didn't speak a common language, most regional dialects and languages had little in similarity to the modern French language. Look up the Breton language: most regions of France in that period had their own language. They were not part of a nation because they shared a common language, they were part of a nation because they shared the same king and the same laws. Of course, all these real-life countries were inhabited by humans (so no different fantasy races) but if you swap ethnicity with fantasy races, you could end up with similar concepts.