The body is a funny thing. There is no real way to predict how and where it will store fat. The one observation I have made with my own body is that I typically lose fat first from the places I have most recently put it on. The hardest places to lose it are the places that have had it the longest. I am sure you have heard that you cannot spot reduce. This is very true. I wouldn't sit around worrying about it. Anxiety leads to excess cortisol production which leads to fat gain. Try and get pro-active with your diet and exercise instead. Sitting around thinking never did anyone any good. In terms of the excess skin, that is due to a loss of elasticity. I don't think there is much you can do about that outside of getting a tummy tuck. On a positive note, the leaner you get the less that skin will appear 'loose'. I hope that helps, Mike 

I agree with Eric. The biggest mistake you can make is to remove or lower your weights. Keep the intensity up and if necessary, lower the volume by a set or two. I would try and get three sessions in a week, but keep them short. No more than half an hour. Stick with compound movements. 

I doubt many people on here are qualified to answer that question. I would seek out a sport psychologist who specializes in motivation. Maybe he or she can get to the bottom it. 

Building muscle and burning fat simultaneously is achievable. However, the progress is so slow that an individual mistake this steady gain with negligible progress. I would recommend you to subscribe to ATHLEAN-X Training System to accomplish this. My answer is in accordance with this video. For more details about this program, visit: $URL$ 

I don't quite understand what you're trying to ask but you will gain fat all around your body during a bulking phase. Thus, fat gain on stomach is all normal. However, If you're gaining too much fat then you're eating at too much of a caloric surplus that is actually required so cut back on some calories a bit and make sure you're eating just 300-500 calories above your maintenance. Because you didn't mention your current goals, current stats, workout routines, cardiovascular conditioning etc. so I can't provide you with a specific guideline. 

A lot of split routines recommend training chest with triceps and back with biceps. Doesn't fatigue play a role when working out triceps and biceps after a relatively tough chest and back workout respectively? Also, can biceps and triceps be trained before back and chest respectively to alternate the routine and providing equal focus OR should they always be trained afterwards? 

Further assuming that each of them weigh the same, have similar diet plans, train moderately heavy (8-12 Reps per set), have same goals of gaining equal amount of size on both the muscles and are training for building muscle mass; 

You are not going to do any 'damage' to your body or cause your muscles to breakdown. I might do the 'ups' before you run and then walk home afterwards. 

Fasting is overrated and unproductive. I agree with Chris. You want to keep your body in an anabolic state and keep your blood sugar balanced as often as possible. These fasting programs are just a gimmick to sell, e-books, programs, etc. Your fasting for the day should occur when your head hits the pillow for 8 hours. Good luck with your future endeavours, Mike 

I am curious as to what others experiences with this training program are. Did you gain the 5-12 lbs of muscle over the 6 week period that promoters such as Charles Poliquin claim to be the norm ? While I realize that the excessive volume is the driving force behind the hypertrophy gains, I am wondering whether a load that equates to 60% of one's 1 rep max will stimulate enough muscle fibres to lead to a significant amount of muscle growth. Looking forward to the responses. 

Not being able to you in person, it is hard for me to say what this is doing to your body. I can say that after 2 weeks, the majority of your strength gains can be attributed'neural' adaptations. Meaning that your brain has become more efficient at sending messages to the working muscles. After 6 weeks, a higher percentage of your strength gains will be as a result of 'hypertrophy'. Which is an increase in the size of your muscle fibres. Stay the course, be consistent with your training, diet and recovery and should be pleased with your the results. Hope that helps, Mike 

Being a great advocate of targeting a muscle from different angles, I have decided to substitute the regular 3 sets of 8-12 reps with 2 sets of 8-12 reps (for every muscle) while keeping the total volume same and increasing the total number of exercises. For example: 

The end goal is to gain size while building symmetrical muscle definition. So, my question is, are 2 sets for 8-12 reps similar, if not better, for providing sufficient levels of muscle hypertrophy? 

Personally, I love this routine because I get a good chest pump and my triceps and shoulders engage a lot as well (Probably exhausted to failure after the last set of the chest workout). However, my question is, would supersets be efficient as compared to doing all these exercises in isolation when the underlying goal is to gain size? 

Assuming Person A and Person B exercises their muscle groups twice per week for maximum hypertrophy. Considering that the only thing that seperates the two men is how they approach their workout, which one of them will utilize the aformentioned hypertrophic frequency the best? For example Person A: Does 9 sets of flat bench chest exercises, followed by 9 sets of decline bench chest exercises three days after. Person B: Does 9 sets of flat bench chest exercises and repeats the same three days after. NOTE: Person A shifts his focus to lower chest, how much of a role does hypertrophic frequency play here (if any). 

Front planks, side planks, rollouts w/stability ball, barbell or wheel, jackknifes w/stability ball, pikes with stability ball, front plank/stir the pot on stability ball. 

You have to sit on the actual seat and see for yourself Jitendra. A good rule of thumb is when you are seated on the bike that one of your legs is able to hang completely straight with no bend and hook into the pedal. Hope that helps, Mike 

Make sure you are giving yourself sufficient rest and recovery time in between your warm up sets so you can get to your true 1 rep max. You should be able to figure it out after 3 tries. 

I would keep your protein shakes to post workout only. Whey protein is highly insulinogenic. So it is the ideal choice to drink after you train, but you don't need to drink shakes during the course of the day. Stick to eating whole foods, Meat, eggs, yogurt, beans, nuts, etc. Whole foods will keep you fuller and keep your blood sugar balanced throughout the day. If you are really concerned about staying anabolic throughout the day, buy some BCAA's (branched chain amino acids, valine, leucine and isoleucine) and take 5 grams with water every couple of hours. Definitely take 5 grams pre, peri and post workout as well. I hope that helps. Mike 

It sounds like your legs have a hard time buffering the lactic acid build up you get from cycling. You might have a lower percentage of slow twitch muscle fibres in your legs than the average person, which could effect your endurance. What about carbohydrate intake ? If you are lacking sufficient glycogen content in your muscles it will definitely have an effect on your performance in any activity.