If it’s simply that your inner tube valve pushed in, then you most likely don’t need a new tube. You can just partially pull back the tire where the valve opening is and stick the valve back through. If you’re lucky, you might even be able to do this without peeling the tube back. It just takes some massaging - it helps if you have experience being a midwife or animal husbandry. That said, it’s always good to have a spare tube. When the valve gets sucked in like that, it often gets crimped at the valve base and leaks and that can’t get patched easily. Inner tubes are cheap so it’s good to always have a backup. Especially with presta valves, it’s good to use the locknut provided. Don’t tighten it too much (especially when the tire is inflated) or it’ll be very hard to take off with bare hands when you get a flat. But that locknut is designed to prevent the valve falling into the rim well. 

I would agree with batman that you don't want to paint it. Instead, you can think of skinning it with adhesive film. 3M and others sell series of stretchable adhesive films in various colors and textures that are used in the custom automobile and motorbike market. They should be pliant enough to decorate your bike -- and if applied with care, won't be immediately visible as applied films. 

Assuming that "barrings" is the portmanteau of "ball + bearing".... Harris Cyclery says that most (classic, i.e., non-cartridge) headsets use 5/32" bearings, with 3/16" being rarer. Since bearings are so cheap (US$6-8 for a box of 25-75) you could buy both sizes and see which fits better and use the remainder to overhaul your pedals or hubs, as appropriate. Or take an old bearing if you have one to your local bike shop and have them measure it with their micrometer. 

Yes, on my 1975 Peugeot UO18, the brakes are located on the intermediate stays and the seat stays are used for the rack mount. The brake configuration is visible here. 

Tire sizes are extremely complicated because there are so many different measurement standards. See: $URL$ One strategy will be for you to ascertain what the common tire size of your bike is (more likely than not 700c for a hybrid bike of the 1990s) and order that (I’m assuming you’re ordering online) but that won’t work if someone replaced the rims or wheels on your bike and returning tires would be a pain. Really, the easiest is to take one of the wheels to a local bike shop (not a bike department in a big box store) and ask them. They can also help you get white wall tires if you want the classic look. If you’re cheap, just get the one wheel done and order the companion online but I’ve found my LBS to be within $5-10 of online prices and it’s worth the convenience. Note: you’ll also need a new inner tube and you’ll likely also need some new rim tape. The bike shop can also ascertain how much corrosion there is and whether or not it’ll affect the new tire. Note that many older bikes from the 1970s and prior have steel rims which have lousy braking performance. 

Note this posting from Bike Forum which shows the Haro serial number stamped on the bottom bracket. $URL$ There is also a registry of Haro bmx serial numbers, which might also help in identifying your bicycle: $URL$ This latter registry is particularly useful because it has user-submitted photographs of serial numbers. While the majority are on the bottom bracket, some are stamped very faintly into the rear dropouts. 

Unbeknownst to many consumers, different helmet manufacturers use different molds for their helmets. Just like some shoe brands are known to be thinner or wider than other brands, some helmets are more oval, some more round, and some pointier. Even from the same manufacturer, their racing models might be different from MTB, skateboarding type, and general lines. And there might be a helmet with a vent hole in exactly the right place out there. It's important to find a helmet that fits correctly and comfortable. It might take having to go to different stores and trying different brands and types (or even to a store in a different country, if you have the opportunity). That being said, through, if it were my head and I had to decide between a helmet that was partially shaved to fit -- or a larger helmet with some extra padding to fit; I would choose the latter. The helmet manufacturers provide extra padding pads of varying thickness in the box because they know they can't produce a helmet that fits perfectly on everyone's head. As long as the helmet is snug on your head and not uncomfortable, you should be good to go. Remember that many cyclists wear beanies in the winter and cycling caps in the summer under their helmets -- something that is well known to the helmet manufacturers. Remember the worst helmet is the helmet you don't wear. 

The spray will come off at a tangent to the wheel. If you're trying to prevent your back getting wet, putting the short fender to the rearmost position is the best but your legs will still get spray. If you want to prevent your butt getting wet, raise it a little. Note that going faster will mean the wind will push the spray back a little, but the spray will also increase in velocity and strength. 

They’re cheap. Your local bike shop can give you a handful for a euro-dollar (or for free depending on how much you patronize them). 

If the valve on your compressor is not replaceable (because it's not your compressor, for example) then you can fill up a portable air tank with the compressor (these tanks have schrader valves) and then hook up your manual-style shrader valve inflator to them. This is also a way to use a tiny little 12VDC electric tire inflator (such as in emergency kits) to build up enough pressure and air reserves to set tubeless tires. It might take an hour to build up 5 gallons at 135psi (and you might burn out a tiny compressor, so you'd take it in chunks) but you'd have enough air to certainly set even a car tire. [ Note that this tank has the type of schrader valve outlet that you don't want, but you can easily swap it out. 

Have you thought of riding a tandem and having the claustrophobic person serve as the stoker (the rear)? That way they can close their eyes and simply pedal, without having to worry about steering or braking. A recumbent tandem trike would be ideal for this. Or a sociable. I belong to an adaptive cycling club and we ride with blind individuals (amongst others) using tandems and sociables (as well as regular bicycles, etc.). Update: With tandems ruled out, another option used by low-vision cyclists is to have the buddy, lead- (sighted) cyclist wear distinctive bright clothing, have a flag on the bicycle, or a steady red light (not flashing, which can cause seizures) on the back of their bicycle. This allows the vision-impaired cyclist to focus on the lead cyclist as they pedal behind. With people with anxiety, focusing on a non-stimulus helps shutout the other triggering stimuli, so it may help considerably.