Yes, in most cases normal prescription glasses sit too low on the nose for the purpose of shielding the eyes in road bike position. And as the speed increases, the need for effective eye protection grows, too. Consider either: 

A Wikipedia definition is pretty much applicable. Stiffness is how much things resist bending. Stiffness is measured by measuring how much stuff bends when lateral force is applied. So, in the example of frame stiffness, you could put one end of the frame in a vise, horizontally, then hang a known weight from the other end and measure how much it sags. Because bending takes and dissipates energy, the stiffer stuff is, the less energy it robs from the rider. In general, you want everything in the system to be as stiff as possible, except the elements that are specifically designed to be flexible, like tires and shocks. Also, stiffer bikes (or any type of vehicle really) are more predictable in handling, because they have less degrees of freedom, are less prone to vibrations etc. 

If your company has the space, I recommend allocating indoor space with a double decker style of rack to maximize space. My company took a 20ft x 75ft space and installed a two level rack, lockers, a bathroom with shower and bike work stand. It gets filled up everyday with commuters, no locks needed (the door from the outside needs their office key card), out of the elements and tools to fix any issues. 

We purchased the Bern Brentwood for my son a few years ago, he loved it. There were no issues with fit or comfort. We did not use the winter inserts at all, if it was cold, he wore a beanie style hat underneath. He did use it on the slopes as well when snowboarding, wearing a beanie/stocking cap for ear coverage and warmth. The coldest he wore it in was maybe in the upper 20's F, combined with the hat he never complained of being cold. 

Typically lower back pain indicates a too-stretched out position on the bike, so you may try to move your seat forward. It's also possible you have a bike that's too large for you. But like Daniel R. Hicks said, a single observation is not enough to draw definite conclusions. 

For the major favorites, you probably have some chance of finding the setups (not necessarily the most recent ones) at the Mountain Bike > Tech section of $URL$ 

It's worth mentioning that even though at first the major cycling events were strictly individual, soon teams started emerging in a "natural", free market way. The stronger riders, who had a real chance of winning, began to pay off the weaker competitors to serve as domestiques. This was at first considered "underhanded", like Marius Balaban mentions, and the cycling federations fought it at first. What happened later can be pictured as a win for reason, common sense and free market, or as a travesty of noble sports ideals, depending on how you are inclined to view the world... 

I've been looking at a lot of the coverage of the Tour de France. All of the attention is on the cyclists, and no attention whatsoever on the cycles. Even in photographs or videos, they are so far away, or the bikes are moving by so fast, you can't tell what they are riding. I know I definitely can't afford whatever kind of bike they are using, and it would be horribly impractical for me to ride one since I'm commuting, not racing. I'm just very curious as to what is the top of the line in terms of bikes. When I look at high end bikes in shops or online I can't tell if they are actually superior or if they are just loaded with expensive gimmicks. What frames, brakes, seats, gears, tires, etc. are the world's top competitors using? 

You might try adding clip on aero bars. Not so much to make you faster, but to allow the option of using your bones to hold you up. Aim for creating a 90 degree angle in your arm at the elbow joint to have the pads of the aero bar support your upper body via the Humerus bone (connecting elbow to shoulder). This will allow you to rest your wrists and use your skeleton for support. You must be very alert when riding in this position because your hands are no where near the brakes or shifters, but for long open straight stretches you can give other parts of your body a bit of recovery. Also, this aero position will feel odd/squirly at first but many can ride all day in this position, it just takes a little to get used to. You can angle the aero bars a bit more upright for comfort, experiment a bit to find the right position for you. 

I live in Astoria and bike over the Queensboro bridge to work in Manhattan, and back, every weekday. I've also biked all over the general area. Personally, I would not take Queens Boulevard. It's mostly a four-lane situation, and is not pleasant for cycling. It's complex and constantly changing situation that will have you going quite slow to watch out for cars coming from every which way. Not to mention some cars park paralell, and some in other directions. You have to watch for doors, and also getting backed into. If you have to cross from one side to the other at any point, good luck. I had to do that a few times when biking to Maspeth, and I just gave up and walked it at a crosswalk. Bethpage is really far considering you are all the way in NJ. Biking in in the morning and using some other mode of transportation to get home is a good idea. Going both ways every day would be too much for most people. I would suggest listening to Google Maps. Their cycling directions have done well for me, and the path it charts from 59th street to Bethpage looks good. You have to remember complicated directions, but the tradeoff is you avoid really complicated traffic patterns and traffic itself. You'll also avoid lots of traffic lights making you stop all the time. Maybe I'll see you on the bridge. Good luck. 

A lot of cyclocross bikes come with inline "interrupter" levers that do much the same thing as these older levers without interfering with the main brake lever/shifter. They install in the inline with your brake cable run so you will need to cut and maybe re-cable your brake cable. You should be able to put these on almost any road bike with drop handlebars. Image Found on Sheldon Brown 

One good reason to stick with cantilever is easier wheel swaps. Last weekend races, my son flatted and we did not put spare wheels in the pits. Neutral support had spare wheels and if my son had a disc based bike he would not of been able to use them. Even if neutral support had disc wheels, with differences in rotor size they may not work for your bike. Full Disclosure: my next CX will be disc based, I've been through too many rims with brake surface getting dished from grit and grime. 

A nice advantage of the specialized stand is that it will keep your front wheel pointed front. So you won't have to expend energy keeping it that way. A brick or telephone directory (or anything that's just level and the right height) won't do that. A piece of wooden plank will, after you hack away at it with an axe a few times right in the middle. If you're looking to save $20 it's the perfect solution. 

Depends on what is your goal. Do you want to ride hard the next day, too? Then absolutely, there is a full spectrum of options to speed up the recovery, as in the comment of andy256. The most important are probably a good meal and a good sleep. Avoid alcohol, too. Don't care so much about riding hard the next day? Thirty something miles is little more than a warm-up to more experienced cyclists... just live your life normally. 

I have never been to Philly, but can highly recommend the segment explorer on strava.com. You start by putting in the city and the zoom level of the map will show the most popular segments ridden. Zoom in you'll get a finer grain of segments in that smaller area, zoom out and pan around to the Glenside, PA area. If you click on a segment you will see the leader board and see how many times it has been ridden, you will find some only ridden by one person, probably not a popular route, but others ridden many many times would be a great place to start looking. I use the Strava segment explorer whenever I travel to find bike and running routes while on my trip, it has proven to be very helpful to me in finding new, safe places to bike and run. 

Frame flex under the added weight affects the relative position of derailleurs and shifters, which is reflected in the cable length. Movements of the cable when changing gears are on the millimeter scale, so even lengthening of the cable by a fraction of a mm due to frame flex can have an effect. 

Most probably you have not screwed it in tight enough. Cleats have to be screwed to the sole really tight. Because the cleat is so small compared to your leg, there is a huge leverage being applied to it when clipping in/unclipping. If it's not tight enough, that's just what you can expect - it will move against the sole at pressure and grind it down. 

I love my Edge 500 and just use the GPS, no sensors needed, I get speed and distance and a great map after uploading, just no cadence (I am aware that the speed/cadence sensor does give better speed/distance but I like the ease of using the device on all my bikes without having to buy and pair extra sensors). As far as GPS signal, I turn it on and set in a window sill, or outside while I get ready and the GPS signal is always ready before I am. They do update the firmware and add new features (latest is a bunch of Power stuff, but has known elevation issues). The feature you ask for may be coming on newer equipment, or even firmware updates in the future from Garmin. You can share your idea with Garmin yourself here $URL$