It depends on how different the planets are from one another If the selective pressures are different then differences in the population will arise. It also depends on how you define ethnicity. Ethnicity has no hard and fast biological definition, it is more or less opinion. Ethnic differences could mean a lot of things, so you should qualify what you mean by "ethnic". 

If your ship uses a light sail as you described then they want it streamlined to minimize its shadow. The more stuff you have poking out the more photons they block. 

So basically they want their weapon to be as strong as possible not as big and heavy as possible. This applies for any melee weapon from a hammer to a sword. You real issue is making the weapon withstand the force behind the blow, not increasing the force, your character will do that no matter what they use. And the lighter the weapon the more kinetic energy they will generate. With inhuman force you could stab a sword through armor, you have to worry about the sword surviving it, but you have the same problem with a mace, the shaft will just bend under inhuman swings. So again you goal is strength of the weapon not size or mass. This sword of clouds is not a bad design they have reinforced an normal sword as much as they can and still have it useable, adding a second point of attachment makes the grip much stronger. Still looks a little too thick and wide for maximum force but not impossibly so. streamline this down and you get what you want. You can apply the same principle to any weapon, if you make a hammer/mace-head many times bigger but the handle is still the same size it's just going to bend and eventually fail. So really it comes down to how your character fights, then designing the weapon around that. But honestly if you are that strong a bow might be his best bet, a steel bow with an inhuman draw weight will do some serious damage, plus the weight of the weapon will not matter as much. Image an longbow with the power of a ballista but that can be fired as fast as a long bow. You may want to give him this and make the melee the backup weapon for when they run out of arrows. The same thing applies to a gun, imagine someone who can fire a pistol that fires 4 gauge shotgun rounds. 

There is no way to answer this. Domesticability is primarily based on criteria that do not leave fossil evidence. The animal needs to engage in hierarchical social behavior (or be semi-social and group tolerant like cats) , they need a calm demeanor, and they need breed easily. All three of these are unknowns for entelodonts. You can't even make an educated guess based on relatives, horses and zebra are extremely closely related and yet one was easily domesticated and the other has not been to this day. If you want to have domesticated entelodonts your story you can and no one can say its impossible. 

by making intelligence equal you basically guarantee a dinosaur victory. your biggest problem is armor, scutes and scales are tough, dinosaur skin is going to be a lot better armor than mammals have. plus dinosaurs have a much large pool of talent to pull from, the cretaceous is almost 30 times longer than the quaternary. Finally in the end size is just too big an advantage in open combat, some of the armored sauropods would be nigh unstoppable to modern mammals. Or picture Ankylosaurus it weighs as much as an elephant but it comes equipped with both amazing armor and a killer weapon, and it needs it because there are many herbivores and predators much bigger than it. mammals just are not designed to be big so the big ones are kinda fragile. 

Whatever he wants as long as it is designed intelligently. There is no such thing as an ideal melee weapon it all depends on the skill and style of the user and the type of enemy. A mace is great against armor but a poor choice against spears or nimble enemies. Sword, mace, axe, halberd all can be made to work it depends on what the character wants and how they fight, their strength is more or less irrelevant to this. The big problem with the above sword is that it is not much stronger than a normal sword but it is a lot heavier, the diameter of the the grip is determines how strong you can make the weapon becasue it is the weakest point you can't make it any thicker and still have the person hold it so that is the limiting factor since strength is generally determined by the cross section of the steel. so really the size of your characters hands determines how strong you can make their weapon. So you have to ask how strong your character is, Imagine they took the steel pole used to put lifting weights on and started swinging it around, if the rod is going to be a bent and twisted mess by the time they are done then nothing you give him will survive, then you just want to give them something cheap and replaceable. Not let's consider if they are not quite that strong (the rod gets only a slightly bent after a little use) or if you have access to much stronger materials. If they can swing a normal sword twice as fast they will do more damage than swinging a sword that is twice the mass at the same speed. 

When in doubt use sexual selection. If you have already included magic then you can use that as a indirect selective pressure. Magic is how elves choose mates (or it is at least a huge part of it), based on power or displays with magic. since you set the rules for magic you can say the longer you live the stronger your magic becomes and the better you can use it, works even better if magical ability also takes a long time to develop. Now age is roughly equal magical power which is basically how sexy you are to an elf, and evolution will create all kinds of stupid conditions in the name of mate attraction. so pushing longevity as far as it can makes sense. This is pretty easy to see with your set up if humans can also use magic, magic is ancestral. Elves split off early by focussing on magic, where as faster breeding humans focused more on new ideas, aka technological development. I imagine elves to also be highly reliant on magic with stone age technology otherwise. Humans may have less power but may be more creative with it. Perhaps Humans don't just push the rock with magic like elves with abundant magic do, they use magic like a lever to roll it accomplishing the same thing with far less raw magical power. this could also explain why magic in animals is rare if you so desire, most are too short lived. 

The earths rotation would still work. Pendulum deviation could be measured. once they built long pendulums for any reason they will notice it. Foucault pendulums in particular are particularly noticeable. Timekeeping is even easier. Simple sand glasses, water clocks, and other escapement based measurements still work fine as well. The first of these did not match known cycles they just made them tailor made for particular purposes. Edit: dumped the tidal force idea, possible but too unlikely to be noticed in the first place. 

If the most valuable abilities are rare you have an automatic middle class, valuable enough to demand rights and privileges but still needed to do labor, especially if it runs in families. Element control will replace technology, the use will expand slowly as people think up new uses for the element controllers and learn more about the effects of the use. you can look a t Jim Butcher's Fury saga for ideas, similiar set up. one interesting facet is they don't know how to do things the mundane way, because there is little reason to learn. All metal workers control metal becasue what would be the point of teaching/using anyone else, so people tend to specialize and not know how to do other things. why invent saws and chisels when stone crafters can just make the stone shape itself. why invent the sail and rudder when someone can just make the water push you along. currency should exist though since specialization means you need easy debt transfer. People may have trouble thinking outside their particular element, if all you have is a hammer... 

In humans their morals and social structure tend not to change much after the first few decades without a lot of effort, but they can adapt to new technology eventually expect some lag however. so you can expect 400 AD morals and behavior with 20th century technology. For instance they might have trouble understanding why modern people don't duel to the death or why slavery is bad. 

Dig Rock and dirt are pretty good radiation shields, you would only have to dig down and build underground to protect from radiation estimates range from a dozen to a few dozen yards. Heat is a problem, so build at the poles where it is constantly cold (below freezing). Restrict surface operations away from the poles to the year long nights and you're fine. $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

A 8km deep tunnel would collapse as the weight and pressure of the surrounding rock makes the rock behave more like a soft pliable plastic than a solid. Heat is the other big issue at about 4km down it is too hot for humans. In hyperbolic space the pressure may actually increase faster than on earth, more mass above a given area, so it will get softer and hotter faster than on earth. the other issue os of course it takes a long long time to dig that deep, the deepest* a human has ever gone on earth is about 3km. On top of that it is really really obvious so its not a surprise attack. Note this is digging into rock not cheating by finding a deep water trench. 

use it in cities as a last resort. This thing cannot drive in a city, it can't run over buildings becasue buildings often have basements, which would rip the treads apart. City roads have sewers and utilities (and old abandoned parts of the city) underneath them that cannot support its weight for this thing a city is worse than a swamp. It can't stick to the few solid roads because it cannot hairpin turn like a normal tank without ripping its tread assembly apart. It is only useful in a city sitting still, at which point building an actual permanent bunker would be way cheaper. increasing the weight an armament. 

bronze swords up to 110cm exist(Chinese Qin Dynasty), although 80cm is considered close to the max for a practical sword. 70cm is a fairly normal bronze longsword but not the maximum. For instance many Naue II bronze swords were 85cm. Single edged swords got even bigger, note longer swords like this would have had a tang of some kind. Here is a website dedicated to bronze swords for design ideas. Bronze swords are actually fairly durable, they bend instead of breaking which means they can be fixed more easily and much faster. A steel sword is better and more importantly stiffer, bending will be your biggest problem bronze. here is a great video of destructive testing of a bronze sword. 

there is reliable and there is reliable, solids work even without power, even in a magnetic or radiation storm. Your power source may not fail but connections can be cut or damaged. And of course you have power usage, a force field will need a lot a power a plastic plate needs none. Solids also offer protection from radiation and micrometeoroids which your stated force fields will not. Finally you have purposeful loss of power, turning power off for maintenance is pretty normal for safety and not having to run extension cords to all your windows to do routine maintenance is a big bonus. 

the problem hear is there is nothing completely unique to mammal and bird meat. that is there is nothing present in all mammals and birds that is not present in things like eggs, shellfish, dairy, or many plant based foods. The closest I think you can get is to make them a mild food allergy for myoglobin, it is at least unique to vertebrates but the amount varies quite a bit. It can't be too strong an allergy since they have myoglobin in their own muscles. Myoglobin is present in large amounts in most birds and most mammals muscle tissue. It is present in many other animals as well but the levels are very high in those two groups. Red meat is very high in myoglobin, and is linked to several meat allergies (like beef allergies), your elves will still be able to eat (most)fish just fine and a few low myoglobin mammal and bird meats (for instance opossum meat and poultry white meat is very low). But most mammal and bird meats will elicit a reaction. Myoglobin is only present in muscle tissue so there will not be any in eggs or dairy. So some rare poultry and mammal meats will be edible but many/most will not. But you could easily make this reaction to most mammal and bird meats a basis for a general psychological aversion to mammal and bird meat in general. If eating any meat becomes a gamble they could easily develop a taboo against terrestrial meat in general. note there are a few fish that are high in myoglobin, so no red tuna for your elves. They may start avoiding any red fish meat as well, this is rare at least so they may still see other fish as perfectly edible. 

so they have one normal tail with a skeletal core, and 8 pseudo-tails? the tibetan plateau could make a natural mummy find possible, in fact that is probably your best bet since the tibet of the Pliocene would not have had good conditions for any kind of normal fossilization. a soap mummy might be perfect, since we still are not exactly sure what causes them. 

short answer, no, something the size of a bear just won't be able to create the force necessary to penetrate tank armor, no matter what you make the claws out of. Its bones and tendons with give out before the sheet iron. and they will crush and bend the plate mail before they penetrate it. platemail has lots of things sticking out so a bear sized animal would be able to tear it open by pulling pieces off much easier than they could cut through it. even a regular bear could manage that. 

Short answer, they can't, even gravity only moves at light speed. They have to slow down to know where anything is. correction they can see things they are moving directly toward as they literally run into the light, it would be black and white only however as frequency is all the same. 

A friend and I kinda worked through this once. You have floating plants and kelp forming clumps, basically the plants are a series of gas-bags with leaves and root. there are already floating plants but for the ocean you will need greater buoyancy hence the gasbags. picture the sargasso sea on steroids. other types of plants colonize these mats adding larger plants, more gas bags, deeper roots. the roots start to collect debris and will house lots of animals, the roots of some plants may even be designed to tangle and hold animals for supplemental nutrients.you might have filter feeding animals also colonizign them and each dead plant is going to add more "soil" to the islands. eventually as the mats get large enough they begin to support mangrove like trees with light balsa like wood and maybe their own wood floats or coconut like growths.there trees would favor being wide and spread out instead of tall for stability. the more animals and plants colonize the mats the more debris is added when they die encouraging bigger plants. insects, crabs, maybe amphibians, and millions of fish would colonize such things. the plants are held together by intertwining rooks and tendrils, and "islands" may be torn apart during storms if they get too big, and would occasionally sink. they would naturally be pushed towards the ocean gyri so soon you would have many "islands" close together or even joining. on a water world these might very well have evolved from sargassum kelp. Humans would need to build platforms to live on, but would have to be careful cover too much and too many plants might die causing the whole thing to sink. trees might drop floating twisty nuts that get tangled in in mats where they sprout after several years, giving the mats time to build up around them. the trees roots would spread wide to help hold the mat together and to get their nuts to the edge where they need to be.