What are the arguments for and against bike lanes? Can anyone summarize the best reasons they're good for and bad for cyclists and automobile drivers? For example, Are there some environments particularly suited for bike lanes? Are there some types of locales that would be particularly suited for them, where they wouldn't cause resentment? 

I'd bring a spare tube and a CO2 inflator; these are light and small, and you might even be able to fit a spare cartridge or two. Actual pumps are bulkier, and the smaller pumps without a hose tend to do a terrible job, particularly with the slightly more fragile Presta valves you find on road bikes. (I'm assuming from "fitness bike" that you're talking about a road bike.) You already have the saddle bag to carry all this in. That multitool is pretty vital, so hang onto that. One that has a chain tool would be best. You'll want a pair of tire levers to get the tire off the rim. There are some multitools that have these built into the tool housing, but I've found they don't work as well as decent standalone tire levers. It makes sense to bring along a patch kit in case you have more than one flat. Something else to boot the tire in case of a sidewall puncture can be handy. You can use a dollar bill or an energy bar wrapper for this, though. You can also bring duct tape wound around a stubby pencil for this: It takes up little room, and you've got duct tape with you. (A million household uses!) Of course, as one of the commenters has pointed out, you'll want a water bottle and a bottle cage. How many bottles you bring depends on your carrying capacity. You can toss some energy bars in a jersey pocket as well. 

I asked a friend about this. He's a bicycle mechanic, and he sent me this in response to this question: 

Bicycle helmets are designed to absorb impact by cracking or crumbling. The insides of the helmet may crack with no damage visible on the outside. I'd replace the helmet as soon as you can. 

Of course, the only way to tell if this saddle will work for you will be to try it, but I think that a saddle like the one I had (see the picture) may work for you. When I rode the pictured bike for rides of half an hour to 45 minutes, the Rido took care of my chafing issues (the same as the ones you're having), since the saddle's nose is fairly narrow. When I replaced that bike with a Bike Friday and a Brooks, I replaced the Rido with the original saddle and turned this bike into a city pootling bike. 

Extra water bottles. Whatever the climate, you can't have too much water in remote areas. I carry 4 or 5 bottles in areas like eastern Connecticut or southern New Jersey. IF you're going to carry more than a few water bottles, look into water bladders so the water doesn't slosh around as much. (If you've ever carried milk or water in a gallon container on a bike, you'll know what I mean.) 

You can carry bottles of water in your panniers as well, they're just a little harder to get to; you also will want to be extra-careful that they don't leak. I also suggest carrying them low down in the bags (along with anything else you have that is heavy). To carry even more water, you can purchase camping water bags; they're essentially flexible plastic bags that hold water, available in any camping supply store. However, as water is heavy and it sloshes around, it can be difficult to haul more than a couple of gallons. (I get by on a gallon and a half (about 6 liters) for a day of touring.) 

I'm installing a basket on my cruiser, and getting some of the allen screws into the fork braze-ons is rough going. It feels like there's dirt or grease inside the threads of the braze-ons. Forcing the screws in could damage the threads. How can I clean out the inside threads thoroughly, using common household items? Note: Folks installing racks and fenders will often run into the same problems. I mention it here so searches on those terms will show this question.) 

There's nothing like the machine above available for bikes that I'm aware of. That holder looks pretty nifty, if heavy. Before I got an Ortlieb map case, I made my own map holders with office supplies: Plastic sheet protectors, duct tape, and velcro (to keep it on the handlebar). I experimented with using a paper clip on the side to mark my place, but it turned out to be just as much work to fiddle with the paper clip as it was to just find my place. Freiheit's point about bicycle travel being slower is a good one. Generally, you don't need to think more than two or three turns ahead on a bike, and usually just one or two. For some time, I was using text output from Bikely and pasting it into a spreadsheet, where I could manipulate the columns, format the text, and print out cue sheets on any size paper I needed; I usually made a map holder every few months, and would often improve the design to be simpler. The best ones used 8 1/2" wide paper, requiring less trimming on my part. (That's what the Ortlieb holder uses.) The scroll-style cue sheet seen above looks pretty handy, but I suspect that making one for a bicycle would be more trouble than its worth; you'd have to tape pieces of paper together to make the cur sheet. When I had access to a laminating machine, I used it to make half-sheet (8.5x5.5) cue sheets that I could swap out in the rain. Jury-rigged cue sheet holder: 

A simple solution to part of your question -- that of scratching up your bike while removing the chain: I used to have a chain lock with a plastic sleeve, to prevent just this. You could probably find a similar sleeve in any hardware store, just use some inexpensive transparent tubing. 

Disclaimer: I've never had a Camelbak, but I do drink water! Speed: If you mean speed of access, keeping water in a bladder is obviously the winner. If you're concerned with aerodynamics, I'd think the answer is a toss-up. Agility: Water higher up on your back will make the bike a little more top-heavy. I know that carrying a half-gallon of milk in a backpack throws me off, particularly on a road bike. Enjoyment: It depends what you mean by enjoyment. For a short ride, having something on my back isn't a big deal, unless the day is very hot indeed. 

Water is actually extremely dense, and heavier than people think; it can be difficult to carry. My solution is to carry water in four standard cycling water bottles. In addition to the two bottle cages on my touring bike's frame, I also purchased two plastic water bottle cages that fit on my front panniers: 

This is a "penny-farthing" bike. You mount it by putting a foot on the step above the back wheel, you push off, then climb up it towards the pedals as it moves away. (Like this video shows.) The front wheel was so large for a couple of reasons: Since the pedals were connected directly to the wheel, the bike could go faster if the wheel were larger; and also, a large wheel functioned as suspension. When the safety bicycle was introduced, it had pneumatic tires and drivetrains that allowed for gearing independent of wheel size, so the penny-farthing fell into disuse. 

Efficiency: On a suspension bike, some of the energy from the rider's pedaling is translated into the bike bouncing up and down on the suspension, so that's a strike against it. In addition, weight is a factor: Suspension makes a bike heavier, and this is a particular concern with road bikes. It's much harder to fit racks on a bike with suspension. Although it is possible to do so, such frames are more expensive and can be somewhat finicky to attach: Do a search on any touring forum for "rack" and "suspension" and you'll find many threads asking how to do this. Cost is also a factor. Good suspension systems are expensive, bad ones are cheap and ubiquitous. Also, suspension is just one more thing that can break down. It would be difficult to repair a hydraulic suspension system at the side of a road or in a SAG wagon. (Personally, I hate suspension with a passion because it makes it harder for me to "feel" the road. Ironically, one of the reasons steel is favored among touring cyclists is because it absorbs bumps better than Aluminum, which is said to be "stiffer" than steel, so a group that mostly avoids suspension favors a frame material that has some of the same qualities.) 

The leather-like grips on my cruiser have rotated a bit over the last year and a half; the faux "stitching" on one of them is now at a location that feels weird when I'm holding it. I can't rotate the grip back by hand. How can I loosen the adhesive enough that I can rotate the grip back to the correct position, without removing it? 

The other answers covered this quite well, but I can speak from recent personal experience. I got a Bike Friday Tikit with skinny, treadless Kojak tires earlier this year, and I had the same concerns you do -- should I ride in the rain or not? 

Bikely Based on Google Maps, the site is geared towards user-contributed routes. While there is a good amount of content here covering the UK, bikely.com is slow and hard to use. 

I'll ring my bell once or twice. If the pedestrians move over, all well and good. If not, I'll slow down a bit and call out "on your left". If that doesn't do it, I'll slow down to walking speed and politely tap someone on the shoulder. Of course, every situation is different. If there are dogs or kids, I get even more cautious. Pedestrians with headphones... I assume they to be erratic. There's no perfect way to handle this, and that's why bike paths aren't my preferred way to get around. (Except in the rain. It's amazing how a little rain empties the paths!) Above all, keep in mind that pedestrians usually have the right of way over bikes and be polite. 

This is a pretty minimalist kit. If you want advice on a kit for touring, there's a thread here on the site about just that. 

I'm answering the unasked question: "How do I find a hard-to-find bike?" Certainly this bike exists, but you may have to stick with your search for some time before finding it. (I sympathize with the situation. I take a 19" frame in mens, and most bikes are too large for me.) Mens' bikes often have a reach that's a bit too long, and handlebars that's a bit too wide for ladies. (Not always, depends on your girlfriend's dimensions.) Some general thoughts: 

One final point: Reflective gear and a good headlight are more than just safety equipment, they're good PR. I get compliments on my safety equipment, particularly my 200 lumen headlight, quite often, from people in my town (often parents with children), drivers (more than once, someone at a red light will roll down a window to tell me my lighting and safety equipment are uncommon, and keep it up!) and once from two New York City cops (who yelled out "that's the way to do it!" as I rode by at night). Yeah, the idiot wrong-way "ninja" cyclists make us all look bad; but cyclists with safety equipment make us all look good. Whatever you decide for now, keep in mind that this isn't an either-or choice in the long term: As I'm sure you know, you can always get more safety equipment later on. Yeah, it may seem as if those dinky lights don't do much, but when you have a lot of them, they make you quite visible indeed.