I think the end answer is no. Or rather, any theory that is also a correspondence theory is going to be at its core a correspondence theory. The reason for this is subtle but relates to a generally unsaid feature implicit in the standard understanding and application of the term coherence theory of truth. A correspondence theory is defined as 

Here, you are expressing what is a fundamental disagreement with Kant about what humans can do. Kant expressly believes that humans can using reason in conjunction with a free will elect to pursue an action on the basis of reason alone. In the Groundwork, Kant calls the choice to pursue happiness "imperatives of prudence" and sees these as a form of hypothetical imperatives (perhaps the best form). The text is not super clear on what these look like, but it seems to mean something like: And then acting on that is heteronomous since the goal is contingent on an "if." Conversely, he thinks moral ends are those dictated by pure reason and we act morally when we choose to pursue those ends for the reason reason supplies. There are several different variations on the objection that Kant's idea does not work. One version is that to realize an end requires us to pursue it in the world (Hegel's objection). Another family of objection is to the picture of how we choose actions, specifically, whether we can act for multiple ends at once (this is considered in detail by Marcia Baron in Kantian Ethics Almost without Apology). A third objection group is to suppose that Kant's idea of reason doesn't really exist (also raised by Hegel among others; taken up by Habermas). People differ greatly in how effective they think these objections are: Allen Wood started by writing about Hegel's Ethical Theory but by the time he wrote Kant's Ethical Theory he found the objections thoroughly unconvincing. Dudley Knowles (a Hegel scholar) did not think they were any good. Charles Taylor, on the other hand, seems to find them impressive -- at least in Hegel (Cambridge University Press, 1975). A fourth objection is to simply assert that we always act for happiness. I think this is a poor route of objection, because it involves making a big positive claim about how people work. And if there's one empirical fact it is that people work in many seemingly different ways. Why go here specifically when you can attack Kant on other grounds? Moreover, if we say people act for happiness, we to some extent need to figure out what we mean by "happiness" and whether this is closer to Aristotle or Mill/the Epicureans (i.e., does it have robust objective features or is it pleasure?). Kant was not unaware of this (seeming?) problem with views. One unfortunate reality about most people's exposure to philosophy is that they only read the Groundwork. The Groundwork among other things takes a dimmer view of happiness than later works where Kant incorporates happiness as a part of the "complete good" (vs. the "highest good"). Moreover, later works do more to suggest that we can be concerned with the cultivation of our own virtue (See Nancy Sherman, Making a Necessity Out of Virtue). Still, Kant never shakes the idea that the right thing to do is the thing reason dictates it, and the right way to do it is with the objective feeling of respect for the moral law. One way that Kant tries to handle the fact that people always act for their own happiness is that Kant believes there is a good who will give people the degree of happiness their actions merits. This promise in part is supposed to enable us here and now to act morally -- since we don't need to concern ourselves with getting the happiness befitting moral action. This point echoes the Christian image of a just God. 

Now I take i what Hunan is arguing with you about in the comments is that "belief" and "faith" can have a very wide array of meanings, and it's not clear if you mean what I've answered above or if you mean something else that equates this with what we might call "religious belief" or fideism. There things will get a lot dicier and you're going to have to make a much more robust argument if you want to claim that believing we can trust our sense and our faculties is the same sort of thing as believing in God. 

This takes us to the epistemological problem. As mentioned in a few other answers, people who fail to commit suicide often discover joy in life again later. This suggests that the analysis of the depressed individual who decides to kill herself is not as sound as one might believe. In other words, even if a moral framework admits suicides, it's still hard to see how the analysis of someone interested in suicide will be level enough to make the commission of suicide sensible. 

I'm going to modify your question in three ways that I hope you find amenable. First, I'm going to make explicit the assumption for this argument that there is no God or that if there is a God, the fact of this God's existence is irrelevant to self-awareness. Second, I'm going to avoid the word self-aware because as I understand the term some animals, like dolphins or chimpanzees, might qualify for this insofar as they can recognize themselves in a mirror. So let's call it evolves socially (as you do at one point). Third, I'm going to explicitly assume that an individual thinker can have the benefits of social evolution whether or not they themselves believe in God. To wit, there are atheists in our society who are socially evolved, and this means whatever the process of social evolution is / was, it does not need to be repeated individually. With these three assumptions, the question boils down to whether a belief in a God could at some point have such great utility that it is impossible for a different route to achieve the same benefits (or at least so improbable that it won't happen). I'm sorry for the large degree of couching going on with these claims. There are two possible benefits for social evolution that I can imagine arising from a belief in God: 

Ergo whether the idea of God is innate or adventitious (or aggregate) it comes from God. At least to me, this seems quite similar to the argument offered in the OP and may suffer from similar problems. 

The phrase "without exertion" is wuwei. The passage raises three issues at once. First, it could mean either "without exertion" or "without action" depending on exactly how we understand wei (a character that can mean action and intention and effort). Second, it admits of two solutions relative to supposed splits between Confucians and Daoists. Since the Analects is a constructed text, it's possible that something in Analects 15 is a later addition by a rival school. Alternately, it's quite fair to point out that the division into schools is something that happened later in the history of Chinese thought than the supposed rivals themselves may have existed. Wu-wei in Daosim Putting aside whether Confucianism too has a notion of wuwei, the star of the show for wuwei and trying to understand it is Daoism (in classical text the term occurs in 104 paragraphs by ctext's count). Daoism is a composite school with several branches such that it's not common for scholars of Chinese philosophy to see the Daodejing and Zhuangzi as representing the same perspective. Instead, they are seen as representing different strands. In the Zhuangzi, the term occurs many times, the basic concept is "action without intention" there. In other words, it is when you do not strive for a particular end or goal but rather take thing as they come. A quintessential quote: 

To make this distinction a little more practical, let's say some kids are playing baseball and one of them smashes a window. If "consequentialist justifications" means the former, then if the kids discover the person in the house was having a heart attack and save that person's life, then hitting the ball such that it smashed the window is a good thing, because it led to good consequences. If "consequentialist justifications" means the latter, then while it's good that we were able to save someone's life, it's wrong to play baseball in places/ways where you're likely to smash other people's windows cetera paribus. The above distinction is a real problem for consequentialist views, because presumably we neither want good/bad to just be luck (in the purest form of 1) in which case we can have no moral rules nor do we want it to make it wholly depend on our expectations -- because we know we are not infallible about future events. Kant wholly rejects anything like the former, but he also rejects the latter and the passage you're quoting doesn't require him to accept the latter due to some pretty fancy footwork. That footwork is as follows. Kant thinks we can figure out what the categorical imperative would have us do in several ways. One way is that we can imagine what happens if everyone does something. In this case, we are looking at "consequences" but we're not looking at actual consequences; instead, we are using reason to consider logical consequences, and our primary concern is logical outcomes. So we ask "could we consistently will a world where everyone is smashing the windows of other's homes?" Presumably, the answer is no. Thus, for Kant, it's wrong for kids to play baseball in this way regardless of what might follow from them doing so, i.e. regardless of the actual consequences. A second way that Kant thinks we can work out the details of what we should do is the "formula of humanity" which says that we must always treat rationality in ourselves and others as an end and never merely as a means. Here, the test is "would I in my action be treating another person as a mere means?" Again, the question is not about actual consequences but about the logical arrangement. Turning to the specific text, we need to keep the above distinction in mind and remember what Kant is trying to reject. This can be evaluated either in the formula of humanity manner or in the universal law manner. Starting with the formula of humanity, the task to do things that sustain rationality is obligated not because the specific act sustains humanity in that person but because the obligation exists before the specific act. That's a bit abstract, but the basic point is this: I need to help people not because in the moment I see that helping them would extend rationality, but because logically I am obligated to extend rationality and this requires me to act in ways that I would conceivably imagine extend rationality. One interesting and bizarre consequence is that this avoidance of focus on actual consequences -- and even on locally expected consequences -- leads Kant to say we should be honest to people we have every reason to believe are dishonest (Cf. On a Supposed Right to Lie ...). Why does Kant think this? To get to the bottom of it, we need to go back to Critique of Pure Reason and the third antinomy. As a rough sketch, Kant accepts Newtonian physics and much of Hume's ideas about where that leaves us in terms of things in the world. He joins to this a belief that there's a mind that operates outside of all of this (like the rationalists) and imposes order on this world through putting it under forms and categories. Outcome: everything in the world is deterministic, but the rational self is not in the world. So despite everything I see or evidence I have, I really can't know what another person will do. tl;dr for Kant, we don't pick (moral) actions because of consequences even though actions do have consequences. We can look at the logical consequences of actions to determine whether their outcomes would be immoral but this is not an evaluation of particular actions. Thus, to help people does have the consequence of assisting them, but we don't determine the morality of helping based on whether or not it in fact assisted them (and we have to be very careful about what sort of consequences we mean when we are saying we should do what we expect would help them). 

You seem to be struggling with truth-functional if. this is a pretty common problem and there's quite a few questions on the SE about it. It's also call "material implication" if that helps with your search (See What's an intuition for material implication? Material conditional: Why does the absence of the predicate validate the conditional? Why does the material conditional have the truth table it does? ). First, one key is to not get confused as to what we are doing with truth-functional if. Do not start with your intuitions about the word "if". Instead, start with the following definition. The truth-functional definition of "if" is this: 

The rub that makes things a bit confusing is that the way Kant words it, it sounds like he's presenting a dichotomy between 3 and 4 in terms of whether or not the agent has inclinations to do the action since the description of 4 is about the agent being cold. But most Kant interpreters are not fans of that position. Instead, they suggest that what's going on is that Kant's speaking by contrast but really focusing on the "motivation" that guides the person's action. This interpretation is also consistent with what he says about the categorical imperative later in the Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals and with the third antinomy about freedom in the Critique of Pure Reason. It's not quite so compatible with what he says about choices that bind us towards or away from morality in Religion within the bounds of reason alone but that's a lengthy discussion for a different question. Sources Marcia Baron, Kantian Ethics Almost without Apology Allen Wood Thomas Hill Baron Onora O'Neill (These are from memory people who work on this distinction -- I'm sure there's more -- such as Christine Korsgaard's interpretation).