In addition, In 1801, Napoleon and Paul I of Russia formed a mutual plan to invade India and fight the British there. Russian contingent was ordered to advance to India but as soon as they reached the Aral sea, they received the news that Paul I was assassinated and the plan scuttled. Napoleon also formed a Franco-Persian alliance in 1807 during the Napoleonic Wars, with the continuous aim of having an eventual open way to attack British India. Napoleon's interest in the Middle East and India waned when he finally vanquished Russia at the Battle of Friedland in July 1807, leading to the Treaty of Tilsit, in December 1807. France as an ally of Russia became a strong repellent to both the Ottoman Empire and Persia. Persia then denounced its alliance with France and moved towards Great Britain.These last events rendered the Franco-Indian alliance impossible to pursue further. In any case, in conclusion, Napoleon desired to help Indians because: 

My Own Notes The Fatmids of Egypt also confirmed presence of such a mosque in their official correspondence between Egyptian officials but I can't seem to find a reference for that. I found the reference. It is mentioned in "The Fatimids and Byzantium, 10th–12th Centuries" by Yaacov Lev where he says it happened in reign of Basil II. It happened after Fatmid Caliphs of Egypt succeeded in their diplomatic mission to Byzantium in convincing the Emperor to supplant the sermon given in name of the Abbasid Caliph of Baghdad in Mosque of Constantinople and issue it in name of Fatmid Caliph of Cairo instead. (This was important since in Islamic world, it was a sign of legitimacy. The ruler in whose name the Sermons were issued was considered the Overlord of his Domains and whole Islamic world. The Byzantines accepting Fatmids for that role was great diplomatic triumph for them. For details of Fatmid-Abbasid rivalry, see Shia-Sunni Schism of Islam). Contrary to what our esteemed member SJuan states, Arab Mosque is not the mosque built by Byzantines. It was built as a Church and later converted to mosque by the Ottomans while the Mosque in question was built as a Mosque and operated as a Mosque by Byzantines, not Ottomans. But we sadly do not know which mosque it was other than that It had existed since the Times of Abbasids and was restored after liberation of Constantinople from Latins. We don't know if it exists today but I think it doesn't, purely on the grounds that if such a significant monument had survived till our times, Turkey would have made it a tourist destination as they did with other sites of such significance and we would have had more information about it other than some antique scrolls. Another misbelief is that safety and function of mosque was tied to some treaty forged in war. While it is true that some treaties might have been involved, it was however the norm of Muslim Empire (Caliphate) in the East and Byzantine Empire in the West to tie the freedom of each others religion to condition of their own faith in their rivals' country. As explained above, Abbasid Caliph closed the Churches when he got the apparently wrong intel that Mosque in Greece had been closed and therefore proceeded to reciprocate the act. Byzantines would also employ such tactics in negotiations. 

Conclusion No there is no instance of Muslims offering a truce just because the arising conflict happens to coincide with Ramadan. There is no provision for it in Muslim theology nor in their history. 

Notice the lack of epithets Mughal-e-Azam or Akbar-e-Azam. And later, the Slave girl mentions the epithet (Mughal-e-Azam) while hanging in dungeons: 

Laurence Lockhart says: ‘to sum up we may regard the reign of Shah Abba¯s as the “Indian summer” of the Safavid era’, and he accuses Jewish sources like the Kitab-i Anusi of poetic license in exaggerating the persecution of the Jews by Abba¯s II. Under Shah Suleyman and Shah Sultan Hussain Under these two shahs, the Safavid state entered a period of decline which lasted for more than half a century. ‘The mujtahids fully asserted their independence of the shah, and reclaimed their prerogative to be the representatives of the Twelfth Imam and thus the only legitimate source of authority in a Shıa state. Thus began another reign of terror by bureaucracy backed by clergy as Shah Suleyman was a weak and corrupted man who spent his days in wine and herems. In 1669, the darugha (Governor) of Isfahan, under orders of the itimad al-dawla, tried to sell the Carmelite house in Isfahan, saying that the Shah needed the money. The Carmelites, by dint of bribing various officials, obtained a number of documents attesting to their right to reside in this house and got them registered in the Safavid chancery, and thus hoped ‘to be free of such vexations’. (It must be noted that the said house was not property of the Christian order but was granted to them by Shah Abbas I for use even though Persian Empire still retained ownership of the said property). In the absence of strong central government, non-Muslim minorities were also subject to harassment by the populace. In May 1678 there occurred one of the worst instances of the persecution of Jews under Safavid rule. Shah Sulayman, while under the influence of drink, was persuaded by some Muslim ‘zealots’ that ‘the Jews and Armenians by the unbounded license of their tenets had contrived the harm’ of Islam, and he ordered that some leaders of both faiths be put to death. Several rabbis were brutally put to death, but the Armenians, and other Jews, managed to escape death by lavish bribes. Sulayman does not appear to have been personally a bigot, but this incident makes it clear that, in the absence of a strong shah to curb the bigotry of the ulama’, the dhimma status of non-Muslim minorities afforded them no protection from persecution. Just before his death in 1694, Shah Sulayma¯n is reported to have said 

Theological Context This part is heavily derived from an excellent paper on the subject Relations between the Safavid state and its non-Muslim minorities written by Roger Savory's, one of the leading experts on Safavid Empire and Iranian studies. Religious minorities in medieval Muslim empires usually fared better than any where else at that time but however this does not imply that Non-Muslims had equal rights or they were treated with full respect as any Muslim would be. Muslim Kings and Shahs simply did not care what the Non-Muslims did as long as they did not make trouble or the said ruler did not get a fit of fanaticism. Muslim rule in Iran at beginning of Safavid Empire was almost 8 centuries long. During that long period, the attitude of successive Muslim governments had been one of tolerance/indifference/contempt , punctuated from time to time by outbursts of religious severity which rarely escalated to the point of actual persecution. Quoting from Jews of Islam by Lewis, page 55 (My own comments included at the bottom): 

The Shah’s nickname of ‘Mulla Husayn’ says it all. Muhammad Baqir Majlisi saw it as his mission to root out heresy wherever it might be found and, in the absence of the controlling hand of the Shah, not just non-Muslim communities, but all non-Ithna Asharı Shıa, suffered from his bigotry. Thus remnants of Sunnı¯ Muslim groups, such as the Kurds and Sufıs (Islamic mystics), once again became targets of his persecution. Many key Sufı doctrines and practices were denounced as bida, ‘innovation’, the nearest Islamic equivalent of heresy. ‘The Shah was persuaded to sign a decree for the forcible conversion of Zoroastrians, and many Jews were forced to embrace Islam… The Christian minority groups … suffered less’, but a black law promulgated by Abbas I and revived by Abbas II, ‘entitling a Jew or Christian who became a Shia to claim the property of his relatives, was from time to time enforced’. In 1722 Afghan invaders besieged the Safavid capital and starved it into surrender after the populace had suffered appalling hardships for six months. At an early stage of the siege, the Afghans occupied Julfa; it is noteworthy that the Armenians there put up a stout resistance without any help from the Safavid central administration. By 1724, no member of the Carmelite community was left at the Isfahan convent. Armenians and Georgians, being indigenous however stayed. A huge Armenian population still exists in Iran. 1. There I agree with Savory because I have personally seen some Sunni Conservatives to think that Non-Muslims are unclean 2. But here I disagree with Roger Savory's otherwise brilliant research and agree with Bernard Lewis instead. Umar's sister only said that he was unclean and she won't let him touch Quran. She did however let him touch it and read it after he had washed his body. If She did believe that Non-Muslims were fundamentally unclean, why did Fatima let Umar touch Quran after he bathed? Muslims themselves don't touch Quran until they clean themselves. I can't presume to tell why did Savory choose to skip the ending and used the word uttered by Fatima to reinforce his point 

Population influx With events like the oil discovery and other economic benefits, people moved to Alaska from elsewhere, increasing its native population. From the paper shared above: 

I speak an Indo-Iranian language and Ottoman Turkish shared a lot of words with our family which is why I could understand most of what was written on the Deed you shared (Although it is from 1930s) and my findings are more or less inline with Minkov's. If you can find a deed from 1830s, I would be happy to translate it as well (Well as far as I can). 

Afghanistan is newer than Gandhara. Afghanistan was never known as Kandahar. Gandhara and Kandahar existed simultaneously under Persian, Greek and Maurya Empire. Afghanistan didn't exist as a national state before Durranis. There never was a Kingdom of Kandahar 

It makes sense that other descendants would have thought it best to flee and spend their days in anonymity for fear of retributions. Pictured below, The Bloody Gate of Old Keep of Imperial City of Delhi, where the corpses of the slain Princes were left to rot, maintained today as a historical artifact. 

There is no charge of war-crimes or any atrocity against him and he served his people well until he was murdered by HVO possibly on behest of Croatian Government. After his death, Croatian media ran an eloborate campaign to discredit him however later in 1996 Croatia awarded him Order of Petar Zrinski and Fran Krsto Frankopan posthumously. 

Belief that Kaaba was built by Abraham Belief in Supreme deity Elohem, Yahweh, Allah, choose your word. Circumcision in infants 

Now we have established that at least people from upper and middle classes received martial training. Arabian background The Arabs before being united by Islam were in continuous warfare against each other. Feuds over water-rights and minor insults lasted for centuries. Even when threatened by a bigger and organized power such as Kingdom of Aksum, Arab tribes destroyed the invaders. (Yes Islamic traditions say that it was God who destroyed them but we are not here to discuss that. Since we know an invasion did happen and it was successfully repulsed, we can only assume it was the Arabs who did that). What Arabs lacked was a unity and system. Otherwise they had fought countless wars with weapons comparable (At least to most extent) to their more developed neighbors. Arabs knew how to successfully exploit terrain (As Medinians did in Battle of Badr), how to successfully use cavalry to force a general rout (As Khalid bin Waleed did against Muslims at battle of Uhud), how to create fortified obstacles in path of an enemy (As Muslims showed in Battle of trench), how to carry out a siege (As Muslims showed against Medinian Jews) and there was no one in world who could teach the Arabs how to ride and how to raid. They used swords, Javelins, spears, scimitars, helmets, shields, daggers, siege equipment etc. just like their neighbors did. Islam provided them with a system and union and thus they spilled out of their peninsula and ran over the ancient Persian and Eastern Roman Empires. Wars with Neighboring Empires Eastern Roman Empire and Persia surely had bigger and more established forces but they had been weakened by warring against each other and also due to incapacity on top of the leadership. Thus they were unfit to defeat the hardened horsemen pouring out of Arabia. Same thing happened with Arabs themselves when Mongols descended from the Steppes. Between the two Empires, Persia was most vulnerable. They were plagued with corruption and weakened by court intrigues and fighting among royal dynasty. Which is why unlike Eastern Romans, Persians were completely conquered. Superior tactics and Generalship First Muslim commander on Eastern front decisively used his mobility to collect intel for a major invasion. Persians failed to issue an appropriate response. Later when general invasion occurred, Persians were completely outmaneuvered by superior tactics of Khalid bin Walid which were state of the art. Khalid is not listed among best generals ever for nothing. For example in Battle of Chains, Khalid showed us the power of mobility over equipment. Persians were heavily armed and armored which hampered their speed. Khalid focused on their disadvantage and gave the Persians a merry chase until they were tired to bones. Then Khalid made short work of them. Khalid also knew exact movements of Persians while he successfully deceived the Persians in locating himself. So he employed intelligence and spy operations as well. Pictured below, Graphical representations of the Maneuvers employed By Rashidun (Red) and Sassanids (Blue) in Battle of the Chains: 

Muslims had better generalship than their adversaries. Muslims were trained in contemporary martial skills and veterans of many a civil wars. Muslims were united under the first Caliphs. Muslims deftly used all the weapons their foes used and at strategy they beat them. The great Empires however enjoyed advantage in terms of resources and numbers. They had also equipped their soldiers in a better way. But they were used to set-piece battles from their experience of fighting each other and they were not ready to face the medieval Blitzkrieg that the Arabs brought with them. Same thing happened with Arabs when they focused too much on static doctrine and got conquered by mobility focused Mongols. The defeats did not stop until Mamluk Turkics of Egypt defeated the Mongol Turkics in Battle of Ain-Jalut to halt their advance further Westwards towards North Africa (It was the first time a Mongol Advance had been halted).