So my question is, what is the best solution to make sure I keep the state of static NAT and stateful firewall rules (not ZBF) on both routers at the same time? Again, I want traffic to leave through ISP A and return through ISP B. Is it possible at all or do you think it would be better to purchase a pair of ASA 5500 series with Active/Active support and do NAT and inspection on them? 

I am a bit new to ASAs so far, so my question is "Is it possible to set up ASA 5515 to use 2 ISPs to have VPN connection with a remote site and in case of the main ISP's failure switch over to backup ISP automatically and then to return back to the main one when the link is reestablished ?" 

Setup another site that is pointed to the same content directory. Enable a couple things 1) only allow connections from 127.0.0.1 2) Use a location tag in the applicationHost.config enabling anonymous. If you don't have any of the security providers config'd in the web.config, that'd be the best, then you can control the authentication providers within applicationhost.config 3) use a local hosts file with a dummy name in the bindings or update the bindings ip address to be 127.0.0.1 or pick something like 127.0.0.10 

How are you requesting the certificate? Using Inet Mgr or typing MMC, adding certificates applet, then requesting the CSR? 

I would consult the vendors website for this type of question. It appears to have an active and well documented @ $URL$ Redmine 2.1.2. 

Yep, you can access google apps with imap. Alternatively, you can have your Exchange infrastructure sync directly (and live) with google apps so that you have calendaring on both platforms. You can also leave some users entirely on exchange, while having others entirely within google apps. Calendar sync will work between them all. 

This can be caused by faulty memory sticks, motherboard faults, and driver issues. Let us know the make & model of your hardware and we may be able to offer specific tools and methods for you to troubleshoot. First off I would verify your drivers are all in order. If your server is an HP, and you build it from the smartstart CD, the drivers should be kosher and can be (tentatively) ruled out. On the other hand if you downloaded and installed all the drivers manually, or are coasting on the default windows drivers, update them. Once you've run out of easy tests on the drivers, run a stress test on the RAM. Again, your vendor may provide tools for this (HP's are on the CDs that shipped with the server). Some vendors have a tester built into the BIOS menus. If both of these solutions come up blank then post up some more info about the hardware and build method and we can take it from there. 

By default all website folders should only need 'read' unless you adjusted the perms. I'd use NTFS permissions to lockdown to certain folders. I wouldn't recommend having individual files in different locations. I'd lockdown by folder. 

The permissions are based on the IUSR (anonymous by default) or the application pool identity. The best tool to help determine if there are permission issues is using process monitor by sysinternals. Auditing will tell you right away if there are denies. If so, adjust folder security to meet your requirements. $URL$ 

If you know the sub domains, then I'd have a different site (call it site 2) pointing to app1, put the certain domains as host-headers with the same ip address as the other unknown on a separate site that has ip address bindings (call it site 1). When you want to update code for site 2, update the folder location to app2 on site2 with the host-headers. If you have multiple servers, I would take one out of load, update to your needs, put in load and continue with other boxes. Hope that helps. 

When you purchase a GSA or Google Mini, you're given a support login which enables you to get to the Google support resources for that device. You need to go through that channel to obtain support for your device. Alternatively, you probably purchased your GSA/Mini via a Google reseller. They should also be offering support for your device. There's a bunch of different GSA/Mini firmware levels with drastically different behavior between them, and lots of little bugs (of which this may be one) that get fixed in each version. Check in with your support channels and see if they recommend a firmware update. 

On the domain controller, go into sites and services and add the subnets and sites that you require. Ensure you have the appropriate ports opened through the VPN between the remote subnet and the network your DC is on Configure the clients at the remote site so that their Primary DNS is set to the IP of the domain controller ping from the remote site clients. Ensure it resolves to the IP of the domain controller and that the ping succeeds. If not, troubleshoot your network configuration until it works Join the clients to the domain 

I have a question about correct isc-dhcp configuration. I want to lease ip addresses to users based on switch port. For this I use DLink DES-3200 series switches. Everything works well, but recently I've decided to lease particular subnet to all unknown user, i.e. not explicitly specified in dhcpd.conf file. Here is a config example: # dhcpd.conf 

At my company we have a single Cisco 3925sec/k9 router running BGP with 2 ISPs. Now we want to purchase a redundant router of the same model to eliminate a single point of failure. I can set up BGP between routers and ISPs no problems. We plan to send out all traffic through ISP A and receive all traffic through ISP B (ISPs send us only default gateways and we can play around with as-prepends and local_pref attributes for that). 

We have a GPO set on our servers OU that runs a very simple logon script. It copies across the BGInfo exe, a logo, a couple of small vbscripts and a template .bgi file. Then it runs the template through BGInfo. The output looks like this. We don't distinguish between dev and prod because that's done via the host names, which are always visible. Number of admins, uptime and host type (physical/virtual) are vbscripts that BGInfo uses when it runs. I can post them up if they're useful to anyone. If your dev/prod/test/uat servers are seperated in AD by OU, or on seperate domains, then jigging a script like this to apply seperate wallpapers would be trivial. Just attach a slightly different script/BGI to each OU. 

We need a bit more information. Things to check. Is this site a asp.net or classic asp? Classic asp is harder to troubleshoot. 1) Is the application recording any errors? 2) What does the cpu and memory look like during this time? 3) Do you have any long running pages? Log parser can help with this $URL$ 4) I'd start collecting some perfmon if you have access to the server. If not, have you engaged your hosting provider? Let the perf counters run, start with basics web service, cpu, memory, logical / physical disk. 5) I would put or verify the troublesome site in it's own application pool. $URL$ 6) is a bot hitting your site? The iis logs will provide some options there. 7) Are we talking hundreds or thousands of users on the server? Key counters to look for is requests / per sec, concurrent connections, good article $URL$ 

Despite it's name, VMWare Server isn't a suitable virtualisation platform for a production system (IMO). For this, I recommend you look at a Hypervisor-based solution such as VMWare ESXi or Microsoft Hyper-V Server. Many people base their virtualization performance beliefs on the consomer/developer products that are available. For example many people experience poor performance for VMs running on Microsoft Virtual PC or VMWare Server, and assume the same will be true for other virtualisation platforms (e.g. ESX). Regarding gotchas: No issues with SQl Express. Beyond that though, SQL per-socket licensing can be tricky if you're virtualising. Essentially, any CPU you could execute on must have a socket license. So if you have a dual socket host machine, but only 1 vCPU assigned to your SQL server, you still need 2 x socket licenses to be compliant. Windows licensing is the same boat, but I don't think you need to worry about per-socket Windows licensing unless you're on datacenter edition. See Jim B's response about web edition restrictions, though. 

ARR is your answer here. Look for articles by Scott Forsyth on handling ARR. He has a IT pro series with some covering ARR. $URL$ 

Are these local accounts or domain accounts? If these are local accounts, they can't be moved. Are these IIS or windows users? You can review the applicationHost.config (make a backup copy first) and see what configuration is stored in there. I asked a question about moving IIS manager users to another machine, a MS team member mentioned this. We need a bit more information. As far as moving the configuration over. You could try copying the sites configuration specific to the FTP site by copying and pasting the particular configuration. This involves the XML so it's not very straight forward, but is an option. $URL$ 

The event logs are a clearing-house for any messages or errors thrown by the OS, its components, and any software installed on the system. So we can't fully cover all it's potential contents because there's unlimited potential things it could contain and they all require individual treatment. One way to analyze event logs is: 

You cannot ping by name, or by IP? This'll identify a name resolution issue, if you can ping by IP. What's the network subnet setting on each machine, and the server? Are they all definitely within the same subnet? Can you ping the workstations from the server side? 

Much as I hate buzzwords I have to advocate that you take the Holistic approach, rather than attempting to establish baseline metrics on which to categorize your workloads for virtualization. In the vaguest of terms, the kind of basic determining factors you can use are: