Below is the bare minimum list of gear I would require anyone on my team to carry during and rescue operation. It does not include any of the numerous pieces of rope equipment that members of the rope team would cary in addition to the basic equipment ( only specific team members that have completed extensive training are qualified to be involved in any of the rope operations ) and, it is just equipment. Having the right equipment makes no guarantee of the training and skills needed to cary out a rescue operation. The worst thing you could possibly do is attempt a rescue without the skills and training needed and end up injuring or killing yourself in the process. That said, enjoy: 

The complexity of backpacks, as well as the typical use case scenario has a lot to do with why the backpacks themselves aren't waterproofed. For example, the typical day in the life of a bicycle pannier involves relatively little exposure to water. You take it out in the rain for an hour or two, and then usually you take it inside with you wherever you go. This makes waterproofing the pannier itself logical, because the waterproof layer can sustain those two hours. But waterproof layers typically have an unspoken time limit. If you've ever exposed a 'waterproof' pannier or 'waterproof' boots to water for more than a few hours, you start to realize the limits of waterproof layers. They're usually, not truly waterproof. Add to this the fact that waterproof fabrics are typically heavy and they don't breathe very well, and you've got a recipe for inefficiency. If you've ever worn a waterproof backpack, you know how heavy they can be and how poorly they breathe. All this to say, it's more efficient, lighter, and cheaper to place individual items in dry sacks. The lightweight dry sacks. They keep your stuff organized, and they keep things dry no matter how soaked your backpack is. 

Your most practical solution would seem to be a wing shelter. For the most part, you simply need your tarp, a tree, sticks and rope. The pdf I attached recommends making it 5 feet tall, but you could easily make it 2 or 3 feet tall to accommodate the length you need the shelter to be. 

Obviously, the more specific you can be about what route you'll actually be taking the better, but the most important detail is nailing down the trailhead or launch point you're going to begin your trip from. This usually establishes a good starting point to work from in any kind of emergency. You should establish the time that you expect to return, your emergency contact should use good judgement to determine wether or not you're overdue. If you're going on a seven day backpacking excursion, it wouldn't be unreasonable for you to end up needing an extra day. But if you're just doing a 2 hour loop on a Sunday morning and you're nowhere to be seen come dinner time, then it's time to sound the alarm now isn't it. Other than that, just the usual list: itinerary, colors of clothing and equipment, whether or not you have a GPS or a radio, etc ( which you probably should ). You get the idea. The more accurate your information is, the better your chances of receiving help in an emergency. 

Always have a water proof map of the area you're traveling in ( one with coordinates on each side if you can help it ), and a compass you can use to triangulate your position with. You'll be better prepared in an emergency and more confident outdoors in general if you practice triangulating your position until it comes naturally: $URL$ As a backup, have a reliable GPS, and carry extra ( fresh ) batteries for it, more than you think you will ever need. Obviously having your coordinates in an instant will save you time, but electronics aren't to be trusted with your life. If you can give your coordinates to dispatchers, you're leaps and bounds ahead of most people that need assistance ( have the dispatcher confirm your coordinates ). Most search and rescue teams have the skill and equipment to translate your coordinates into their preferred format faster than you can even read them. 

To put it simply, carry a compass with you that has a clinometer to measure a slope's angle, set one of your poles down on the slope and place the compass on top of the pole to get a solid reading. If you spend enough time in one area you'll start to become familiar enough with the terrain to remember roughly what the angles are and which routes are the best. But if you're exploring new areas, take the time to get good measurements. Taking risks in avalanche country isn't the way to go. This site has a lot of good information. $URL$ Also, get this book if you haven't: $URL$ 

Quite the contrary, many experiments support the argument that modern carabiners retain their strength or even gain some strength when dropped a couple of times (from a reasonable height). $URL$ 

You probably already do this, but make sure you mark all 'retired' carabiners with their own color of tape so that you never accidentally climb with one. Then let the fun begin. If you do any backpacking, they are extremely useful for attaching things to your backpack. A few other favorites: dog leashes, making clotheslines, or use with hammocks. If you're feeling adventurous, maybe chain a few together and assemble lights to hang from the ceiling with said chain. 

No, there doesn't seem to be any standard in place for avalanche shovels. Even though an avalanche shovel has to be depended on in a life or death situation, there are plenty of cheap ones out there that would snap in half shoveling well-packed snow. Try to avoid buying one online, and avoid buying any that have questionable customer reviews. If you can, buy one in person where you can pick up each one and compare the build quality. Spend twice as much time worrying about and inspecting your partner's shovel ( you aren't going out into avalanche terrain alone now are you? ) than your own, because if you're caught in an avalanche you won't be digging yourself out, your partner will be digging you out with the shovel that they brought. Some more purchasing advice to peruse: $URL$ 

The fact that Black Diamond's lawyers will let them say that you can still use your hardware after it has been dropped speaks volumes about the confidence they have in the product. 

The same way you would with the spine of a knife or other flat piece of metal with enough thickness: $URL$ 

It already has a hole in it, what if you used a cam? Not exactly the cheapest method but potentially the easiest. 

It's quite simple really. If the railway is abandoned, bring an LED headlamp and a set of backup batteries. Edit: Use the buddy system if you can. If the railway is not abandoned, don't step foot into that tunnel. That's a sure way to risk being killed. 

In all likelihood, you just need to replace the helmet. Nearly all helmets, climbing and bicycle helmets included, need to be replaced once they become worn or older than 5 years. Ideally, you would track the age of each helmet. If you don't know how old one is and it looks well used, I wouldn't risk it. Stick to gently wiping it with a soft dry cloth. Trying to clean a helmet with water or most any kind of soap only risks damaging the foam. If a helmet is so worn that a dry cloth doesn't restore it, it might be too worn. Consider how important your head is before try to cover it with compromised foam ( or compromised plastic, etc ). 

48 hours is very definitively too long for your feet to be wet, even regardless of temperature. $URL$ From the CDC article "Injury occurs because wet feet lose heat 25-times faster than dry feet. Therefore, to prevent heat loss, the body constricts blood vessels to shut down circulation in the feet. Skin tissue begins to die because of lack of oxygen and nutrients..." $URL$ You should make every effort to avoid finding yourself in the situation you describe, because if you are unable to dry your feet in subzero temperatures your are extremely likely to die. 

Powered boats are typically expected to yield to non-powered boats such as your kayak, but that's not to say you shouldn't be aware of your surroundings, if not for your own safety then at least to be courteous. When I'm in a Kayak I tend to stay near the shore unless it's early morning or late evening when few other people are around, it's just easier for everyone involved. Inland buoys are typically used to indicate distance, direction, and of course hazards. A popular phrase used is 'red right return.' This means that the red buoys will be on your right if you're direction is returning you to land, or upstream ( away from the ocean, this applies to both sea and inland ) and the green buoys will be on your left. This also means you should keep the red hazard buoys to your right in order to avoid the hazard when traveling upstream, and to your left when heading downstream, etc. The state of Massachusetts has a handy guide you should take a look at that summarizes all of this, the coast guard has a lot of helpful online material as well. $URL$ <- read this one first $URL$