Part of calibrating Global Climatic Models involves 'hindcasts' or 'history matching' against historic climate records, including rainfall. Such rainfall records are all in error because almost all raingauges incur at least a 7% aerodynamic under-catch. Conventionally this is not 'corrected' but for model calibration they should be corrected. So are GCM using corrected or uncorrected rainfall inputs? If yes, how are the rainfall records corrected - just multiplying by 1.07, or some other way? If no, why not? This is important because, worldwide, the GCM outputs are being used for forward projections of water resources (even though that is not what GCMs are designed to support). 

Further to DrGC's excellent answer, a subjective assessment of visibility of the Earth's curvature can be gleaned from pilot's experioence over many decades. These can be summarized as: 

Always carry a small tough dropper bottle of dilute hydrochloric acid. 5 or 10 mls is quite sufficient - you only need one drop per test. On any fresh rock surface add a drop of acid. If it fizzes, it is limestone. Test the hardness by trying to scratch the iron of your rock hammer with a chip of unweathered rock. If it scratches then it is very likely silica. If it doesn't scratch, then it is something soft like a limestone or other soft sediment. Always carry a X10 or x15 hand lens to check out the rock texture. Is it interlocking crystals? Is there porosity? Is the matrix of the same material as the grains? Also, since you seem to be interested in palaeontology, are there microfossils? 

from $URL$ But this is a pain to calculate, so most people, including myself, put it in the 'too hard basket'. Whatever equation you decide to use on your spreadsheet, be aware of potential errors from ground conduction (underestimate of E), higher salinity (depresion of E), and boundary effects, especially in areas of high advective exposure. 

I Can't quantify the answer, but intuitively, nearly all of a burning tree's carbon is converted to CO2 - assuming the fire is hot enough. You are correct in assuming that termites and bacteria convert some of the carbon to other organic species, as do fungi, yeasts, moulds, and slow weathering. In addition, some of the rotting tree's carbon is converted to soluble inorganic ions, humic, fulvic and tannic acids. So no, organic decay would not yield the same CO2 as burning. This would make an interesting school or 1st-year uni science experiment. Burn some wood in a sealed environment, measure the CO2 evolved, then repeat the experiment with wood in a wet organic-rich isolated biome, and compare the results. I suspect it would make for an interesting paper with potential climate change policy implications. 

There are times when any realistic 'answer' has to incorporate some degree of randomness. For example, when interpolating missing data in a rainfall time-series. You can do this 'informally', or through a slightly more rigorous 'Monte-Carlo' approach - there are several possible ways to deal with such problems. J.E. Gentle's book; Random Number Generation and Monte Carlo Methods, is a good read, although being 2003, it's starting to look a bit dated. But it's more than enough to get you started, and then the rest you can do with off-the-shelf software. Alternatively, as Farrenthorpe points out, the Wikipedia reference may give you all you need to know. 

Not enough detail. Check whether the rock effervesces with dilute HCl, and test the hardness (look up Moh's scale). Also, a close-up of a polished section might help. Examine with a hand-lens or microscope, and describe the rock texture in detail - eg size and angularity of grains, type of cementation (if any). Even the smell of a freshly fractured surface would help. 

David LeBauer is correct in saying that there are 'allometric equations' to estimate the leaf biomass, but they only refer to small experimental plots in such places as Hawaii, Japan, Singapore and Malaysia. The number of species involved is a few dozen at most. As 'N9ZN' points out, trying to develop generalizations would be a titanic task, and essentially impossible without a vast amount of experimental work. There are about 50,000 tree species in the tropics alone, each with its own calibration curve, not to mention ecologic, microclimatic and nutrient constraints upon leaf development. I would suggest that, instead of trying to develop a deterministic result, since leaf biomass is approximately related to potential evapotranspiration and water availability/constraints, it would be easier to estimate average water usage by stem dendrometry, crunch the numbers for ET0 based upon climatic data, and then develop a biomass conversion efficiency. As far as I know, this hasn't yet been done, at least on anything other than a very small scale - but theoretically it should be doable. 

The surface of 'iron' meteorites certainly gets hot enough to exceed the curie temperature, hence the characteristic ablation texture that you see on meteorites in museums. However, that's a surface feature, and wouldn't affect the interior of all but the smallest of meteorites. The tumbling passage through the atmosphere for just a few seconds, coupled with the shock of impact when it landed is such that there wouldn't be any clear magnetic signature of anything within the outer skin of the meteorite. In large meteorites, consisting of solid Ni-Fe, the residual magnetism seems to reflect the magnetic field of that part of the solar system from whence they came. Other meteorites contain fragmentary components of varying magnetic orientation, also, (presumably) related to magnetic fields within the early history of the solar system. 

The long term influences upon the Earth's atmosphere are additions, subtractions and internal variations. The additions consist of gravitational attraction of passing gas molecules from space, which is insignificant, and outgassing from the solid Earth. The latter is 'new' helium from radioactive processes, and volcanic gasses which are mostly long-term recycled from the surface via subduction zones. Subtractions involve loss of gass molecules by thermal heating in the very tenuous outer regions of the atmosphere. Some of the lighter gasses, mainly hydrogen and helium, attain energies which allow them to exceed the escape velocities. This is why our atmosphere hasn't built up much higher concentrations of the light elements over time. Internal variations are such geochemical and biological feedback processes as greenhouse gases influencing the temperature, and hence evaporation / ice accumulation, etc. None of the above have anything to do with pressure fluctuations caused by the moons orbit. 

I don't doubt that K-Ar dating of rocks is a sound method, but in discussions with skeptics it would be good to know just how reliable exactly? For example, has K-Ar been cross-checked with other rock dating methods, such as radiocarbon, sediment varves, etc. If so, yielding what level of correlation? 

The clue is its location at the southwestern end of the Appalachians. Compressive mountains have to terminate somewhere, somehow. In this case the differential strain energy between the Appalachians and the Alabama-Mississippi sedimentary trough has been taken up by deformation of the softer younger sediments. Browse through mountain chain terminations on Google Earth, and you may find other examples (e.g. Carpathians, north east Iran) although your example is one of the clearest. 

There is a slight tendency for earthquakes in coastal areas to coincide with higher gravitational attraction. In one study in Greece, earthquakes were 15% more likely to occur when the sun's gravitational pull was at a maximum. In general though, seismic-tidal correlations are very weak (but not zero). 

You are talking about terra-forming on a global scale. To cool the entire atmosphere would result in two separate amounts of energy, one would be the thermal energy removed from the atmosphere, and the other would be the energy expended in the process. Both would be astronomic in magnitude, and orders of magnitude more than all previous components of the anthropic energy balance. How and where would we store such prodigious quantities of energy? Also, it would cost more than the gross economic product of the planet. And would it solve the problem? No, quite the reverse. It would only add to the greenhouse gas emissions. Even if we cooled the planet by 20 degrees, it would only be a matter of time before thermal equilibrium with respect to the atmospheric CO2 and water vapour would be regained. So there would be no long-term gain. In order to cool the planet significantly we would have to reduce carbon emissions to practically nothing, and then use carbon capture and storage to depress global CO2 from the current 404 ppm to about 320 ppm. If we could do that in time for the next Milankovitch glacial entry point (an orbital feature), then there is a reasonable chance than we could put Earth back into 'glacial mode'. But as time goes by, this gets less and less likely. By the time we double CO2 relative to the pre-industrial era, another glacial epoch looks highly unlikely. By the time we triple the CO2, we can kiss goodbye to glaciation for ever. 

Vein mineralization occurs when percolating groundwaters exceed saturation with respect to the mineral being precipitated. The saturation index for each mineral, defined as log(IAP/KT) may be negative-undersaturated (mineral dissolves), positive-oversaturated (mineral precipitates), or zero (nothing happens). It is a function of thermodynamic equilibrium with respect to each mineral in which the mineral chemistry has dissolved components in the groundwater. It is a bit complicated, but if you measure the redox potential, pH, temperature, and full chemical analysis of the groundwater, then you can feed the results into an open access programme such as PHREEQE or WATEQ4F, and it will tell you which minerals are oversaturated. There is also the matter of reaction kinetics, such that some minerals may be over-saturated but so sluggish to precipitate that you won't find it in the vein. Calcite and quartz are both common, almost ubiquitous in limestone veins. Obviously, the calcite is re-precipitated limestone. The groundwater chemistry undergoes cycles according to recharge characteristics, temperature, pressure and partial pressure of CO2, so sometimes it dissolves and re-precipitates the same carbonate several times, discernible by subtle changes in dissolved Mg and Sr and isotopic composition. All limestones have differing degrees of impurities, typically from about 0.5 to 10%, of which silica is a ubiquitous component. Groundwaters typically carry dissolved silica, as silicic acid, in the concentration range of about 5 to 50 mg/litre. Under normal temperature-pressure conditions silica / quartz precipitates or dissolves extremely slowly, but at higher pressures and temperatures the kinetics of crystallization are dramatically accelerated. So precipitation of quartz and calcite is actually quite common. Radiation is not normally a feature unless there also happens to be dissolved uranium or high levels of potassium in the environment. Radiation does not change the basic thermodynamic controls over precipitation. PS: IAP is the 'ion activity product', K is a characteristic constant unique to each phase change, and T is the temperature in degrees Kelvin. 

First a comment on the number of ice ages - one could say 5 to 7 major ice ages, depending upon how one defines an ice age, and several more minor ice-ages, with some debate as to whether some are sufficiently separated in time to be regarded as two ice ages. Most of the northern hemisphere has been emerging from the most recent ice age over the past 10000 to 12,000 years, but by no means at a constant rate, with some short-term reversals. As regards soil formation, it is only the most recent ice age that is of relevance - older palaeosols have been either eroded or lithified. How long does it take for soil to form? That is primarily a function of climate, and secondarily a function of weathering lithology. That is, many millennia for cold dry climates, or as little as a decade or so for hot wet conditions. Soils take many years to form on limestone, quartzite, granite and some other resistant rocks, but are rapid on recent basic rocks such as volcanic ash. The weathering rate of different minerals varies over many orders of magnitude, and is a combination of chemical and biological processes which is far too complicated to discuss here. I suggest you read a good book on weathering processes. Regarding soil fertility, this is also rather complex, but obviously continuous cropping will tend to remove organic carbon, organically available phosphate and potassium, not to mention other trace elements, thereby leaving the soil less fertile unless very well managed. Ice ages are not 'normal' in the geological history, and it will take tens to hundreds of millennia for a normal soil quasi-equilibrium to be reached. This 'equilibrium will also be lost both by human intervention and by accelerated climate change.