The forces involved with plate tectonics are so large in scale that altering them by, say, splitting a plate in two would require a massive amount of energy. That's not necessarily the main problem. The actual issue is what happens when such forces are exerted on surface. Massive tearing of the crust could potentially require (or subsequently cause) a near-extinction level event. Then you're also opening fissures deep into the earth, surface buckling, tectonic releases of stress (earthquakes, tsunamis, etc.) and potentially altering global weather systems. Basically, there's a reason people who try to do this are universally the supervillains in stories: there's no way it ends up pretty for humanity. Or life on earth in general. It's far easier and safer to make islands through depositing material on the surface (and carving canals) then to alter the underlying plate tectonics. We already do that at the present. 

Parthenogenesis tends to be a "last resort" reproductive mechanism. When you have plenty of males around, there's no need to asexually reproduce since they're all vying for your attention/favor. It's more plausible that your aliens are relatively solitary creatures who aren't DOMINANT per se, but rather intellegent creatures in a hostile environment. Think cave men in the times of the dinosaurs, and yes, I know that's an anachronism. The combination of a relatively solitary nature and small prey status keeps them from forming large communities (which makes them targets for predators) for the purposes of mating. This pushes parthenogenesis (and the resulting Amazonian matriarchal structure) to the fore. In these circumstances, expect radical changes once they master weapon tech that allows them to dominate their environments. That's why it's so rare among large animals on Earth - it isn't a necessity once you're big and/or intelligent enough to stop worrying about predators all the time. 

On earth, we engineer objects to keep wild animals out - screens for insects, traps for rodents, child locks, lids and doors and all sorts of other things are designed to allow access uniquely tailored to our physiology - Upright, with oppose-able thumbs, at certain heights and ranges of motion. What if the physiology of aliens is significantly different enough from ours that what they use as a door is simply inoperable for us? We just haven't figured out how to manipulate their "doorknobs" in such a way as to gain access! For example: let's assume bilateral symmetry holds (It's mostly universal for life), but like in humans, it's single access symmetry (left/right). Now assume a different set of capabilities, like antennae or tentacles or additional hands. Manipulating a simple mechanical "knob" with features tailored to this biology would require unique actions hard to replicate for humans: 

Rather than focusing on having the blood be possessing of metals, perhaps the cells comprising the majority of the blood contain a refractive meta-material whose structure reflects light in such a manner that it looks silvery. Such things are actually quite common in nature and are responsible for iridescence among other phenomena. As for why they would possess such a feature? Maybe the unusual structure of their blood cells are what enable them to "drag" the magical fluid around the body... 

Basically, add in an environmental factor controlling gene expression that is the determiner between two phenotypes. How exactly this works could be tweaked to modify how common you want magic to appear. (Note: capital letters (ACTG) are the actual alleles, while lower case (actg) represent environmental factors contributing to allele expression.) If you want rare "pure" bloodlines, then the environmental factor MUST MATCH the inherited phenotypes in order for the offspring to be magical. So two AA's would NOT have magical offspring if the total phenotype is AA+(c,t,g factors). This would lead to cultures with highly regimented and ritualized environments created to preserve magic bloodlines. Conversely, you can hold that environmental factors only operate as determinants when the phenotypes are different, which keeps magic bloodlines "secure" and would not necessarily result in the above cultural effects. In either case, the final magic phenotype could exist among a "non-magic" mixed phenotype where the environmental determinant is unlike EITHER of the two bases. So an AC+(t or g) would be magical, while an AC+(a or c) would not. The environmental contribution basically "moderates" the two incompletely dominant magic alleles (normally mundane) and makes them "co-dominant," making this final phenotype "balanced" magic. This discrete magic phenotype could ONLY be brought about by marrying outside of your bloodline, and would presumably be a rare event. 

tl;dr version: More moderate day/night temperature cycles, possibly milder weather, increased cyclonic weather events, different evolutionary paths for ocean bottom dwellers, maybe mild increases in human technological development, Circadian rhythms would be all over the map. Here's some relevant information. Let's start by addressing the environmental impacts. From the links above, you'll see that the rotation of the earth is NOT the predominant force driving the atmosphere: convection is predominantly caused by the uneven heating of the surface of the earth, but the directional shifting of the winds is influenced by the Coriolis effect. With faster spinning, the rotation stress would, hypothetical, cause tighter circles of convection. Hypothetically, this would mean boundaries between weather systems would experience more shear stress and, potentially, more cyclones/hurricanes/tornadoes/what have you. Hypothetically. But faster rotation would ALSO mean that there would be less consecutive daylight heating the earth. Consider the following as discussed by Randall Munroe: 

We'd probably figure out fire faster if we could visualize it better and optimize the process of creating and maintaining a fire. The decay process releases heat, and this (coupled with our ability to tell if the wood is moist) would enable us to choose the best wood for starting a fire. Forging/smelting would be easier too if we didn't need to wait until the metal glows in the visual EM range. Earlier smelting = earlier refined tools = earlier progress of technology. Better/clearer perception of predators and prey = easier to hunt and evade = more food = more prosperous cultural groups. The ability for others to directly visually perceive (as opposed to inferring through behavior and environment) when someone is about to go into hypothermia or heat stroke would help save lives. The "obviousness" of this knowledge means that they would quickly learn the importance of environmental factors on survival and would more quickly innovate on tech for shelter. 

You could separate out the oxygen from around them, causing them to pass out. Basically, Mark would be operating as Maxwell's Demon with a one-directional selective membrane - allow atoms to move away from the victim, but not toward. You wouldn't even need to select for oxygen - you'd basically be creating a localized vaccuum. Eventually the person would just collapse for no apparent reason. Once they're on the ground, you can let the air flow normally if you don't want them to suffocate - it takes a while to reach full capacity after something like this. SCIENCE, B!TC#E$!!! Addendum: If you want to go REALLY abrupt, you could freeze the moisture in the air column directly above them and make it fall, burying them suddenly under a sheet of snow and ice. 

That's a bit of a tall order, but not an impossible one. Interestingly enough, 3 and 4 might be the easiest to accomplish with current technology. Vantablack is a metamaterial (vanta stands for Vertically Aligned Nano Tube Array) that is able to absorb over 99% of the visible light spectrum. Objects coated with vantablack appear basically like a featureless black blob, sort of like Hotblack Desiato's stuntship. A properly tuned vanta array can similarly be used to absorb different parts of the EM spectrum. Mounted facing toward the city, this would absorb internal emissions. Facing outward, it would be tuned to absorb incoming radar and lidar. Side point: Potentially, the VANTA shielding could be harnessed for electrical generation through either a heat exchanger system or tuned band-gap generators (like solar panels). To prevent being visited by boats, I propose that the easiest solution would be a system of artificially generated hazards including reefs, waves, and storms. Any single one by itself would be "too obvious" or navigable, but an interacting system of underwater terrain and sporadic storms would dissuade people from trying to cross an area this far from any shipping lanes. Adding some magnetic field anomalies would mess with compasses and GPS connections - people could be sailing right around it without realizing they've deviated from their course. But this would leave a conspicuous blank on a lot of maps, and doesn't solve the 1st point - satellite visibility, or visibility in general from space, since something as large as Manhattan is photographable from the ISS, and we're talking about something 4 times that big! Enter the IMOD or Interferometric Modulator Display (trademarked as mirasol). Rather than being backlit, mirasol displays work by reflecting ambient light, meaning they look brighter in direct sun than in shade. The pixels operate by creating a gap between the clear surface and the reflective substrate of the subpixel. This gap causes destructive interference to most wavelengths of light, while the wavelength matching the gap is reflected, making the subpixel appear a specific color. For relatively low refresh images (like ebooks or smart watches), this is a very energy efficient display. Affixing large pixel tiles above the buildings would enable you to generate an adaptive wave camoflauge that would be hard to detect at satellite resolutions. The last bit of the problem is protecting the secret. Such an advanced society with near-future tech would pose a credible existential threat to smaller nations and could prove an ally to larger ones. Basically, you would have to forge connections with high-level individuals in the NSA, NRO, NGA, and their cognates in large spacefaring nations to keep them from intruding. In all likelihood this would be via intelligence exchange, slightly outdated tech, and the knowledge that if your secret society wanted to they could be a significant threat.