I find it a little strange that I ran so fast in the beginning, although I actively try to go slow. Is this ok, or should I try harder to go slow? Should I go slower after the first 5 minutes in order to keep my speed until the end? 

Of course @Lego Stormtroopr is right: Loosing weight, when you are in a habit of eating way more then you need is gooing to suck. But there are things that can help: 

Get started on something you can control nicely. Although you can ride a bike for quite some distance, running is just different. So I'd recommend running around the block until you get a feeling what distance you can cover and at what speed. Get started slowly. Start with something like 30min. Jogg as much as you can, walk the rest. Try reducing the time you are walking until it is zero. Get proper clothing, especially shoes. Of course you can do your first trips in what ever feels comfortable. But once you start to sweat, anything suitable for work will become uncomfortable. Shoes will get completely soaked from sweat alone. So as soon as you get sure that you will continue running/jogging for some time. Get some micro fibre shirt, running pants and running shoes. Go to a specialized shop for the shoes. For the actual running home part: Bring your running clothes to work. After work, change clothes. You can take your working cloths home on the next day. Makes sure you take as little weight as possible, because anything bouncing up and down in your pockets, becomes really annoying really fast. Also make sure it is water proof When I plan to run home I take a little zipper bag for: 

There is one thing that might not be as serious as rhabdomyolysis or kidney damage, but it is far more frequent. It is the fact that people use NSAIDs as pain killers during training. I am a professional athlete, and to my experience more than 90% of athletes have this habit of taking NSAIDs for DOMS and pain to get through training. What is the function of pain? To alert the person that something is either inflammed or damaged. By covering that pain during training you put additional strain on an already damaged structure. This puts you at risk of not only futher injuring yourself, but also of overuse through faulty movements or other types of strain that pain would have signaled. Using NSAIDs during competitions, to rid the pain and achieve maximal performance, is fine. But to use them for that purpose continually can only do harm. Furthermore, NSAIDs are a frequent causative agent of peptic ulcers. Long-term use puts you at direct risk of this. To further aggrevate the problem is the fact that the sympathetic nervous system gets activated during training, which decreases mucus (protective mechanism for the gastric acid) production in the stomach. 

I think grasping for air after 50m of running is quite normal when you never did it. I started running about a month ago, and was like running really slow for maybe 100meters, than walk a little, then run for 100 meters for a total of may 2km in 20min. Now about a month later I run over up to 40minutes and 5.5km so far. So once you start training it, you'll improve fast. Having problems to breath enough like you describe sounds a little like asthma to me. I think symptoms of asthma often increase in cold air. 

Whatever you carry make sure it is close and tight to your body. Again you don't want it bouncing around. I got myself an SPI belt for this. 

I'd like to compare my progress in running with the progress of various other people that I know. The problem is that everybody uses a different mobile app for tracking their progress and there is no chance to convince them to all switch to a single app. Therefore I wonder if there is a website that is able to grab the information from the various tracking apps and aggregate them in one site. Is there such an application? 

To be honest, reading your question (I know it is old, so you probably are healthy now, but perhaps others can benefit), not having the ability to use ones arms is a blessing when it comes to improving your swimming. Let me explain. You mention that your weakest point is swimming, so you have a lot to gain if you learn to swim efficiently right? Since you cannot give into the temptation to put on your paddles and go for a grueling swim session from which you get almost nothing out of in terms of swim efficiency, you can actually learn to swim properly and be good at it :). I can tell you that focusing on your upper body strength is not the way to go (as you probably found out after 6 months of strengthening:)), so forget gym memberships and such, go daily into your local pool and you will see a difference. Now, the good news is, efficient swimming is mainly about proper body position for which you actually do not need any arms at all (just have them relaxed by your body), so my suggestion for you would be to take it as a blessing that you cannot use the arms and go back to the basics. Improve your body position and at the same time kicking efficiency and effectiveness and when you are ready, you will come out of the next triathlon swim fresh and ready to do some mad biking and running afterwards. This should get you started: $URL$ Hope this helps to someone in the same position as you. Good luck. 

Background: I picked up running 5 weeks ago and my longest run was (this morning) 6km in 45min as described above. My medium scope goal is to run 8km in an hour. My maximum heart rate is 180bpm. 

Have vegatables and fruits nearby in an easy to munch way: carrot sticks, apples, cut bell pepper. So you can eat this kind of stuff when you feel a little hungry. It is relatively low in calories and needs time to digest, making it easier to stay away from calorie bombs. This kind of food also has a lot of other stuff in it that your body needs. Eat slowly. The brain needs some time to realize it has enough food in the belly. If you are eating fast, you will eat a lot although you are already full, but haven't realized it yet. A recommendation I hear often is to chew every bite at least 20 times. Stay away processed sugars. They cause a steep incline in blood sugar level, followed by a surge of insuline, followed by a steep drop in blood sugar level, causing hunger ... Prefer stuff like muesli, whole grain bread. 

Insulin is secreted in two ways: Continuously There is always a baseline secretion of insulin. It is generally rather low amounts. In spikes After a meal, the insulin levels spike to high levels, and as glucose gets cleared from the blood, slowly falls back to baseline levels. This is the reason why insulin-dependent diabetics (at least type 1) need two types of insulin . They take one slow-acting insulin which will be in the blood for a longer period of time to simulate the baseline secretion. They also take a fast-acting insulin, which gets cleared very quickly, to simulate the insulin-spikes that occur after meals so the glucose enters the tissues where it is needed. Here is a graph that shows the levels of insulin and glucose in healthy people. It also shows their erratic behavior after intake of sweets $URL$ 

There are two main factors which influence your leaping ability: maximal force production (MFP) and explosiveness (EXP). MFP denotes how much weight you can lift. EXP denotes how quickly that force can be produced. Maximal force production is increased by doing heavy lifts. (Also, in accordance with periodization, and depending on your current fitness status, it would be wise to start of with a phase of hypertrophy. The bigger the crossection of the muscle, the more force can be produced) Heavy lifts implies lifting heavier than 80% of your one repetition maximum (1RM) for 1-4 reps. For maximal transferral of force gains to vertical leaping, it is important to do axial exercises. They are the ones in which the feet are planted, and the torso moves vertically. Examples include squats, half squats, dead lifts, romanian dead lifts etc. Explosiveness is trained by doing quick movements with lighter loads. Plyometrics and ballistic training are the prime examples. However there are more complicated types of training, such as Maxex and the french contrast method, that possibly yield better results, but are not advisable unless you are perfectly healthy and a professional athlete due to the high intensity and risk of injury. Plyometrics involves hopping and jumping over, and from, various heights. Examples include standing vertical jump, standing long jump, drop jumps, hurdle hops. The higher the weight (of you and your gear) and the higher the jump, the higher the intensity of the training and the better the results. Ballistics involves doing fast movements while accelerating throughout the whole movement. Examples include front and back medicine ball throws, squat jumps and half squat jumps (with up to 40% 1RM). If you are an experienced athlete, then you can incorporate these two types of training at the same time, even during the same practice. However, if you have less than 2-3 years of training experience, then i suggest you start of with basic strength training, then move on to maximal force training and finally do explosive training. That progression is needed in order for your connective tissue (tendons and ligaments) to adapt and strengthen so it can endure the high stress of plyometrics and ballistics. As for your second question, I would suggest the half squat. Biomechanically it is the most similar movement to vertical leaping, and thus has the highest transferability of force production. 

The speeds provided by @radpin seem to be slow for short distances. A pedestrian without training and on even ground should be able to walk 4-6km per hour for at least an hour. Compare $URL$ But for short distances one would sprint if the ground allows. World record for 100m is a little below 10 seconds (36km/h). So an average persons should be able to do this in 20-30seconds. 50 ft are about a sixths of that distance so 3-6seconds (12-18km/h). Now the last factor is the ground. Speeds mentioned above are on even ground. If the ground is uneven enough (e.g. a pile of lumber or deep snow) speed can be reduced as low as you want, and also depends on the risk you are willing to take. On somewhat usable ground (trail in the woods, loose sand on the beach) I'd expect about half the speed on normal ground, so about 6-12 seconds for 50ft or 6-9km/h. Which the first roleplaying page I found for the topic agrees with (look for the Table: Hampered Movement) Be careful with the absolute speeds in role playing games. They often assume a combat situations, where you don't run as fast as you can, but also try to stay alife and/or kill other people. Goals not so common in real life for most of us. 

They are both correct, however, the way they are stated is the source of confusion. 1) There is no correlation between the number of fibers and the energy system used. There is actually an exogenous explanation. The increased recruitment of muscle fibers occurs due to an increase in tension of the muscle. I.e. the force production is increased. When you are performing an explosive exercise, or moving a heavy weight, you need a high fiber recruitment. But what happens is that the fast twitch fibers are more selectively recruited, and they use the ATP-PC system. Both fast twitch and slow twitch muscle fibers utilize all of the energy systems; the difference is that the fast twitch fibers get more of their energy from the ATP-PC system than from oxidation or glycolysis for example. And vice versa for the slow twitch. 2) Yes, both types of hypertrophy occur in both fiber types. But again there is a correlation between fiber type and type of hypertrophy. When exercising with high weights and low to medium reps, the ATP-PC system is primarily activated, and the muscle is stressed so as to induce myofibrillar hypertrophy. On the other hand, when doing high reps, the anaerobic, glycolytic, and oxidative pathways stimulate the muscle to undergo sarcoplasmic hypertrophy. Even when performing low rep/high weights, the slow twitch that get activated are stimulated to undergo myofibrillar hypertrophy. But due to the fact that they contract weakly, and utilize a different energy system, the extent of their myofibrillar hypertrophy is lower than in fast twitch. When discussing fast twitch fibers, it is interesting to note that they have a higher potential for sarcoplasmic hypertrophy than slow twitch have for myofibrillar hypertrophy. This is the explanation why performing cardio is detrimental to explosiveness; it induces a fiber type change, from fast twitch to slow twitch, which is in practice irreversible. 

The good news is that since you will be in a fairly cold water (colder than your body temperature), your body will exert energy to keep warm, thus burn fat, even if you only float around. So, being in a swimming pool is definitely one of the best way to start loosing weight. Now, to on more specifics regarding the actual type of swimming. I'd suggest breaking down your workout into parts: - warm up (slow, easy swimming with an occasional quick burst) - let's say 200-500 meters - drills/kicking (moderate speed, some technique oriented swims) -ex: 8x50 with 20 seconds rest (odd- kicking, even - swim with one arm) - main set (good endurance or speed set to get your heart rate up into the burning zone) 4x200 with 30 seconds rest, 4x50 sprint with 5 minutes rest - long warm down (very easy swimming) As it was already mentioned before, mix of different strokes, speeds and distances will make your workout fun. Also, if you are up for some water jogging, you can put that in there to get some more fat burning in you. Have fun 

Disregarding the fact that I agree with Dave Liepmann (either you are not training properly or you have a medical condition inhibiting your performance), I will give you a constructive answer. There is one thing you can do to increase strength without training. It is something that elite athletes use, and is one of the main factors that separates the best athletes from the mediocre ones. Mental imagery. Mental imagery is the use of imagination to visualize certain movements. Science has shown that visualization of a movement increases activity in those areas of the brain, potentiation through the corticospinal tract (motor neuron axons), and activity of the EMG. All these effects lead to gains in strength ($URL$ $URL$ etc.). The increase in strength comes about by two factors. Firstly, there is increased intra- and intermuscular coordination. That is, by visualizing a movement, your brain is getting used to the sequence of contractions between the muscles and inside them. Secondly, the areas of the brain controlling that movement get increased activity, and this leads to long term changes in activity (sort of like learning to ride a bike, and then remembering; someone who has squatted 300 pounds in their youth will be a stronger squatter than the average person even in old age).