Deep Fryers I would certainly say that our culture is enamored with things that are deep fried (bonus points for it also being on a stick) It should work for just about anything that is already available to be cooked, think vegetable tempura and you're on the right track. The only trick might be sourcing the breading and oil necessary for cooking in that way. 

I'd like to expand on @DoubleDouble's answer a bit, as cutting torches was my first thought reading the question as well. Industrial cutting of steel is can be done using a couple of different techniques, for a sword type weapon your best bets are likely something along the lines of a an oxy-fuel torch or a plasma cutting torch. In oxy-fuel (fuel like propane or acetylene) cutting you heat up a metal with torch, and once it's hot enough you hold a lever that adds additional high pressure air to "cut" the metal. Cut is a bit of a misnomer here since the excess oxygen jet is actually oxidizing the metal and air pressure is blowing away oxide (rust for steel), so it's slightly closer to high-temperature-rapid-directed-rusting =P. Drawbacks to this method will be fuel and usually a concentrated source of oxygen, generally this means high pressure gas tanks which can be pretty heavy not ideal for a person to lug around but probably acceptable on a mech. However the issue you'll see here is the "preheat" time before the cutting can start. Plasma cutting is the arc welding equivalent to the oxy-fuel approach, a gas mixture is directed at the metal and an electrical arc is established across this gas flow which creates a plasma. The plasma heats up the metal and again the excess gas blow away molten metal. This process is faster and only requires one gas tank but also a good source of electrical energy for the arc. Ideally you could have each blow of the sword "smartly" create several plasma cutting arcs along the edge do "burst" plasma cuts perhaps charged by high density capacitors and gas release valves. One other quick thought though, both of these would require eye protection. Oxy-fuel would require welding lens shades of #2-3 and arc plasma cutting is normally in the range of ~#8 but for higher energy (capacitor bursts or other "high energy" hand waving) the lens may need to be #11 or #12. These are very dark shades and so the armor or mech may need to have a built in auto-darkening welding helmet type lens. 

Perhaps this technology is not native to the low-tech people, but was in effect an industrial "accident" much like oil-spills from our supertankers. The high tech had a spill of something (radiation, chemical, nanomachinery, etc.) which altered the low-tech people to sometimes express traits that look magical. Take a low-tech Pyromancer for example: To the low-techs he's been gifted with fire by the gods (or spirits) and his ability to project fire from his hands is nothing more then a trained muscle like action to the pyromancer; something akin to flexing a muscle. The high-techs would be able to research this and see that a certain mixtures of nanomachinery normally dealing with thermal regulation in reactor cores. However, the nanomachinery was able to bind to the cells in his hands (something akin to symbiosis, trade function for materials to repair/run themselves) and treat it somewhat like their optimal running conditions. This could arise from "mixtures" of nano machine functions i.e. nano machines that operate weapon systems and ones that maintain cooling systems might produce a "cryomancer" effect when binding to a person (as opposed to starship systems). This also provides a reason (although not the only reason) for the high-techs to visit: High-Tech A: "Oops industrial accident, better make sure we didn't mess everything up." High-Tech B: "Hmmm the low-techs seem fine" (Low tech shoots giant icicle at high-techs) So naturally the high-techs would want to study these unintended consequences of industry and science. 

For something that should be within the bounds of simply modern engineering I would suggest a water tower and wind pump. A water tower stores water above ground at a sufficient height to produce pressure (by way of gravity); this water pressure is typically fed into water pipes to force it up through sinks and other systems in our buildings. This of course still requires some way to get water into your water tower: wind pumps are simple wind turned pumps that pull water from some source (river, spring, or lake) and pump it else where (historically a lot of irrigation and draining). Their imagery is often associated with old farms. 

There are several answers here that seem to deal with specialization and to some other extent the idea that most discoveries are teams of scientists now-a-days. However I would like to point out the fact that as knowledge increases (where you have to "learn more" to be at the top of your field) so too does the general quality of life for humanity. As we develop better medical techniques and practices life expectancy will continue to improve. Some of the more science fiction themes on this topic involve ideas like clinical immortality or the ability to transfer our biological consciousness to a machine; these are a ways off in terms of what science may be capable of currently but in the future may be common place. For a quick example of this concept look at the setting in which the TV show Futurama takes place: The Professor is over 159 years old (at the beginning of the show) and spent a great deal of time learning about science, however he's still alive and inventing things even at that age. We also see the technology to keep heads alive in jars which can limit the ability to work on some things (although we do see the capability for the heads to interface with robot bodies) and several episodes show the heads of musicians still performing and writing new works. 

Continuing with the "ant" example you mention: I believe you're reffering to the Leaf-cutter ant; These ants basically "farm" a type of fungus for food. This is a type of mutualism, as both species depend on the other to perform some function (protection, nutrition, etc.). We see a similar function with Ants and Aphids. Aphids produce a sweet nectar like substance that the ants eat, in turn the ants provide protection. In some cases the ants actually shelter Aphid eggs in their colonies over the winter; come spring the ants bring eggs out to plants that the aphids will feed on. In a similar way your blood fountains could simply be in a mutualistic relationship with another organism. Perhaps being immobile they need swift creatures to bring them prey that they digest, then they excrete the parts that they don't need for nutrition that their swift companions DO need for survival. Perhaps what the Blood fountains digest is normally "junk" by other creatures standards? Something like a clam's actual Shell? The waste product may just be something useful to other creatures like carbohydrates or fat; but not necessary for your Blood Fountain's biology. 

Let me try to tackle some of your concerns on both the religious tendencies of your smaller faction and the alignment issue. Alignment: As you've noted and do have certain considerations semantically, but both generally have greater connotations within the D&D style rule set. alignment tends towards flexibility in morals and decisions, they tend to view more disputes as "shades of grey" then lawful characters; Robin Hood is a typical example of the character, he steals (against the law) to help the poor afford basic things like food and shelter (charitable to those less fortunate) and victims of his theft are members or a corrupt government (booo!). In short laws are only useful if they serve some good purpose or help protect people. on the other hand refers to a strict adherence to the letter of the law. Both and characters can be strictly lawful imposing laws on everyone regardless of the conditions that led to the breaking of those laws. The typical example that I use when explaining a demeanor is a poor man stealing to feed his family. To a Lawful character the reason is immaterial and he is guilty of theft! Religion may be important to your small faction but what are the tenants of that religion? It's fairly easy to see where some of our modern religions get into conflicts based on their scriptures and modern interpretations of them. However some religions have simple and general guidelines rather then all encompassing rules; look at the Orks from the Warhammer 40k universe. Orks have a belief that "Might makes right" and so any and all disputes are solved with violence and conflict. The winner is obvious since the loser is usually unconscious (or dead) and the spoils are easily claimed. (Disclaimer: I'm making a fairly large inference that ork behavior/"kulture" is indicative of their "religion" "Might makes right." so bear with me). It could be that your religion simply encourages things like toughness, strength, and ingenuity (like space marine MacGuyvers) the enemy may see your creative use of toothpaste and paper clips as terrorism; but to a chaotic struggling group of underdogs that is pure heroism. Further you say "god-figure" but a zealous following doesn't need to be based around a religious concept it could be based on scientific advancement or like the space Orks it could be a sort of blood/war-thirst. 

Most meteoric iron also contains some varying amount of nickel. Iron-Nickel alloys are stainless steels with varying levels of corrosion resistance, and are typically less brittle then straight steel. Several other trace metals can be added to further increase varying degrees of corrosion resistance, anti-rusting, or toughness. One way to make such weapons desirable would be the setting that your swords are used. Do the enemies have corrosive blood? Maybe meteoric blades don't dissolve into nothing after a killing (bloody) strike. 

With infinite energy I would suggest a neutrino gun. Neutrinos pass through EVERYTHING and they only very^1000 (yes very to the 1000th power) rarely interact with matter. However if you do get enough of them they can be harmful, acting like most other high energy radiation when they do stop being lazy and act like high energy particles. So like most things based on probability you just scale up the gun to neutrino-murder levels of energy (alot) and fire. Presumably everything in a line is in trouble though so we can bypass all the walls you want (even the entire planet) you just need to check allllllll the way down range before pulling the trigger. 

You should take a look at shape memory alloys with a bit of hand waving for the electrical current and joule heating requirements. The arm could generate locomotion by shape memory metal acting as tendons and muscles. Gears could be actuated with shape memory coil springs that allow for joints to rotate. 

I'm going for the bonus points and proposing fire based weapons! As a carnivorous race your mammals would likely want to consume bone marrow from the bones of the creatures they kill; its nutritious for one but the hollow bones are easy to dry and carve once cleaned. These hollow bones could form the basis of primitive pump based flame throwers, blow guns, and even simple incendiary type grenades! Blow guns: pretty self explanatory but they may have added on a "gas bladder" made of something like treated leather that allows for longer range/power then just using lung power alone. Flame throwers: similar to the blow gun, these would pump oil/fat using primitive pumps past a flame source. Basically a bone and leather super soaker. Incendiary grenades: hollowed bones that are packed with oil/fat and have a small amount of the gun powder you mentioned would allow a leather sealed container with a fabric fuse to detonate and project flaming oil and fat (plus bone shards) in a small area. 

I would say this largely depends on their understanding of us. If we go the route of thinking they've studied us for years and know things about our cultures and history. They may try to pick armor/holograms that depict benevolent forms. Ideas like this are explored in sci-fi all the time; Stargate has Thor (of ancient norse fame) belonging to a powerful race of aliens that are waiting for humans to reach a certain intellectual level. Displays and communication use the traditional image of Thor a norse warrior type figure with hammer in hand; however the alien is actually more typical of the "little grey men" appearance. Other options may include: angels, greek gods, etc. If on the other hand they're taking the blind approach to meeting us (following radio signals, but not really deciphering a meaning to them) then I suspect the dignitaries will be dressed in a way that shows status and respect befitting their own customs and traditions. We largely do this as well, our leaders dress in a way befitting their station for their culture. 

Cultivate and weaponize Dendrocnide excelsa as the main "blade" part of spears, arrows, swords, etc. (so the shaft of the spear is something like elm, the head of the spear is Dendrocnide stems and/or leaves) the nettle tree (and many of it's relatives) is native to areas around Australia. Alternatively, it reads like the branch/trunk stuff is safe so I suppose just cut a fresh branch and smack people with the leaves. The stinging parts exist on "all aerial parts" of the plant; which a separate website handily defined as all leaves, flowers, and stems. The stings of such plants are said to be extremely painful for days to weeks (or even months in some cases), the pain has reportedly driven horses off of cliffs. I know that burning something like poison ivy produces a sort of irritating and dangerous toxic smoke (but I won't try to weaponize poison ivy since it is not a tree) however burning the leaves, etc. here may produce a similar toxic cloud that could be launched via trebuchet toward thy foe (though I can't seem to confirm this, so this bit is speculation). A very effective chemical weapon in tree form (make sure you're careful with handling). 

The easiest of the devices would be your wind turbines; there are already numerous examples of builds people have done ranging in sizes and quality: here's a build someone shows on instructables for example All a wind turbine really needs is an electric motor and some thing to drive the motor's shaft (wind blades tied to that shaft) and it will generate electricity. Storing that energy would require some work as would optimizing the placement of your wind turbine towers; and ensuring they can turn to face the wind correctly. If salvageable parts are all over the place in your apocalypse wind should be the easiest to start with.