Depends on size and intelligence of dragons If dragon is "animal" (domesticated, hopefully) and their intelligence is like a horse or dog, we can treat them the same as "objects" because they can be set to fly only on command. Of course, in that case you should have somewhere "breeding" facilities where young dragons are trained (something like obedience training for help dogs) and such areas would be either "no fly zone" or "high altitude only zone" (assuming dragon flight capacity as normal propelled plane) If dragon is intelligent as humans, you have to treat them as "person" and give them some human dragon rights. The "training" would look more like school where elder dragons would train youngsters in common flying rules (look both sides before flying over burj khalifa tower!) and most likely, there would be "fly rules" which could differ country to country (fly on the left over Great Britain) If dragon is small to hold two people, you could treat rules for them as for Cessna planes and flying in low populated areas would be about the same as flying a small plane here. I am not aviation expert, but I think that flying (relatively) small dragon over Alaska would be easier than doing the same over New York city. The bigger dragon the bigger issue, and if you have really big dragons, I would assume you either drastically control the breeding of dragons or you allow dragons only to fly in low populated areas. As of the documents: 

Here be the dragons, here be the elves, here be the humans, here be the trolls. I get the basic, but I am torn apart: How realistic does the fairy tale world have to be for average 12 year old reader? Recently I did read a really great book "Dark Lord: The Teenage Years/ The Early Years" from Jamie Thomson and even when I am 34 years old, I totally enjoyed it. But, the fairy tale world seemed to me totally unrealistic. The economy of such world seemed to me as not working ... and therefore lets rephrase the question: What should I take in account when creating a world for a fairy tale story where intended reader is 12 year old (boy)? And, what can I skip, knowing that only 30-something old people will nit-pick me about it? 

Now imagine that I would like to have "fantasy people of colour," in meaning that any fantasy race can have members of different skin colors. So, how can you form a mindset where you do not see the skin color, but see "shape" of that person? For basic setup, assume classic fantasy world, no magic. Assume a place where all races meet, and all skin colors are present (A city which is used mainly for trade) 

Personal level Eating live maggots for "normal human" is at the same level of "being gross" as of eating meat of any kind to vegan activist. So, if I am friend of family which eats maggots, and I am invited to birthday party of their kids, there is several ways to tackle that: 

It does not give me sense to use same word for a curse word and legal term at the same time I know that closest example is Jaywalking where term Jay meant something really naughty. But in common English, (I hope) people do not use phrases like: 

After long session on chat, I decided to put answer together to hopefully satisfy you: Local point, local time would remind my favourite comic Gone with the Blastwave: You are on incredibly big war field, you dont necessarily remember why you fight the enemy, but you are red, they are blue, which makes them enemy, so you kill any blue solider you can see. If you allow feelings to your creatures, it is possible that after some time, they will consider themselves pointless and happily kill self for some war advantage Global point global time It is pointless: after some level of "focusing out" the border never changes, no matter what opposing sides try to get upper hand. The advance will be only "marginal" considering the whole war field is infinite. The "border" would probably look like fractal, which would be changing in time, but overall staying almost on the same place when zooming far enough 

We already are in times, where AI exists. What we still miss is general purpose AI. But we will get there dangerously soon 

It would definitely be understood differently. Let's start with something easy: Archimedes law. Here we have our since forever, but because Archimedes loved to bath. In your society such law would probably be defined as speed of object falling to the ground. Speaking of which. How did they discover gravity? On earth were have nice story about falling apple. But would be there trees? And also, the density of water makes this pretty hard to guess how the gravity works. The biggest novelty to your civilisation would be anything "gas" connected. From having pure has available to the whole flying thing 

Horses, always horses It boils down to economic factor: Why do we replace humans with machines? Sometimes the first version of the machine can do less work than trained human. So why do we do it? Because in most cases horses and machines cost you less Take this example: Augmented human asks for an hour of really hard work one piece of gold. For same amount of work, in same conditions, an hour of horsepower cost you half a piece. We have winner! Plus, you have benefit with horses: They do not require salary raises, they do not want to go on holiday, they do not have desire to go home to be with family... So in nutshell: If hour of horsepower cost you same or less than hour of augmented human work, you will use horses. In our world, people went to the machines for simple reason, that machines and horses cost you less. If you want to have lot of augmented people, their work has to cost less than cost of owning a horse. It does not mean augmented people do not exist, they would be minority and working in fields/professions where you cannot use horses (or machines). Augmented people would be real professionals in your world 

You can build all-women society using today tech by freezing the sperm of males and breed only women by using in vitro fertilisation If you are gone with sperm reserves, you can breed males in controlled area for more sperm 

As virtual reality progresses, we may assume that it will also add more and more sensory inputs to VR user. Also, we can assume, that personal, portable virtual reality device providing to user sensory pleasure (or pain) as they wish will one day be introduced into markets. Part of religion is personal relationship with Divine being. Having all assumptions met, we may assume, that someday, someone will program a virtual reality where you can meet Jesus... personally (And not only Jesus. Any divine being you wish, including sensory overload, providing user true "divine" feeling as many religious people live through during religious mass) The question is: How will religion be changed when such program is introduced to personal VRs? How will society react to fact, that if you feel like meditating, you can meditate next to Buddha himself at any time you wish? 

Okay, you are going to hate me for this, but I am going to say it: Burn the forest. Burn it down It is one of the things we, humans did in Quaternary to Earth forests. Fun fact: Great Britain used to be one big forest in some day in history. It will allow you: 

This question is inspired by these great movies: Demolition Man, The Matrix, and Gattaca: Imagine, that in near future, there are several sexually transferable diseases. All work the same as AIDS: Transferred by blood and/or sperm. Deadly and no cure is found. Also, humankind progressed in reproduction: If people want to have babies, they give their genetic material, which is cleaned from diseases (or simply put, you can always pick just sperm without any virus), selected the best candidates to produce offspring and such fetus is grown in controlled artificial uterus which provides the fetus perfect mixture of hormones and supports it to its full potential. Lets assume this technology is relatively cheap and is provided to third world countries for free as humanitarian support. We can assume there were several religious outbreaks against such technology, but right now, we are in point where all major religions accepted such technology, simply out of necessity (we are five generations into having such technology and people still want to believe into something) During the time having this breeding technology, also technology for having safe sex was developed and works like Oculus Rift connected to your brain: You connect yourselves and your partner (not necessary in same place) and this technology stimulates your pleasure centers to provide you the most perfect orgasm you ever had. This sexual technology is now wide spread and fairly accessible at the same level as breeding technology. Given all this assumption, will people end with having physical sex? (Not necessary everyone but amount of people not having physical sex should be above 90%) And if I add information, that condom is pretty safe low tech accessory to prevent you from new diseases? 

Now, back to the clickbait question. The astronauts in the colony would like to have some alcoholic refreshments available. However, because space travel is still hard and dangerous and Martian colony can have serious issues any time, as a contingency plan all of drugs and alcohol are strictly forbidden on any Mars missions. While astronauts are aware of the fact that all of them being drunk or even lightly tipsy can be dangerous to the mission, or maybe even lethal, they also know that most severe incident required cooperation of three astronauts in order to estabilish "normal" status. (So, in other calculations, two astronauts can be drunk like Czech and the mission can most probably survive) The thing is: