What you need is the future value of an annuity. If you have a payment P paid for N years, compounding at an interest rate i, the future value of that is: $FV=P*( (1+i)^N - 1)/i$ This will give you the future value at the beginning of the year. To get it for the end you multiply with (1+i). In your example filling in P=8000, i=10%, and N=2 gives you 16800, which when multiplied with 1.1 gives you the desired 18480. 

I'd expect both the employers and unions to fall for sunk cost arguments (can't quit now, we've gone so far...), which a rational player wouldn't do Repeated games in the presence of uncertainty often have multiple equilibria that can be supported by trigger strategies. Although these trigger strategies are subgame perfect, they are also non-renegotiation proof, and that is probably exactly what you're interested in. 

The true answer is of course it depends. What it depends on is how you define sustainability. In a natural resources context, with weak sustainability, soil quality is a capital asset, just as a fish stock, a forest or an oil field. Given that we have manure and fertilizer I would argue that it is a renewable resource (until we run out of phosphate perhaps or poison the soil with too many pesticides), but let's start from the simpler case of a non-renewable resource. In that case the golden rule tells us to gradually exhaust the soil until no more degradation is possible. In the simplest case we should degrade at the rate of interest. You correctly observed that in principle there are no externalities. The individual optimal solution is equal to the social optimal solution, provided the individual discount rate (interest rate) is equal to the social discount rate (see e.g. Clark 2010 for this often missed point). One can modify such a model to allow for renewable resources with the use of fertilizer or natural regeneration, which would change the solution somewhat. Kenneth McConnel (1983) has a model showing the basics. The reason that soil exhaustion is optimal is that the proceeds can be invested in alternative assets, which generate a larger rent. The problem is of course that i) this model assumes we discount the future (which we do) so future generations are discounted; ii) such models at an economy wide level typically assume the existence of a backstop technology, something we can use when we run out of good quality soil. Whether or not something like that will exist is debatable. Moving towards a strong sustainability viewpoint the main thought is that we should not deplete our natural resources beyond their regenerative capacity, unless we already have a substitute. We don't currently have a real good substitute for soil quality, although we can use fertilizers and such to make up for some of that. From a strong sustainable perspective we are therefore not (yet) sustainable. From a bit broader perspective the production of artificial fertilizer is very energy intensive, and one can question whether the current amounts used (as well as the earlier mentioned pesticides) do not have unintended effects, but then you're back at externalities. 

We can break this into three parts: (1) price elasticity, (2) substitutes, and (3) marginal utility. Price elasticity measures price sensitivity (how much a change in price affects quantity consumed). In the example in the book, the product is elastic, which means that a decrease in price increases consumption proportionally more than the decrease in price. Substitutes are any products that can be substituted for another. This is important because a change in price of a product will not only affect it's consumption, but also the consumption of substitute goods. For example, people who want soda have a choice between Coke and Pepsi. Assume that when priced the same, $10$ people by Coke and $10$ people buy Pepsi. The total consumption is $20$. Now, assume that Coke lowers its price while Pepsi keeps the price the same. Some people who once consumed Pepsi will now by Coke, say $5$ people switch to Coke. The total consumption remains the same, $20$, but its distribution is different. It is the case that a drop in price will encourage consumers to purchase Coke who wouldn't normally do so at the initial price. because a price decrease makes the product available to new consumers the total consumption of soda may increase to $25$. Marginal Utility is the amount by which utility changes with each unit of consumption. The text doesn't seem to say this, but marginal utility is subject to the law of diminishing returns. This means that at a certain point, consuming more of a good makes a person less happy. For example, if I eat 2 cookies, I'm happy. With each cookie I consume, I grow happier in total, however this is happiness increases at a decreasing rate. Utility is maximized when marginal utility is zero. After this point one loses...experiences disutility. Essentially, the text is saying that if the price of an elastic good decreases its consumption will increase. The consumption increase comes from (1) "stealing" consumers from other similar products and (2) new consumers that didn't buy the product at the initial price. Since the total consumption increases as did total utility, the increase was small and thus marginal utility decreased. This isn't saying that utility was taken away, its saying the the rate at which utility increased was slower. 

If I'm understanding your question, this typically means the amount of revenue that an industry generates. Usually, the statement "this is a ____ industry" is labeled. For example, "this is a $1,000,000 a year industry." Although recognizing how much revenue an industry generates is nice and is helpful, it may not apply to a person looking to break into an industry. It's important to note that profit and revenue are not the same things. 

Let's look at two companies capable of producing gemstones. Company A has machinery that produces quartz gemstones which it can sell at \$100/stone. It costs $10/stone in raw materials and \$20/stone in operating costs to produce the stones. Company B has uses different machinery, but also produces quartz gemstones with identical \$100/stone sales and identical \$10 + \$20 cost structure per stone. So the companies have the same absolute competitive advantage. However, Company B's machines are more flexible, and can be used to produce diamonds instead of quartz. Here, the diamonds sell for \$10,000/stone and cost a total of \$1,000 in cost to make. Company A's machines are specialized so they can only be used to produce quartz or cheaper and less profitable gemstones. Company B is much better off producing diamonds than quarts. So the opportunity cost of producing quartz is very high for that Company. By contrast, Company A's opportunity cost is very low. So Company A has a comparative competitive advantage over Company B, both by definition and also, hopefully, by intuition. 

This is an example of correlation rather than causation. The root cause here is not employment. It's the strengthening US economy. A stronger economy provides employment opportunities, so unemployment decreases. The stronger economy has helped strengthen the US dollar because investors are shifting money into the economy. That is not the only reason for the strength of the dollar....the uncertainty in the Eurozone and slowing growth in China are other reasons investors are shifting into the US dollar. Finally, the USD-AUD exchange rate explains only part of the devaluation of Australian resources. Another driver is the weakening of global resources demand caused by softer Asian and European economies. Even US economic growth has been revised downward recently, and resource prices tend to discount forward looking prospects. 

An increase in capital requirements for banks was thought to be necessary to restore investor confidence in a badly shaken credit system (raising reserves was not done to counteract inflation). Investors did not have confidence in the quality of assets on bank balance sheets, so requiring banks to retain cash deposits was one way of ensuring that banks had (a) a clear base of assets that were not obfuscated (e.g. subprime); and (b) limitations on how much risk (via lending) they could undertake. So investors could feel safer about their deposits and the fundamental strength of the banking system. Quantitative easing was aimed at injecting liquidity into an economy paralyzed by loss of confidence and liquidity, resulting in low spending and investment levels. In order to offset the negative effects of raising capital reserves, the QE programs needed to be very large, which is why vast amounts of money were pumped into circulation in both countries. 

There is a great deal to consider when discussing resource rich countries. Countries that rely on a single sector have less diverse economies, which can lead to a number of issues (especially if the price of a particular resource drops). Additionally, resource rich countries tend to have unstable governments, which makes it difficult to diversify and grow the economy. Some of these governments are dictatorships and some are run by those who are wealthy as a result of having a stake in the resource. These particular issues tend to spawn corruption and abuses in a way that is not usually seen in other governments. Of course these are broad generalizations, but they are important. To address your question specifically, I would suggest that there is a reliance on foreign contractors because the necessary skills are not in abundance within the country itself. Since the countries rely on a single resource, most jobs and education are tied to the resource, which means limited available skills. Additionally, if one of these countries wants to develop technologies within the country, it would need to import tons of resources, probably more so than other countries that have multiple resources. My guess is that at this time, importing technologies is more efficient. This isn't to say that gulf countries don't invest in R&D, they do. It just looks different than in other countries. 

From the sounds of the question, the firm isn't operating at optimal efficiency. As you note, this firm is not on the elastic portion of the demand curve because $|e|=|\frac{.05}{.10}|=|0.5|<1$. As an employee of this firm, you should suggest that they continue to adjust the price until they transition to the elastic portion of the demand curve. Once they do this, the firm should notice that their marginal revenue becomes positive. I think your confusion stems from (1) your ability to think critically and (2) a misunderstanding that its the marginal revenue which monopolies want to be positive. Questions such as these are usually designed to capture a person's basic understanding of a concept, you pulled together multiple concepts..."too smart for the question." As for marginal revenue, this can be negative, but a firm that wants to maximize profit should adjust their business practices if marginal revenue is negative. 

It sounds like you have a background in game theory. Here is a Game Theory text available for free through RAND if you (or anyone else) wants a refreasher: $URL$ Below are some articles from which you should be able to draw information. Most are not specific to recruiting, but the underlying theory is certainly applicable. If you continue to be interested in this topic, you will find a great deal of information in the literature on social capital, product value signaling (one article included below), and value signaling as it relates to credentials. Denesp recommended a great paper; plug it into google scholar and see which papers cite that one. Doing this you may find a ton of information. Here is a paper published that takes a game theoretic look at the legal profession. It doesn't directly relate to your scenario, but the concepts and framing certainly do (this is on google scholar): Rasmusen, E., Raghav, M., & Ramseyer, M. (2009). Convictions versus conviction rates: the prosecutor's choice. American Law and Economics Review, 11(1), 47-78. Here is an article, also available on Google Scholar, that contends with imperfect information: Rothschild, M., & Stiglitz, J. (1976). Equilibrium in competitive insurance markets: An essay on the economics of imperfect information. The quarterly journal of economics, 629-649. Here is one specific to Signaling Games: Cho, I. K., & Kreps, D. M. (1987). Signaling games and stable equilibria. The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 102(2), 179-221. Also about signaling: Kirmani, A., & Rao, A. R. (2000). No pain, no gain: A critical review of the literature on signaling unobservable product quality. Journal of marketing, 64(2), 66-79. Related to employment: Leana, C. R., & Van Buren, H. J. (1999). Organizational social capital and employment practices. Academy of management review, 24(3), 538-555.