In my humble opinion no realm is an empire, and no ruler an emperor, unless the realm is a Roman Empire and the ruler a Roman Emperor. Before 800 AD, if someone claimed to be an emperor, and his realm was known as the (or a) Roman realm, he was claiming to be a Roman Emperor and thus MIGHT have been a Roman Emperor. In 800 AD Charlemagne was proclaimed Emperor in western Europe. After war and negotiations he was recognized as a basileus by the Eastern Roman or "Byzantine" Emperor. The word Basileus originally meant a simple king but by then meant semi-emperor or even full emperor. The eastern Emperor then changed his title in Greek from Basileus, meaning (really great and powerful and semi-imperial) "King" to Basileus kai Autokrator ton Rhomaion (really great and semi-imperial) "King and Emperor of the Romans". The Emperors of the Holy Roman empire never called themselves Holy Roman Emperors, but instead usually called themselves Imperator Romanorum et semper Augustus "Emperor of the Romans and always Augustus". So after about 800 Ad it was pretty clear who was claiming to be a Roman Emperor and thus might be one. In Latin the word Imperium originally meant authority and power, and more specifically the military, political, and legal command and authority granted to some Roman magistrates, usually with geographical and time limitations. An Imperator was a generic term for a possessor of imperium, especially a magistrate with imperium. The Early Roman Emperors had three claims to the title imperator. 1) Augustus, the first Emperor, was granted the name and/or title of Imperator by the Senate, which was used by later Emperors. Most of the early Emperors used names in the form of Imperator Caesar (insert full name) Augustus with Imperator, Caesar, and Augustus gradually turning from names into titles meaning "emperor". 2) Emperors continued the earlier practice of being called Imperator by their troops after battle and thus claiming the right to triumphs. Thus Emperors often listed the number of times they were acclaimed Imperator in their full titles. 3) Among the most important powers granted to emperors was the imperium maius, or imperium proconsulare maius et infinitum, the "greater and infinite proconsular imperium" which made them direct governors of all provinces except for those few reserved for the senate, and with superior authority to proconsuls appointed by the senate, thus making the emperor governor of everywhere. Since the emperor had more Imperium than all other magistrates combined, it was logical to call him THE Imperator, meaning the greatest and most powerful Imperator of them all. Thus the English word emperor, derived ultimately from imperator is a good word for a Roman Emperor. Obviously by this stricter definition the Persian Empire was not an empire, because it didn't even claim to be a Roman Empire. But by a boarder definition, the Persian Empire was an empire because it was a realm with a political ideology which said it was the rightful government of the whole world/universe. And the Persian empire at its largest is estimated to have ruled over 44 percent of the total world population, coming closer to uniting all of humanity than any other realm in history, thus briefly making it the greatest empire ever. Of course the Persian monarch did not call himself an emperor. The title of the Persian monarch during the Achaemenid dynasty was sometimes "the king" for short, which may have meant THE KING implying the king of everywhere, and was usually given in full as "The great King, the King of Kings, the King of Lands and Peoples, the King of the World". In the later Sassanid Dynasty the title was "King of Kings of Iran and of Non-Iran". Thus the Persian monarch used a long and complicated title to claim to be the rightful ruler of everyone and everywhere, but for the Roman Emperor Imperator, or Caesar, or Augustus, or a combination of them, came to imply the same thing with just one or a few words. Note that throughout history the title of king of kings has usually been much lower than emperor. There were a number of kings of kings who were subordinate to Roman Emperors at various times, and in the 20th century the Indian Empire had several subordinate rulers using the title of maharajadhiraja or "great king of kings". Thus the Persian monarchs were the only kings of kings who could be considered emperor equivalents or emperors for short. So Darius III could be considered an emperor or emperor equivalent. But what about Alexander? Alexander was the King of Macedon and the leader of the Hellenic League or League of Corinth which was formed to invade the Persian Empire. The excuse for the invasion was revenge for burning the temples of the gods on the Acropolis during the invasion under Xerxes I. But it was certainly just for Xerxes to burn the temples of the gods to punish them for permitting their worshipers to break their oaths and revolt against the Persian Empire. And thus there was no justification for revenge for that. Alexander managed to conquer the Persian Empire and rule it for a few years. The realm broke up a few years after Alexander's death as his generals and officials fought to seize kingdoms for themselves out of it. Thus the final result of Alexander's wars was to dissolve the mighty Persian empire into a number of warring realms. Alexander's life was in constant danger for years as he marched and fought for thousands of miles alongside those same traitorous generals and officials who would later destroy the unity of the realm. Alexander had plenty of time to worry about what would happen after his death, which could have come at any moment, and to recognize the evil characters of his subordinates. So if Alexander cared anything about his duty to the subjects of the Persian Empire he hoped to become ruler of, he would have come up with a plan to prevent his evil followers from destroying the empire after his death, or else he should have refrained from invading and conquering the Persian Empire. Certainly the reign of Darius III could hardly have been as fatal for the Persia Empire if Alexander had not invaded, as Alexander's invasion turned out to be. So I do not consider Alexander the Great to have been an emperor, but instead I consider him to be an evil rebel anti-emperor. 

Since some of my ancestors emigrated from the Holy Roman Empire to the British colonies in America in the 18th Century, I know there were some bureaucratic procedures. Records in the European communities they left often record that the lowlier emigrants were released from their former condition of serfdom, which was fairly easy by the 18th century, before being permitted to depart. Records in the former colonies contain passenger lists for the various ships. And I remember something about having to forswear allegiance to their former rulers and swear allegiance to the king of Great Britain, France, and Ireland. After the USA was established the states and increasingly the federal government established rules for the naturalization process. I know that in the early days many local, state, and federal courts shared the authority to swear in someone as a naturalized citizen. Of course some people just built small boats (very,very small by modern standards) and (if they survived crossing the ocean) landed in some uninhabited cove and started their new lives without any paperwork, but there was bureaucracy involved for most. 

members of various Indian tribes enslaved various members of other tribes and whites. This went on even after various Indian tribes more or less acknowledged the over lordship of the Federal government. Indian warriors who wanted to enslave someone never stopped to ask if anybody in the group knew whether that was legal according the laws of the "grandfather" in Washington. Of course it was also common to torture captives to death or adopt them as members of the family and tribe or hold them for ransom. There was also a lot of enslaving of Indians on the frontier, regardless of whether that may have been legal according to state or territorial or Federal laws. The Navajos and the New Mexicans had been raiding each other for livestock and slaves for centuries. The Navajos were finally defeated in 1864 and forced to make the Long Walk to the Bosque Redondo reservation and were not permitted to return to their homeland for several years. So there was a lot of chances for white slaves of the Navajos to get their freedom. It is not so certain how many Navajo slaves of the New Mexicans were set free, or when. One has a certain cynicism about the eagerness of New Mexicans to release their slaves even after the 13th amendment, ratified on December 6, 1865 decreed that: "Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction." That is pretty clear and absolute, but one suspects that New Mexicans would consider having Navajo slaves a traditional part of their culture and unaffected by law. And I doubt if Californians all recognized that the practice of forcing kidnapped Indians to work for them as payment for being civilized was unconstitutional after the 13th amendment. 

Religious figures and leaders have often publicly called for the overthrow of political leaders and/or been involved in secret plots against them. for example, in the old testament King Saul committed genocide against a neighboring nation and the prophet Samuel criticized Saul for not killing enough of them, and anointed David as king, leading to David's revolt against Saul. It is often said that the priests of the main Babylonian god Bel plotted against the last Babylonian King, Nabonidus, who was a devote of the moon god Sin, and helped the Persians conquer Babylonia. IMHO the whole crusading movement was a plot by the successors of Hildeband to usurp military power to use against their political enemies. At first they launched crusades against Muslims in the near east and Spain and pagans in Europe, and when crusades became more customary they then preached crusades against heretics and their political opponents (anyone who didn't accept their power grabs without question). Norman Housely wrote a book, The Italian Crusades: The Papal-Angevin alliance and the crusades against Christian lay powers about aggressive clerical crusades against Christian nobles, kings and emperors. $URL$ 

The best and closest examples are likely to be civil wars in realms that consisted of two or more kingdoms in personal union. Thus it may be a matter of interpretation how well they satisfy your question. During the 30 years war Emperor Ferdinand II was king of (part of) Hungary,etc., and Bohemia, Archduke of Austria, etc. At one point Hungarian Rebel leaders and their troops were in the Hofburg threatening Ferdinand to get him to sign a document giving them power when a regiment of his soldiers entered the Hofburg and turned the tables. This is close to being a war between the kingdoms of Hungary and Bohemia (and the Austrian lands) in a personal union. In 1683 Hungarian rebel forces were cooperating with the Turks besieging Vienna and were defeated separately. This again is close to being a war between the kingdoms of Hungary and Bohemia (and the Austrian lands) in personal union. There may have been Polish-Lithuanian wars when they were in personal union and there may have been Swedish-Polish wars when they were in personal union. There may have been Swedish-Danish wars when they were in personal union in the Union of Kalmar. Thus it may be a matter of interpretation how well they satisfy your question. 

Neither. Reasons given for advocating the abolition of slavery usually were: 1) Slavery was a form of theft and totally wrong, unethical, evil and against the will of God. 2) slavery was bad for all white people except for the few actual slave owners. It enabled the slave owners to dominate, oppress, and impoverish the white southerners without their objecting because poor white southerners were deluded and tricked into considering themselves members of the master race and thus feeling proud. The "slave Power" hoped to extend that domination into the rest of the country and oppress, degrade, impoverish and down trod the white people of other sections. No doubt many free whites feared that expansion of slave labor into mining and manufacturing could cause their wages to decrease. So improving labor laws (which basically didn't exist yet in the 1860s) was one argument in favor of abolition of slavery. Improving race relations by removing the reason for slave revolts was a minor argument for abolition of slavery. 

A number of serious persons, such as scientists and engineers, wrote science fiction stories themselves in the early and mid 20th century. During the early and mid 20th century science fiction was mostly Buck Rogers and Flash Gordon type comic strips, stories and novels published in the mainstream "slick" magazines, occasional more or less mainstream science fiction hardback novels, and stories and novels published in the science fiction genre "pulp" magazines. Mass market genre science fiction paperback novels, story collections, and anthologies did not begin to be published until after World War II -- the earliest in my collection have book copyright dates in the 1950s and so could be considered to be from the later mid 20th century. 

It is convenient to think of important historical realms as consisting of several roughly concentric roughly circular areas or zones with the ruler have the greatest amount of power and authority in the innermost circle or zone and gradually diminishing amounts of power and authority in successively outer circles or zones. Such an image may be considered very schematic and in real life areas that were part of one zone would often be mixed up together with areas that were parts of other zones. Some geographic areas might be parts of two or more zones at the same time and some geographic areas might pass from one zone to another zone from time to time. Note that in many geographic areas a ruler might be his own boss and his boss's boss and so on. So in the case of the Holy Roman Empire the Emperor of the Romans would have the most power and authority in castles, palaces, buildings, farms, estates, forests and other properties he was the private owner and lord of. Many emperors had vast private properties in various areas, both hereditary properties and properties belonging to the office of emperor. The next zone would be the zone of the various counties the emperor was the hereditary count of, where he had many military and fiscal and political powers and rights over the other landowners. The third zone would be the various duchies that the emperor might be the hereditary or other duke of, where he had a degree of powers and rights and authority over the various counts of counties and over any territories that were not part of any county. The fourth zone would be the various kingdoms the emperor was king of, where he had a degree of powers and rights and authority over the various dukes, and counts, and lords, and abbeys, and bishoprics, and archbishoprics, and free cities and other political entities. King Otto the Great of the East Franks or Germany, and of Italy or Lombardy, was crowned Emperor in 962 AD. In 1032 Emperor Conrad the First (usually called Conrad the Second because he was King Conrad II of Germany) became King Conrad the Second of Burgundy or Arles. Since then the offices of King of Germany, King of Lombardy, and King of Burgundy, were united with the office of Emperor of the Romans. The emperor usually just used the imperial title. In the late 15th century the diet of the empire, composed mostly of German lords, began using the expression