I don't see any reason why dark matter couldn't be considered a medium just as air or water are, but this does not mean that your conclusion is correct. Dark matter does not interact with photons, however the reason we know dark matter exists is because of the measurable effect of its gravity. Galaxies have a tendency to clump around it. Light travels unimpeded at its standard rate between galaxies where we don't detect any dark matter, so interesting question though it is, I'm afraid the answer is no. 

Yes. You would have to wait 4.5 billion years to see the observer at point A looking back at you through his telescope. You would now be looking at a cooling hunk of molten rock with no moon or oceans. No. If you waited 4.5 billion years and saw Observer A, he would have been dead for 4.5 billion years by the time you see him. In fact, his Sun would likely be expanding to the point of burning his planet to a cinder if not engulfing it entirely. But of course, you would have to wait another 4.5 billion years to see that. You would be observing the photons that bounced off Observer A all that time ago and have been traveling ever since. It is important to note that this is not him, and does not mean he still exists. 

No, the sun and all other stars do not have the same composition and density within them. The composition varies with depth. Most stars overall composition reflects the interstellar medium from which they form. Convection, settling and nuclear processes then lead to layers of different elements at differing depths. Fusion occurs at the core of our sun (where pressure and temperature are greatest) therefore there is a greater abundance of Helium at this depth (through conversion of hydrogen). Other stars that have entered the red giant phase will also have many more heavier elements. Very late stage stars are thought to fuse these elements progressively, leading to layers of decreasing atomic number elements stacked on top of each other. Convection can also lead to mixing of elements between layers. The diagram below shows theoretically how these convective layers differ over a range of stellar masses 

We generally like you to check google before posting questions here. I posed your question to google and amongst other links, I got these: $URL$ $URL$ Per Bill cook in the top link: 

First off, if Earth were point B, and you were an observer at point A looking at it with the most magnificent telescope ever imagined, you would still not see the Earth, because it didn't exist 13 billion years ago. I assume you picked 13 billion years because it is roughly the age of the universe, so you'd see the universe as it existed then, but that doesn't get you what I think you want. I will instead pick 4.5 billion years ago (or objects A and B 4.5 billion light years apart), because then you will have an actual Sun and Earth to look at but long before life evolved. We'll also wave our arms over the tracking software of your telescope being able to locate Sun and Earth in their orbits over the course of 4.5 billion years as seen from point B. 

I am unaware of there being a single Helium line that is as prominent or useful as the 21cm line is for Hydrogen. The 21 cm line is due to a hyperfine transition in the 1s ground state of hydrogen. It is notable due to its strength, and also its usefulness for mapping neutral hydrogen in the universe, which is impossible in the optical since it is absorbed by neutral Hydrogen. It was in fact the first such spectral line observed in the radio part of the spectrum, and is so fundamental that the Pioneer and Voyager probes used the length of the transition as a time and distance unit on the plaques they carry, so that potential extraterrestrials could decode the messages. There are many more spectral lines in the radio from heavier elements, and a whole field dedicated to observing and understanding them: radio frequency spectroscopy. For Helium in particular, hyperfine lines can also be observed; the hyperfine transition of the $^3$He isotope has a wavelength ~4mm. The same isotope also emits a recombination line, where an electron recombines with an ion and falls to lower energy levels, emitting a photon in the process. The wavelengths of such recombination lines for Hydrogen like atoms (singly ionised in the case of Helium, so that it has a single electron) can be estimated using the Rydberg Formula: $$\nu = R_{m}c\left[\frac{1}{n^2}-\frac{1}{(n+\Delta n)^2}\right]$$ where $R_m$ is the reduced mass Rydberg constant, $n$ is the final state and $\Delta n$ is the change in state. Estimating the strengths of such lines is a little more complicated, but there are details here. 

Hopefully this answers your question, though it doesn't have much to do with Special Relativity, it's still good blow-your-mind stuff. It's just speed of light stuff which we really knew and measured (albeit inaccurately) long before Einstein. 

Both articles mention MIDAS (the Moon Impacts Detection and Analysis System). Since the first link is from 2006, perhaps soon we will have a good estimate for you. 

Let me see if I can ask a different question that will help you understand why these other answers are correct. If you weigh yourself at night (when the Earth's gravity and the Sun's gravity are pulling in the same direction), do you weigh significantly more than you do during the day (when the Sun would be 'pulling you up'? The answer is no, because the Sun doesn't have a noticeable effect on your weight. If the Earth suddenly stopped rotating around its axis, everything not nailed to the Earth would get flung West at about 1000 mph including you and your scale. But a 150 lb human would still weigh 150 lbs as they splattered against the nearest building/mountain. If the Earth suddenly stopped revolving around the Sun, anything on the leading hemisphere would launch off the Earth at roughly 67,000 mph (well above escape velocity), and this includes things like oceans and atmosphere. Anything on the trailing side would simply smash into the ground at 67,000 mph, effectively burying the goo that used to be you miles underground. Worse things would happen as well, such as the Earth's molten core erupting through the crust, etc., but no one would be alive long enough to lament it. But just as your mass doesn't change when you go on a trampoline, it wouldn't change based on the Earth's rotation or revolution. Notice I said mass this time and not weight. If you had presence of mind during your last fleeting moments to hold your trusty scale under your feet, it would probably register '0', but that is because of your momentum, not because of the gravitational interaction between you and the Earth, which is what we call weight. You would still be 150 pounds, you would just be a 150 pound pile of goo somewhere unexpected. 

The mass of a black hole is dependent on the formation mechanism, which as far as we are aware is predominantly as a supernovae remnant. The Tolman–Oppenheimer–Volkoff limit provides the theoretical lower mass bound of a black hole formed from a collapsing star; this is between 1.5-3.0 solar masses depending on the interpretation. You must also remember that the mass of a Black Hole is not static; due to Hawking radiation and absorbtion from the Cosmic Microwave Background it can grow or shrink depending on its size. The following wiki quote sums it up well 

Because the Drake equation has so many variables that have to be supplied out of whole cloth, there is no way that one can say it is accurate. As we learn more about the cosmos, we are getting a better range of values for some of those variables though. We know fairly accurately (read: within an order of magnitude) how many stars there are in the Milky Way. We are getting more refined estimates of what percentage of them have planets, and it is higher than anyone would have guessed previously (the highest estimate I saw before we started using doppler effects to find planets was 10%, but now we see ~22% of surveyed stars have planets). We also know that stars which have planets almost always have more than one. We also seem to find life pretty much everywhere we look on earth, but have still found none beyond our planet. Still, I think most educated guesses nowadays put this percentage in the 90-100% range. I think the better way to phrase this question is, is the Drake Equation a reasonable way of estimating the probability of finding intelligent life? Since 1961 when it was first proposed, have we found any reason to call into question any of the assumptions Dr. Drake made? I think it is reasonable. I think the greatest room for modification is in the definition of "technology that releases detectable signs of their existence into space" and what signals we search for. But the variable itself is broad enough to encompass whatever we might come up with. One further variable might be added though: Percentage of likelihood that we would recognize an alien signal for what it is. EDIT: We could potentially find signs of life without receiving technologically created signals. During stellar transits we have the opportunity to examine the spectroscopy of their atmosphere and check for methane and other organic gasses that are unlikely to have formed without life, but I think we'll have to find life on Europa (where we know there is methane) before that test will be commonly accepted. 

Zeilik's Introductory Astronomy and Astrophysics is worth investigating. It's more in depth than Kaufman & Freedman's Universe, mentioned in another answer, but requires a little more mathematical background such as basic calculus and trigonometry. I'd also recommend looking at online courses from providers such as Coursera, Khan Academy and edx (and here) for inspiration on how to structure such a course. 

Further details here on astronomical causes of average daytime variation, and here on Insolation, the solar radiation received at the top of the atmosphere and its effects on the energy received at ground level. 

Have 2 people stand in opposite corners of a large empty room each with a jar of marbles. Have them roll these at each other all at once as fast as they can, and you will get a pretty good answer to your question. 97% (or thereabouts) of a given galaxy is empty space. Most of one is going to pass harmlessly through the other, though you are likely to get a few collisions. At or near the speed of light, gravity will have very little effect as well, so a few orbits will be perturbed, but any given star will hardly notice. I suspect (though I haven't the expertise to say definitively) that the radiation increase during the ~100,000 years or more that this collision would take (assuming the galaxies were of approximately the size of the Milky Way and that they hit exactly edge on) would be significant to any creatures living in your galaxies. If by the off chance (I'm talking about lightning-striking-a-shark-currently-eating-a-recent-lottery-winner kind of chance) the supermassive black holes at the center of these two galaxies collided, the speed would be no obstacle, and they would combine. The angular momentum would certainly rip the new black hole from one of, or likely both, of the colliding galaxies. This would be bad for them. I propose sending this as a "What If?" question to XKCD. He seems to have the time to do the math on questions of this nature and follow as far as it leads. 

There are a finite number of currently observable galaxies due to the finite age of the universe and the speed of light. What fraction of these galaxies have we actually observed (by eye, telescope, etc.)? 

It depends on whether the black hole is rotating or not. If it is, The ergosphere and singularity are oblate spheroids. If not, both would be spherical. The event horizon is always spherical. Accreting matter around a black hole would form an accretion disk, however this should not be mistaken for the black hole itself. 

What physical mechanisms, in the progenitor stellar system or from interstellar transit, could lead to the formation of an asteroid with such a shape?