Since you live in the Hague: There is a good chance these guys have experience with espressowheels. For a more general answer: just go to a bike shop with the hub and rim and they'll be able to help you. 

Currently I use a touring bike with rear rack and a single panier on my 15km commute. In my panier I carry a full set of clothes including shoes, a small coat and a towel. I want to start using my road bike on my commute because it is a better bike in almost all ways except for the cargo situation. The panier I use is an ortlieb back-roller classic. It is huge, it is completely waterproof, and I fix it to my bike in one quick motion. I'm looking for something that matches or improves on most of those characteristics but fits on a road bike. More specifically, I'd like to find a cargo solution for my road bike that: 

Does the type of patch (pre-glued, non-pre-glued) matter a ton? Based on my experience I have more confidence in the non-pre-glued ones, but I've used both types succesfully. Should I apply patch to a partially inflated tube or deflated tube? I always apply the patch to a deflated tube. Since you have a leak, inflating and then applying the patch before it deflates again just leads to sloppy work and possibly airbubbles between tube and patch. Does the tire-liner stuff really work in preventing flats? I don't think so. (see also batman's answer). Are my tires to blame for all my flats? Possibly, if they are really very thin, or there are sharp bits sticking through to the inside (you do check for that when fixing the tube I assume). However, with frequent leaks the first suspect I turn to is tire pressure. You should properly inflate your tires, this prevents more leaks then any specific tire can. 4 bar for bigger MTB-style or hybrid bicycle tires, upto 8 bar for thin road-bike tires. Not enough pressure leads to frequent pinch-flats. 

As I see it, from my experience you may have any one or a combination of the following issues (from most to least likely): 

In the Netherlands something has evolved that is (unofficially) called the "mammafiets" or "mothersbike" main features that make it a useful bike for cycling with children are: 

Search some more for secondhand bikes. EUR 300,- should get you a nice enough used bike from a couple of years back. A tip I was given when searching for my first bike was to search the bike or racing bike category on ebay and similar sites for "ultegra" or the name of some other sufficiently high-end groupset rather than the brand. This filters out a lot of bad bikes, and a high quality groupset is very desirable in a secondhand bike because it is expensive to replace yet wears out very quickly (unlike (most) frames that are also expensive to replace but don't wear out so much). This search on the dutch e-bay equivalent gets you a few good options in your price range. As to your question, I agree with Daniel R Hicks' comment that beyond about 1000-1200 euro's you are mostly paying for weight reduction (which might even impact durability) rather than 'just' for quality. I also agree with your "experts", you cannot buy even a descent new bike for that price, secondhand is a whole different story however. 

I rode 2200km this summer using a Revelate Designs Tangle Bag with a Camelbak water bladder (mine was 3L, but the Tangle Bag could hold at least another liter if you could find a larger bladder). Worked great. No switching bottles, just one thing to fill up, less distance to reach to get water, and water stays cooler longer. If you were riding across a desert or something you could carry water bottles in cages below it. With the other Revelate bag in front (the "Gas Tank"), there is a spot between the front bag and the stem to stick the end of the Camelbak hose; the stem has a notch, between the steerer-clamp bolts, that helps hold it in place. The one minor downer to the Revelate bags is that, while they are mostly water-resistant, they aren't water-proof like an Ortlieb pannier would be. The Tangle Bag in particular got significant water into it when riding in the rain for a while, I think because of the longer zipper and its orientation. Otherwise, amazing product. Fork-mounted bottle cages might be an option, but I haven't used them myself. 

I want to get into this hub to lubricate the bushing. Every instruction I see on the Internet says to use a 5 mm Allen and a 17 mm wrench. But there is nothing to put a 17 mm wrench on. There is the internal nut, but I can't get a wrench on that; it is behind the hub shell. Do I have a different version of the wheel? Or am I missing something? 

I use one of these from Decathlon. Not sure if they ship to the US, but it works great (although from the one review looks like the quality has dropped). 

The main concern with thinner tires and carrying a load is getting pinch flats when you hit a bump. I ran 27 mm tires (Schwalbe Marathon Pluses, nice tires) touring around Europe this summer with about 30lbs of stuff, for about 2200km. Generally they were good, but I had to keep the tire pressure high (100 PSI or 7 bar) or else the tire would compress on bumps or rocks and I'd get a pinch flat. Either get wider tires and/or bring a high-pressure pump is the solution, and using a standing floor pump (most bike shops will let you use theirs for free) whenever you have a chance after getting a flat. 

I use Ortlieb's bike packer plus. A bit pricey, but I can fit a fair load of groceries in them, they are waterproof, and good for touring as well. I haven't done research to verify, but they are the largest Ortlieb panniers I've seen. In addition to the Wald 157 that DC_CARR mentions, there is also the Wald 135, which is less gigantic but still holds a USA-standard paper bag of groceries, and the Wald 582 rear folding baskets that each will also hold a US-standard paper grocery bag. For a while I had a pair of 582's and a 135 on one bike, and three bags of groceries is a decent haul. Added bonus for Wald is that are crazy cheap (at least in the USA). 

(1) Go Slow and Go Easy On Yourself. Climbing hills is supposed to be hard! You are carrying 250 lbs (you, bike, your stuff) 264 feet straight up over that mile. I was riding once with a guy who has a PowerTap hub (a $500 toy for bike nerds and pro athletes that reports energy expenditure on your bike computer), and he said the main thing he had learned from it is how much your energy expenditure spikes when going uphill. His main takeaway from that, rather than trying to maintain anything like a constant speed when going up a grade, is to try to maintain a constant energy expenditure, which means slow up the hills, usually much slower than most riders choose without any energy expenditure information. My pet theory is that lot of riders operate on a bit of a mental analogy to cars, which typically go the same speed regardless of incline, and feel they should aspire to the same. You are not a car. Shift to first. Don't rush. I would disagree with the "try shifting up" advice -- that works in some situations, but usually only for stronger riders, so I'd save it until after you can finish the hill on your lowest gear. For a novice rider, one of your concerns should be keeping undue pressure off your knees, which means lower gears and high cadence. (2) Keep riding. The best way to get better at bike riding is . . . bike riding. Doing a daily commute like you're doing is one of the best ways to get to be a stronger rider. Go easy on yourself -- if you have to walk part of the way, that's fine, walk part of the way -- but don't stop commuting by bike. (3) Consider clipping in. The downside is that you have to buy new pedals and shoes, and you may well fall over once or twice getting used to them (start using clipped-in pedals in a low-traffic area; get really familiar with how to get out of them before you even start riding). The upside is they keep your feet well positioned and allow power transfer on the upstroke. I've found that Time ATAC pedals are easier to get in and out of than the more ubiquitous Shimanos, for about the same price. 

With my Atera carriers, fitting the bike 'backwards' means that it can pivot forward on the frame clamp under very heavy braking. I learned this to my cost when using them for the first time, having fitted the two bikes in opposite directions as it seem the right thing to do. Short answer; I always fit facing forward. 

Yes, I say it's perfectly possible. In fact I've done something similar twice in my life. 1 - At 28 I decided to start cycling to work. I rode for leisure occasionally but this was a big change. The commute was about 14 km each way and generally uphill on the way to work in the morning and downhill on the way home. The difference in altitude between start and finish was about 140 m so the ride had an overall gradient of about 1%. Note that this felt like a 'proper' challenge at the time and as much as you might think your ride is about a 5% gradient, that distance/gradient is getting on for a category 1/HC climb (the Alpe d'Heuz is 8% over 14 km) so I'd assume your ride is a good bit gentler than that! You can check altitudes at map locations with tools like this to get a more accurate idea. so your climb will be pretty challenging, fitness wise. (updated after your clarification!) I was not especially fit or unfit at that time but managed this commute without too many problems. The main one was arriving drenched in sweat until my general fitness had improved a bit. The bike I used was a GT Palomar - not an especially auspicious (or indeed light!) bike. It lasted well though and I probably put about 3,000 km on it commuting in that time. It's worth pointing out that I was only using the bike in fair conditions, either taking the bus or car when the rain/snow/ice was too bad. 2 - The second occasion was just recently when, at 41, I decided I'd try and cycle every day for a month. Again, apart from a few leisure rides I'd hardly been on my bike for years. Unfortunately I picked just about the wettest January the UK has ever seen to try this. I was significantly less fit than I was at 28 and probably carrying about an extra 5 or 6 kg too. I rode almost every day in January, averaging about 10-15 km a day for a total of about 400 km and lost most of the extra weight I was carrying. That I live in quite a hilly area helped as the overall gradient for all my January rides was over 1% (i.e. I climbed over 4,000 m in January). Initially it was easy as I had a lot of motivation, despite the torrid conditions. Within about a week I was already noticing significant improvements in my segment times but then the weather worsened and it was a real struggle just getting out - there were so many flooded roads - but I persevered. Tracking my improvements helped a lot as I was able to see my personal best times tumble, in some cases I'm now doing some climb segments over twice as fast as I was in January and am in the top 20% on Strava - not bad for an old bloke on a XC MTB! The bike I used was a Specialized Hardrock, a bit lighter than the GT but still nothing special. I didn't suffer any real physical problems as I was careful to warm up/down and do lots of stretching. Padded shorts helped avoid any saddle sores. My thighs ached constantly for about five weeks, but I could almost watch the muscle being gained so it's no surprise. I know that this isn't the recomended way to train and it is sub-optimal if pure fitness/training was the aim, but my goal was more of a holistic 'challenge to myself' and as such I knew what I was doing and that I could get 'fitter' by scheduling in rest days etc. Now I've scaled my riding back a bit, but my month in the saddle taught me a lot about myself.