In copying something the article is not taken but copied. Therefore the conditions for stealing is not fulfilled. But though breaking the law is not encouraged even it does not break the precepts. 

The closest I have found is about a quail who put out a fire though determination. This is VAṬṬAKA-JĀTAKA (35). Perhaps there might be another Jataka about the parrot but I am not sure if it fits the description. You can perhaps read more about other Jataka tales from The Jataka tr. by Robert Chalmers. 

1 Especially to those who helped in learning and coming in contact with the Dhamma, especially you teacher, the lineage of Sangha who preserved the teaching, the Buddha as if it was not for the Buddha we will have not come across the Dhamma at all and our Parami is not strong enough to realise it, and the Dhamma itself as even the Buddha kept it as his teacher. 2 Garava Sutta 

The main objective of insight is to see things as there are (Yathā Bhūta ñāna Dassana) hence develop revulsion (Nibbida). This can happen in many ways though realising the three marks of existence and developing understating of the Dependent Origination process. Both are necessary as per some teachers. 

In Sri Lanka it is generally the towns name followed by a name given at ordination. E.g. Henepola Gunaratana 

In Buddhist meditation your object should be a wholesome object. So see that you are concentrated on. Concentration by definition (in some traditions) your mind being in one object when there is many. 

This is when your Bhavanga is active and the revolutions of the Dependent Origination cycles has momentarily stopped. (The Doctrine of Paticcasamuppada - The Law Of Independent Origination - By U Than Daing, page 32). An essay "The Unconscious" by Piya Tan discusses action action that done when sleeping. -- Thoughts of others on the subject of sleep: On deep sleep and bhavanga: 

When you have the 1st vision of the Dhamma your faith never changes. This is because nobody can convince you otherwise of what you have already seen for yourself. 

The Hindus had developed Samadhi (Concentration / Mastery over the Mind / Higher Mind) up to the the 8th Jhana, and also had a strong moral basis, but Buddhism went one step further and introduced Wisdom and Insight to the practice. The fact that many contemporary practitioners are strong in virtue and concentration would be the reason they manage to develop insight very quickly after meeting the Buddha. So the practices of virtue and developing a higher mind does pay off in progressing on the Buddhist path also and will help when you switch to the developing Insight and Wisdom. But to go all the way to Nirvana you have to practice Wisdom and Insight which is only found in Buddhism, in the right and complete form. This was the discovery of the Buddha. Also Buddhism has no notion of Soul / Atman or any unchanging core as taught in Hinduism. 

1st you recognise and perceive such thing has append. Then there is a mental reaction to such mental imprint. This causes a sensation either pleasant or unpleasant. Do cut off this experience of pleasantness or unpleasantness may be a bit far off but there is a nearer solution. When you experience the initial sensation this brings up more memories and thoughts which compound either to intensify or reduce the intensity of the sensation. Initially you can address this issue. How to address this is that 1st you experience a sensation you react with craving and aversion. Try your best to keep your mind equanimous. This will gradually reduce the potential proliferation with practice. Then you can look at distracting yourself from the cause. Generally it would be a good idea to look at your breath. You will see that it has become hard. Wait till it to become normal. If it is aversion do some Metta, if it is lustful imagine if body parts were separate will you still perceive the person as beautiful, etc. To drive out ignorance which is the root cause of misery, look at the sensation closely. Where is it the most intense, when you start from a bounty of the sensation what direction, it is intense, try dividing the areas of the sensation into smaller parts and look at the smaller areas. Look at changes in it and how its looses intensity and pass away. As you practice you should try to see it as more finer and finer levels until you see this at the level or arising and passing of Kalapa. Also also try to realise how it originates, i.e., some contact of the other. Be mindful of all contacts without reaction or craving and clinging being absolutely mindful or arising and passing of phenomena within the framework of the 4 foundations of mindfulness. At the utmost level how this happens if when you get any sense input from the environment you piece together a picture to which you react. Once you see, hear or scene something, this alone causes a mild sensation. Piecing together the picture and reacting causes a larger sensation. With practice you can cut off the second reaction. Last but not least, you can work yourself to cut out future unpleasant experiences from within and the environment. Even experiences we call pleasant are not that satisfactory as they do not last and we cannot control them. Your environment is created by fabrication of the past. At this moment by reacting you are creating fabrication for the future. There are 2 things you have to do. 1) Drive out ignorance (glossed over before) and understand the 4 Noble Truths and Dependent Origination 2) Stop putting more fuel experience future unpleasantness. The strategy to do this is in the light of sensations: 

Samantha is more externally or conceptually focused with some level of active though or involvement process or practice, done with a view to develop the Jhanas only; while Vipassana is more internally and reality focused with no active though or involvement in the process or practice, done with a view to get the right kind of concentration and right type of awareness. E.g. if you are doing the breath meditation as Samatha, you most likely look at the body of air going in and out and perhaps also conceptual process of it. In vipassana you look at the actual process, actual touch of air and sensation due to breathing. Also any labeling or verbalisation is not pure Vipassana as you are introducing something conceptual. As your mind get more penetrating and starts understanding subtler truths, this will be a hindrance to see things as they are since you are introducing something conceptual or active though. This might help as a very early beginner but if you choose of do it but should be abandoned later on. 

What happens is Sense door > Sense contact > Metal image > Contact with metal image > Recognise > Evaluate > Sensation > Proliferation of metal form > Mental contact > ... So there is a chance that at some stage you start seeing things in quantum. NB: This is my personal opinion any sense contact is followed by metal contact as physical creates a metal impression also. As a final note. Don't get carried away by this as it will cause you to regress. Keep up your meditation. Following is and alternative image from Formations by Piya Tan. This also shows that thoughts are cycling in nature hence why you might see things in quantums or frames. 

Now or the present moment is the single moment or choice and you cannot change the past or time travel to do something in the future. 

There is no rebirth or reincarnation in the sense that the soul takes on a new body (rebirth / reincarnation) after death. (In Sinhala Punarupathi) In Buddhism conception which is the continuation of the Bhava from end of the previous life (death) in the cycle of Samsara. (Punarbhava) In other words this is a process in which there are events like birth and death. In the light that there is no everlasting unchanging core this is not a rebirth as it is not the person from the previous existence nor it is a entirely different being, but just the continuous flow of the process of becoming. Continuation of a core entity (rebirth / reincarnation) is a Hindu concept. Buddhist concept is the continuation of the process. Since there is a continuation (of the process), all doesn't end with death. The confusion about rebirth is due to rebirth being used in Buddhist translation due to the limitations of the vocabulary and there is no better world to use. (I am not sure if this fits into the Maha Yana take on the matter. ) 

Pacalā Sutta my attention is pulled in all different directions so that I never get anything done Now when distractions arise. How to deal with them and keep your focus on your meditation is as follows: 

If it is the right time to be born as a human being in order to attain Buddha hood The right continent The right country or the state The right caste The right person chosen as the mother to give birth to 

There are fine material and immaterial planes where thinking is not linked to a material organ like the brain. Thinking is linked heart in the Abhidhamma. In immaterial spheres since there is no materiality thinking cannot be material base. As for organism in this world, Buddhism does not seems to contradict Darwinism but Buddhism evolution is much more, where the evolution began from celestial beings. 

There is a view that there are multiple planes with humanoid like being which constitute the human realm. Kosala Sutta: The Kosalan 

Sometimes the users may not be in the best mental frame to receive the Dhamma. In this case the best is give them time to adjust and have a more balanced mind. Once they are in a conducive state of mind then perhaps you can point out there is a techniques like so and so which might also help in your problems. When in distress people loose in touch will reality, i.e, misidentification of what is experienced - ignorance in short. When ignorance dominates you will never see anything clearly as you have to cut through all this. You have to wait for it to settle a bit through dialog and counselling. If a person thinks too much or worries then there is a chance that this is aggravated by perversions or distortions of perceptions1. Also you might be able to share some testimonials on the benefit of vipassana with these people to inspire them. There are some on youtube: Youtube Content on Vipassana Meditation Experience. 1 More on perversions or distortions of perceptions see: Vipallasa Sutta 

Here conventional wisdom is "wisdom" that can be perceived, comprehend, though within the field of perception. Ultimate reality is something that you experienced with the cessation of perception, something leading to the cessation of perception, not comprehended by though or perception. Self identity is a perception or notion that we have built in our minds. With the cessation of perception the notion or view of self dissappear. So in the realm of ultimate reality there is no self. But this is due to a paradigm shift in our thinking due to cessation of perception and notion but the process which we perceived or identified as a entity before still continues. While you have not experienced the cessation of perception, it is wise not to ponder on the subject of self and not self too much as this itself maybe building perceptions of the opposite polarity. 

Meditation devoid of the above may not take you to insight. Even if you take to develop concentration still you have to pass through these stations. 

Solution is simple as long the practice is kept up then the Dhamma will not end.So you have to practice the 3 fold training and gain peace. Then teach others also what you praticed to get peace. 

Source: First Vipassana Course In India Killing many beings who a meritorious may cause natural disasters. In the past there is a Tsunami which hit Sri Lanka when an Arahat was killed. In such cases life may get harmed. Being enlightened is beneficial to oneself and others. Generally as far as I know earth tremors arising from this do not harm beings. 

One aspect of taking refuge is your commitment to develop the qualities of the triple gem in you. Yes you can do it on your own without anyone else involved. You don't need an external entity to call you Buddhist or declare that you are a Buddhist, it all depends on your cultivation and practice. (Edited from the Wikipedia link to make it complete) 

The main reason for our continued existance which opens us to future situation of suffering (birth, decay, mishaps and death) is craving towards pleasant feeling, aversion towards unpleasant and being ignorant of reality when experiencing neutral feelings. [Pahāna Sutta, Cūla Vedalla Sutta, Avijja Pahana Sutta 2] Coming back to conditioned existance which associated with unsatisfactoriness of existance (Sankhara-dukkha) is suffering as you are not exempt from birth, aging and death. This is associated with ignorance. This can become a pleasure if known (eradicate ignorance) but painful when unknown (with ignorance). Conditioned existance is not unpleasant entirely but connected to it. [Cūla Vedalla Sutta] 

If you have a teacher best is to consult him / her. Generally, numerous issues like these do pop up at the beginning, which you have to deal with objectively. Some times through meditation you notice problems which were there but you did not notice beforehand, because your awareness was weak. Whatever happens this should not make you worried or anxious in which case you will be creating negativity. You should try to be equanimous noting its impermanence and dependently arisen or causality arisen nature. If partly this is due to issues with your posture the picture in the other answer might be of help. 

When you meditate you get either positive, negative or neutral experiences. Early on in can be very negative and bizarre experiences to a novice meditator. Whatever the case the main and most grave mistake any meditator can make is to loose awareness and equanimity in facing the experiences. If you maintain awareness and equanimity in facing all experiences then nothing can go wrong in your meditation. Initially you get mainly painful sensations, then it becomes mostly blissful sensations and then it starts turning to neutral sensations. In the latter case sometimes it might be difficult to keep your Equanimity. In which case you have to try to balance this with Concentration as this it one of the Hindrances (Restlessness) which has come about. The factors to balance the Hindrances are the 5 Powers. 

there by verifying the theory (Pariyatti) and practice (Patipatti) through experience (Pativedha). The Insight you see that the theoretical aspects (e.g. Nirvana, causality) to be right the path which is supposed to take you to the realisation has taken you there. 

This basically looks like to fulfil ones own curiosity. Our intellect is the sphere of our mind and our mind delights in experiencing and knowing. Our past desire or craving to know what creates our current mind faculty. 

Dūta Sutta discusses qualities of a good messenger or teacher of some which I glossed over above. Nobody will have skills in teaching compared to the Buddha but if you were to aspire to become skilled what you should cultivate are the analytical skills related to teaching: 

If meditation is done right you would be able to be more emotionally stable. Emotions have some sensation associated with it. If you get attached or averse to the sensation you are creating negativity. You have to try your best to study the sensations behind your emotions to understand and handle your emotions. Also sensations and craving lead to all dogmas. [Brahma,jala Sutta] Many conceiving of self happen through craving. (Vicarita) Tanha Sutta Many of these lead to suffering. Emotions can be a form of suffering as you conceive the self as subject or receiver of any event or perhaps building of non conducive views which case suffering. 

Monks are humans too. They experience the same ups and downs in terms of how meditation practice goes. Also any emotional upheavals. But conditions are more suitable for serious practice. Since abandoned worldly affairs the chances of stress from these sources (responsibility, obligations, need to earn or work) are not there. Since you don't own much stress from ownership of property doesn't happen. Since your influence on the world (power, positions) has been abandoned stress from these areas don't arrise. Since you have abandoned class, cast, clan, relatives, friends, family, etc. any distractions from these sources are eliminated. 

Initially you don't need much Jhana to start with. (This is needed towards the end of the journey but if you can develop it from the start it is well and good but not necessary. ) But wisdom is built on the foundations of concentration, so as your practice matures and wisdom increase you have to develop concentration to match wisdom. In the general case, wisdom and concentration are co integrated, wisdom doesn't too far from the level of concentration you have, like a dog on a leash or 2 ends of a stick. (Maha Salayatanika Sutta mentions balancing the two.) So it don't matter if wisdom or concentration develops in you 1st. If concentration develops use this as a tool to develop wisdom. If wisdom develops then use it to develop morality and concentration, and further use this to develop wisdom further. This is a cycle where you develop each item in increments. So to start your insight practice shallow level of Jhana is sufficient but you have to deepen it to progress into higher insights.